HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 HYUNDAI MOBIS puts the safety of its customers before everything else. AEB (Autonomous Emergency Braking) The AEB is a smart driver assistance system that minimizes damages by automatically applying emergency braking when the system detects an imminent collision with a car or pedestrian, which reviews the radar signal and the forward-looking camera. About This Report Reporting Outline Hyundai Mobis has published sustainability reports on its plans and progress in environmental, social and economic performance to its stakeholders since 2010. Relying on the materiality test process, in which stakeholders take a key part in, major sustainability issues were identified to collect stakeholder opinions on issues to cover our performance and endeavors regarding such issues. Reporting Structure This report comprises of four parts: corporate profile, special themes, key material issues and general issues, and our major management achievements and performances in priority order according to the stakeholder interest level as uncovered from our materiality test. Detailed data and information on each sectional performance and GRI index are provided in the Appendix on p.73~86. Reporting Guidelines This report was compiled in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines, and applied with the Core ‘in accordance’ option. Reporting Period The reporting period falls on the calendar year for 2015, from January 1 to December 31. Quantitative data from a three-year trend from 2013 to 2015 are provided, highlighting certain data regarding material issues extending to the first half of 2016. Reporting Scope The report covers the business performance of Hyundai Mobis, including the headquarters, manufacturing sites, R&D center and regional offices, with limited coverage on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, locally hired employees, and sales break-down by region for overseas operation. The reporting scope will be extended later in the report. Significant Changes to Performance Measurement Financial data was reported on a consolidated basis, and this report prepared financial data as per the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) and energy use and GHG emissions data based on verified results. Report Assurance The report content has been assured independently by a third-party entity, Korea Productivity Center, whose assurance statement is provided in the Appendix on p.81-82 of the report. Additional Information Hyundai Mobis website http://www.mobis.co.kr Business Report http://dart.fss.or.kr/dsaf001/main.do?rcpNo=20160330003998 (Korea Financial Supervisory Service) Contents Overview 04 _ CEO's Message 06 _ Corporate Profile 08 _ Global Network 10 _ Management System 12 _ Management Performance 15 _ Stakeholder Engagement 16 _ Materiality Test Special Theme 20 _ System Management Overview 22 _ System Management Progress & Plans 24 _ Main System Introduced Material Issues 28 _ Customers Satisfaction 34 _ Research & Development 42 _ Win-Win Partnership 47 _ Human Resources Development 52 _ Environmental Management Corporate Achievements 58 _ Corporate Governance 60 _ Risk Management 62 _ Business Ethics 64 _ Employees 69 _ Social Contribution Appendix 74 _ Sustainable Management Practices 75 _ Management Performance 75 _ Employees 77 _ Social Contribution 78 _ Win-Win Partnership 79 _ Environmental Management 80 _ GHG Assurance Statement 81 _ Third Party Assurance Statement 83 _ GRI Index Cover Story Hyundai Mobis puts the safety of its customers as the first priority to be considered in developing technologies, from driver assistance system and autonomous driving technology to eco-friendly auto parts and components, customer-oriented technologies, and future technologies. Overview CEO's Message Hyundai Mobis secures global competitiveness by pursuing future growth engines and strengthening its internal competencies. Meanwhile, we will create new social and environmental values based on our economic performance in pursuit of sustainable growth, by sharing these values with our stakeholders. 4 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Distinguished stakeholders, Facilitating Socially Responsible Management through I’d like to express my sincere appreciation for your continued supCooperation port of Hyundai Mobis. Hyundai Mobis is running business activities based on a cooperation system for local communities and its suppliers and a Despite the difficult business environment at home and abroad, sense of environmental responsibility. We extended our social Hyundai Mobis achieved significant business results. Hyundai Mocontribution activities conducted domestically to be covered at bis improved its product quality level abroad through various manour overseas sites. Since the launch of the Transparent Umbrella agement activities based on quality innovation, as well as strengthCampaign at Jiangsu Hyundai Mobis Automotive Parts Co., Ltd. ened internal competencies by practicing system-based business in 2013, we ensured children’s safety on the roads by distributactivities, thereby establishing a system that promptly responds ing 30,000 transparent umbrellas annually for Beijing, Jiangsu, to customer and market demands. We have also focused on perShanghai and Wuxi. Hyundai Mobis has been running Junior Enfecting our technological competitiveness in autonomous driving gineering Class Program for elementary school students in the and eco-friendly materials and components to take the lead in the neighborhood of Beijing, Shanghai and Jiangsu, with plans to future car technologies. Through these efforts, earlier this year, develop and expand social contribution programs that reflect reHyundai Mobis was the first Korean automotive parts company to gional characteristics to Europe and India. In addition, we made attend the CES (Consumer Electronics Show), which is North Amerstrenuous efforts to become an eco-friendly company by estabica’s biggest trade show. This represents a leap forward to become lishing a global energy management system. Since the launch of a leading global company by showcasing our core technologies for the energy management system at Gimcheon, Changwon and the future. Jincheon sites in 2015, we will establish the global version at our Everyone at Hyundai Mobis is making concerted efforts to create 29 overseas sites to ensure efficient energy use and carbon reducsustainable value and share the business results with all its staketion. We also focus on expanding practical win-win partnerships. holders. By supplying top-quality products and services, Hyundai Besides general exchanges with suppliers including financial and Mobis aims to become a lifetime partner in automobiles and betraining supports, we promote system-based business activities yond, realizing sustainable mobility together for a better future. As a to offer practical support to all of our suppliers. Hyundai Mobis result, Hyundai Mobis has qualified for the Dow Jones Sustainabilihas contributed in strengthening its suppliers’ competitiveness ty World Index (DJSI) for five consecutive years, which evaluates the together with quality improvement by establishing a system for CSR of global companies. Also, we were included in the ‘East Asia our suppliers, including video conference and integrated portal. 30’, a list of top ten CSR performers from Korea, China and Japan Hyundai Mobis promises to secure global competitiveness by each, while also enhanced our CSR status by winning the 2015 Kopursuing future growth engines and reinforcing internal comperean Sustainability Report Award. tencies, while also continuously achieving sustainable growth by creating new social and environmental values based on our ecoSecuring Future Growth Engines through Sustainable Growth nomic performance and share these values with our stakeholders. In order to achieve sustainable growth based on its sense of responsibility for the future society, Hyundai Mobis is striving to enhance corporate competitiveness by pursuing future growth engines. June 2016 While concentrating our competencies on internalizing future core President & CEO Hyundai Mobis technologies, from advanced technologies for autonomous driving vehicle to next-generation technologies for eco-friendly vehicles, Young Deuk Lim we are also making efforts to secure number one products globally. To achieve this, Hyundai Mobis does its utmost to increase R&D investments and recruit outstanding researchers, while also faithfully carrying out government tasks for next-generation car development and reinforcing university-industry collaboration. 5 Overview Corporate Profile Founded in 1977, Hyundai Mobis has been an automotive parts manufacturer that achieves continuous development. By offering top-quality products, technologies and services, Hyundai Mobis strengthened its position in the automotive parts industry to become the sixth largest global automotive parts suppliers in 2015. We will continue to strengthen the foundation for sustainable growth through meeting challenges to become a global top tier, while also creating shared values with all of our stakeholders and share these created values. Global OEM Parts Suppliers Ranking in 2015 Sales 6 th KRW 36.02 trillion Selected for the 2015 Automotive News Top 100 Global OEM Parts Supplies Total Workforce R&D Expenditures 25,216 employees KRW 623.2 billion (8,672 in Korea, 16,544 overseas) Number of Primary Suppliers Purchase Amount 1,220 companies KRW 16.34 trillion (including overseas suppliers) Eco-friendly Vehicle Parts Supply Performance AS Parts Supply Amount 1,657,663 parts 213 automotive models / (cumulative total for 2009-2015) 2,271,617auto parts 6 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 (Unit: KRW million) Name Hyundai Mobis Co., Ltd. Sales 36,019,749 President & CEO Young Deuk Lim Operating income 2,934,571 Establishment June 25, 1977 Earnings before taxes 4,212,662 Headquarters 203 Teheran Road (Yeoksam-dong), Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Net income 3,040,049 Module Parts Manufacturing Core Parts Manufacturing Aftermarket Service Parts KRW 18.8 trillion KRW 10.9 trillion KRW 6.3 trillion Hyundai Mobis wields its cutting-edge vehiHyundai Mobis mobilizes all resources availHyundai Mobis supplies aftermarket service cle modularization technology to manufacable to develop core parts that enhance the parts to approximately 57 million Hyundai and ture and supply chassis modules, cockpit driving experience and more convenient vehiKia Motors vehicles worldwide. To ensure the modules and front-end modules, the three cles, as well as road safety and environmental timely delivery of parts, Hyundai Mobis has core modules for carmakers. Through colprotection. Converged with electronics and built a cutting-edge logistics system and exlaboration with carmakers, the advanced cutting-edge IT, our motors and battery systensive distribution infrastructure that managmodule parts at Hyundai Mobis are perfecttems have boosted our eco-friendly technoloes 2.27 million auto parts in stock for 213 autoed from the very initial stage of R&D, from gies. Going forward, we will continue to invest motive models, providing these service parts design to testing. in technology to further solidify our market at a moment’s notice and ensuring the highest power in green & intelligent automotive parts. level of customer satisfaction. Rear chassis module Cross member, strut, axle, etc. Smart Cruise Control (SCC) Inside India’s Chennai Component Center Cockpit module A  irbag, audio/video, air conditioner/heater, cluster, glove box, etc. Blind Spot Detection (BSD) Asan Logistics Center Front-end module F  ront-end’s cooling module, head lamp, bumper, carrier, etc. 7 Overview Global Network Hyundai Mobis has global networks around the world including 28 manufacturing sites, 24 logistics centers and 5 technical R&D centers with approximately 25,000 employees in China, the Americas, Europe and Asia. For each site, we have differentiated our strategies to specific local needs and we support our clients’ stable production based on global networks. By focusing on making R&D investments, we aim to achieve the goal of becoming global top tier that goes beyond being Korea’s number one automotive parts manufacturer. Canada (MPCA) Hyundai Mobis North America, LLC (MNA) LA Quality Center, the United States Hyundai Mobis Technical Center of North America (MTCA) in Michigan California, the United States (MPA) Georgia, the United States (MAL-GA) Alabama, the United States (MAL) Florida, the United States (MPMI) Mexico (MMX) Brazil (MBR) Manufacturing sites Logistics centers R&D centers and quality centers Offices (As of December of 2015) By region Total workforce (persons) Sales (KRW million) Korea(KRW) 8,672 19,079,257 China(CNY) 6,480 61,759 America(USD) 4,705 7,148 Europe(EUR) 4,068 3,534 Asia-Pacific/Others(USD) 1,291 1,605 8 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Germany (MPE-DE) Hyundai Mobis Technical Center of Europe (MTCE) in Frankfurt, Germany Frankfurt Quality Center in Germany Jiangsu, China (MJS) Sweden (MPE-SE) Jiangsu, China (MPJY) Ulsan / Asan / Gwangju / Ihwa Russia (MRU) Tianjin, China (MTJ) Anyang / Seosan / Gimcheon / Jincheon Belgium (MPE-BE) Poseung / Changwon / Cheonan / Chungju ● Russia (MPRU) Czech (MCZ) Ulsan / Asan / Gyeongju / Naengcheon (Logistics Center) Beijing, China (MBJ) the UK (MPE-UK) Hyundai Mobis Technical Center of Korea (Mabuk) ● ● ● ● Beijing, China (BMP) Slovakia (MSK) Beijing, China (China Office) Italy (MPE-IT) Hungary (MPE-HU) ● Cangzhou, China (MCJ) ● Tokyo, Japan (MTKO) Spain (MPE-ES) ● Turkey (MTR) Wuxi, China (MWX) Shanghai, China (MSH) Shanghai, China (MPSH) Egypt (MPME-EG) Hyundai Mobis Technical Center of China (MTCC) in Shanghai, China U.A.E. (MPME) Shanghai Quality Center in China Delhi Quality Center in India Hyundai Mobis Technical Center of India (MTCI) in Hyderabad, India Chennai, India (MIN) Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (MKLO) Australia (MPAU) (Unit: sites) Classification Manufacturing sites Logistics centers Technical R&D centers Quality centers Offices Korea 12 4 1 China 6 3 1 1 1 America 5 5 1 1 1 Europe 4 8 1 1 Asia-Pacific/Others 1 4 1 1 1 9 Overview Management System Guided by our business philosophy which aims to realize the dream of mankind by creating a new future through ingenious thinking and constantly challenging new frontiers, Hyundai Mobis aims to become a lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond. In doing so, Hyundai Mobis shares its five core values with its employees and create shared value with stakeholders, thereby realizing sustainable mobility together for a better future. Business Philosophy Guided by our business philosophy which aims to realize the dream of mankind by creating a new future through ingenious thinking and constantly challenging new frontiers, Hyundai Mobis has been striving to become a leading global company. Not content to rest on its present accomplishments, the company works arduously to reach its full potential for the realization of future possibilities, while practicing an unlimited sense of responsibility for the greatest satisfaction of stakeholders as it implements social outreach activities to contribute to a better society for everyone. CORE VALUES CUSTOMER Group-wide Together for a better future CHALLENGE Business Philosophy Realizing the dream of mankind Vision by creating a new future through COLLABORATION ingenious thinking and continuously challenging new frontiers PEOPLE Automobiles Global Top Tier, a lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond GLOBALITY 10 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Vision By supplying top-quality products and services, Hyundai Mobis aims to become a lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond, realizing sustainable mobility together for a better future. To that effect, Hyundai Mobis developed three-year objectives and channeled its resources to realize a midto long-term corporate vision of becoming one of the world’s top five automotive parts suppliers by 2020. Core Values The five core values-Customer, Challenge, Collaboration, People, and Globality-provide a guideline for Hyundai Mobis in realizing its business philosophy and achieving its vision, as well as acting as employee behavior and decision-making standards. Therefore, we strive to meet challenge and cooperate by actively participating in the group-wide core value engagement survey (CVES) to identify the practice level and areas that need improvement, while also creating a creative corporate culture that respects our customers and talented employees. Hyundai Mobis shares and internalizes its five core values with all employees to enhance the community spirit and solidarity, thereby achieving sustainable growth and development. Growing alongside local communities Local Communities Environmental protection, social contribution activities, and active communication with local communities Sustainable mobility Customers Technical advancement, top-quality products, enhanced customer credibility, active customer communication Reliable partner Partner Companies Fair and transparent transactions, information sharing and technology transfers CSR Vision Transparent management Governments Around The World Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow Compliance with all policies and laws around the world A company to believe in Shareholders & Investors Transparent & stable management and maximized value for shareholders and investors Most in demand employer Employees Fair evaluations and compensation, support of competency-building, safety at workplaces, generous benefits and a pleasant working environment A leader in addressing climate change All Stakeholders Supporting global initiatives to mitigate climate change, enhancing corporate competitiveness by effectively addressing climate change 11 Overview Management Performance Last year, despite the changes in domestic and overseas market conditions for the automobile industry, Hyundai Mobis has continued to increase sales in global markets through close cooperation with complete carmakers and OEM part suppliers to ensure stable supply and shared growth. Overseas sales increased in emerging markets, including China, India and Brazil, to account for over 50% of total sales, showing a paradigm shift from developed markets to emerging markets. In order to improve fuel efficiency and respond to GHG emissions, the development of eco-friendly vehicles like hybrid vehicles and electric vehicles and the preparation for mass production has accelerated electrifying cars. In 2015, Hyundai Mobis posted KRW 36.2 trillion in sales and KRW 3 trillion in operating profit through prudent responses to changes in the domestic and overseas business environment. Sales increased, including the increased sales of high-class SUVs domestically and internationally, the increase of units in operation (UIO) and the increased sales of aftermarket service parts due to the economic recovery of the Americas and Europe. By sector, module and component manufacturing recorded KRW 29.7 trillion, up by 3.0 percent over the previous year, while aftermarket service parts sales also by 0.7 percent over 2014 to reach KRW 6.3 trillion. Going forward, we will strengthen our internal competencies through specializing in an area of our choice, and develop independent and proprietary technologies by making continuous R&D investments. Sales Operating Income (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million) 2013 33,242,240 2013 3,022,413 2014 35,126,612 2014 3,141,242 2015 36,019,749 2015 2,934,571 Net Income (Unit: KRW million) ※ Hyundai Life has conducted capital increase through third-party allocation on December 7, 2015. As a result, Hyundai Mobis shares owned by Hyundai Life have fallen and excluded from the consolidated subsidiaries. 2013 3,396,421 2014 3,392,512 Therefore, please take note that financial business was excluded from our business performance. 2015 3,040,049 Sales Breakdown by Region (Unit: KRW million) Classification 2013 2014 2015 Change (%) Korea (KRW) 17,512,013 18,451,687 19,079,257 3.4 China (CNY) 63,515 66,874 61,759 -7.6 Americas (USD) 6,445 6,911 7,148 3.4 Europe (EUR) 3,259 3,012 3,534 17.3 Others (USD) 1,352 1,438 1,605 11.6 ※ Sales performance is the sum of the sales of each subsidiary from the same region lumped together. Others refer to India, the Middle East and Australia regions. Major Facility Investments (Unit: KRW million) Domestic subsidiaries 3,139,057 Overseas subsidiaries 978,061 Total 4,117,118 ※ The above investment amounts only include facility investments and exclude R&D investments (including research facility investments). 12 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Creation and Distribution of Economic Value Hyundai Mobis fairly distributes the economic value created through cooperative activities with all of our internal and external stakeholders. The creation of economic value pursued by Hyundai Mobis goes beyond simply generating sustainable profit to expand values for all of its stakeholders. In 2015, Hyundai Mobis generated an economic value of KRW 36.82 trillion through sales and the creation of other values, which were shared with all of its stakeholders. (Unit: KRW million) Sup plie rs Total Value Created 36,819,747 Sales 30,744,380 36,019,749 Amount distributed to suppliers Other Revenue s 799,998 yee plo Em 1,754,617 Expensing of personnel expenses (Wages, retirement benefits, Total Value Distributed fringe benefit expenses) 36,819,747 ve ser ’s re 3,081,519 pany 1,185,198 The com The company’s reserve Go Tax & dues ver amount and the amount nm distributed to shareholders ent ount am 34,043 19,990 Expensing of interest Executed amount for expenses social contribution ies Cre dito unit m rs l com Loca 13 Overview Expanding Clients through Reinforcing Global Competencies Besides the major clients of Hyundai Mobis, Hyundai and Kia Motors, we focus on achieving sustainable growth through diversifying our clients globally. In doing this, we support the stable production of our clients in local regions and concentrate on making R&D investments under our differentiated strategies to specific local needs. Through these efforts, we supply chassis modules and value-added products like lamps, brake controls and electronic components to global clients, including FCA, GM, BMW, Daimler, Volkswagen, Mitsubishi and Subaru. In 2015, Hyundai Mobis expanded its supply of parts and components to complete carmakers in China, Europe and Japan by actively working to win orders. Also, we exhibited about 50 types of DAS (Driver Assistance System), eco-friendly parts and components, multimedia and mechatronics for Mazda and FCA to provide technology seminars on new technologies, including autonomous driving and LED lamps. Through these efforts, we enhanced our clients’ understanding about our products and technologies, as well as carried out various activities for exchanges such as consulting about new projects. Going forward, Hyundai Mobis will strive to strengthen its relationships with clients as strategic partners and ensure the supply of top-quality products on time. Status of Global Clients U.S. Chassis modules, head and rear lamps, LCD modules DIH parking brake systems, automatic occupant sensors (AOS), integrated center stacks (ICS) Japan Europe Head lamps, D-Audio Rear combination lamps Rear and fog lamps Audio, intelligent battery sensor (IBS) Daytime running lamps, rear lamps Integrated center stacks (ICS) CHMSL(Center High Mounted Stop Lamp) China DIH parking brake systems, integrated center stacks (ICS) EPB, air suspension Integrated center stacks (ICS) Technology Conference for Global Clients FCA Mazda 14 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Stakeholder Engagement Hyundai Mobis defines its CSR management as the process of communicating with stakeholders to achieve shared value. Therefore, our endeavors are purported at contributing to the sustainable growth of society and the nation as well as achieving high customer satisfaction while protecting the environment. Going forward, Hyundai Mobis will bring results that satisfy all of its stakeholders through actively communicating and cooperating with diverse stakeholders. Definition of Stakeholder Hyundai Mobis classifies its stakeholders into eight groups and maintains different channels for communication with all of them. Communication channels and activities by stakeholder group Complete carmakers/ Complete carmakers and OEM part suppliers Production and sales policies, shared direction on product competitors development, joint projects, quality & technology capabilities tests, and market trend monitoring Employees Korea: 8,672 Employee satisfaction surveys, company-wide corporate culture Overseas: 16,544 assessments, CSR awareness surveys, assessments on employee awareness of business ethics, and Cyber Auditor Business partners Korea: 881 companies (primary suppliers) Regular meetings, executive-level conferences, seminars for CTO Forum: 119 companies CEOs of suppliers and for suppliers of overseas subsidiaries, and CTO (chief technology officers) Customers Korea: 1,940 dealerships, (dealers/consumers) Overseas: 460 agencies, 12,929 dealers, car shops, Agency policy seminars, council meetings for executives, and and end users customer satisfaction surveys Investors Institutional investors, individual investors, Non-deal roadshows (NDR), disclosures, general annual sharedomestic and international credit rating agencies, holders’ meetings, and CSR evaluations and CSR rating agencies in relation to investors Government/ Administrative organs, constitutional institutions, Associations local governments and associations Responses to public policies and institutions, and joint projects Media/Academia/ Korean and international media, CSR associations, Brand recognition surveys, CSR communication activities, and CSR agencies CSR regulators, and technology forums industrial-academia R&D alliances Local communities Local governments, social and environmental Social outreach partnerships (Meer Forest/Junior Engineering NGOs Class/Transparent Umbrella Campaigns) Stakeholder Communication All departments related to sustainability management at Hyundai Mobis are making continuous communication with key stakeholders. The key details of opinions collected are shared at the CSR Committee four times a year (January, May, September and December). The CSR Team in charge of CSR activities reclassifies the key information collected according to each field of area and establishes response strategies based on feedbacks given to stakeholders’ demand. Likewise, the key details are exclusively managed and reported to the board of directors, as well as disclosed publicly through our sustainability report. Monitoring and feedback Form an issue pool Major stakeHyundai Mobis Report to the Reflect in sustainability CSR Team holders CSR Committee board of directors report and materiality test Regularly Four times a year Report twice a year Gather opinions and provide responses 15 Overview Materiality Test Identify External Issues Step 1 Media Investigation and analysis of media reports made on Hyundai Mobis Analysis between January 2015 and December 2015 ✓ 256 media including newspaper, public TV networks, cable TV networks, internet, etc. Form an Issue Pool and Redefining Issues Step 1 ✓ 1,370 news articles regarding sustainability out of a total of 2,734 cases Hyundai Mobis has run materiality test every year in accordance with Benchmarking Analysis of competitor and leading companies and key material issues the GRI Guidelines, so that an issue pool is organized to identify key incompetitor com✓ Target: 5 competitor and leading companies ternal and external management-related issues by conducting media panies within the same industry ✓ Sustainability report and annual report analysis, evaluating global standards and government policies, benchmarking competitor companies within the same industry and interEvaluation Analysis of representative CSR-related global standard reports and viewing persons in charge of sustainability management from relevant evaluation items of global divisions. Based on the issue pool identified, we redefine the issues by standards ✓ DJSI ✓ GRI G4 ✓ ISO 26000 etc. adjusting the level of issues and combining or separating them. Survey Participation Step 2 Employees 1,723 Suppliers 218 Stakeholder Impact Analysis Step 2 Clients, media/academia, Hyundai Mobis has run surveys on stakeholders for ten days from Noagencies 237 government/association 27 vember 16, 2015 to November 25, 2015 in order to analyze the materiality and impact of sustainability issues. We surveyed 2,226 stakeholders Local communities, (1,723 employees, 503 external stakeholders) in eight groups on their shareholders/investors 21 awareness of the company’s CSR management in order to identify key material issues. Total 2,226 Step 3 ● Stakeholder concerns 1 ● ●2 ● 9 4 Material Issues Identified and Report Contents Selected ● 5 ● 3 ● Step 3 6 Based on the impact analysis conducted in Step 2 and the opinions of ●8 internal executives gathered, Hyundai Mobis prioritized the key issues ● 10 ● 7 for sustainable growth. Also, the materiality, response strategies and performance of six key material issues identified are disclosed through ● ● ● this report. ● ● ●● ● ● ● ● ● Business impact 16 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Hyundai Mobis clearly identifies key issues through genuine communication with stakeholders and continuously implement strategic tasks to become a reliable company that fulfills its social responsibilities, by selecting the issues included in the sustainability report through the following process. First, we identify and redefine an issue pool in Step 1, and then we survey a wide range of stakeholders to derive key material issues. In Step 3, we prioritize the key material issues required for sustainable growth based on the impact analysis and opinions of internal executives collected in Step 2. Identify Internal Issues Identifying an Issue Pool and Prioritizing Redefining Materiality Identifying ✓ A nalyze the company’s vision and the 2016 management strategy keywords Based on the issue pool The final six key issues Internal Policy ✓A  nalyze the CEO’s keywords for management practices, inDocuments cluding the New Year message, the anniversary speech, etc. identified, we identify are identified by prioritiz✓A  nalysis of the company magazine and press releases 22 key material issues ing the issues by taking by redefining the issues into consideration of the Interview Interview with 12 persons in charge from 8 divisions related by adjusting the level of stakeholder interest and to sustainability management issues and combining or the business impact. ✓ Identify major problems and issues of sustainability management by division separating them. ✓M  ajor divisional activities and performances in 2015 ✓ Economy: 2 key issues ✓ Economy: 8 key issues ✓ Environment: 1 key issues Listening to Listening to opinions of the management regarding sustain✓ Environment: 5 key issues ✓ Society: 3 key issues Opinions of ability management the Manage✓ Interview held with six executives ✓ Society: 9 key issues ment ✓P  articipate in stakeholder survey Result of CSR Awareness Surveys (Unit: %) 38.2 38.8 39.0 Key sustainability issues significance 37.1 Hyundai Mobis’s sustainability management 19.8 14.2 8.4 2.8 0.4 1.3 Very Excellent Important OutNormal Normal Not so Insufficient Not Not important standing important at all good Issue GRI Aspects Page Key Material ● 1 Securing global top technology competencies Training and Education p. 34~41 Issues ● 2 Customer-oriented management Product and Service Labeling p. 28~33 ● 3 Talent development Training and Education p. 47~51 ● 4 Mutual growth Indirect Economic Impacts, Local Communities p. 42~46 ● 5 Eco-friendly product policy Materials, Products and Services p. 52~56 ● 6 Improving work efficiency through system-based management Non GRI p. 18~26 ※ Report boundary: Hyundai Mobis Economy Society Environment Issues ● Expand global standards Recruitment of talented employees Response to climate change Manage● ● ment ● Risk management ● Improve diversity and corporate culture ● Environmental policies and environmental certifications ● Strengthen the supply base for parts and components production ● Establish fair trade order ● Expand eco-efficiency ● Soundness of corporate governance ● Improve health and welfare ● Manage pollutants and hazardous substances ● Transparent corporate culture ● Social contribution activities ● Enhance the reputation of shareholders and stakeholders ● Pursue the safety of worksites 17 Section 02 Special Theme System Management System Management Special Theme Hyundai Mobis ranked 6th place again after 2014 for ‘the top 100 Global OEM Suppliers’ chosen by the Automotive News, a U.S. automotive media. Our sales also increased significantly by 63 percent in five years from KRW 22.1 trillion in 2010 to KRW 36.2 trillion in 2015. Since it was essential to have a system that effectively implemented the external enlargement from rapid growth and the globalization of businesses, we reduced inefficient and overlapping factors and increased efficiency through our system-based management. We also strengthened our cooperative system with our suppliers to spread the know-how gained from system-based management to them. System Management ❾C u prostome duc r-o ts rien ted l nta me t Cu ❷ ma iron en E nvnagem st om er s tion ibu ntr ial co ❹ Soc 20 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 ✓ What is System-Based Management? It refers to a system that maximizes the organizational efficiency through systems instead of human resources, which is done based on IT-based system for overall business operation. Hyundai Mobis has promptly responded to the rapidly changing business environment by expanding system-based management practices to turn crisis into opportunity. For example, major achievements of sysSystem Management ❶ F tem-based management include: strengthening cooperative system by increasing information sharing; standardie preld-or ven ient izing and optimizing processes; improving work efficiency tion ed sys by removing inefficiencies; and establishing a prompt and tem ees accurate decision-making system. l oy E mp d nte t orie en m er-nagem to a ❸ Cuslity m qua ❻ E nt co one tec -frie mp hno ndly ent cos log ies ❺ llig gie Intehnolo Pa tec r tn ❼ R er ein com for petcing enc R&D s ies to ort upp D sers ❽ supp  R & li ❿S  tr comength pet enin itiv g s ene up ss plier s’ 21 Special Theme System Reinforcing Competitiveness through System-Based Management Practices Management The final goal of Hyundai Mobis’s system-based management practices is to reinforce its competitiveness through enhancing efficiency. By analyzing and reviewing domesProgress & tic and foreign business environments, we establish mid-to-long-term management directions for IT-based systems and come up with innovative tasks. Through these efPlans forts, we established three innovative directions for IT systems, including integrating global operations, response to front-end/back-end supply chains, proactive predictions and prompt responses. Based on them, we are focusing on expanding our system-based management practices. By innovating internal systems, Hyundai Mobis has established the foundation for integrating global operations and improving work efficiency, as well as minimizing supply chain risks and strengthening cooperative systems by reinforcing the cooperative system with our suppliers. In addition, we established diverse systems to increase communication channels, including clients and agencies, so that advanced prevention and prediction ability increased to provide prompt responses to clients. To achieve this, Hyundai Mobis systematically managed overflowing information by business area and shared them, while also inspected the existing systems to ensure interoperability between systems during the acceleration task. In fact, Hyundai Mobis has made noticeable results by expanding system-based management as follows: strengthening the cooperative system based on increasing information sharing; improving the data quality through a system set up on global standard information; enhancing the quality level through quality improvement activities and implementing them to suppliers; upgrading the management and support systems for suppliers; improving the operation ratio by eliminating waste factors; increasing work efficiency by analyzing factors of inefficiency; and strengthening future growth engines by upgrading R&D project management. Interview ● IT systems have a huge effect on our business environment. Therefore, we develop a new IT system through accurate analysis, while also ensuring interoperability with the existing IT system. In fact, information sharing and integrated management is possible under the IT system, which enables increased work efficiency as well as changes made to the way we work individually. We improve our employees’ IT satisfaction level and system utilization by evaluating domestic and overseas information systems when developing a new system and continuously implementing system improvement activities. In addition, we establish standards for the global infrastructure operating environment, with plans to integrate the IT environment at all of our worksites. Through these efforts, we look forward to stronger management efficiency and security as a result of standardized infrastructure management and faster work process. Information Technology Planning Group / Director, Lee SangHwa 22 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Strengthening Global Competitiveness through IT-Based System Management System Management 1 Integrating global operations 3 Innovation Directions 2 3 Responding to frontPredicting end/back-end supply proactively and chains responding promptly Integrating Responding to Front-End/Back-End Predicting Proactively and Global Operations Supply Chains Responding Promptly 1 Enhancing work efficiency through 2 Managing risks of supply chains 3 Maximizing customer satisfaction system innovations through strengthening the levels through stronger responses cooperative system for suppliers Standardizing and Integrating Reinforcing internal Maximizing Upgrading the Making predictions and Strengthening systems competencies collaborations management system taking preventive measures responses Establishing a global integrated Upgrading the Optimizing the purchasing Strengthening the strategic Establishing the simulationEstablishing a management management system for component infrastructure from management for suppliers based demand forecast system for order standard information management system development stage system opportunities Establishing a global standard Implementing work Upgrading the internal and Ensuring preventive action Strengthening the sales production operation smart practices external cooperative system with an integrated feedback analysis management (changing the way of for product development system system working) Integrating the global HR system Roadmap for IT Systems 2015 2016 2018 2020 Upgrading R&D project management / Upgrading the cooperaR&D tive system for product development Optimizing the purchasing collaboration infrastructure from developPurchasing ment stage / Strengthening the strategic management for suppliers Production/ Establishing a global standard production operation logistics Strengthening order responses / Upgrading the global analysis system / Establishing the Sales simulation-based demand forecast system Ensuring preventive action with an integrated feedback system / Establishing an innovative Quality infrastructure for quality information Establishing a global integrated system for financial information, Establishing a management Management system for cost reduction, Integrating the global HR system IT Upgrading the IT governance, Upgrading the IT infrastructure 23 Special Theme Main Establishing a Global Integrated Management System for Standard Information System Standard information is key information used equally across the enterprise and a common language used within the company. If there isn’t a system established for standard Introduced information, it can cause confusion to business. In July 2015, Hyundai Mobis set up the G-MDM (Global Master Data Management), which is a global integrated management system for standard information that provides integrated management and standardization of enterprise-wide standard information. Standard information that used to be separately operated and managed by business area had been integrated into single enterprise-wide information. Also, we enhanced the quality of data by maintaining consistent standard information through regular monitoring. Hyundai Mobis explored additional factors for standard information by identifying samples for enterprise-wide standard information, which was continuously integrated and standardized. In addition, we extensively applied the G-MDM to cover overseas worksites and new corporations. Establishing an Efficient System to Manage and Support Suppliers Hyundai Mobis is operating management and support systems for its suppliers. Since there are a great number of them, the information is scattered and it was necessary to improve the flexibility of the system that failed to meet the user’s demands, which is why we upgraded the management systems for our suppliers that had been established in 2007. In September 2015, Hyundai Mobis established a portal system called MSCP (Hyundai Mobis Supply Chain Portal) to provide integrated management and strengthen interoperability with the existing system for suppliers. As a result, we extended the scope of information sharing by registering not only essential information for production and delivery processes, including the present status of quality defect ratio, changes in the production plan and the delay in delivery, but also payment information, parts identification mark and emergency contact information. Through these efforts, we improved the overall management of our suppliers, including the management process, server environment, function and UI, which had the effect of increasing user convenience and improving the utilization. Indexes by field Establishment of single channel (MSCP) Integration of systems Reinforcing the Information about Purchase system for sharing mass production information MPOS Duty refunds real-time information Status on quality defects Engineering Order between Hyundai MoStatus on Amount to QMS R&D bis and its suppliers delivery delays settle payment through an integrated Information about AS Information portal system (Aftermarket Service) about quality SPIN Help Desk Emergency back orders Claim details < Access to single channel > ATP non-input Status of FTA Van Mobis process audits Realizing the status of major indexes required for confirmation by field Sharing Integrated Information Prioritizing Pending Business Unifying the Suppliers' Channels Establishing a system for providing real-time Taking measures to prevent delay of Unifying the suppliers' channels so that information about major indexes of suppliers business with proactive management of they can get access to other channels from through an integrated portal system major indexes a single system 24 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 iMobis System Management Enhancing Work Efficiency through Innovating http://www.imobis.co.kr Office Management Schedule Hyundai Mobis is making changes in the way they work by ✓ Enterprise-wide/team/individual innovating office management. schedule management The three implementation directions of innovating office E-mail management include: capitalization of information by establishing MCloud; upgrading the sharing and collab✓ Create an email link ✓ Block unwanted emails ✓ Recall/Re-send oration functions for establishing an integrated informaMCloud Approval System tion retrieval system; and creating a smart work culture through reorganizing the work system (imobis). ✓ Simplify forms ✓ Office electronic approval system Since July 1, 2015, Hyundai Mobis successfully centralized its intellectual property by establishing MCloud. It is a um m doc ent box system that stores documents not only in the employee’s Tea personal computer, but also in the central server, allowing ide do rganization rprise-w cument box up o information sharing as well as spreading a collaborative Centralization box culture. Besides MCloud in R&D area, we systematically Ente of Documents Gro manage the R&D performance by registering technical Gro Integrated search drafts and software sources in ubCENTRA. Through these up do cument box efforts, we had the effect of strengthening security. Search word Under the MCloud, we also established an integrated inMCloud formation retrieval system that enables quick and easy re✓ Intellectual assets ✓ On-line collaboration Electronic approval trieval of documents stored in various systems within the ✓ Sharing/utilization ✓ Paperless Business system company, which is currently being operated for a limited Employee Information Search number of people. Hyundai Mobis will further strengthen its cooperative system to increase information sharing ✓ Intellectual property search/ utilization through such tools. ✓ Search like a popular search The reorganization of the work system (imobis) brought a engine like Naver huge change to business environments. It streamlined the reporting line because office documents were used withiMobis A out separate authority, so that it is submitted to a superior 6 for electronic approval. Since approvals were made within the system instead of through document report, it also led 12 to paperless reporting. In addition, we extended the mobile imobis users from above team leader levels to include Mobile imobis all of the employees in Korea, making a smart work environment where checking e-mails and giving approvals can be done regardless of time and place. Result of Work Smart Analysis Hyundai Mobis has surveyed its domestic employees on the level of awareness about changes made to the way they work. The result of comparing the work smart composite index for before and after establishing MCloud, which signaled the start of innovating office management, showed an increase of 21 percent. According to each area, the simplification of the reporting line showed the biggest increase, while reducing the printing of unnecessary documents recorded the highest score. ・Composition of survey : Three areas (Work, People, Infra) / Five detailed Document sharing Reduction ratio of Reduction ratio of printers tasks (meeting, drawing up documents, instructions on the job, getting ratio printed papers at offices approval on reports, collaboration) ・Number of participants : Domestic employees 4,318 persons 93.2% 90 % 40% 25 Special Theme Optimizing Decision-Making through EIS Upgrade Hyundai Mobis established a prompt decision-making system by upgrading management information for each business area. We analyze and share the information that require improvement and sharing on time by establishing the EIS (Executive Information System), which is an optimized management information system for different business areas, including R&D, purchasing, quality and sales. Furthermore, we hold an enterprise-wide meeting based on the EIS information, while also providing prompt decision-making process and making improvements. In fact, the daily quality meeting held by the top management is based on the EIS. Running a Risk Control Tower for System-Based Management Practices Hyundai Mobis is implementing the highest innovation of system-based management practices by running a risk control tower. In early 2013, Hyundai Mobis established a rescue control tower based on the GIMS (Global Integrated Monitoring System), which manages about 30 manufacturing sites in ten countries around the world in real time. On the screen of the risk control tower that is connected with production, quality and energy management systems, it is possible to count various figures in real time including the production line of about 30 manufacturing sites, the production and inventory status by product, the actual output, the operation ratio, days of inventory and field quality. Besides this, we prepare for line stoppage, quality problem and fire occurrence due to facility problems by installing CCTVs at all of our manufacturing sites around the world in 2015. The information collected at the risk control tower act as the basis for the management’s accurate decision-making process, as well as a prompt response system in case of an emergency. Hyundai Mobis is spreading the know-how on system-based management to its suppliers. We invited about 200 CEOs of the primary suppliers to Hyundai Mobis’s head office and 6 major plants to share our know-how about utilizing ITbased systems. The suppliers’ CEOs attended video conferences that can accommodate up to 300 persons and share information on Hyundai Mobis’s quality policy. Also, they shared about the effective way of utilizing each system better by demonstrating integrated portal, quality management system and integrated process check system for suppliers. We clearly introduced about the current management status by inviting the CEOs to the risk control tower at the head office. Meanwhile, Hyundai Mobis has set up various systems, including video conference system and suppliers’ integrated portal, allowing our suppliers to use them for free of charge. 1 2 3 Data Source Data Integration Monitoring and Reporting Management Systems ✓ CCTV information about overseas Providing enterprise-wide management information in real time Situation worksites Module/manufacturing sites By division/plant with performance comparison/trend analysis ✓ Enterprise resource planning (ERP) system Provide information for decision-making concerning Sales Monitoring of management practices/risk management Status of performances against plans ✓ Automotive Parts Division’s EIS Risk Control Tower Monitoring System for Worksites with CCTV Production Production performance/operation ratio/downtime/inventory (GIMS) Production/quality monitoring system by site ✓ Quality Division’s EIS Quality Information about field/complete cars/ inline quality Real-time review system at worksites through CCTV ✓ Service Parts Division’s EIS < Integrate real-time information > AS Supply ratio/back orders/delivery ratio/ System CCTV inventory 26 Customers Satisfaction P. 28 Research & Development P. 34 Win-Win Partnership P. 42 Employees P. 47 Environmental Management P. 52 Section 03 Material Issues Customers 01 Satisfaction By providing top-quality products and services, Hyundai Mobis has focused all of its competencies on achieving customer satisfaction that goes beyond their expectations. We aim to achieve zero-defect production quality through proactive quality management and a Number of AS Component Items Provided for production system that supports it, as well as making 213 Car Models in 2015 (Unit : 10,000 items) efforts to reduce the weight of components and develop high-quality materials to supply the optimized products to our customers. In addition, we are paying close attention to client voices through the customer satisfaction 227 system. CS 1 Million Index Improvement Rate (domestic) (Unit : %) 61 Number of Employees Who Participated in CS Training in 2015 (Unit: persons) 4,277 2015 2016 + Progress in 2015 Forecast and objectives ・Improving quality indexes in accordance with quality-first policy ・Establishing Hyundai Mobis quality standard (Q-Standard) ・Strengthening responses to customers by facilitating global quality centers ・Strengthening competencies for preliminary verification of quality ・Establishing a field-oriented quality management system ・Upgrading the smart quality management system HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Quality Management Based on Customer-First Policy In order to provide top-quality products and services, Hyundai Mobis has focused all of its competencies on achieving our top priority tasks: realizing defect-free quality, ensuring the highest possible customer satisfaction system, establishing processes in line with global standards, and reinforcing our suppliers’ quality competitiveness. In 2002, Hyundai Mobis was the first Korean company to earn the ISO/TS 16949 certificate-the quality management system (QMS) for international carmakers-on all of its global operations, as well as poised to achieve zero-defects. As of the end of 2015, the company completed the ISO/TS 16949 QMS certification at 37 of its manufacturing plants around the world. We have also innoManufacturing site of Turkey’s module plant vated the prevention control system to prevent quality issues at source. In order to provide better products, we continuously improved production lines so that they all met global standards. Hyundai Mobis also controls all quality issues on its overseas operations through its overseas quality control centers in major strategic auto markets in the U.S. (LA), China (Shanghai), Germany (Frankfurt) and India (Delhi). The overseas quality control centers carry out quality innovation activities tailored to local client needs and market demands, and are reinforcing their capabilities for on-site troubleshooting and new vehicle tests. We plan to expand more centers overseas in strategic markets in South America and the Middle East in order to offer localized quality services and the prompt dealing of quality issues. In addition, we will focus on strengthening our quality competitiveness through Hyundai MOBIS High Tech Green Technology Center in Seosan, Chungnam to be completed in the second half of 2016. By establishing various types of test roads within Hyundai MOBIS High Tech Green Technology Center in Seosan, we will enhance the perception of technology, while As of the end of 2015, Hyundai also focused on improving the quality of our products with a testing system run by an excelMobis completed the ISO/TS 16949 lent team of test experts. QMS at 37 of its manufacturing plants around the world. Quality Management System (QMS) 37plants ent Qua lity gem a na Quali urance ty m ss Feedback a Continuous Client demands Improvement of Customer satisfaction QMS nq e uality co nc ntrol Adva dQ tio ual duc ity Mass pro ManufacQuality Design Packaging Shipments turing assurance Quality Improvement Performance Hyundai Mobis improved its CS 1 million Index, which stood at 2,171 in Korea and 1,293 overseas in 2014, by 61 percent, 60 percent, each to 851 in Korea and 513 overseas in 2015. Its IQS rating in the North American market also improved 17 percent to score 21.5 points for the same year. These improvements, in turn, stabilized our product quality level, with our plant operation ratio improving from 92.9 percent in 2014 to reach 95.2 percent in 2015 that reduced costs by KRW 9 billion. 29 Material Issues Quality Indexes CS 1 million index Field-Oriented Quality Management Domestic (cases) Overseas (cases) Hyundai Mobis aim to achieve zero-defect production quality by preemptively managing factors that might cause problems through statistically manag6,372 61%↑ 60%↑ ing such problems. Since enhancing durability has been a major challenge for automotive parts, we analyze and improve components with weak durability 5,533 2,171 and reflect the results in technology standards, while also conducting intensive production line checking to improve field practices. In addition, Hyundai Mobis’s Quality Council, presided over by top management, ensures the 851 systematic management of quality innovation. Besides daily quality control 1,293 513 meetings held to review quality improvements made, we also have monthly meetings to share quality innovation tips and consult future directions for in2013 2014 2015 ※ The CS 1 million index is a market quality indicator that stands for the number of claims made for every 1 million vehicle in the first 90 novation. The agenda items discussed and deliberated on in the meetings days of ownership. Note that 2014 figures were revised following the modification of the internal quality management standard. are reflected in company-wide quality innovation drives. Quality-First Production System RS 1 million index Domestic (cases) Overseas (cases) In order to reinforce its manufacturing competitiveness, Hyundai Mobis has established the Production R&D Center, which is at the center of these en11,918 53%↑ 67%↑ deavors for quality-first production system. To that end, we have set forth four key initiatives as follows. 11,072 4,444 First, we will strengthen prior-verification to stabilize the quality of new cars in early stages. We are striving to achieve the target operation ratio of new plants and new cards by 4,092 1,924 continuously strengthening systematic verification activities during the early stages 1,463 of the design and production preparation process. In order to ensure the quality of products for pilot lines at the lamp pilot plant, the pilot module plant and the plant 2013 2014 2015 ※ The RS 1 million index is a market quality indicator that represents the number of claims made for every 1 million vehicles in the first 10for securing the quality of injector, we implemented activities to strengthen prior-ver12 months of ownership. Note that 2014 figures were revised followification, as well as carried out activities to inspect facilities to stabilize mass producing the modification of the internal quality management standard. tion of new overseas plants in early stages, including initial stage operation control and specifications check. JD Power’s quality inspection of North American region IQS VDS Second, we will innovate our plants’ productivity through continuous improvement efforts. In order to maximize the efficiency of our production facilities, we conduct activities 17%↑ 10%↑ to improve productivity, such as reducing automation and cycle times, as well as spreading the system innovation at all of our plants. In addition, we facilitate produc47.6 tivity enhancement through technique guidance for domestic and overseas molding 38.8 42.5 and electronic device suppliers. 32.3 25.9 21.5 Third, we will innovate the process quality through establishing and achieving zero-defect production quality. 2013 2014 2015 We are implementing various improvement and verification activities, including improvements made in chronic quality problems of production lines. In particular, we ※ IQS (Initial Quality Study) shows the number of problems per 100 aim to achieve zero-defect production quality through a quality assurance system vehicles experienced in the first 90 days of ownership, and the VDS (Vehicle Dependability Study) indicates the rate of problems per 100 and regular monitoring, as well as prior-verification from the early stages to ensure vehicles experienced in the first three years aftermarket. zero defects for safety and security parts. Fourth, we will secure competitiveness in costs and improve the quality of parts with key manufacturing technology. We internalize and develop new techniques for electronic devices, including lasers and sensors, as well as apply aspherical lens technology for mass production. Also, we verify whether core technologies of new eco-friendly products, including steering technology and semiconductor packaging, can be mass produced. 30 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Aftermarket Service Parts Supply Performance Logistics for Higher Customer Value Items Car models Hyundai Mobis is obliged to timely supply end-users with aftermarket service (AS) parts for vehicles sold by carmaker clients. Under the relevant Korean laws governing the industry, the 2,271,617 Consumer Protection Act and the Automobile Management Act, all AS parts are required to 2,143,378 2,007,661 be available on the market for at least eight years after a vehicle model has been phased out. In compliance with this, Hyundai Mobis supplies AS parts to Hyundai and Kia Motors vehicles both in the domestic and overseas markets by drawing on its vast distribution network after rigorous tests and quality assurance programs are carried out to ensure the optimal functionality of various vehicle models until the end of each model’s lifecycle. 213 As of the end of 2015, approximately 57 million Hyundai and Kia Motors vehicles were on roads 194 202 around the world, with Hyundai Mobis supplying 2.27 million AS parts for 213 different models. Although customer demand for AS parts is always unpredictable, it is characteristically immediate, making efficient logistics operations critical to their timely supply. As a result, Hyundai 2013 2014 2015 Mobis has optimized its logistics operations with a standardized system which uses an intelligent warehousing system to allow for real-time monitoring of all procedures, from storage to shipment of AS parts, and which completely depends on an efficient barcode system. Aftermarket Service Parts Supply Network in Korea and Overseas (Unit: centers, as of the end of December, 2015) Korea Parts sales centers 23 In 2015, 2.27 million items of Logistics centers 4 AS parts were provided for 213 Service parts sales teams 42 car models. Agencies 1,940 Overseas Automotive parts subsidiaries Parts sales centers (PDC) Logistics centers (RDC) 15 51 2 2.27million items Branches and offices 1 Agencies 460 Dealers 12,929 Aftermarket Service Parts Supply Process Parts sales centers Agencies Repair shops Korea ManufacturLogistics Consumers ※ Regions without overseas agencies: automotive ing sites centers parts subsidiaries Overseas → Dealers for direct supply (China, India, etc.) Complete carmaker plants Hyundai Mobis’s plants Automotive parts subsidiaries Agencies Dealers ※ Regions without overseas automotive pars Suppliers subsidiaries: logistics center → Agencies (Africa, Central and South America, Asia-Pacific Area) Customer Satisfaction System Hyundai Mobis runs its own customer service center, where the voice of the customer (VOC) ※ SMART : Smart Hyundai Mobis is promptly addressed in connection with our SMART system. Any request for AS parts is Agent forwarded to the nearest logistics network base so that the item in demand can be delivered for Reaching Global Top 10 within two days. We also conduct annual surveys on our retail and wholesale customers to ※ VOC : Voice of Customer understand our customer satisfaction level better, and reflect these results in enhancing our ※ CS : Customer Satisfaction overall customer service experience. We also gave specialize training to all our employees. In 2015, a total of 4,277 employees received a total of 12,788 hours of CS related training not only for CS staff, but also for employees in other positions. 31 Material Issues Improving Customer Convenience through Technological Perfection The accelerated advancement of technologies has greatly changed the human life, especially so with automotive technologies. As a result, the auto industry is going through a paradigm change in mobility that goes well beyond transportation to become a second living space. Thus, Hyundai Mobis aims to achieve technological perfection to increase customer satisfaction and enhance customer convenience by developing diverse products. Hyundai Mobis has contributed in enhancing Best Practice _ Wireless Charging/ NFC-Enabled Smart Key System customer convenience through developing The technological progress of car keys started off as a mechanical key, followed by an electronic lock that opened and closed smart key system that doors by remote control and the currently used smart key that automatically detects the driver through radio waves. Going supports wireless forward, it is forecasted that car keys will be included in smart phones, which made MP3 players, digital cameras and game charging/NFC (near field devices to disappear. communication). The wireless charging/NFC-enabled smart key system is an enhanced version of the smart key system that allows access to start the vehicle with digital car key stored in a smart phone and the NFC-equipped smartphone. In addition, it also offers wireless charging for smart phones. How will our lives change in the future if the wireless charging/NFC-enabled smart key system becomes widely used? Car doors will open when your smart phone is near the door handle and once inside the driver seat, you can start the car by placing your smart phone on the wireless charging/NFC controller. You can listen to your list of favorite songs from your smart phone with Bluetooth automatically connecting to audio, visual and navigation system (AVN). After parking, car doors are locked with your smart phone. You can see the car status, driving records and parking location sent by NFC on your smart phone. Also, a third party can be authorized to open and close your car if you give that person a temporary digital car key. Like this, the NFC-enabled smart key system will bring diverse functions of customer convenience by converging with ICT technology. Hyundai Mobis is developing all areas of the smart key system, from the existing FOB to the advanced card key. Hyundai Mobis’s smart key system will continuously apply new technologies, such as biometrics with various IT devices like smart phones and wearable devices. ※ NFC: Near Field Communication ※ ICT: Information and Communication Technology Development Direction of Smart Key System Development of Upgrading TechTechnological Convergence Adoption of New TechSmart Key System nologies Replacing FOB functions nologies Improving convenience by FOB lightweighting Integrating with smart/wearable Applying biometrics adopting FOB and downsizing devices Efforts to Supply Optimized Products Developing High-Functional Materials to Achieve Emotional Engineering In line with high-functional technology, Hyundai Mobis made strenuous efforts to secure emotional engineering to satisfy customers’ five senses. To achieve this, we are developing high-functional materials or upgrading painting technology. An example of developing high-functional interior parts is soft feel seamless TPO crash pad. It realizes its original functions as well as increase the soft feel of cushion (longitude 70C→55C) compared to the existing one. Also, Hyundai Mobis successfully developed interior parts applied with high-precision curved surface printing, enabling the same patterns to be printed while preventing the sagging of patterns on curved surfaces through high-definition curved surface printing of 1~2㎛. The biggest strength is that complicated and sophisticated patterns can be printed without distortion unlike the existing film printing or painting methods. By securing such core technology, Hyundai Mobis contributed in improving the products of small and medium-size cars, as well as enhancing the competitiveness of luxury cars. Ultimately, we are developing technologies to improve the satisfaction levels of the end-users. 32 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Seamless TPO Crash Pad High-precision Curved Surface Printing ✓ Change surface treatment → Improve softness ✓ Upgrading external quality through precision printing Carbon pattern Technical pattern Stone pattern Reinforcing Product Competitiveness through Cost Reduction Hyundai Mobis made strenuous efforts to secure competitiveness through cost reduction in all areas, including R&D, purchasing and sales. We eliminated waste factors and inefficiencies at worksites for production, while improving designs and increasing localization efforts for R&D. In addition, we are domestically producing and commonly applying components and receiving specification proposals from our suppliers. Best Practice _ Localization of TPO Materials Used in Pillar Lamps for Curtain Airbags Hyundai Mobis secured price competitiveness for its airbag modules through the localization of TPO materials used in pillar lamps, which is a component of curtain airbags. In the case of airbags, it has to work in low and high temperature environments without causing any obstacles. Hyundai Mobis successfully developed rubber materials with durability that also fulfills its function as airbags, so that a total of KRW 317 million was saved in costs by applying it to mass producing cars in 2015. We plan to achieve cost reduction in the future by integrating high-functional materials and components, or convergHyundai Mobis has ing materials and techniques. replaced the existing bumper beams from steel materials to new materials and improved the injection structure, to lighten Lightweight Components for Better Fuel Economy the overall weight by By reducing the weight of its components to increase the fuel economy of the complete cars it is associated with, 20 percent. Hyundai Mobis has helped in contributing to client competitiveness. Hyundai Mobis takes a strategic approach to 20% lighten its components by module type. Progress on Component Weight Reduction Classification Contents Lightweighting Bumper Rear bumper beam Materials changed (steel → composite material of aramid and GMT) and injector structure improved 20% SuspenControl arms, knuckles and carriers Materials changed (steel → aluminum) 30% sion Knuckles Materials changed (Development of high-strength and high-toughness steel materials) 5.2% Best Practice _ Developing high-strength and high-toughness lightweight knuckles Knuckles are components that act as a connection between the car body and the suspension system inside the chassis module, and strong durability and lightweight determines the perfection of the product. Hyundai Mobis optimized the knuckle’s microstructure, including its ingredient and inoculants, and enhanced the composition of the structure to develop high-strength and high-toughness knuckles, which increased strength quality by 18 percent and reduced weight by 5.2 percent. Hyundai Mobis will expand application to mass produced cars, already applied to the new Avante in 2015. 33 Research 02 & Development Hyundai Mobis focuses its competencies to become a leading auto parts company by strengthening global technological competitiveness. To achieve this, we expand our R&D base through continuous investments and recruit outstanding talent, as well as accelerate the Number of Eco-friendly Vehicle advancement of technologies through technological exParts Supplied (2009-2015) changes with our suppliers. (Unit: 10,000 items) 166 Number of R&D Projects in 2015 (Unit: cases) 887 Number of R&D Staff (As of the end of 2015) (Unit: persons) 2,922 2015 2016 + Progress in 2015 Forecast and objectives ・The first application of new technologies to car models that are mass ・Securing competitive advantage and securing continuous growth produced (7 car models, 12 cases) through strengthening technological competitiveness ・Enhancing core technologies and advanced development ・Developing products tailored to local client needs ・Improving engineering quality ・Promoting preliminary study HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Car Model and Response by Type R&D Performance Number of car models Number of projects Aiming to achieve the R&D vision of strengthening globally competitive technologies, Hyundai Mobis is conducting R&D by establishing three implemen67 tation directions, including strengthening product competitiveness through 2013 555 securing competitiveness in design costs and technological competencies; 76 enhancing global competitiveness through facilitating overseas R&D centers 2014 729 and localized products; and improving R&D competencies through expand82 ing R&D infrastructure and facilitating preliminary study. In line with this, 2015 887 Hyundai Mobis has continuously increased R&D investments and strives to expand domestic and overseas R&D staff. R&D Expenditures R&D Vision (Unit: KRW million) 2013 424,054 Strengthening global competitiveness through enhanc492,700 ing price competitiveness and preliminary study 2014 2015 623,169 R&D Staff Strengthening product Improving global comEnhancing R&D compe(Unit: persons) competitiveness petitiveness tencies ·Secure technological ·Develop localized products ·Promote preliminary study 2013 2,462 competencies by field ·Strengthen global OE prod·Strengthen technical ·Reinforce quality competuct competitiveness training for researchers 2014 2,570 itiveness ·Facilitate overseas R&D ·Expand R&D infrastructure 2,922 ·Secure competitiveness in centers 2015 design costs ※ Past data changed as there were changes in the internal data standard. The figures include researchers who work at the Production R&D Center and the Hyundai Mobis Quality Research Institute, but excluding the executives and contract-based employees. Reinforcing Competitiveness through Facilitating Overseas R&D Centers Hyundai Mobis is enhancing its competitiveness through strengthening the functions of overseas R&D centers in North America, Europe, India and China. In March and October of 2015, we moved our R&D centers in India and North America to a larger facility, with plans to do the same with the Europe R&D Center. In addition, we made websites for each location to recruit outW standing talent and raise the awareness about our R&D centers, while also increasing university-industry collaboration locally. The Europe R&D Center has strengthened cooperation on preliminary study regarding chassis with Munich University of Technology and Aachen University of Technology, and In 2015, Hyundai Mobis spent the North America R&D Center will continue to cooperate in eco-friendly area. KRW 623,169 million in R&D investments. ✓ North America R&D Center http://www.mobistc-na.com 623,169million ✓ Europe R&D Center KRW http://www.mobistc-europe.com ✓ China R&D Center http://www.mobistc-china.com ✓ India R&D Center http://www.mobistc-india.com Overseas R&D Centers Region Contents U.S. (Detroit) Developing core technology specialized to American conditions: green vehicles/IT/autonomous driving Germany (Frankfurt) Developing core technology specialized to European conditions: DAS/braking/trim part China (Shanghai) Developing products optimal to local conditions at low costs India (Hyderabad) Developing SW architecture to support SW design robustness 35 Material Issues Developing Technologies through Cooperation with External Stakeholders Hyundai Mobis is developing technologies through exchanges with the government, academia and suppliers. To be specific, we receive advices on pending issues by identifying the latest technology trends from academic experts, while also sharing directions for technology development with suppliers through the CTO forum to propose new techniques and exchange opinions. In 2015, we held our technology forums to discuss about 19 cases of the latest trends of automotive technologies and take theoretical approach on 12 cases with domestic and overseas professors. Also, 12 teams within the R&D Center hold the CTO forum to share key tasks and future directions for technology development with our suppliers, while also providing one-on-one consultations to listen to technology proposals through on-site visits. In addition, we actively carry out national projects. By receiving government aid (KRW 4.874 million), Hyundai Mobis is implementing 34 national projects related to EV advanced technology, lightening weights, new materials and DAS technology. ※ CTO: Chief Technology Officer ※ DAS: Driver Assistance System Supporting Employee Patents and Creativity Hyundai Mobis encourages all its employees, as well as its researchers, to get involved in creative activities through a number of programs. Employees who file for or register patents are fairly treated with monetary incentives based on internal laws governing compensation to employee invention. Additional monetary rewards are offered when the registered patents Hyundai Mobis electromagnetic darkroom are used in our products or generate profits. The company awards teams with the most outstanding performance with monetary rewards based on an annual basis, as well as motivate employee engagement with inventions through our invention support programs, with a patent attorney providing consultation on the possibility of getting patent once a month. Since 2012, we have been holding a company-wide contest for ideas related to future technologies in promotion of employee creativity. A total of 767 applications accumulated over the past four years and 88 outstanding entries have won awards. The 2015 grand prize winner was a head up display device that projects vehicle speed to anticipate the road. The company awarded the winner KRW 1 million and sponsored all the expenses for attending the Switzerland Invention Fair. Hyundai Mobis will continue with this awards program to motivate more creative ideas and technology development from employees for future technologies. The Future Technology Contest received a total of 767 ideas over a four-year period since 2012, and 88 of them won awards. R&D Awards 767cases Micro Pattern Surface Light Source Implementation Technology IR52 Jang Yeong Sil Award · Improve the freedom of design (47th week) · Reduce costs and simplify structures IMX Crash Pad_ Skin Body Double Injection U.S. SPE Innovation Award (Grand Prize in Process/Assembly/Ena· Reduce costs and lighten weights bling Technology) · Minimize components and processes Man of merit for the secondary Developing Battery Systems for EVs battery industry · Increase battery power (Ministerial Citation from the Ministry of · Increase available driving distance Trade, Industry and Energy) 36 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Developing Electronic Components to Comply with International Standards The accelerated advancement of technologies has extended the scope of quality consideration of vehicles to safety and convenience. To that effect, telematics equipment has become a critical factor for every automobile, accounting for 35 percent of all auto components, which is expected to exceed 50 percent within the next five years. Hyundai Mobis faithfully abides by all international standards in the design and maintenance of its telematics equipment and software. We set up a SW Verification and Validation Team to prepare for the increased use of telematics components and prepared for obtaining the ISO 26262 certificate, the international standard for the safety of automotive functionality. As a result, we were the first company to acquire the certificate on our airbag control units (ACU) in 2013, while we also acquired the MDPS (Motor Driven Power Steering) in 2015. As of the end of 2015, we established the MEDP (Hyundai Mobis Electrical and Electronic Development Process) 2.0 version in accordance with the highest international standards, including the ISO 26262. In 2016, we will continue to enhance customer safety and convenience by applying the MEDP to cover not only domestically, but also overseas R&D centers. Hyundai Mobis’s International Standard Certificates and Plans for Electronic Components Classification 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ISO 26262 SCC (ASIL B), ACU (ASIL D), MDPS (ASIL D) Expanding the apLKAS (ASIL B) SPAS (ASIL B) plication of MEDPbased international ASPICE ICS products and deICS products (Obstandards velopment processes taining 14 items of (Level 2) Level 2 certification) CMMI Reobtaining the Level 3 certification (3-year term) 37 Material Issues Developing Green Car Components Climate change including oil resource depletion and global warming have raised concerns about sustainable growth, which brought many countries around the world to strengthen environmental regulations. In response to such efforts, Hyundai Mobis developed green car components comply with global environmental regulations for engine efficiency, battery systems, chargers and hydrogen supply devices, as well as made strenuous efforts to develop future technologies such as autonomous driving and IT-based vehicle control technology. The Future Direction of Green Car Technologies Acceleration of global warming due to increased CO2 emissions and oil resource depletion have raised the need to develop green car technologies. Therefore, governments around the world have stricter permissible emission levels to curtail their CO2 emissions and energy consumption, so that CO2 emissions from vehicles are lowered to 95g/km by 2020 in the EU and 70g/km by 2025. Also, the U.S. has strengthened its target for average fuel economy from 35.5mpg (15.1km/l) by 2016 to 54.5mpg (23.2km/l) by 2025, as well as lowered CO2 emissions to 107g/km by 2025. The permissible CO2 levels for China and Korea were set at 117g/km and 97g/km, respectively. Stricter regulations are calling for the development of green vehicles and improvement of the efficiency of internal combustion engines. In response, complete carmakers are opting to raise their fuel economy by enhancing Chungju Plant (production of eco-friendly components) the efficiency of internal combustion engines and increasing the use of electric motor systems for all car models. Developing Key Components for Green Vehicles In line with the changes in complete carmakers, Hyundai Mobis came up with the following development strategies to take the lead in the green car components. ✓ First, we are striving to reduce the load on the engine by applying a 48V power system. ✓ Second, we are developing various green car technologies, including water-cooled battery systems and chargers for efficient thermal management of high-capacity battery installed in plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV), as well as hydrogen supply devices applied in fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEV). Total number of vehicles to Enhancing the Efficiency of Internal Combustion Engines which Hyundai Mobis supplied eco-friendly components from 48V Systems 2010 to 2015 The 48V power supply system consists of starting generators for engine restarting and generation and auxiliary driving force, converters that supply power to 12V electronic components, and batteries that supply 48V electric 332,492 energy. In 2015, Hyundai Mobis developed a 10kW-class integrated starting generator, a 2.5kW-class bi-directionvehicles al converter (48V↔12V), and a 450Wh-class 48V lithium battery system. Air-cooled chillers are applied to starting generators with cooling fans installed in the motor rotation axis, with no need for a separate cooling loop. Converters have been developed to enable 12V lead-acid batteries for 48V supplies and step-up operation, so that power is supplied to start engine in emergency situations. The application of this system will provide better fuel efficiency than 12V Stop & Go System because it can stop and restart the engine regardless of whether the car has stopped or not, while also enable driving torque assistance and regenerative braking. Compared to the high-voltage hybrid technology, it is a low-cost hybrid technology that can minimize changes made to a vehicle’s powertrain. 38 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Green Vehicles Using Hyundai Mobis Technologies Hybrid Electric Fuel Cell Ioniq Hybrid/Plug-In Hybrid (Exclusive Niro K5 K7 China Ioniq Model) (Small SUV) Plug-In Hybrid K5 (Exclusive Model) 2016 Sonata Plug-In New China Hybrid K5 Sonata 2015 Sonata Soul 2014 Azera K7 Tucson 2013 Ultra-low floor CNG buses 2012 Sonata K5 Ray 2011 BlueOn 2010 Elantra Forte 2009 Applying Diverse Eco-Friendly Technologies Battery Systems Battery systems consist of battery packs that supply high-voltage electric energy to the vehicle, while the battery controller protects and controls the battery pack and battery. This makes battery packs a core part with a significant influence on the mileage and fuel economy of vehicles. We enhanced our battery system to lighten the weight of battery packs and applied bottom case by two pieces welding to the lower cover of the battery system, so that it was installed in IONIQ EVs. Additionally, we are applying high-capacity batteries to increase driving range for electric vehicles and developing water-cooled thermal management technologies that uses fluids from air-cooling system for enhanced efficiency, which will be installed in future car models. Battery Chargers Battery chargers use supply voltage (AC 110/220V) to charge high-voltage batteries installed in EVs and PHEVs. They are divided into 3.3kW-class and 6.6kW-class to meet domestic and overseas power standards, with interface functions for electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) and international standard (SAE J1772). The power supply control circuits for chargers consist of a boost converter that controls unity power factor control and a high-efficiency buck-boost converter that controls voltages and currents of high-voltage batteries. Hyundai Mobis succeeded in the mass production of compact-sized, lightweight battery chargers with higher efficiency by enhancing the power circuits and downsizing/modularizing the electronic components. In 2016, we applied 6.6kW-class and 3.3kW-class chargers to Ioniq electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles. Hydrogen Supply Devices Hydrogen supply devices provide hydrogen, the fuel source of FCEVs and control the output of the fuel cell stacks by adjusting the hydrogen flow rate. It applies a technology that reuses the unreacted hydrogen in the fuel cell stacks, thereby raising the hydrogen consumption rate. Hyundai Mobis has now successfully developed 100 kWclass hydrogen supplier devices that realize high power density with a modularized design, while enhancing the efficiency of the fuel cell system through integrated control of the hydrogen supply. By applying a hydrogen recirculation compressor, it achieved a 95 percent hydrogen consumption rate. In 2015, high pressure water supplies became possible, which enhanced energy power density through modularizing hydrogen supply devices and stacks for joint distributors, with plans to be applied in future FCEVs. 39 Material Issues Autonomous Driving Technology These days, a hot topic in domestic and overseas auto industry is autonomous driving technology. Since it allows advanced automotive technology and IT convergence to be installed, the world’s leading carmakers and IT companies are accelerating their development of autonomous driving technology. Hyundai Mobis is also focusing on autonomous driving technology based on its driver convenience system technology. In this regard, Hyundai Mobis showcased its technologies at the Consumer Electronics Show held in Las Vegas in January 2016, including participatory exhibits for autonomous driving technology and intelligent driver support system and advanced driver assistance system (DAS). The Future Direction of Autonomous Driving Technology The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) defined autonomous driving system into five levels (level 0~level 4) as follows: Level 0 don’t actually controls the car and only gives warning to the driver; level 1-2 controls the car in restrictive conditions and the driver always has to keep an eye on the surrounding environment; and level 3-4 requires the driver to occasionally keep an eye on the surrounding environment (level 3) and no need to entirely monitor it (level 4). In other words, the right to control the car lies with the driver in level 0-2 and the system in level 3-4. Likewise, level 0 offers functions that don’t actually control the car, such as the BSD (Blind Spot Detection) that detects whether or not the car is in a blind spot while driving and warns the driver, and the LDWS (Lane Departure Warning System) that warns the driver if the vehicle leaves its lane while driving. Level 1 allows the driver to freely use their hands and feet with functions like the SCC (Smart Cruise Control) that maintains a certain speed and distance with cars in front, and the LKAS (Lane Keeping Assist System) that controls the vehicle if it leaves the lane to stay inside. Level 2 enables the driver to freely use both their hands and feet with the HDA (Highway Driving Assist) System that integrates the functions of SCC and LKAS. Hyundai Mobis has currently applied up to level 1 in the mass produced car models, and completed the technology for the HDA System in level 2. There are no cars being mass produced with functions mentioned in level 3 and above, but Hyundai Mobis and many car makers and automotive parts companies are developing them. Composition of Autonomous Driving Technology GPS V2X High-precision map Front view camera (stereo camera) ·Positioning information on vehicle ·Invisible target recognition (cross·Existing navigation: existing road location road, pre-preceding vehicle, etc.) information ·Lanes, vehicles, pedestrians ·Existing precision: 5m ~ 50m ·Utilizing road infrastructure information ·Precision map: abstraction of ·Required precision: 50cm↓ ·Autonomous driving with V2X geographical features of road shape ·Speed limit signs and lane width connection ·traffic lights/traffic signs ·Speed bumps/stop lines ·Distinguishing pedestrians/reference objects Rear lateral Autonomous driving radar control device Recognition Positioning Control V2X connection Front lateral radar 360 degree radar ·Rear lateral object recognition ·Omnidirectional moving target detection Forward-looking radar Laser scanner ·Medium and long distance vehicle ·Short distance obstacle precise recognition recognition ·Geographic feature recognition (curb, ·Partial geographic feature recognition wall, guard-rail) 40 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Automation Levels for Autonomous Driving by Stage Level 0 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Danger warning Driving assisDriving automation Partial (limited) Full autonotance (specified under the driver’s autonomous mous driving event) judgment driving ・ Hands, feet: regularly control ・ Hands or feet: free ・ Hands, feet: free ・ Hands, feet: free ・ Full self-driving automation ・ Eyes: regularly monitor ・ Eyes: regularly monitor ・ Eyes: regularly monitor ・ Eyes: limited monitoring ・ Hands, feet and eyes: free ✓L DWS(Lane Depature ✓ SCC(Smart Cruise Control): Detect ✓ HDA(Highway Driving Warning System): Warn the the preceding vehicle by using radar Assist): Provide integrated driver if the vehicle leaves the to automatically control acceleration control to automatically lane without giving indication and deceleration keep the vehicle in the lane of direction ✓ LKAS(Lane Keeping Assist System): and a safe distance when ✓B SD(Blind Spot Detection): When unintentional lane departures taking the highway for long Detect obstacles in a blind occur due to the driver dozing at the distance driving or during spot in the front and back of wheel, the vehicle is kept in the lane traffic congestions the vehicle to warn the driver through the steering wheel control system Developing Autonomous Driving Technology for Hyundai Mobis The surrounding environment recognition, driving strategy and driving control are required to realize the autonomous driving technology. A self-driving vehicle compared to a human is like the surrounding environment recognition acting as human eyes and ears for seeing or listening, driving strategy acting as human brain that decides how the vehicle should be driven, and driving control acting as hands and feet that move in order to actually drive the vehicle. In order to recognize the surrounding environment, many sensors have to be installed in a vehicle, including a radar distance sensor that recognizes the surrounding vehicle and environment; a camera that receives information about the lane and recognizes the preceding vehicles; a laser scanner that accurately recognizes the surrounding vehicle and environment; the GPS and high-precision map that identify the accurate location of the vehicle being driven; and the V2X device that receives and sends information about the surrounding vehicle and infrastructure. Hyundai Mobis realizes Also, the sensor convergence technology is needed to use such sensor information and calculate the surrounding the autonomous driving vehicle’s location, as well as the GPS, sensor and high-precision map information that are used to calculate the technology by upgrading its accurate location of the vehicle being driven. control technology, sensor As for driving strategy, it is necessary to have the technology for determining in which direction to drive the veconvergence technology, hicle by calculating information gained from the surrounding environment recognition, and the technology for positioning technology and V2X technology. deciding how to drive the vehicle in different driving conditions. The information generated from driving strategy is used for driving control, which are required for the wheel direction control technology that actually controls the wheels and the longitudinal control technology that controls technology and speed. In addition, it is necessary to have the technology that ensures comfortable to drive in for the driver and passengers. Hyundai Mobis has been mostly developing factor technology to realize the autonomous driving technology. The car control technology is already realized in SCC or LKAS of cars being mass produced, while we have almost completed individual sensor and sensor convergence technologies for recognizing the surrounding vehicle and environment. Also, we are developing the technology for calculating the information about the vehicle location by using the GPS and high-precision map, and the V2X technology that sends and receives information about the surrounding vehicle and infrastructure. However, driving strategy is currently in the R&D stage with diverse studies conducted on the strategy for driving environment. 41 Win-Win 03 Partnership Hyundai Mobis has developed the MCOMS to systematically achieve win-win partnership with its suppliers, while also improving problems by reviewing the progress made on it based on self-evaluation system. Through these efforts, we established actual and specifNumber of agency CEOs who participated in ic cooperation with our suppliers that go beyond generBusiness Academy al exchanges and collaborations. (Unit: persons) 148 Loans extended to suppliers (KRW 100 million) 518 No. of primary suppliers (No. of companies) 881 2015 2016 + Progress in 2015 Forecast and objectives ・Establish the quality improvement system for suppliers ・Strengthen the communication with suppliers and spread the culture of shared growth ・Enhance the evaluation system through distributing guidebooks that ・Upgrade the performance management system for win-win partnerships assess suppliers (Establish an integrated management system and a website) ・Strengthen the support for secondary suppliers ・Expand training on quality and technology for suppliers HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Supplier Relationship Management Policies Hyundai Mobis refined its win-win partnership strategies into enhancing suppliers’ competitiveness and expanding practical win-win partnerships to offer practical support to all of its partner companies. As part of our commitment towards mutual growth alongside our suppliers, we have integrated separate division-level initiatives into a company-wide shared campaign called Seven Beautiful Pledges, allowing Hyundai Mobis a more systematic approach to its mutual growth initiatives for secondary and tertiary suppliers. We are currently developing the MCOMS that allows our primary and secondary/tertiary suppliers to get easy access to our mutual growth initiatives and progress made. For instance, we carry out biannual in-house evaluations on suppliers’ product quality control, environmental management system certifications (ISO 14001), human rights practices, safety control at work-sites, business ethics, and mutual growth initiatives between primary and secondary/ tertiary suppliers. Based on the evaluation results, we support them in addressing the issues which need to be addressed or other shortcomings. In 2015, we published guidebook and manual on evaluation results by business type to share the evaluation criteria of all our domestic and overseas suppliers. In order to ensure the accuracy, clarity, objectivity and fairness of the guidebook’s details, we referred to the ISO/TS 16949 (2009 requirement) certification, our client’s demands, and the component development procedure, while also included our suppliers’ best practices to be used for their internal training materials and during evaluations and inspections. As a result, Hyundai Mobis has improved quality through standardization and enhancement of its suppliers’ process management and objectively enhanced guidance for them to strengthen their competitiveness. We will strive to improve competencies for guidance and evaluation of our suppliers, by utilizing the guidebook as teaching materials for our employees including overseas subsidiaries. Supplier Support Directions & Action Plans Increasing practical win-win partnerships ✓ Promoting win-win partnership programs ✓ Expanding business consulting to suppliers ✓ Fair opportunities for bidding competitions Maximizing Mutual Growth Reinforcing suppliers’ competencies ✓ Reinforcing suppliers’ competitiveness ✓ Increasing R&D support ✓ Expanding supplier training/ seminars Providing Technical Support and Overseas Expansion We always keep our doors open at our Shanghai R&D Center for partner companies who have followed us into overseas markets, supporting them with quality tests in which they lack in-house infrastructure or techniques at half the cost of other testing institutions. We also file for joint patent rights through the joint development of original technologies and royalty-free licenses of its domestic patent rights, contributing in improving our suppliers’ technology competitiveness. In addition, we support our suppliers’ attendance at international exhibitions to explore new markets and increase sales for them, including full payment of attending the exhibition like renting and installing exhibition booths and providing consultations for buyers, contributing to increasing orders and expanding global operations. In 2015, ten SMEs that signed fair transaction agreements with Hyundai Mobis were given a chance to attend the Korea Automotive Industry Exhibition (KOAA) Show and the Global TransporTech (GTT). Besides these, we set up our suppliers’ booths and exhibited their products, as well as establishing the base for exploring new markets by holding consultations for overseas buyers. 43 Material Issues R&D Partnership Programs Index We held short-term overseas Sharing of patent ・To share Hyundai Mobis’s domestic patent rights with suppliers, supporting their technical competitiveness through the free lending of such training program for four rights patented technologies 2015 results: disclosure of 107 patents and utility model licenses, 6 suppliers, free sharing of 17 patents days by inviting about 90 CTO forum ・Sharing our R&D directions with suppliers for stronger win-win partnerships (40 CTO forums for 300 participants from 119 partner persons from outstanding companies in 2015) partner companies to Sharing of the ・Opening the doors of our Shanghai R&D Center and its test equipment to Korean suppliers who followed Hyundai Mobis into overseas Shanghai, China. Shanghai R&D markets (a total of 127 testing devices, including airbag deployment apparatus testers, etc.) 90 persons Center 2015 test performance results: 39,623 cases, saved test expenses of KRW 3.4 billion Filing for joint patent ・Filing for joint patent rights on jointly developed technologies and paying all the required expenses to ease suppliers’ liquidity issues rights 2015 results: a total of 15 suppliers, 22 cases filed for joint patents, with KRW 5 million in expenses Subsidizing patent ・Subsidizing suppliers’ filing for patents on its own technologies to help them protect their technical rights filing expenses 2015 results: KRW 32 million subsidized for 65 cases at 18 partner companies Passing on Know-how on Production and Quality Management Hyundai Mobis passes on its know-how on production and quality management to suppliers to strengthen their competencies. Since 2012, the open event held at plants was only for primary suppliers, but starting from 2015, we also include the secondary suppliers. We invited employees from about 300 secondary suppliers to our plant to take a tour of production sites and share information about advanced management systems, including plant management, process enhancement and quality assurance. In addition, we held the benchmarking event of outstanding suppliers for our secondary suppliers, contributing in strengthening the quality and improving their management practices through a ladder of mutual growth among secondary suppliers. Based on the MSQ (Hyundai Mobis Supplier Quality) as a quality certification system for suppliers, we selected outstanding suppliers and shared their know-how on quality improvement and process enhancement with other suppliers. We provided a tour of our production lines and held council meetings to share best practices for 185 Pass on the know-how on production management to secondary suppliers secondary suppliers that visited two suppliers chosen for outstanding quality. Also, Hyundai Mobis invited a total of about 90 employees from 78 outstanding suppliers that contributed in improving customer service by suppling top-quality parts and components in a timely manner during the past year, and sent them on a four day short-term overseas training program to Shanghai, China. The employees attended the Auto Shanghai, as well as given a chance to benchmark by visiting Hyundai Mobis’s Shanghai parts plant and multinational complete carmaker’s plants in China. Expanding Financial Aid to Suppliers Hyundai Mobis contributed KRW 96.5 billion in funds exclusively for the financial stability of its primary and secondary suppliers, offering payment guarantees for underbanked suppliers to receive low-interest loans. As of the end of 2015, 42 suppliers received a total of KRW 51.8 billion in loans under the program. Additionally, we are running a KRW 16.9 billion program exclusively for secondary suppliers. In a bid to help its suppliers with liquidity problems, Hyundai Mobis pays all its bills in cash, with the scope of beneficiaries expanded to include larger-sized SMEs with sales of below KRW 300 billion as of April 2015. Starting from 2016, it will be extended to include larger-sized SMEs with sales of below KRW 500 billion. We also advise our suppliers to make cash settlements among fellow suppliers to promote this practice throughout our entire supply chain. In order to create a culture of stable payment among secondary/tertiary suppliers, we adopted the win-win settlement system, so that starting from July 2015 payments are made through all commercial banks as win-win settlement products. In consideration of the impact that volatile commodity prices have on our suppliers, we sat down with them to adjust supply prices through the Fair Transaction Agreements recommended by the Fair Trade Commission. The au44 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 tomotive industry makes adjustment whenever there is a more than ten percent change in prices, and Hyundai Mobis makes adjustment whenever there is a more than five percent change in prices. In 2015, we raised the prices of our suppliers worth KRW 98 billion. Furthermore, all changes to supply prices are transparently disclosed to every supplier on a separate portal site and the MCOMS, so that they are available for all suppliers. Rewarded with seasonal fruits Supplier Communication Programs Classification Number of sessions (yearly) Details Regular general meetings of suppliers One time Explanation about Hyundai Mobis’s purchasing/quality policies for partner companies and raising their management mindset Executive meetings of the Win-Win Partnership Council 2 times Approval on partner companies’ budget and project against their executives Seminars for CEOs of primary suppliers 2 times Rewarding outstanding suppliers (AS parts/components) and sharing their business results Seminars for CEOs of secondary suppliers 2 times Explanation about Hyundai Mobis’s purchasing/quality policies for secondary suppliers and sharing visions Seminar on win-win partnerships with partner compaOne time Promoting the culture of win-win partnerships through actively implementing related policies and nies for beautiful companionship explaining about support systems for suppliers Opening of manufacturing plant for secondary suppliers 9 times Improving quality through visiting Hyundai Mobis’s module/parts plants and establishing a cooperative system for win-win partnerships A resolution rally to achieve zero incoming defects for 2 times Strengthening partnerships through briefing sessions held on Hyundai Mobis’s major quality polisuppliers cies and spreading the culture of win-win partnerships Hanmaum Meeting with major suppliers One time A resolution rally for achieving quality targets (listening to areas of difficulty) Fruit basket rewards to suppliers with outstanding performance results One time Rewarding outstanding suppliers in the first half of the year with seasonal fruits Seminars for suppliers to our local subsidiaries in India and China Once each Introducing Hyundai Mobis’s policies and rewarding outstanding suppliers that made joint entries Distribute H-Festival tickets One time Hold cultural performances for suppliers’ employees Win-Win Program with Our Agencies The Hyundai Mobis automotive parts sales network consists of agencies and dealers, and is closely linked to all areas of AS parts business including sales, marketing and inventory management. Therefore, the enhancement of their competencies will greatly improve Hyundai Mobis’s value, which is why we support their competency-building with varied training programs as well as other practical programs to assist with their business activities. For instance, we dispatch our business consultants to agencies where our representatives can help with business restructuring. Additionally, our Best Practice Awards motivates higher performance results at these same agenHyundai Mobis conducts cies. We share the burden of product defects that occur in the process of warehousing or transporting parts and job training to strengthen components. At the same time, we support their inventory cost-saving measures and distribution control enthe competencies of hancement. This, in turn, adds to our competitive edge. agency employees. 342persons Number of Trainees that Completed the Support of Training Programs for Our Agencies Classification Program purpose and details Year of adoption Business Academy for Strengthening personnel competencies and training change management for agency CEOs → 2009 agency CEOs Special lecture on leadership, inventory/logistics management and outstanding agencies Job training programs for Job training for strengthening personnel competencies of agency employees → Component 2011 agency employees technology information, inventory/logistics management, computer program utilization, CS, etc. Fostering next-generation Training on management succession of agencies with next-generation managers and strength2015 managers ening their job competencies Business Academy for Agency CEOs (Unit: persons) Job Training Programs for Agency Employees (Unit: persons) 2013 226 2013 109 2014 253 2014 204 2015 148 2015 342 45 Material Issues Status of Competence-Building Programs for Agencies Classification Program purpose and details Major performance in 2015 (target agencies, Hyundai Mobis support, etc.) Management consulting for Dispatch Hyundai Mobis’s employees with management consulting qualification to each agency for four Completed at 48 agencies (a total of 247 agencies) agencies weeks Analyze overall management problems at agencies, including organizational management, sales, marketing, inventory and logistics, and derive improvement tasks Best practice contests for agenShare best practices of four outstanding agencies from previous year during invitational seminars Provide management consulting for four agencies and cies across the nation held for outstanding agencies to motivate them to voluntarily improve their management practices share/reward best practices of management improvement Enhancing the inventory of Support agencies’ inventory cost-saving measures and distribution control enhancement by sharing Support KRW 3 billion agencies the burden of product defects that occur in the process of distributing parts and components Personnel assistance to improve Strengthen the competitiveness of distribution network by supporting part of the personnel expensSupported a total of KRW 40 million at 17 the environment of agencies es for agencies that applied for environmental improvement agencies Compliance with Fair Transactions Self-checks on Compliance Practices Hyundai Mobis has a compliance practice self-checkFair Trade Compliance Program ing framework in place to ensure that day-to-day job In December 2002, Hyundai Mobis adopted a Compliance Program fulfillments are free of any legal violation risks. All em(CP) as part of its bylaws for legal compliance, and has been proployees can consult the CP website regarding any CP moting voluntary compliance within its organization since then. 1,102 employees issues arising in the due course of performing their duThe compliance officer serves as the chief facilitator of overseeing completed the CP ties. In particular, we established a global legal affairs company-wide CP operations. Appointed by the BOD, the complitraining. system to systematically manage legal problems that ance officer is entrusted by the CEO with the authority and obligation to smoothly run all independent CP operations. Established 1,102 arise across the enterprise. The CP website provides a persons compliance self-check list for employees to review any to support the compliance officer, the CP Bureau takes charge of risk of legal violations. If and when they find a risk(s), or practical CP operations throughout the company. Also, under the are not sure about the compliance issue itself, employcontrol of the compliance officer is the legal affairs team, which ees are advised to receive a preliminary review by the contributes its legal expertise on a regular basis. Legal Affairs Team in order to prevent any legal risks. Fair Transaction Agreements The CP Bureau evaluates the risk exposure of legal violations by each business division to identify key risk Hyundai Mobis has signed countless agreements with its partner factors, for which it runs regular monitoring as part of companies for fair transactions and mutual growth. To carry out company-wide prevention activities. In the event of this commitment, we have four guidelines in place: transparent any changes to government policies or amendments contracting practices, supplier registration, an internal review to relevant regulations, we take separate measures committee, and documentation-based operations. The number to steer clear of potential risk factors. of signatories to these agreements has expanded over the years so Additionally, Hyundai Mobis offers regular CP training that in 2015 we achieved our seventh round of agreements with 452 to raise employee awareness of the CP, with training suppliers for transactions worth KRW 6.2 trillion. Also, we actively performance results reported to the BOD biannualencouraged fair transaction agreements between primary and secly. We provide CP training for employees with duties ondary suppliers, so that the fair transaction agreements signed inrelated to fair trade laws and regulations, while also creased by more than 77 percent compared to 2014, including 187 staff members at divisions most vulnerable to fair primary suppliers and 733 secondary suppliers. transaction issues are obliged to attend external specialized training course to enhance their expertise. Fair Trade Compliance Program Furthermore, the new employee orientation program includes information on the basics of the CP to BOD help them realize the importance of complying with the Fair Trade Act. In 2015, a total of 1,102 employees Appointment CEO Direct reporting completed the CP training. Compliance Officer 2015 CP Training Performance Results (Unit: persons) CP Bureau(Business Cooperation Team) Legal decision (Legal Team) Classification Persons Staff members performing related duties 672 << Enterprise-wide Experienced/new employees 408 >> Fair Trade Compliance Activities CP staff and executives 22 46 Human Resources 04 Development Aiming to achieve the vision of the 2020 Global Top Tier, Hyundai Mobis has newly established the Global Hyundai Mobis Business Academy (GHMBA) 2020, which is a midand long-run HRD system, to develop human resources Per-employee Training Hours suitable to the global business environment. Based on (Unit: hour) performance-oriented, field-oriented and self-directed learning programs, Hyundai Mobis offers job expert training, shares knowledge through community 142 of practice (COP), strengthen team leaders’ leadership and develop global leaders. Developing Global Leaders (Unit: persons) 748 Job Training Instructor (Unit: persons) 204 2015 2016 + Progress in 2015 Forecast and objectives ・Set up the GHMBA 2020 ・Create a value-oriented corporate culture Establishing HRD programs in connection with the company’s vision Strengthening change management and core values to comply with basics and principles ・Upgrade the HRD ・Reinforce global communication competencies Establishing a system to motivate self-directed learning based on the IndividuDeveloping and spreading language programs for improving alized Development Planning (ID) program employees’ language skills to perform their duties ・Strengthen employees’ leadership ・Develop the HRD quality indicators and strengthen its analysis Establishing and reorganizing the ACE Program and overseas subsidiaries’ Upgrading the diagnosis indexes for core values, work smart and global leader course team leadership Material Issues Establishing the HRD System for Achieving our Vision across the enterprise and develop individual competencies by taking The key to the company’s sustainable growth was ‘talented into consideration of each person’s characteristics, growth needs and people’ and fostering such talent means going beyond develaspirations. As a result, we implement HRD strategies by stage. oping human resources to focus on the person. Also, we strive to develop multiple leaders rather than a small number, so that Hyundai Mobis’s HRD Direction talented people can achieve the company's vision while at the same time fulfill his/her own vision. In order to achieve the comHRD Philosophy Create a self-directed learning culture on the site and pany’s vision of achieving 2020 Global Top Tier, Hyundai Mobis develop creative global talent newly established a medium-and long-term HRD system called the Global Hyundai Mobis Business Academy (GHMBA2020). HRD Mission Based on performance-oriented, field-oriented and self-diThe Best Business Partner Leading Hyundai Mobis Vision 2020: Global System Supplier Top rected learning programs, the GHMBA2020 aims to provide the optimized HRD system and key goals of strengthening compeHRD Direction tencies that are suitable to global business environment. HyunDevelop creative global talent with challenging spirit to generate business performance dai Mobis strives to realize a value-based corporate culture and dynamic leadership to further strengthen work profession, thereby enhancing the levels of the head office and overseas Field-oriented HRD Self-directed HRD Performance-oriented HRD subsidiaries to meet world-class standards by 2020. Support training Provide diverse Provide training for connected with business learning methods generating results strategies and job and environments Establishing Job Expert Training Program practice The organizational competitiveness is determined by the Implementation Stage knowledge, technology and behavior of the employees and Establish Set up an Upgrade an THE HRD fundaintegrated integrated their individual competencies can help resolve the organizamental global HRD global HRD Best HRD tion’s problems. Therefore, Hyundai Mobis upgraded its exsystem system isting HRD programs (HMBA 1.0) to the GHMBA 2.0 in 2015, to efficiently spread employees’ work experience and know-how ~ 2015 2016 ~17 2018 ~19 2020 Hyundai Mobis’s HRD System : GHMBA 2020 GHMVC2) ✓ Building a value-oriented dynamic corporate culture ˙Create a corporate culture pursuing basics and principles ˙Internalize field-oriented core values 1 Performance-based GHMPC3) ✓ Pursuing professional excellence ˙Strengthening self-directed learning systems ˙Creating an on-site continued learning system 3 Directions 2 3 GHMMC4) ✓ Enhancing systematic HRD management competencies Field-oriSelf-di˙Establishing a Global HRD management system ented rected ˙Devising a global HRD infrastructure GHMBA1)-2020 GHMGC5) ✓ Building global competencies ˙Bolstering HRD at overseas subsidiaries ˙Strengthen the development of global leaders 1) GHMBA: Global Hyundai Mobis Business Academy GHMLC6) ✓ Achieving field-oriented creative leadership 2) GHMVC: Global Hyundai Mobis Value Center 3) GHMPC: Global Hyundai Mobis Professional Center ˙Reinforce the leadership competencies led by team leaders 4) GHMMC: Global Hyundai Mobis Management Center ˙Foster the next-generation core competencies 5) GHMGC: Global Hyundai Mobis Global Center 6) GHMLC: Global Hyundai Mobis Leadership Center 48 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Self-directed Learning System In order to strengthen self-directed learning for all employees and enhance their competencies as job experts, Hyundai Mobis has reorganized its HRD programs in 2015. The new HRD system was made to support learning in accordance with the IDP (Individual Development Plan), which transformed from the existing quantitative management system to a qualitative management system that focused on learning achievements. Also, we facilitated informal learning so that employees can improve their competencies on their own as an expert. From individual perspective, we support developing self-directed competencies and experiences through diagnosing their job competencies, while from the company’s perspective, also contributing in securing required competencies, strengthening learning results and establishing communication/coaching-based learning culture. IDP(Individual Development Plan) _ In 2015, Hyundai Mobis newly introduced the IDP (Individual Development Plan) to create a self-directed learning culture where employees make their own training plan and carry out the plan to develop their competencies. The IDP diagnoses individual competencies at the current stage to come up with a development plan for improved competencies. After meeting with the mentor (team leader), the company supports the individual until his/her career goal is achieved. It is designed so that the company’s goal and the employee’s personal goal are in harmony, and we also set up the IDP infrastructure to ensure effective implementation. Over a one year period in 2015, we aimed to meet the needs of employees’ self-directed IDP through the HRD activities that included: diagnose at the beginning of the year/establish IDP, hold meeting with the mentor → Support/monitor competence-building activities for the year → Evaluate the performance rate of IDP at the yearend, evaluate the development made. Team leader Counseling with the mentor Competence-building Evaluate the perforTeam member Diagnose competency Establish IDP activities mance rate of IDP S-OJT(Structured On-the-job Training) _ The Structured On-the-job Training (S-OJT) is a self-directed learning course that was provided because the existing OJT done out of a mere formality and was not of help on the site, which is why it is based on a teaching plan provided by an experienced employee (tutor). The S-OJT consists of In 2015, a total of four areas: ① Job OJT: employees who need job learning / ② Benchmarking: sharing details after researchers 375 employees participated in 116 analyze other company’s products / ③ Spreading culture: spread what some employees have learned from the S-OJT programs. training to other employees / ④ Webinar (web seminar & video conference training): share knowledge bilaterally through video conferences. In 2015, a total of 375 employees participated in 116 S-OJT programs. Among the S-OJT programs, we selected and rewarded two outstanding S-OJT programs based on goal achievement, expertise, satisfaction level and passion. Hyundai Mobis strives to support diverse training programs to meet its 116 employees’ learning needs. Community of Practice (COP) _ Hyundai Mobis is running Community of Practice (COP) that motivates employees to take interest in diverse fields and derive ideas for the company’s management practices. COP can be made if there are at least three employees. It is aimed at creating a self-directed learning culture that encourage self-directed learning on daily basis and facilitate communication through R&D activities. In 2015, a total of 129 COPs were set up where 1,141 employees took part in sharing different ideas. The members of COP thought that the advantages included: creating a self-directed learning culture, facilitating human networking through COP and strengthening the member’s competencies, and generating new growth opportunities. At the year-end, we held COP best practice contest to strictly evaluate various activities carried out throughout the year in 2015 to reward one gold prize team, three silver prize teams and five bronze prize teams. Also, we held the knowledge conference so that the knowledge learned from COP can be spread across the enterprise. Like this, Hyundai Mobis had three tracks for COP, including sharing learning results and knowledge from COP, selecting best practices from COP and spreading the business trend across the enterprise, allowing knowledge gained from COP to be shared across the enterprise. 49 Material Issues Competence-building Activities by Job Duty Competence-building types Classification Number of courses Number of employees Formal Learning Internal job training 518 25,099 External job training 554 554 Informal Learning Community of Practice (COP) 129 1,141 S-OJT 116 375 Mentoring 448 896 Knowledge (regularly learned contents) 440 72,161 In 2015, a total of 129 COPs were set up and a total of 1,141 employees participated in them to share Strengthening the Leadership Competency of Team Leaders (ACE Program) diverse ideas. In recognition of the need to change the existing leadership paradigm, Hyundai Mobis reorganized its regular leadership programs mainly for teams to realize practical leadership by developing field-oriented leadership. We changed to support the new learning unit and learning method and diagnose and manage the effectiveness of 1,141 training. As a result, we developed field-oriented leadership in a team unit (team leader+team members), while also encouraged self-directed learning in real time under the team leader’s supervision. Time-series analysis and trend management are conducted for the team leadership diagnosis model. In 2014, Hyundai Mobis developed the Team Leadership ACE Model. In January and October of 2015, we diagnosed the team leadership against managerial officer workers at the company, and later on in December of the same year, we provided practical management for each team through a briefing session to give feedbacks on the result of team leadership diagnosis. In 2016, we will provide courses to strengthen team leaders’ competencies by improving their leadership competencies taking into consideration of their responsibilities and roles at the company, including HR assessment, team member development and ethical management. Hyundai Mobis will run customized leadership training programs for each team led by different team leaders on the site. ACE Team Leadership Definition and Model ✓ Definition of team leadership A leadership that promotes growth and development among team members by achieving team goals through collaborations among Hyundai Mobis’s ACE Team Leadership team members, which harmoniously improve the three factors of awakening, communication and execution. Classification ACE Team Leadership Model Composition Contribute to the company Goal Team’s specific goals that contribute in generating results for the company Inputs Specific goals Goal perception Awakening Awakening the team’s goals and roles to team members and motivating them Motivation Respect Communicating with team members by Mediators Communication exchanging opinions in diverse ways and Communication respecting them Expertise Executing team tasks by taking the lead Execution equipped with expertise required for Execution the task Satisfaction that team members have Team satisfaction Performance about the team and the team results that contributed in achieving the company’s Outcomes Team results goals 50 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 ✓ Team leadership continued learning ˙Team leadership diagnosis ✓ Integrated connection with diagnosis results ˙Customized continued learning support by team ˙Team leadership diagnosis (ACE model) ˙WSI(Work Smart Index) ˙Core value team seminars ✓ Spreading core values Team-oriented ˙Division/team seminars Continued Learning ˙Developing internal instructors with team leader’s team seminar Support ✓ Spreading to overseas subsidiaries ˙Developing/spreading leadership and core value ✓S trengthening job duties connected with seminars and programs management practices ˙Developing internal instructors (locally hired) for team ˙Establishing/Consulting/Evaluating leadership/core values/job duties ˙MBO in connection with IDP for HR and labor management Strengthening the Development of Global Leaders 2015 Training Expenses Breakdown In order to dispatch outstanding people to overseas subsidiaries around the world, Hyundai Mobis (Unit: %) is doing its best to develop experts for each region. We upgraded our training courses provided at overseas subsidiaries so that staff members dispatched overseas can quickly adapt to the new ● Job Competencies ● Core Values business environment and easily get used to local language, culture and business method. We have ● Leadership a pool of local experts including the English region (the U.S., Europe), the Chinese region (China) ● Global and other regions (Mexico, Brazil), enabling employees sent abroad to learn local language and 12 culture. In the case of local experts for China and Brazil, we improved the training system so that employees can learn the language in Korea before going on to take training courses at local uni37 versities or language institutions. Through the business skill language programs, employees can learn communication skills required for working at overseas subsidiaries while also learn the language. In order to ensure staff members sent overseas fulfill their basic roles, we provide training on the overseas subsidiaries’ roles and responsibilities, the region’s safety environment, overseas subsidiaries’ accidents, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Also, we run global leadership competence-building programs to enhance the mindset as a global leader. Besides the employees 18 dispatched overseas, we also provide family workshops to help family members adapt to local environment by training about different cultures, global manners and meeting with the family mem33 bers returning home. Major HRD Indexes in 2015 Developing global leaders 748 Persons Job training courses 117 Courses Internal instructors 204 Persons Rate of in-house training courses 59% Global Leadership Competence-building Programs Local experts’ domestic learnLocal experts dispatched overseas Courses for staff members dispatched Training for Major Training for new ing (weekend class / training for training (local universities/lanoverseas (business language skills, staff members schedule camp) guage institutions, 3 months) global leadership, family workshops) posts returning home Status of Employees’ Training Results Classification 2013 2014 2015 Calculation standard (details) Total training hours 755,000 918,728 854,024 Individual training hours x number of actual trainees Per-employee training hours 144 176 142 Total training hours/total number of employees Total training costs (KRW 100 million) 82 95 119 Total costs included in the company’s training cost account Per-employee training expenses (KRW 10,000) 157 182 198 Total training costs/ Number of total employees 51 Environmental 05 Management Hyundai Mobis established a global energy management system to ensure efficient energy consumption and reduce CO2 emissions, thereby proactively responding to climate change. Additionally, we will Domestic Water Resource Use in 2015 achieve sustainable growth by striving to reduce Compared to 2014 the use of hazardous substances and waste generation and focus on developing eco-friendly materials. 29.7% Domestic Energy Consumption in 2015 Compared to 2014 13.0% Domestic Waste Discharge Volume in 2015 Compared to 2014 7.0% 2015 2016 + Progress in 2015 Forecast and objectives ・Establish GHG emissions and climate change response system ・Proactive response to chemical management regulations ・Establish a global energy management system ・Strengthen activities for reducing pollutants ・Promote the hazardous substance management system ・Develop suppliers’ reduction technologies for environmental impacts HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Mid-to long-term Implementation Directions for Environmental Management 2016 2017 2018 Strengthening the response system for Establishing proactive response process for Fulfilling CSR for the environment environmental regulations environmental regulations ˙Establishing an enterprise-wide ener˙Purchasing/developing eco-friendly products ˙Implementing CSR activities for environgy management system (GMEMS) Replace items subject to environmental regumental protection ˙Developing individual technologies lations (phenol resins → eco-friendly materials) Develop energy-efficient systems by for reducing GHG emissions ˙Reducing pollutants arising from production processes facility (in connection with energy man-O ptimize facility operation condition Develop reduction technologies for pollutants agement system) -D evelop and expand LED lights for and utilize recyclable products Develop suppliers’ reduction technolologistics centers ˙Upgrading the energy management system (GMEMS) gies for environmental impacts and pass -R eplace with LED lights on know-how on reducing GHG emisExpand monitoring system → intelligent sions / replace hazardous substances ˙Establish a chemical monitoring control system system for purchased raw materials Establish an exemplary eco-friendly facili˙Developing individual technologies for reduc→ Proactively respond to chemical ty for handling hazardous substances ing GHG emissions regulations Develop high-efficient air conditioning and heating system Environmental Management System Hyundai Mobis sets detailed implementation tasks and goals for environmental management on a yearly basis, and shares major issues and status with internal and external stakeholders. As of the end of 2015, all our operations, including 29 plants and 29 parts operations at home and abroad, had obtained the ISO 14001 certificate, the international standard for environmental management systems, and which is renewed every year through certification review through comprehensive inspection and improvement of environmental management at each site. Input & Output Flowchart (domestic) Input Output Water use 798,000 tons GHG emissions 112,350 tCO2eq Electricity 2,073 TJ Air pollutants 52 tons In 2014, Hyundai Mobis Fuel 195 TJ Water pollutants 12.8 tons decreased the use of Solvents 4,484 tons Recyclables 9,692 tons metal raw materials (about 225,000 tons) by 30 percent Plastics/rubbers 13,058 tons Wastes 18,176 tons compared to 2014. Metals 225,072 tons 30% Input and Utilization of Resources Metals In 2015, Hyundai Mobis used 225,072 tons of metal raw materials, which is down by 30 percent compared to the previous year. Petrochemical Products To increase fuel efficiency and recycling rate of end-of-life vehicle, Hyundai Mobis strives to raise the recovery rate of its products and gradually phase in composite plastics to lighten the weight of its products, and ultimately the automobiles. Since 2010, we have adopted a process that collects and recycles fugitive paint powders that scatter during the coating lamp lens process, thereby lowering the loss of solvents and raising efficiency. In 2015, our petrochemical product use increased by 12.4 percent in plastics/rubbers (13,058 tons) and decreased by 22.4 percent in solvents (4,484 tons). 53 Material Issues Domestic/International Energy Consumption (Unit: TJ, TJ/KRW 100 million) Energy In 2015, Hyundai Mobis consumed 5,906TJ (excluding contract manufacDomestic Overseas Consumption intensity turing companies) of energy, with electricity accounting for 89.7 percent of Total 2,503 the main energy source. The total use of energy consumption decreased 2013 3,299 0.017 5,802 by 3.3 percent compared to the previous year, which resulted in a 5.7 percent year-on-year decrease to record 0.016 TJ/KRW 100 million. In 2015, 2,607 2014 3,498 0.017 6,105 we completed testing and developing LED lights for logistics centers in order to gradually reduce energy consumption. In 2016, we plan to install 2,268 0.016 5,906 about 9,000 LED lights at 24 logistics centers. As a result, it is expected to 2015 3,638 bring the effect of reducing KRW 500 million worth in energy costs and cut down 1,500tCO2eq of GHG emissions. From 2018, we aim to establish Domestic Raw Material USE green renewable energy self-generators to reduce our energy costs and (Unit: tons) CO2 emissions. Solvents Plastics/Rubbers Metals Water Resources 4,520 Total Characteristic to the assembly process, our total use of water resources 38,491 is not very large, and we make use of industrial water and water services, 2013 393,916 436,927 neither of which have an influence on biodiversity. Every year, improve5,781 ment efforts are made to raise the reuse/recycling rate by addressing 11,613 the cooling tower’s overflow and increasing the recovery of steam con2014 321,610 339,004 densing water. In 2015, Hyundai Mobis consumed 798,000 tons of water 4,484 resources, 27.4 percent less than the previous year. 13,058 2015 225,072 242,614 Pollutant Emissions & Control (Output) Domestic Water Resource Use GHG Emissions Control (Unit: 1,000 tons, tons/KRW 100 million) In a bid to mitigate climate change that has become a social issue, HyunTotal emissions Consumption intensity dai Mobis has made many efforts to control GHG emissions as part of fulfilling its CSR. Since the establishment of its in-house developed MGMS 2013 1,174 6.70 (Hyundai Mobis Greenhouse-gas Management System) in 2011, we cal2014 1,099 5.96 culate enterprise-wide GHG emissions and analyze statistics and set up 2015 798 4.18 a DB through regular updates. Every year, we are assured by a third party in accordance with principles stipulated by the ISO 14064 standard ※ Figures from past raw material and water resource data were corrected, as there (voluntary GHG emissions verification standard), thereby ensuring the were changes in the internal data standard. objectivity of calculating emissions and systematically managing them for submission to the government or corporate reports. Energy Reduction Activities In 2012, we set our medium-and long-term goal (7.8% reduction compared to BAU levels by 2020) through the evaluation of potential GHG emissions reduced at domestic worksites. To achieve this, we allocatManufacturing plants, R&D centers, logistics centers 2013~2014 ed emission goals by site annually and check on the progress made. We Improving LED general diffused lighting/task lighting, applying coolant water pump inverters/ air-conditioning fan inverters, also participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) to disclose our improving the insulation performance of heaters at the drying oven, installing automatic power factor controller (R&D centers) GHG emissions control activities. In preparation for the implementation of the GHG & Energy Target Management System (2016), we submitted 2015~2016 Manufacturing plants, R&D centers, logistics centers implementation plans for mitigation targets, emissions reports and imInstalling LED lights and establishing the automatic nighttime charging system and the global integrated plementation reports to the Korean government in 2015, with the goal of energy management system 1.8% reduction compared to BAU levels by 2016. 2017 Manufacturing plants, R&D centers, logistics centers Reducing GHG Emissions Upgrading the global energy management system (monitoring → intelligent control system) In order to reduce energy consumption and efficiently manage energies, Hyundai Mobis has established the Global Hyundai Mobis Energy Management System (GMEMS). Based on the IT-based GMEMS, we measure and 54 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 conduct comparison analysis of energy consumption, status, costs and Global quality of energies being used at various facilities and equipment. In 2015, Energy Management we completed its establishment at Gimcheon, Changwon and Jincheon System plants, while in 2016, we plan to reduce costs and enhance work efficiency through energy optimization by extending it to 29 domestic and overseas plants. Through the GMEMS, we expect to reduce the yearly energy consumption by more than 5 percent by 2017 and about KRW 4.5 billion in enEnergy Use Facility energy efficiency ergy costs, with about 18,000tCO2 of CO2 emissions reduced. · Real-time use status · Convenient data comparison (electricity, gas, others) (by line/facility) Meanwhile, Hyundai Mobis reduced about KRW 36.2 billion in logistics · GHG emissions · Manage consumption costs domestically and internationally in 2015, by improving logistic imintensity ports and experts, enhancing CKD aviation logistics, optimizing global Energy reduction Power quality management shipping and applying logistics system. During the delivery process of logistics, we also contributed in reducing GHG emissions. · Verify the reduction effect · Monitor power quality by · Derive reduction items facility Waste, Recycling and Reproduction Hyundai Mobis manages the entire process of emissions, transport and treatment of waste by applying an online waste legal treatment system, Domestic and overseas GHG emissions and strives to raise the recycling rate of waste all the time. Under the (Unit: tCO2eq, tCO2eq/KRW 100 million) voluntary agreement on plastic waste recovery signed with the Ministry of Environment, we have improved our recycling of automotive AS parts, Domestic Overseas Emissions intensity including plastic-containing bumpers and moldings. In 2015, a total of Total 18,176 tons of waste were generated from Hyundai Mobis’s domestic 124,075 operations, and 53.3 percent (9,692 tons) were recycled. The remaining 2013 163,118 0.86 287,193 amount was incinerated or landfilled. 129,091 Hyundai Mobis has established the Multimedia Remanufacturing Center 2014 173,123 0.86 302,214 (MRC) in the U.S., Europe, China and India so that usable products are 112,350 not thrown away and recycling and reproduction activities can be car2015 179,884 0.81 292,234 ried out. The MRC collects audios and AVNs with problems found by customers while using them, and they are reproduced into new products ※ Excluding GHG emissions from contract manufacturing companies (separate corporations) after going through thorough inspection and repair process. After completing the quality test, reproduced products are provided for customers through local agencies and dealers. Domestic waste discharge volume (Unit: tons, tons/KRW 100 million) Pollutant Emissions Control Total discharge Discharge intensity Hyundai Mobis manages and controls its pollutant emissions by means of both pollution prevention facilities and regular monitoring, while prepar2013 18,173 0.10 ing for accidental leakage of pollutants through continued facility checks 19,533 0.11 and improvements. Generated from the coating/painting process, volatile 2014 organic compounds (VOCs) are one of air pollutants discharged from our 2015 18,176 0.10 plants. They are also the precursors of global warming and photochem※ Figures from past waste data were corrected, as there were changes in the ical smog. Hyundai Mobis has run a regenerative thermal oxidizer (RTO) internal data standard. to minimize its emissions of VOCs and applies an advanced RTO to reuse pollutants as heat energy during oxidization process, reducing emissions and fuel energy consumption at the same time. We also increase the use of water-based paints in our painting process to reduce air pollutant emisHazardous Substance Management sions, while optimizing environmental facilities and replacing old air polIn 2014, Hyundai Mobis established the MCMS (Hyundai Mobis lution prevention facilities to minimize our impact on air quality. With reChemical Management System) for the systematic managespect to water pollutant control, the company treats all wastewater from ment of chemical substances to prevent the use of hazardous washing automotive parts at wastewater treatment facilities at each plant substances in advance, which is applied to all domestically before discharging it to the public sewer, or retreat it at public sewage produced car models. From the R&D stage, we promptly meet treatment plants, applying more rigid standards of wastewater treatment the complete carmakers’ requests by analyzing and reviewing to remain 50 percent stricter than legal requirements. the hazardousness of the product. Furthermore, Hyundai Mo55 Material Issues IMDS Complete carmaker · Approval on material information supplied Receiving and sending material information about parts and products (suppliers ↔ Hyundai to clients Mobis ↔ complete carmakers) External stakeholders (expected) · Government agencies: respond to regulations < Global Hyundai Mobis Chemical Management System > on product environment Purchasing portal · Consumers, NGO: provide information (legal Overseas Reflect the Send compliance, disclosed information basis) suppliers Download Verify Upload with the verified information MDS MDS client’s approval Notifying suppliers results to clients Facility energy efficiency with the items · Quality: search the response to client’s ISIR subject to regisrequests for products being supplied tration by project Classification MDS D/B · Design: search whether or not meeting and provide status Analysis of regulation/ environmental regulations on designed information (daily material information products / search whether or not complying Domestic update) Manufactured by Information with regulations for parts (expected) suppliers partner companies details Provision of electronic · Evaluation: search the information analysis before the physical verification of hazardous components, PCB Pb Manufactured by Hazard substances (expected) information Hyundai Mobis analysis · Purchasing/development: search the partner companies’ registered information IMDS (International Material Data System): an international material data system developed by complete carmakers as rules for the auto industry bis collects information on listed hazardous substances of automotive warming and waste generation arising from increased fossil fuel parts so that it can promptly respond to any significant change to the use, countries around the world are working together to reduce database. We plan to apply the MCMS to our global clients’ car models the CO2 emissions and fossil fuel resources. We are developing and other car models produced overseas. or using plastic parts installed in cars by using fossil fuel, but in order to reduce its use, additional R&D efforts are underway for Restrictions on the Use of Four Heavy Metals and Ozone Layer Destroyers eco-friendly bio plastics made from a plant-based poly lactic The Hyundai Motor Group has in place Global Standards for the Four acid, including garnish, center facia and air vent. Additionally, Heavy Metals to meet the requirements necessary as outlined in global Hyundai Mobis and the Hyundai Motor Group are currently conregulations on control of end-of-life vehicles (ELVs). Accordingly, Hyunducting joint research to develop technologies for eco-friendly dai Mobis controls its use of the four regulated materials (lead, cadmium, composite materials that ensure environmental protection and hexavalent chromium, and mercury) in all its components and raw malightweighting. terials, and is always striving to develop substitutes for these materials. ※ ELV: Regulations on the Control of End-of-Life Vehicles (ELV) Additionally, we have signed numerous green components/parts supply agreements with suppliers not to use these substances, while supporting their use of substitutes that have little or no environmental impact and prohibiting the use of substances that deplete the ozone layer at Domestic/Overseas GHG Emissions domestic plants and our partner companies’ manufacturing processes. (Unit: tons, kg/ KRW 100 million) Total emissions Emissions intensity R&D Efforts for Eco-friendly Materials Hyundai Mobis monitors the hazardousness of raw materials and restricts 2013 49 0.28 the use of hazardous substances. Furthermore, the company continues 2014 46 0.25 to develop substitutes for these substances. For instance, Hyundai Mo2015 52 0.27 bis successfully developed a lead-free soldering process for its electronic devices. Since lead components are hazardous to the environment and human body, the European Union’s End-of-Life-Vehicle Direction will take Domestic Waste Discharge Volume effect in 2016, which prohibits the use of lead in the printed circuit board (Unit: tons, kg/ KRW 100 million) of electronic components for officially approved vehicles. Hyundai Mobis Total emissions Discharge intensity has successfully developed lead-free solders that have been mass produced starting from the second half of 2015. Also, we set up the lead-free 2013 21.0 0.12 electronic component design guideline including the credibility data for 2014 23.3 0.13 different conditions, while also improved the quality and credibility of our 2015 12.8 0.07 suppliers’ products. Meanwhile, due to serious environmental pollution caused by global ※ Figures from past data were corrected, as there were changes in the internal data standard. 56 Corporate Governance P. 58 Risk Management P. 60 Business Ethics P. 62 Employees P. 64 Social Contribution P. 69 Section 04 Corporate Achievements Corporate Achievement Corporate Governance Hyundai Mobis promotes a transparent and healthy corporate governance to coordinate the different interests of diverse stakeholder groups and to ensure that all management activities are carried out to the letter of the law. At Hyundai Mobis, outside directors account for the majority of the board to ensure that all stakeholder opinions are heeded independent from management, with subcommittees supporting BOD operations with their expertise in their respective areas. Ownership As of the end of 2015, Hyundai Mobis’ outstanding shares totaled 97,347,837 shares (including 97,343,863 common and 3,974 preferred shares). The largest shareholders and persons of vested interest held 30.17 percent of total shares, while the aggregate number of shares held by minority shareholders below 1/100 ownership of the company’s equity capital accounted for 54.78 percent of total shares for the same period. Ownership Structure (As of Dec. 31, 2015) Classification Common(shares) % Preferred(shares) % International investors 46,824,529 48.1% 174 4.4% Domestic institutional investors 14,403,268 14.8% 88 2.2% Domestic individual investors 3,968,832 4.1% 3,712 93.4% Largest shareholders 29,367,179 30.2% 0 0.0% Treasury stocks 2,780,055 2.9% 0 0.0% Total 97,343,863 100.0% 3,974 100.0% Composition and Operation of the BOD The board of directors (BOD) of Hyundai Mobis is at the top of appointed only after the Korea Exchange inspects the legal the company’s decision-making hierarchy regarding all manqualifications of each candidate based on a submitted Qualiagement issues, speaking for its stakeholders and keeping in fication Certificate as well as the vested interests in the comcheck all management activities in a farsighted perspective. pany before approving their appointment. Of the three BOD As of the reporting period (end of 2015), the BOD consisted subcommittees, the Ethics Committee and Audit Committee of nine directors, including four inside and five outside diare comprised solely of outside directors for more neutrality rectors. As the automotive parts business requires prompt in their activities to keep management in check. decision making on large-scale investments, the CEO concurIn 2015, the BOD convened 9 meetings to deliberate and rerently takes the chair of the BOD to ensure timely decisions, solve 28 agenda items and reports. The attendance rate for but the company runs an Outside Director Recommendation outside directors stood at 96 percent that year. RemuneraCommittee to guarantee the independence of BOD operation is made to board members within the limits approved tions from the company’s management board. by the general shareholders’ meeting (GSM) based on perforIn conformity with the related regulations, outside directors mance review results. In 2015, a total of KRW 6.75 billion was take up the majority of the BOD and outside directors are paid out from a budget of a KRW 10 billion ceiling. Percentage of Outside Directors (As of Dec. 31, 2015) Classification 2013 2014 2015 Percentage of Outside Directors 62.5% (5/8 Persons) 55.6% (5/9 Persons) 55.6% (5/9 Persons) 58 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Attendance Rate of Outside Directors (As of Dec. 31, 2015) 94% 93% 96% 2013 2014 2015 Remunerations to Directors (As of Dec. 31, 2015) (Unit: KRW million) 2013 6,754 2014 6,625 2015 6,752 Subcommittees Under the BOD are three subcommittees-an Audit Commitcontracts and the limits on the transactions with the largest tee, Ethics Committee and Outside Director Recommendashareholders. tion Committee-all of which support BOD activities with their The Audit Committee audits general management activities expertise in their respective areas under their own authorities and accounting practices. The committee has the authority and functions to monitor management activities in a transto demand directors to report on operations and to examine parent and responsible manner. the company’s financial status and operational practices. It The Ethics Committee is responsible for company-wide ethics convened a total of five meetings in 2015 to deliberate the aupractices. It oversees Compliance Program practices, transdit results on the company’s financial statements, and review actions with persons/entities that have a vested interest, the internal accounting control system operations. company’s business ethics and CSR policies, and institution/ The Outside Director Recommendation Committee consists amendments and enforcement of the code of ethics. In 2015, of both inside and outside directors and has the right to the committee gathered seven meetings to review the CSR recommend candidates for outside director positions. The and ethical management performance and plans. It also aprecommended candidates are approved by the BOD before proved agenda items regarding financial transactions with being appointed by the GSM. In 2015, the committee held one the Group’s financial affiliates according to the provisions of meeting to serve its function. BOD Composition (As of March 31, 2016) Classification Name Responsibility/Additional Job Functions Note Inside director Mong-koo Chung Chairman & CEO Eui-sun Chung Vice Chairman Member of Outside Director Recommendation Committee Myung-chul Jung President & CEO Chair of Outside Director Recommendation Committee Yong-bin Han Chief Finance Officer Outside director Tae-woon Lee Senior Partner, The One Law Firm Member of Audit Committee Chair of Ethics Committee Seung-ho Lee Advisor at Yulchon Law Chair of Audit Committee Member of Ethics Committee Byung-joo Lee Advisor at Bae, Kim & Lee (BKL) Law Firm Member of Audit Committee Member of Ethics Committee Member of Outside Director Recommendation Committee Woo-il Lee Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Seoul National University Member of Audit Committee Member of Ethics Committee Member of Outside Director Recommendation Committee Ji-soo Yu President, Kookmin University Member of Audit Committee Member of Ethics Committee Member of Outside Director Recommendation Committee 59 Corporate Achievement Risk Management The Risk Management Committee chaired by the CEO provides efficient reporting to the top management to minimize damages incurred by all sorts of risks. Also, we identify various risk factors and preemptively respond to them by establishing a prompt decision-making system to share information and prevent any risks from occurring. Risk Management System 2013 in a bid to ensure an advanced risk control system. The The Risk Management Committee, supported by its subcomRisk Control Tower controls company-wide risk factors on mittees in charge of specified countermeasures to respective a real-time basis and takes immediate countermeasures to risk types, prepares responsive measures led by the CEO. stop company-wide spreading in the event of a risk. Major The Risk Management Subcommittees monitor risk factors development and issues are reported to the risk manageand carry out preliminary responses around the clock. In the ment board and related department to support timely decievent of a risk requiring a company-wide response, we also sion-making. Additionally, we review and analyze the cause have in place a company-wide response process and hotline and countermeasures for each risk factor to ensure the same to report to top management for prompt action. types of risks are prevented. In addition, Hyundai Mobis set up a Risk Control Tower in Key Risk Management At Hyundai Mobis, key risk factors are divided into two groups, Risk Management Organization each of which requires different approaches. First is the indicator-based management approach. By analyzing trends and CRO(Chief Risk Officer) examining causes using the key risk indicator (KRI) monitoring system, risks are classified into four stages of caution, danger, Head of Planning warning, and severe based on analysis results to different Group(risk management) countermeasures. The other is a manual-based management approach, which suggests countermeasures for different sitRisk Management Committee uations in order to ensure a prompt response to emergencies. Based on reviews to determine the seriousness, possibilities, impact, and risk factors of high importance, each is defined Operational as a key risk factor for intensive monitoring and responsive PEST* Risk Political Risk Disaster Risk Risk SubcomSubcommittee Subcommittee Subcommittee measures. Well aware of the growing needs for managing formittee eign currency risks amid the latest volatility in the global financial markets, we have recently intensified our monitoring * PEST: Political, Economic, Social and Technology of emerging markets’ currencies. Rescue Control Tower System Data Data integration Monitoring and reporting Line status Company-wide sharing of management Domestic information in real time plants Production/inventory status Rescue control tower Actual production monitoring Prompt and accurate decision-making Overseas Operations ratio plants Field quality indicator Risk response < Real-time information system > 60 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 2015 Key Risks Social/environmental/regulatory risks are also under our control. We have in place a dedicated monitoring program to establish a compliance program within the organization and have completed a Material Compliance Management System 01 Exchange rate fluctuation (MCMS) and GHG inventory for effective responses to global Indicator risks environmental regulations and climate change. In order to 02 Commodity price hike hedge operational risks stemming from irregularities or errors in business activities due to human, process or system 03 Natural disasters failure, we operate a web-based risk management system that allows us to timely detect risk factors and minimize their 04 Human failure impact. Manual risks Different scenarios for a range of risk factors were also exam05 Leakage of confidential technology ined to minimize the damage from unpredictable risks such 06 Massive recalls as natural disasters. An interdepartmental collaboration network is also in place to deal with situations companywide in the event of any emergencies. Like this, in order to identify various risk factors and preemptively respond to them, it is essential to share information for Major Risk Management and Response by Type prompt decision making. Hyundai Mobis established a comHyundai Mobis analyzes potential risk factors that have an pany-wide centralized document system (M-Cloud) to effecimpact on its business, including major developments in poltively share information on economic and industry trends in itics, economics, industrial and market environments, as well related fields, thereby laying the foundation for preemptively as geopolitical issues and reports, all of which it presents to preventing any problem from arising. Also, we share major istop management. Financial risks are also in control, reportsues arising from global operations with related departments ing every major issue to top management. While controlling through the company’s Executive Information System (EIS) in the exchange rate exposure risks arising from foreign currenreal time and identify whether the same impact is found in cy-denominated bonds and debts, we also regularly monitor other areas to prevent any risk. By strengthening cooperation and assess financial stability indicators, such as net cash among related departments, we minimized damages in the flows and debt ratio. event of a risk occurring. 2015 Status of Major Risk Responses ✓ Responded to the collapse of the AS parts warehouse due to Australia’s natural disaster (hail) Natural disaster In April 2015, when the ceiling and outer wall of the warehouse collapsed due to the hail in Australia, we minimized damages by setting up an integrated risk response organization and take immediate countermeasures. As a result, we were able to supply AS parts and components by sending items with disrupted deliveries to the head office first and providing an alternative warehouse. ✓ Responded to the fire that occurred at Turkey’s warehouse on lease due to an explosion in a neighboring chemical plant Safety/ EnvironIn June 2015, a fire occurred at Turkey’s warehouse on lease exclusively for CKD due to the fire spread from an explosion in a neighment boring chemical plant. As a result, we immediately set up a team to take emergency responses for the head office and overseas corporations. Production management, materials and purchasing experts from the head office and the overseas corporation nearby were immediately sent to the site and establish response plans for each item, ensuring the OEM parts were supplied normally without disruption through urgent supply of parts from Korea and India. Safety/ ✓ Responded to disruptions that occurred due to the explosion in Tianjin, China EnvironIn August 2015, the failure of supply and demand was expected for Tianjin Hyundai Mobis due to port disruption caused by the warement house explosion in Tianjin Port, China. We identified items falling short of supplies and promptly set up detailed response plans. We minimized risks through prompt decision-making process to change import/export logistics by taking company-wide countermeasures and reporting to the top management on time. 61 Corporate Achievement Business Ethics Ethical corporate culture has become essential in these days in order to be sustainable companies. Hyundai Mobis has in place Ethics Charter, Code of Conduct and Ethical Behavioral Guidelines for Employees. We actively implement specific and diverse execution programs to spread ethical corporate culture across the enterprise. Hyundai Mobis aims to become a reliable company trusted by all stakeholders by enhancing the system to reinforce our ethical management instead of being satisfied with the current situation. Ethical Management System Case Studies on Ethical Dilemmas and Business Our Ethics Charter, Code of Ethics and Ethical Behavioral Ethics Indicators Guidelines for Employees provide the behavioral guidelines In 2015, Hyundai Mobis developed ethical management conto our employees. We have also distributed a code of ethics tents that are more advanced than the existing ones to interfor suppliers in promotion of business ethics throughout our nalize employees’ ethical awareness. entire supply chain. Comprised solely of outside directors, the Ethics Committee monitors companywide ethics practices to Case Studies on Ethical Dilemma ensure a more transparent and ethical corporate culture. This Hyundai Mobis appointed 74 ethics leaders to discover ethics is supported by the corporate audit team, which conducts dilemmas for each division through a workshop for case studauditing on a regular basis, and by the Cyber Auditor, which ies on ethical dilemma. is an online inspection instrument open to all stakeholders. Based on various ethical dilemma cases derived, we develIn addition to the regular risk management system, we are oped new training lesson plans, which largely consisted of vigilant to internal ethics risks with an early detection system two areas, including understanding of ethical management and other internal warning systems in place. Procedures for and ethical dilemma cases. The section for understanding the internal control system have been standardized in order of ethical management includes definition of ethical manto establish fair transactions and subcontracting procedures agement, its necessity, violation cases and business ethics have been computerized, from contracting and bidding to indicators. The section for ethical dilemma cases includes procurement and pricing systems, in order to preemptively ① prohibition of asking and receiving monetary profit, ② steer clear of any irregularities, forming the cornerstone for sexual harassment at workplaces, ③ performing job duties win-win partnerships with suppliers. faithfully and fairly, ④ protection of the company’s assets and information, and ⑤ transparency in selecting suppliers and unbiased operation. In the former section, we enhanced our employees’ awareness on ethical management, while in the latter section, we provided the behavioral guidelines for our employees in the event of a dilemma in reality. In order to improve the effect of training, we appointed executives from Business Ethics Management System Business Ethics Management System Code of Ethics Suppliers Organization Internal Warning System Ethics Charter, Code of Conduct, Ethics Committee, Audit Team, Risk management system/Early Ethical Behavioral Guidelines for Code of Conduct Cyber Auditor detection system Employees 62 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 each department as in-house lecturers to provide offline Sexual Harassment Prevention Programs training on case studies of ethical dilemma for all employees. Hyundai Mobis eradicates the sexual harassment at workplace Through these efforts, we provided small-scale and interacas it causes a huge loss to everyone at the company, including tive training (open panel) at each department level instead of the victim and the harasser. We strive to raise our employees’ the former large-scale cramming system of training. awareness by providing customized sexual harassment training and running a sexual harassment ombudsman center, with Business Ethics Indicators professional consultants giving advices and an online consulIn order to raise the employees’ awareness on ethical mantation center in operation. In order to create a healthy corpoagement and strengthen the business transparency, Hyunrate culture without sexual harassment, we provide special dai Mobis conducted surveys on business ethics indicators training for team managers to receive basic quality education against internal (all employees) and external stakeholders and share sexual harassment cases and handling of such cas(suppliers, agencies). There are four survey items, including es. Also, we distribute a book with guidelines on advices on ethical culture, integrity, legal compliance and ethical mansexual harassment to make sure the training is not a one-time agement system, provided to objectively assess the current event. Additionally, we appointed in-house lecturers to give level of Hyundai Mobis’s ethical management from stakepreventive training on sexual harassment so that the effect of holders’ perspective. By assessing the survey results, we preventive training can be increased by giving it in lectures. shared the business ethics indicator results with the divisions related to stakeholders (purchasing division, sales division, etc.) and derived an improved work process that can prevent Information Security unethical acts and ensure smooth communication channels. Hyundai Mobis runs an integrated information security conThe survey results are also reflected in the ethical training trol system that encrypts all documentation and information lesson plans, contributing in raising the employees’ ethical in accordance with related regulations. To protect its confiawareness and create an ethical corporate culture. dential information, the Technical R&D Center applies stricter standards using VDI and MDM to information and database management. Training Process for Case Studies of Ethical Dilemma In 2008, the Technical R&D Center acquired the international certificate for information security ISO 27001 and the Jincheon plant runs systems that meet global standards through regular The first half of the year ethics leader workshop follow-up inspections. In 2015, the two sites were integrated for integrated management. Also, we select major suppliers Discovering customized case studies of ethical dilemma that handle engineering drawings and give them on-site guidance on security practices, while also strengthen their security Reflecting and revising training lessons plans policies by providing security training programs for our suppliers’ employees. Additionally, we improve our security level through various activities, including offering training workTraining and spreading lessons shops to the security staff of suppliers and online sessions to our own employees to raise their awareness concerning inThe second half of the year ethics leader workshop formation security management. Going forward, we plan on standardizing security requirements at all our business sites as part of our revamped on-site security control practices. ※ Number of disciplinary actions taken in 2015: a total of 61 cases (severe disciplinary actions: 23 cases / minor disciplinary actions: 38 cases) ※ VDI(Virtual Device Interface) ※ MDM(Mobile Device Management) Ethical Management Training Classification No. of trainees Hours of training Offline training Ethics training 5,904 11,593 Fair trade training 1,102 1,840 Information security training 614 614 Sexual harassment training 8,331 16,662 Online training Compliance training 613 4,904 Total 16,564 35,613 63 Corporate Achievement Employees The total number of overseas employees at Hyundai Mobis increased an average of about 10 percent during the recent three years from 20,534 employees in 2013 to 25,216 employees in 2015, which calls for the need for communication and cooperation between domestic and overseas employees. Therefore, Hyundai Mobis implemented advanced HRD policies that ensure fair evaluation and compensation, conduct standardized HR management and enhance diversity through prohibition of discrimination, while also recommending a work-life balance by complying with related regulations and respecting human rights, thereby creating a healthy and safe working environment for our employees. Employee status Domestic & Overseas Workforce (Unit: persons) Classification 2013 2014 2015 Domestic 7,711 8,170 8,672 Overseas China 4,863 5,885 6,480 The Americas 3,439 3,828 4,705 Europe 3,615 3,858 4,068 Asia-Pacific/Others 906 1,101 1,291 Total 12,823 14,672 16,544 Total 20,534 22,842 25,216 Growth rate +7.3% 11.2% 10.4% Domestic New Employees Fair Evaluations and Compensation (Unit: persons) Hyundai Mobis develops talented employees through a reasonable HR system, which evaluates employee performances in two aspects: individual competencies and performance 2013 418 results. Individual evaluations are made based on individ2014 756 ual competencies in consideration of team performance as 2015 675 measured by KPIs (key performance indexes). The KPIs reflect Average service years of Hyundai Mobis employees management’s annual goals, with the evaluation scheme (Unit: years) sharing the same approach to all teams. Each performance indicator is classified into quantitative and qualitative indica2013 12.6 tors to ensure objectiveness in the evaluation results. There 2014 12.8 is a quick feedback whenever a target is not reached. Team 2015 12.8 members are evaluated on their competencies, while team leaders are evaluated for their leadership based on a multilayered evaluation criteria list. Early severance percentage rate within the third year of service Performance-based compensations may differ for each job (Unit: %) position and evaluation results, but there is no gender discrimination in compensation. Also, compensation is made differentially to managers and above levels to motivate them. 2013 4.9 Promotions are only made after reviewing employee perfor2014 3.1 mance in consideration of HR evaluations, language skills, 2015 3.0 certificates, and completed training. Those with outstanding accomplishments qualify for promotion regardless of their seniority. 64 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Integrated HR Management for Global Operations attempt to maintain a healthy work-life balance, and to preIn line with the overseas expansion, Hyundai Mobis has vent female workers from unwillingly have to interrupt their strengthened its HR management for global operations. careers, the company has in place advanced parental leave We applied the same standardized HR policies and systems programs and encourages employees to take such leaves from the head office to all overseas corporations in considerwhen necessary, while also providing flexible work schedule ation of local characteristics. Since 2012, we hold the Global for career interrupted female workers who left work for child HR Forum annually, which ensures unified HR policies are birth or child care. implemented. The head office’s HR employees and the emAdditionally, we provide diverse opportunities to hire forployees sent overseas, as well as employees in charge locally eigners. Foreign students studying abroad with outstanding at overseas corporations, are in attendance at the Global HR competencies are recruited to act as a link between the head Forum, to share HR policies and get a better understanding office and overseas corporations. about other countries’ culture. Additionally, the head office’s Overseas corporations are striving to strengthen the locally HR employees and the overseas corporations’ HR managers hired employees’ competencies by increasing their responsiconsult with each other constantly to maintain a close coopbilities and authorities. We also provide opportunities to get erative system. a better understanding about each other’s culture through special culture training including language skills program to ensure smooth communication between employees sent Promoting Diversity at Work abroad and locally hired employees. Furthermore, Hyundai Hyundai Mobis has diverse systems to ensure its employees Mobis invited locally hired employees to Korea to visit the can fulfill their individual competencies without any discrimhead office, R&D center and regional worksites, to enhance ination based on gender, nationality and academic backtheir understanding on the company and Korean culture. ground. As of 2015, Hyundai Mobis’s female employees stood at 971, accounting for 11.2 percent of the domestic workforce, and that number is steadily increasing. Female Workforce Status We have rest rooms for female employees including a nursing (Unit: persons) room at all worksites. At the Mabuk R&D Center, there are sepFemale workers Female employees whose rank is manager/senior researcher or above arate parking spaces for pregnant employees and colleagues can recognize them from their pink-colored employee card 813 holder, so that female employees can enjoy a pleasant work2013 23 ing environment. Additionally, Hyundai Mobis strictly pro888 hibits female workers from dangerous or harmful tasks in 2014 33 accordance with Article 37 of the Enforcement Decree of the 971 Labor Standards Act, and do not tolerate any form of sexual 2015 38 harassment in the workplace, with violations punished under Article 12 of the Act on Equal Employment and Support for ※ Refers to domestic workforce. Work-Family Reconciliation. In support of employees in their Return to Work After Using Parental Leaves Classification 2013 2014 2015 Maternity Leaves No. of employees on maternity leave 62 77 62 Rate of returning to work after a leave (%) 100 100 95 Rate of working for at least 12 months or longer after returning to work (%) 100 97.40 Childcare Leaves No. of employees on childcare leave 63 76 83 Rate of returning to work after a leave (%) 100 57 99 Rate of working for at least 12 months or longer after returning to work (%) 83 96.05 ※ Refer to domestic workforce. Employees who took the leaves are the sum of male and female workers. The 2015 rate of working for at least 12 months or longer after returning to work will be available at the end of 2016. 65 Corporate Achievement Human Rights and Labor Laws Creating a Flexible and Open Corporate Culture Hyundai Mobis has established an internal ombudsman sysHyundai Mobis has been holding team-based seminars and tem. The Cyber Auditor Office is open to reports on unethibusiness-/division-based seminars to promote a commucal conduct and wrongful decisions, including infringement nicative and cooperative corporate culture. In the case of dion human rights and order corrections or punishments. The vision-based seminars on core values, we identify corporate company-wide evaluation against business ethics indicators, culture issues at divisional levels and resolve them to come corporate culture diagnosis, core value surveys, and employup with innovative initiatives that encourage actual changee engagement surveys are instrumental for the company to es while performing job duties. A total of 10 division-based measure employee sentiment, communication, work-life balseminars have been held to derive three company-wide camance, work-related stress, and ethics awareness. paigns (strengthening communication between employees The key issues derived from these research results are then in different job positions, creating an effective meeting culreported to the management board for reflection in innovature, and improving job competencies and giving motivation initiatives at each divisional level. Furthermore, Hyundai tions), while also implementing a corporate culture enhanceMobis faithfully abides by local labor laws and related regulament program in connection with five implementation tasks tions in all countries it operates in, and respects local cultures for changing the way of working. For team-based seminars, and social norms in its personnel management practices. we developed all team mangers as in-house instructors so Hyundai Mobis is also a union ship that guarantees the right that they set examples of virtues as leaders, as well as systo form unions, representative bodies, and collective bartematically managed the seminars through a comprehensive gaining under all related laws and regulations in Korea and management process that internalized core values through overseas, as well as the right for them to carry out union the Core Value Talk website, including preliminary diagnosis, activities. In 2015, 5,157 people, or 58.3 percent of our total schedule setting and result reporting. workforce, were entitled to collective bargaining. Hyundai Additionally, we implemented diverse programs to create a Mobis arranges quarterly collective bargaining and labor communicative and trust-based corporate culture where the management council meetings, and hosts annual labor-mantop management and employees can communicate openly. agement joint business presentations to strengthen mutual Hyundai Mobis holds regular CEO Town Hall Meetings on a partnerships. Moreover, the company strictly abides by all company-wide level to make sure that the entire workforce laws and regulations regarding human rights and labor, and is well-versed with the company’s business plans and future extends generous working conditions and fringe benefits undirections. Also, we distribute the CEO letters on a quarterly der its collective bargaining agreements that more than meet basis to establish closeness between the top management legal requirements. and the employees. In the case of Leaders TED, it reflected employees’ opinions to change into a story telling format without a lecture plan in 2015. As a result, the management can share with the employees: know-how and knowledge gained from fulfilling their duties, life philosophy learned from experience, and leaders’ attitude. Additionally, debates are held between top down job positions to freely exchange opinions for better understanding. In 2015, we newly opened a corporate culture website to gather opinions about Hyundai Mobis’s corporate culture, so that employees were given wider opportunities to take part in the management’s decision-making process. Additionally, we held the Junior Board and division-based meetings to increase communication among employees. 2015 Core Value Seminars Beneficiaries No. of trainees No. of sessions Division-led seminars Entire division 226 10 Team seminars 302 teams 4,386 241 66 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Internalizing Work Smart Environment to Achieve Work Smart Campaign a Work-Life Balance Under the belief that efficiently and effectively fulfilling job duties while eliminating unnecessary factors is the groundwork for flexibly responding to the changing business environment and achieving continuous growth engine, Hyundai Mobis has been internalizing work smart environment as its corporate culture. To achieve this, we share information through various systems to ensure smooth communication and cooperation, including the centralization of knowledge assets through MCloud and the reorganization of the imobis report and approval system for paperless environment. For a genuine work smart environment, we selected five innovative initiatives (meeting/document writing/work guidance/report, approval/cooperation) with guidelines to improve duty fulfillment through related manuals and handbooks in e-books to help employees enhance their understanding. Also, we set grams for smart meeting, which brought actual changes a consensus and raise the awareness through change manat the worksites. As a result of continuous communication agement activities to encourage employees to change their and change management, we increased employees’ work mindset about how they work. engagement efficiency, while creating new values through Additionally, we established five optimized work engagement eliminating inefficient work processes and practices, as well methods through the team-based change management proas encourage changes by sharing best practices that reflect organizational characteristics. Establishing Advanced Corporate Culture by Achieving 2020 Global Top Tier Supporting the Health of Employees In order to support the health of employees, Hyundai Mobis have in-house workout rooms at each worksite/regional Increasing work engagement efficiency through internalizing work center, and a “Quit Smoking” campaign in alliance with local smart environment / Achieving a work-life balance public health centers. In July 2014, Healing Sam opened at our head office building, in which counseling services are provided through clinical psychologists to act as communication channels between the management and employees, provide Establish smart Develop proactive Efficient work training on mental health and changing corporate culture, infrastructure talents methods and conduct team-based psychological diagnosis. It provides Future direction of Healing Sam’s EAP (Employee Assistance Program) Team-based approach Communication channels Coaching and training ・Develop team diagnosis program (MTI: Mobis ・Channels for grievances, retirement ・Training plans for a corporate culture of Team & I) (December 2015) consultation, and advices about sexual proactive prevention: lectures on improving ・Utilize team healing programs and entry level harassment corporate culture and related issues programs for experienced workers (2016) ・Resolve grievances and create a ・Utilize company-wide bulletin board – deliver ・Improve understanding between team memhealthy corporate culture tips about mental health bers and strengthen individual strengths ・Increase online psychological inspection and coaching plan by VOD (video on demand) 67 Corporate Achievement be in charge of company-wide health/safety/environmental management activities at domestic and overseas worksites. In order to thoroughly manage the safety at all worksites, we selected safety & environment staff and established specific and realistic improvement plans to prevent industrial accidents. Also, we came up with countermeasures to meet the growing public need for its sustained social responsibility and increased control over safety/environmental risks. Additionally, we set up the Industrial Health & Safety Management ComHealing Sam mittee to deliberate and decide on major issues and policies regarding the company’s health and safety management. In 2013, Hyundai Mobis obtained the OHSAS18001 internacounseling services not only through phone calls and video tional certificate (Occupational Health & Safety Assessment conferences at the head office, but also at overseas worksites Series) and the KOSHA18001 (Korea Occupational Safety & and regional centers, regarding human relations at workHealth Agency) certificate on all its domestic production lines, place, marital relations and children problems. Since August and maintained the certificates by passing the follow-up re2015, an online psychological survey has been conducted to view in 2015. Our overseas operations are also working to investigate about depression, anxiety, and work stress, and obtain the OHSAS18001 certificate, and we will provide sysa monthly average of about 200 self-surveys were done with tematic health & safety management by stipulating detailed results provided. In 2015, 737 consultations were held, which action plans and guidelines for application in day-to-day duty will shift towards a program that can easily be used by all fulfillment. employees instead of only providing personal psychological Under the shared goal of achieving an accident-free workcounseling. place, various health and safety initiatives are implemented to establish an autonomous and advanced safety management system, such as managing performances made for goals set Creating a Safe Working Environment for each field, evaluating company-wide health & safety KPIs, Under the safety-first management policy that aims to place and reviewing the management including offering rewards health and safety as the top priority in all business activities, for outstanding performance results. Also, we set up IT-based Hyundai Mobis has been implementing diverse policies to ensafety/health and environmental system to improve the effihance employees’ satisfaction levels and create a safe workciency of safety/health/environmental management and preing environment. We set up a Safety & Environment Team to vent safety accidents through increased synergies. Health & Safety Program Status by Worksite Worksite Program Details Gyeongin STC Campaign Hyundai Mobis’s Gyeongin Plant partners with its suppliers to implement the STC campaign. The on-site Plant An abbreviation of Stop, Think and management supervisor and workers review the whole work process, including hand tool inspection, whether Check, the STC campaign is an on-site the facilities operate normally, and whether workers comply with safety rules. By uncovering potential risk health & safety management program to factors at worksites and keeping a record of all findings, the campaign also includes raising questions to the prevent occupational accidents within company’s safety management teams for improvement initiatives. At the end of every year, process lines, suppliers and team performance results are reviewed in terms of participation, risk rates, and improvement our premises. results, after which top management then provides incentives and rewards to those who score best. Ulsan Plant Health & Safety Program By reviewing the working conditions of suppliers, Hyundai Mobis assess the potential risks at their Hyundai Mobis has in place a worksites and help with their improvement initiatives in the event that a risk factor is detected. The health-checkup program to prevent ultimate goal is to bring our suppliers’ worksite conditions to the same level as our own worksites when cerebro/cardio vascular diseases for its it comes to health and safety management practices. Through quarterly progress checks, we assist their workforce. programs and receive audits by an evaluation board consisting of external experts from both the public and private sectors. Changwon Health Promotion Program Based on the results, employees vulnerable to such diseases are advised to monitor their health Plant Hyundai Mobis’s Changwon Plant runs conditions more stringently. The company also has in place a No Smoking campaign to realize a healthy, a health check-up program to prevent happy workplace that is in line with the government’s own Stop Smoking campaign. cerebro/cardio vascular diseases for its workforce. 68 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Social Contribution Hyundai Mobis is committed to fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities and create sustainable future values with its stakeholders, so that the results are widely shared and achieve a balanced development in the economic, social and environmental fields. Additionally, we lay the foundation for sharing and communication by implementing four MOVE campaigns to achieve the Hyundai Motor Group’s new mid-and long-term social contribution strategy of realizing sustainable mobility together for a better future. Transparent Umbrellas Junior Engineering Class Transparent umbrellas campaign for Campaign to hold science lessons for children’s safety on the roads children 113,300 transparent umbrellas distributed Science lessons held for 6,350 Four MOVE to students at 187 schools students at 38 schools. Campaigns (results in 2015) Mobility for Disabled Children Creation of Meer Forest Campaign for mobility-challenged A forest that is happy for nature and children people Supported assistive devices for 50 Yearly music concert and natural ecology experience mobility-challenged children program held at the woods for philosophic thinking Youth Dream Support for Families of Employees’ Activities of Direct Seongdong Camp Car Crash Victims Volunteer Work Purchases from Farms ● ● ● ● A guide for young job seekers Campaign to give hope Campaign to make Campaign to make to enter into society to children of car crash the world a better the world a better victims place by sharing place by sharing 141 job seekers received job 1,203 employees 3,722 employees We helped out at 5 villages consulting services and Hyundai sponsored 30 children of participated in 11,545 hours near major worksites to Mobis’s employees provided car crash victims. of volunteer work. support the sales of local 37 people with advices on their specialties. career paths. 69 Corporate Achievement Transparent Umbrella Campaign Junior Engineering Class In order to reduce the risks of car accidents involving children Since 2005, Hyundai Mobis has been running a Junior Engion rainy days, Hyundai Mobis has been implementing the neering Class for children to contribute in developing scienTransparent Umbrella Campaign to distribute about 600,000 tific talent and local communities. We strive to instill dreams transparent umbrellas to a total of 1,011 schools from 2010 and hope in some of our future scientists. to 2015. We used strong and light fabrics for the transparent umbrellas so that children can carry them easily, especially Progress of Junior Engineering Class in 2015 semi-glossy materials were used so that drivers can see them (Unit: schools, persons) from far away. Classification No. of benefiNo. of participatNo. of inciary schools ing students structors Regular junior engineering class 12 2,717 294 Used semi-glossy materials in all Junior engineering class with customers 1,434 37 colors so that drivers can see the children by the light reflecting Role-playing junior engineering class 22 1,951 Used tenacious and transparent fabric so that the umbrellas are not torn easily while being visible Contributing in Promoting Science Education Used slip prevention design In addition to the regular junior engineering class, Hyundai to make sure the umbrella Mobis has been utilizing a dedicated science bus, while also does not slip easily giving classes where experiments are carried out. We strive to promote science education by holding classes in various environments, including the role-playing junior engineering class, the Seoul Motor Show, the Donation for Education Fair, Attached a whistle to the handle to as well as the junior engineering class held to provide expebe used in case of an emergency rience classes for the general customers who applied for it. Textbooks that Reflect the Know-how on Automotive Parts Technologies Meanwhile, Hyundai Mobis has been actively spreading the Hyundai Mobis developed textbooks for junior engineering campaign to minimize traffic accidents involving children class in cooperation with Hanyang University Teenagers based on its accumulated experience of six years. Examples Into Science & Technology Center and the National Academy of such efforts are conducting the Transparent Umbrella of Engineering of Korea. By reflecting the unique value as a Campaign together with suppliers and providing traffic safespecialized auto parts supplier, we produced textbooks that ty training. might be of interest for children in automotive and scientific principles, including lane keeping assistance system and colTransparent Umbrella Program for Suppliers lusion prevention assist. Hyundai Mobis has been implementing the transparent umbrella program for suppliers by distributing transparent umIntroduction of Representative Textbooks brellas for three years by selecting ten suppliers every three years. After the end of supporting transparent umbrellas, we Name of textbooks Application technology will continuously cooperate with our suppliers so that they Safe Car Application technology of AEB (Autonomous Emergency Braking) can distribute transparent umbrellas to minimize traffic acciSmart Car Application technology of LKAS (Lane Keeping Assistance System) dents involving children on their own. Solar power vehicles Solar batteries Traffic Safety Training A Transparent Umbrella Contest is held to provide traffic safety training for children through the process of selecting the elementary school, teaching about the purpose of Transparent Umbrella Program and utilizing traffic safety buses or traffic safety kits. Safe Car Smart Car 70 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Creation of Meer Forest Supporting the Mobility Assistance Program for Hyundai Mobis has created Meer Forest, which is an Disabled Children eco-friendly forest of 300,000 pyeong in Chopyeong-myIn order to enhance mobility convenience and increase the eon, Jincheon-gun. We plan to create six theme forests, and opportunities of social participation for physically-challenged among them, we currently completed the woods for philochildren, Hyundai Mobis has been supporting assistance equipsophic thinking to provide culture/arts and environment proment for 50 disabled children since 2012. Additionally, we also grams for local residents. run a program to support living expenses, while also support speech treatment or music therapy for children who need imMeer Forest Program proved language and cognitive functions and deliver them with daily necessities and rehabilitation/treatment products. Hyundai Mobis Meer Forest Concert Fairytale Books Made to Raise the Awareness on the Disabled Hyundai Mobis holds concerts under the theme of healing at the Hyundai Mobis has been striving to raise the awareness on Hyundai Mobis’s outdoor concert hall within Meer Forest for local the disabled. In November 2015, we produced a fairytale residents. As a representative mecenat program, Hyundai Mobis’s book called ‘Roll Super Wheels’ written by Jung-wook Ko who bloombloom concert provides world-famous acoustic music that has the first grade of physical disability, which is considerate can be enjoyed with family members with beautiful mountains of the disabled and promote the correct perception about and lakes in the background. them. We have distributed 3,300 of it to regional children’s centers and the disabled welfare centers across the nation. Hyundai Mobis Family Trip for Disabled Children Forest Explanation Hyundai Mobis held its family trip for disabled children, which supports mobility-challenged children and their families who Hyundai Mobis provides a program where you can experience Meer Forest’s beautiful sceneries while walking the forest together experience inconvenient mobility and receive negative view. with forest commentators. The Meer Forest Walking Program is An employee who volunteered will go along as a helper for held for free of charge, allowing people to learn and experience each family. In 2015, 16 employees volunteered to accompaabout how to walk in the forest, how to enjoy the scenery and how ny 50 people including 13 disabled children so that they can to feel the natural breathing. go on healing trips to Gapyeong and Chuncheon. Environmental Camp In order to inform more stakeholders about the concept of creating Meer Forest, Hyundai Mobis runs diverse environmental camp programs. We offer ways for people to live together with nature, including the children’s environment/science camp that integrates environment and science and the family environmental experience program held for employees and their families. Hyundai Mobis Family Trip for Disabled Children Eco-experience In order to pass on beautiful forests to the future generation, Hyundai Mobis has in place various eco-experience programs. We plan to offer the eco marsh experience program for elementary students and the bird observation program for looking at various types of resident birds and migratory birds. Meer Forest Concert 71 Corporate Achievement Global Social Contribution Four Move Campaigns and Future Plans Hyundai Mobis has been implementing the Four Move Campaigns that reflect the Hyundai Motor Group’s CSR vision and philosophy at all domestic and overseas worksites. In 2013, the Transparent Umbrella Program first started off at Jiangsu Hyundai Mobis Automotive Parts Co., Ltd., followed by efforts to reduce the risks of car accidents involving children on rainy days by distributing about 30,000 transparent umbrellas to Junior engineering class held at elementary school affiliated to Beijing Shunyi No.1 Middle School in China Beijing, Jiangsu, Shanghai and Wuxi. In 2014, we started the junior engineering class to strengthen the closeness with local communities by holding science class for children that incorporates automotive engineering educawho are in the country where overseas corporations are lotion. In 2015, we held classes at elementary schools near the cated, or sponsoring various organizations through sisteroverseas corporations in Beijing, Shanghai and Jiangsu, and hood ties. Since 2008, the Global Hyundai Mobis Fund is in starting from 2016, we will expand the application in collaboplace, which donates certain amount of the salaries from the ration with the Hyundai Motor Group. Going forward, we plan employees sent overseas and locally hired employees and to develop social contribution programs that reflect local the same amount is matched and accumulated in the fund characteristics of regions where our overseas corporations to show compassion to neighbors in need locally. Hyundai are located including Europe and India. Mobis has been striving to develop the local communities domestically and internationally to strengthen the trust-based Social Contribution Activities of Overseas Corporations relationship with local residents through sharing and comAs a global company, Hyundai Mobis strives to contribute to munication. local communities by supporting scholarships to students Global Social Contribution Activities Children Local communities Disaster relief Canada Czech Republic Slovakia Russia U.S. Turkey China UAE India Brazil Australia 72 Sustainable Management Practices P. 74 Management Performance P. 75 Employees P. 75 Social Contribution P. 77 Win-Win Partnerships P. 78 Environmental Management P. 79 GHG Assurance Statement P. 80 Third Party Assurance Statement P. 81 GRI Index P. 83 Section 05 Appendix Appendix Sustainable Management Practices UN Global Compact Since July 2, 2008, Hyundai Mobis has been a member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Initiated by then-UN Secretary-General Kofi Anna, the UNGC was designed to encourage businesses around the world to adopt sustainable and socially responsible business activities consisting of 10 principles in four business management areas-human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption-Hyundai Mobis upholds all 10 UNGC principles in every one of its business activities and has provided information about the company’s performance in these areas through this report. The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Classification Description Reporting Pages Human Rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 62-63, 65-66 Principle 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 65-66 Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 53-56 Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. 38-39 Anti-corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 62-63 Sustainable Management Evaluations Hyundai Mobis participated in a number of socially responsible investment (SRI) review programs in support of looking back on its social, environmental, ethical and other CSR performance and financial performance results, including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and KOBEX SM, to name but just a few. Hyundai Mobis then considered the feedback it was given and compared its CSR practices with those of domestic and overseas best practices to further enhance stakeholder value. Association Membership Status Association Objectives Federation of Korean Industries Exchange of information on business management, collaboration on CSR activities Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry Mandatory requirement by law to join this chamber, Issuance of import and export documents, etc. Korea Employer’s Federation Collaboration to establish labor-management system and discuss on policies, etc. Korea Auto Industries Coop. Association Collaboration among relevant companies for the advancement of the automotive industry Fair Competition Federation Exchange of information and opinions among government agencies and member companies for compliance on fair trade guidelines UN Global Compact Korea Network Commitment to abide by the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Korea Economic Research Institute Research on short-term and long-term issues relevant to the development of the Korean economy and the country’s companies Korea Automotive Recyclers Association Promotion of improved environmental protection efforts by the auto industry and recycling of automobiles Korea Industrial Technology Association Improved technology cooperation network and strengthened technology innovation capacity Korean Society of Automotive Engineers Advancement of automotive technologies through the active exchange of information concerning relevant technologies Korean Academy of Motor Industry Advancement of the automotive industry through seminars and networking between experts Awards Received for Sustainable Management Description Date Winner of the 2015 Korea Sustainability Report Award September 15, 2015 Listed to the 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) World October 28, 2015 Listed in the 2015 East Asia 30 October 29, 2015 Winner of the Korean Exemplary Company for CSR in China December 4, 2015 Rewarded with the 2015 government medal for job creation December 15, 2015 Punishments & Violations 2013 2014 2015 Cases and amount of hazardous substance leakage None None None Fines and non-monetary sanctions for violations of environmental regulations None None None Violation of Customer Information Security Act None None None Violation of marketing communication regulations None None None Violation of regulations and voluntary rules regarding product and service information and labeling None None None Amount of fines imposed for violation of regulations and rules on the supply of goods and services None None None Violations of the Fair Trade Act None None None * Hyundai Mobis complies with the Fair Labeling and Advertising Act (FLAA) in all its advertisements, promotions, sponsorships, and other marketing communication activities. Furthermore, its Compliance Program guidebook provides employees with a summary of the FLAA, related punishments, and behavioral guidelines. 74 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Management Performance Business Results (Unit: KRW million) 2013 2014 2015 Sales 33,242,240 35,126,612 36,019,749 Gross profit 4,802,377 5,123,204 5,147,830 Operating income 3,022,413 3,141,242 2,934,571 Earnings before taxes 4,632,434 4,659,004 4,212,662 Net income 3,396,421 3,392,512 3,040,049 ※H yundai Life has conducted capital increase through third-party allocation on December 7, 2015. As a result, Hyundai Mobis shares owned by Hyundai Life have fallen and excluded from the consolidated subsidiaries. Therefore, please take note that financial business was excluded from our business performance. Financial Conditions (Unit: KRW million) 2013 2014 2015 Total assets 34,430,309 39,111,916 37,774,833 Cash & Equivalents 2,475,832 2,911,441 2,497,886 Liabilities 14,237,123 15,825,813 12,098,593 Borrowings 2,922,307 2,856,450 3,219,201 Equity capital 20,193,186 23,286,103 25,676,240 Shareholders’ equity 491,096 491,096 491,096 Debt-to-Equity ratio 70.5% 68.0% 47.1% Employees All data in the tables below (except for the number of overseas employees) covers only domestic operations as of December 31, 2015. Employment (Unit: persons) Overseas Domestic 25,216 22,842 20,534 16,544 14,672 12,823 8,170 8,672 7,711 2013 2014 2015 Individual Performance Evaluation Classification No. of employees evaluated No. of employees compensated Percentage Note KPI-based evaluation 8,672 8,672 100 Persons in positions of above executives (excludMulti-layered evaluation 8,672 437 5 ing above managing directors) and team leaders Compensation linked to Persons in positions of above executives (exclud8,672 3,237 37 relative evaluations ing above managing directors) and managers 75 Appendix Wages and Fringe Benefit Expenses (Unit: KRW million) Classification 2013 2014 2015 Total Annual Wages 636,460 693,863 736,729 Per-employee Average Wages 87 86 90 Retirement Benefits 24,691 50,501 63,896 Fringe Benefit Expenses 113,278 132,165 134,819 ※ Wages and fringe benefit expenses were taken from the Sales and Administrative Expenses and Other Accounts from the company’s non-consolidated financial statements. ※ New employee wages are higher than the legal minimum rate, with Hyundai Mobis employee wages determined solely on job grades and work conditions, not by gender. ※ Hyundai Mobis has adopted a defined benefits type of corporate pension fund for employees. They can choose either a lump-sum payment or retirement pension. The company plans on gradually increasing each employee’s share of the pension so that their benefits can grow in the future. Retirees Classification 2013 2014 2015 No. of retirement by age 27 3 40 No. of general retirement 132 123 128 Disabled Employment Classification 2013 2014 2015 No. of hired persons 126 138 137 Employment percentage 1.75 1.70 1.60 Union Shops Classification 2013 2014 2015 No. of Employees Qualified for Union Membership 4,892 4,948 5,157 Percentage of Membership to Total Workforce 63.4 60.6 58.3 ※ New employees become members of the labor union as soon as they join the company, with the Collective Bargaining Agreement disqualifying employees who are above the managerial level, labor relations staff, accounting staff, executives and their secretaries and chauffeurs, standby staff for the Korean Workplace Reserve Forces and Civil Defense, employees in the Production Control Tower, interns, temporary workers, part-time workers, special-position staff, senior researchers and those more senior, guards, communications staff, general affairs staff, legal affairs staff, and other employees whom labor and management have agreed to disqualify. ※ Issues subject to advanced notification as stipulated in Articles 39 and 40 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement are: mergers, conveyances, and any company-related spin-off, which requires union notification 90 days prior to the event/ outsourcing or contracting of all or part of production, while research and/or auto parts businesses need to give the union notice 60 days prior to preparing such plans, with the union needing to be told immediately of any reassignments or retraining of personnel due to business and/or technical reasons. No. of Times Consultations Held between the Labor and Management Annually Classification 2013 2014 2015 No. of times collective bargaining held annually 46 65 37 No. of times labor-management meeting is held 12 12 8 annually ※ Hyundai Mobis held the labor-management meeting quarterly for three unions. Loss Time from Occupational Accidents Classification 2013 2014 2015 Note No. of injuries 7 4 1 Absence loss per 10,000 10.0 8.3 4.9 the number of days of lost work per 10,000 annually employees(%) Health Check-ups Classification 2013 2014 2015 Basic health check-ups 6,487 5,769 6,783 Comprehensive health No. of employees 1,129 1,654 1,566 check-ups No. of spouses and family members 975 1,130 1,057 Total amount of subsidies (KRW million) 614 844 677 ※ In addition to the basic health check-ups, Hyundai Mobis also supports comprehensive health check-ups to enhance the welfare of employees. In the case of employees who are over 35 years old, we support 50 percent of the comprehensive health check-ups for the employee, spouse and family members. Also, we support the full amount of the comprehensive health check-ups for employees themselves on a five year basis. 76 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Social Contribution Yearly Social Contribution Expenses(non-consolidated) (Unit: KRW million) 2013 2014 2015 18,153 15,124 19,014 2015 Social Contribution Expenditures Breakdown(non-consolidated) Social Welfare Education/Research Culture, Arts Environment Global Programs Others 37% 17% 18% 16% 2% 10% Details of Employees’ Volunteer Activities in 2015(domestic) No. of Volunteers No. of Volunteer Groups Volunteer Hours Per-employee Volunteer Hours 3,747 107 11,791 1.36 ※D  etails of employees’ volunteer activities included making talent donation for junior engineering class and giving blood donation from employees. Per-employee volunteer hours refer to the value of dividing the total volunteer hours (11,791) by the number of domestic employees (8,672). Volunteerism by Division(domestic) Classification 2013 2014 2015 No. of Employees 7,295 7,373 8,672 No. of Volunteers 2,601 2,629 2,997 Participation Rate 35.7 35.7 34.6 Volunteer Hours 7,956 8,415 9,027 Per-employee Volunteer Hours 1.09 1.14 1.04 Smile Microcredit Foundation 2013 2014 2015 Hyundai Mobis Contribution(KRW million) 4,500 900 Loans(cases) 1,452 1,551 1,653 Value of Loans(KRW million) 16,277 16,657 19,116 No. of Loan Products 18 29 15 Kids Auto Park 2013 2014 2015 No. of Visitors 16,181 14,531 7,724 Hyundai Mobis Subsidies 77 88 93 Basketball Team Donations (Unit: KRW 1,000) 2013 2014 2015 12,885 10,545 9,330 77 Appendix Win-Win Partnership Domestic and Overseas Primary Suppliers 2013 2014 2015 Purchase amount Purchase amount Purchase amount Classification No. of companies No. of companies No. of companies (KRW 100 million) (KRW 100 million) (KRW 100 million) North America 30 6,694 27 6,510 27 9,068 Europe 22 5,612 29 5,865 29 4,084 China 183 18,222 212 23,768 237 14,425 India 26 2,229 24 2,291 24 2,315 Russia 2 112 3 116 3 126 Brazil 10 193 13 315 13 544 Turkey 5 187 6 470 6 960 Domestic 859 126,868 869 140,046 881 131,882 Total 1,137 160,117 1,183 179,381 1,220 163,404 Seven Beautiful Pledge Performance Results Classification 2013 2014 2015 Loan Support to Suppliers Loan guarantees KRW 100 million 498 568 518 Suppliers No. of companies 42 42 42 R&D Collaboration Sharing of the Shanghai Test Center Cases 18,598 22,265 39,623 CTO Forums No. of companies 159 152 119 Sharing of royalty-free intellectual propCases 160 160 160 erty rights Support to Secondary/Tertiary Supporting MSQ evaluations No. of companies / 186/201 23/23 156/156 Suppliers persons Subcontracting agreements between priNo. of companies 403 412 733 mary and secondary suppliers Support of Training Programs Supporting training programs No. of companies 1,710 1,648 1,905 No. of trainees persons 2,251 2,265 2,800 Communication with Suppliers Cooperation meetings No. of companies 163 173 167 Promotion of Fair Transactions Paying SME suppliers in cash Settlements in cash Settlements in cash Settlements in cash with Suppliers Performance sharing and others Rise in paid customer supply & unit cost KRW 100 million 14,551 16,789 14,337 Fair Trade Agreement & Mutual Growth Programs Classification 5th 6th 7th Period 2013.1.1 ~ 2013.12.31 2014.1.1 ~ 2014.12.31 2015.1.1 ~ 2015.12.31 No. of Signatories 555 443 452 Purchase Amount(KRW 100 million) 51,434 54,491 62,312 78 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Environmental Management ISO14001 Certification of Domestic Operations Eligible operations Certified operations Certification rate(%) Plants Domestic 18 18 100 Overseas 20 11 55 Parts sales offices 29 29 100 Total 67 58 87 ※D omestic plants: Include the head office, Mabuk R&D Center and contract manufacturing companies ※ Parts sales offices: including logistics centers (Asan, Naengcheon, Gyeongju, Ulsan 1, Ulsan 2, Ulsan 3) Materials Used by Weight or Volume Change Input compared to Region Amount of raw materials used Unit 2013 2014 2015 2014 Raw Materials Domestic Metals Tons 393,916 321,610 225,072 -30.02% Consumption intensity Tons/KRW 100 million 2.249 1.743 1.180 -32.32% Domestic Plastics Tons 38,491 11,613 13,058 12.44% Consumption intensity Tons/KRW 100 million 0.220 0.063 0.068 8.74% Domestic Solvents Tons 4,520 5,781 4,484 -22.43% Consumption intensity Tons/KRW 100 million 0.026 0.031 0.024 -24.98% Energy Total Domestic/overseas energy consumption TJ 5,802 6,105 5,906 -3.26% Consumption intensity TJ/KRW 100 million 0.017 0.017 0.016 -5.66% Domestic energy consumption TJ 2,503 2,607 2,268 -13.00% Overseas energy consumption TJ 3,299 3,498 3,638 4.00% Domestic Electricity TJ 2,158 2,265 2,073 -8.48% Overseas Electricity TJ 2,862 3,034 3,222 6.20% Domestic Fuels (city gas, propane, other oil) TJ 345 342 195 -42.98% Overseas Fuel TJ 402 431 379 -12.06% Overseas Other(steam) TJ 35 33 36 9.09% Water resources Domestic Total volume of water resources used 1,000 tons 1,174 1,099 798 -27.35% Consumption intensity Tons/KRW 100 million 6.70 5.96 4.18 -29.74% Change Output compared to Region Emissions Unit 2013 2014 2015 2014 GHG Total GHG emissions tCO2eq 287,193 302,214 292,234 -3.30% Consumption intensity tCO2eq/KRW 100 million 0.86 0.86 0.81 -5.70% Domestic GHG emissions tCO2eq 124,075 129,091 112,350 -12.97% Overseas GHG emissions tCO2eq 163,118 173,123 179,884 3.91% Domestic Waste emissions volume (designated/general) Tons 18,173 19,533 18,176 -6.95% Consumption intensity Tons/KRW 100 million 0.10 0.11 0.10 -10.01% Waste & Recycling Recycled amount Tons 10,230 11,787 9,692 -17.77% Recycling rate % 56.3% 60.3% 53.3% -11.63% Landfill rate % 5.7% 5.5% 4.8% -12.00% Incineration rate % 38.0% 34.2% 41.8% 22.34% Air Pollutants Domestic Air pollutant generation by year Tons 49 46 52 12.69% Consumption intensity kg/KRW 100 million 0.28 0.25 0.27 8.99% NOx ppm 2.4 1.2 3.3 SOx ppm 5.3 1.1 2.9 Dusts mg/m³ 3.6 3.3 3.6 Water Pollutants Domestic Total volume of water pollutants Tons 21.0 23.3 12.8 -45.24% Consumption intensity kg/KRW 100 million 0.12 0.13 0.07 -47.04% Water Quality at Domestic BOD ppm 15.0 17.7 19.6 Wastewater COD ppm 34.5 29.6 29.1 Treatment Facilities TN ppm 8.5 8.4 10.2 SS ppm 13.9 11.5 7.0 79 Appendix GHG Assurance Statement Terms of Engagement This assurance statement has been prepared for Hyundai Mobis Korea. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by Hyundai Mobis to assure its GHG Inventory Report for the calendar year in 2015, which is summarized in Table 1 below (hereinafter referred to as “the Report”). The Hyundai Mobis-related data, as presented in the Report, has been prepared in accordance with the GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in Korea. The Report relates to direct and indirect GHG emissions. Management Responsibility Management personnel at Hyundai Mobis were responsible for preparing the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the data and information disclosed. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out assurance engagement on the Report in accordance with our contract with Hyundai Mobis. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of, Hyundai Mobis. LRQA’s Approach Our verification on the Report has been conducted in accordance with Korea’s GHG Target Management Scheme. We verified that the Report was prepared in conformity with the guidance stipulations for verification of greenhouse gas assertions to a reasonable level of assurance. In order to form our conclusions, we have: • Conducted site tours of the facilities and reviewed processes related to the management of GHG emissions data and records • Interviewed relevant staff of the organization responsible for managing and maintaining raw and consolidated data • Verified historical data and information at an aggregated level for the calendar year in 2015 Level of Assurance & Materiality The opinions expressed in the Assurance Statement have been formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance and at a five percent working materiality level. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach, we have found that the GHG data as presented in the GHG Emissions Inventory Report, and the amount of energy used within the Report, are materially correct. March 27, 2016 Yoo Sangkeun On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. 17th Floor, Sinsong Building, 67, Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 07327, Republic of Korea LRQA Reference: SEO6014771 GHG emissions as reported in the Hyundai Mobis GHG Inventory Report for the calendar year 2015 Scope (as defined within Korea’s GHG Target Management Scheme) 2015 Direct GHG Emissions 10,534 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions 101,816 Total GHG Emissions 112,350 ※ Data is presented in tons of CO2 equivalent Assurance statement: This assurance statement has been prepared in accordance with the Guidelines on the GHG & Energy Target Management Scheme regarding greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption. Third Party Liability: Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the “Lloyd’s Register Group.” The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage, or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice. In that case, any responsibility or liability is exclusively related to the terms and conditions set out in that contract. 80 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 Independent Assurance Statement To All Hyundai Mobis Stakeholders Hyundai Mobis commissioned the Korea Productivity Center (the “Assurer”) to provide independent assurance of its 2016 Sustainability Report (the “Report”). Responsibility and Independence Hyundai Mobis is entirely responsible for the reliability and accuracy of all information and opinions presented in this Report. The Assurer is responsible solely for providing third party verification of the content in the Report. As an independent assurance agency, the Assurer was neither involved in the process of preparing this Report with Hyundai Mobis, nor in any conflicts of interest that may undermine our independence. Assurance Standard The independent verification process was planned and performed in accordance with the AA1000AS (2008) Assurance Standards to provide Type 1 moderate level of assurance. This was achieved through the evaluation of the organization’s adherence to the AA1000 APS (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Furthermore, assurance was performed to ascertain the organization’s adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines in preparing and presenting sustainability performance information. Assurance Limitations Based on the aforementioned assurance standards, the Assurer verified the organization’s sustainability performance in 2015. The reliability of financial data in the Report was verified by crosschecking financial statements and disclosure information (as it was audited by an independent auditor), with some data, such as GHG data and information linked with the company’s website, verified for its reliability by referring to a third party assurance statement. Site inspection was also performed, in a limited scope, on Hyundai Mobis’s headquarters in Seoul. As a result, the Assurer clearly states that any future verification may produce varied results. Assurance Methodology The assurance was undertaken with the methodology specified below: 1. We verified if the Report satisfies the requirements of the GRI G4 Guidelines’ Core Options. 2. We verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and quality of the Report based on GRI G4 Guidelines. 3. We verified objectivity and appropriateness of all selected key issues and content in the Report by reviewing media reports and performing benchmark analysis. 4. We verified any inconsistencies and errors with the information presented in the Report by comparing and analyzing the same information from different sources. 5. We verified the validity of sustainability strategies and report content by interviewing staff members in charge from the report preparation task force and working-level employees from all related departments. 6. We verified the basis of data and information collection by performing onsite inspection at Hyundai Mobis’s headquarters in Seoul, and also verified all internal processes and systems. 7. The scope and boundaries of the assurance process has been conducted according to the boundaries of the time period, region, and value chain of the report. Therefore, the scope of the assurance process meets 100% coverage of the non-consolidated revenue of company, and data regarding the supply chain has not been included unless specified. Findings and Conclusions It is the Assurer’s opinion that the Report presents Hyundai Mobis’s sustainability efforts and performance results in a fair and accurate way. In addition, the Assurer verified the Core Option requirements for the GRI G4 Guidelines’ General Standard Disclosures, and reviewed all specific standard disclosures of material issues against the disclosure on management approach (DMA) and indicators as identified from the process of determining report content as follows. The Assurer also reviewed the indicators regarding the non-material aspects of the specific standard disclosures, and the results are included in the GRI/UNGC Index. Key Material Issues Material Aspect DMA & Indicators Leading Global Technology Economic Performance, Energy, Products and Services DMAResearch & Development Competencies EC2, EN7, EN27 Customer-oriented Management Products & Services DMACustomers Satisfaction EN7 Talent Development Training & Education DMA-Employees LA9, LA10, LA11 Win-Win Partnership Indirect Economic Impacts, Assessment of Suppliers’ Environment, DMA-Win-Win Partnership Labor practices, Human rights, Assessment of Suppliers’ Social Impact EC8, EN32, EN33, LA14, LA15, HR10, HR11, SO9, SO10 Eco-friendly Product Policy Economic Performance, Raw Materials, Energy, Products and Services DMAResearch & Development EC2, EN1, EN7, EN27 Improving Work Efficiency through Non GRI DMA-System Management System-based Management 81 Appendix 1. Principle of Inclusivity: Stakeholder Engagement The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include stakeholders in the development and achievement of accountable and strategic responses to sustainability. The Assurer verified that Hyundai Mobis complied with the inclusivity principle and improved its practices accordingly in 2015. Hyundai Mobis separates its major stakeholders into eight groups: domestic & international complete car markers/competitors; employees; suppliers; and customers (agencies/consumers). It operates different channels for communication with each stakeholder group. In particular, the Assurer highly respected the company’s efforts to share essential points from the opinions gathered through the CSR council meeting and come up with response strategies. 2. Principle of Materiality: Selection of and Reporting on Material Issues The principle of materiality dictates that organizations should focus on issues relevant and material to both the organization and their major stakeholders. The Assurer found that Hyundai Mobis successfully identified issues relevant and material to the company and its major stakeholders based on a logical materiality analysis process. The Assurer found that Hyundai Mobis successfully identified domestic and overseas issues based on: media analysis; competitive benchmarking; international standard analysis; confirmation of internal policy documents; interviews; and listening to major management opinions. In particular, the Assurer highly respected that Hyundai Mobis has listened to diverse opinions of internal employees in charge and executives and reflected them. In the Report, Hyundai Mobis presents its progress and major performance results regarding the identified six key material issues by allocating an appropriate amount of space and from a balanced perspective. Regarding this, we suggest that Hyundai Mobis listens to more diverse opinions from external stakeholders, including outside experts, and reflect them in the materiality analysis process for future reports. 3. Principle of Responsiveness: Organizational Response to Issues The principle of responsiveness says that organizations should be responsive to issues that may impact stakeholder performance. The Assurer found that Hyundai Mobis successfully identified all issues that may impact stakeholder performance, implemented measures to address them, and adequately presented relevant information in the Report. The Assurer found that Hyundai Mobis has clearly disclosed key material issues and its progress and major performance results, and presented measures taken to address them in the Report. In particular, the company is setting a good example by specifying which activities will be implemented in the following year in line with the activities being implemented. In this regard, it seems necessary to take measures to address issues of continuity and seek ways to derive results. Recommendations While the Assurer commends Hyundai Mobis for making a variety of efforts to enhance sustainability and for the subsequent performance results, it also presents the following recommendations for improving future sustainability reports and sustainability management. 1. The Assurer highly evaluates the company’s continuous increase of R&D investments and the results achieved in technology development. The Assurer suggests Hyundai Mobis discloses its overall R&D directions and results to help enhance the stakeholders’ understanding, including R&D strategic directions, related project portfolio and progress results and plans, etc. 2. T he activities that support the suppliers in identifying and improving their product quality control, environmental management system certifications, human rights practices, safety control at worksites, etc. are essential for Hyundai Mobis to manage sustainability risks. The Assurer suggests Hyundai Mobis presents the suppliers’ sustainability risk factors identified from its self-evaluation and improvement performance made together with examples. 3. H yundai Mobis set a good example in enhancing organizational efficiency by managing its overall business administration through system management. The Assurer expects that the integrated and continuous management of its sustainability management results will be possible, ensuring a better communication with stakeholders. April 2016 Korea Productivity Center CEO Soonjik Hong Dongsoo Kim Yangho Lee Head of the Korea Productivity Center Team Reader The Korea Productivity Center’s Sustainability Management Center is an assurance agency officially certified by AccountAbility (the organization that established AA1000), the international standard for stakeholder participation and verification, and is qualified to conduct independent assurance statements. Our Assurance Committee is comprised of competent experts who have in-depth experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance, and have completed all relevant training. ·A A1000AS (2008): The Aa1000 Assurance Standard (2008) is an international assurance standard established by AccountAbility, and provides detailed information on the method of reporting sustainability management issues by evaluating an organization’s management on performance, compliance with principles, and reliability of performance information. ·A A1000APS (2008): The AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standards (2008) is an international assurance standard set by AccountAbility, and features all principles related to AA1000 standards. 82 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 GRI Index ● Fully reported ◑ Partially reported ○ Not reported Ø NA: Not Applicable Indicator G4 Managerial Issues Report Contents Remark Page Note Corporate Overview Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker ● 4~5 Analysis G4-2 Provides a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 4~5, 60~61 Organizational G4-3 Report the name of the organization ● 6~7 Profile G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services ● 6~7 http://www.mobis.co.kr G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters ● 6~7 G4-6 The number of countries where the organizaion operates, and names of countries where either the organization has ● 8~9 http://www.mobis.co.kr, significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report http://dart.fss.or.kr G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form ● 58~59 http://www.mobis.co.kr, http://dart.fss.or.kr G4-8 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) ● 14 G4-9 Scale of the organization ● 6~7, 12~14, 75 G4-10 Total workforce ● 75~76 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 76 G4-12 The organization’s supply chain ● 42~46 G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its ● No change supply chain G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 60~63 Business ethics, Risk management G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the ● 74 organization subscribes or endorses G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations ● 74 Identified G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents ● 6~9 See 39th Business Report Material Aspects (http://dart.fss.or.kr) and Boundaries G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries ● 2 G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content ● 16~17 G4-20 For each material aspect, report aspect boundary within the organization ● 17 G4-21 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organization ● 17 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements ● Reasons for change to data are stated on each page. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries ● No change Stakeholder G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 15 Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 15 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group ● 15~17 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has ● 16~17 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided ● 2 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biannual) ● 2 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ● 87 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen ● 83~86 G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report ● 81~82 Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body ● 58~59 G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest govern◑ 58~59 http://dart.fss.or.kr ance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for eco● 58~59 nomic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and ● 58~59 social topics If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees ● 59 G4-39 Report whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function ● 58 within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria ● 59 Subcommittees are operated under used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members the BOD. Their members are appointed from the BOD members according to their respective experts. G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed ● 59 Audit Committee and Ethics Committee G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organiza● 58~59 tion’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts 83 Appendix ● Fully reported ◑ Partially reported ○ Not reported Ø NA: Not Applicable Indicator G4 Managerial Issues Report Contents Remark Page Note G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of ◑ 58~59 economic, environmental and social topics G4-44 Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance ● 58~59 of economic, environmental and social topics G4-45 Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and ● 58~59 social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management ● 58~59 processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, ● 58~59 and opportunities G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report ● 15~17 and ensures that all material aspects are covered G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body ● 58~59 G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body ● 16 and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives ● 58 Compensations are made based on the BOD’s performance as reported to the General Shareholders’ Meeting. G4-52 Report on the procedures and standards for determining remuneration, including whether remuneration consult○ ants were involved, their independence and relationship with the company. G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of ○ votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of ○ significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual ○ in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Ethics and G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes ● 10~11 Integrity of ethics G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related ● 62~63 to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and ● 62~63 matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Economic Performance Indicators Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 13 Performance EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change ● 38~39 Eco-friendly technologies EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ● 76 Corporate pension (defined benefits type) fund is in place. EC4 Financial assistance received from government ● 36 Hyundai Mobis received government subsidies for national projects. Market Presence EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation ● 76 EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation ○ Indirect Economic EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported ● 42~46, 69~72, Impacts 77, 78 EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ● 13 Procurement EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation ◑ 78 Practices Environmental Performance Indicators Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 53 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ◑ 55 Energy EN3 Energy consumption within the organization ● 53~54 EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization ● 53~54 EN5 Energy intensity ● 53 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ● 54~55 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ● 38~39 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 54, 79 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● 54 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● 54 84 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report 2016 ● Fully reported ◑ Partially reported ○ Not reported Ø NA: Not Applicable Indicator G4 Managerial Issues Report Contents Remark Page Note Biodiversity EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas Ø Unrelated EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity ● 54 EN13 Habitats protected or restored ● 71 EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected Ø Unrelated operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope 1) ● 55 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope 2) ● 54 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope 3) ● 54 EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity ● 53 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions ● 54~55 GHG emissions reduction initiatives EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ● 56 EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions ◑ 56, 79 Effluents and EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 79 Waste EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 79 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ● 74 EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous Ø Unrelated EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by ● 64~66 the organization’s discharges of water and runoff Products and EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services ● 38~39 Services EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category ● 55 Compliance EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environ● 74 mental laws and regulations Transport EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s ◑ 55 operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 71 Contributed a total of KRW 10 billion to Meer Forest between 2012 and 2017 Supplier EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria ◑ 43 Environmental Assessment EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken ◑ 46 Environmental EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechØ Unrelated Grievance anisms Mechanisms Labor Practice and Decent Work Performance Indicators Employment LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ● 76 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant ● 76 locations of operation LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 65 Labor/ManageLA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective ● 76 ment Relations agreements Occupational LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that ○ Health and Safety help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-relat● 76 ed fatalities, by region and by gender LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation ● 67~68 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 67~68 Training and LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category ● 51 Education LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and ◑ 48 assist them in managing career endings LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by em● 75 ployee category Diversity and LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age ● 58~59 Equal group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Opportunity Equal LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation ● 64 remuneration for women and men Supplier LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria ◑ 43 Assessment for Labor Practices LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken ◑ 43 Labor Practices LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Ø Unrelated Mechanisms 85 Appendix ● Fully reported ◑ Partially reported ○ Not reported Ø NA: Not Applicable Indicator G4 Managerial Issues Report Contents Remark Page Note Human Rights Performance Indicators Investment HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses ◑ 46 or that underwent human rights screening HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that ● 63 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimiHR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ● 65 nation Freedom of AssoHR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining ● 65 ciation and Collecmay be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights tive Bargaining Child Labor HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to ● 74 contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Forced of CompulHR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and meas● 74 sory Labor ures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Security Practices HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant ● 63 to operations Indigenous Rights HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken Ø Unrelated Assessment HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments ◑ 62~63, 66 Supplier Human HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria ◑ 46 Rights Assessment HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Ø Unrelated Human Rights HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mech◑ 62, 66 Grievance anisms Mechanisms Society Performance Indicators Local SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development ◑ 69~72 Communities programs SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Ø Unrelated Anti-corruption SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identi◑ 62 fied SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 63 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ● 63 Public Policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Ø Unrelated Prohibited by law Anti-competitive SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes ● 46, 74 Behavior Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and ● 74 regulations Supplier AssessSO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society ◑ 43 ment for Impacts on Society SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken ● 42, 78 Grievance MechaSO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mecha● 74 nisms for Impacts nisms on Society Responsibility Performance Indicators Customer Health PR1 Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for ◑ 32~33, 38~39 and Safety improvement PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety ● 74 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service informa◑ 31 Service Labeling tion and labeling, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service ● 74 information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 31 Marketing PR6 Sale of banned or disputes products ● 74 Communications PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communi● 74 cations, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ● 74 Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use ● 74 of products and services 86 Publishing Dateㅣ June 2016 Publisherㅣ Young Deuk Lim Publisherㅣ HYUNDAI MOBIS Production/Designㅣ LUCRE, Ltd 02. 542. 6725 For additional information and inquiresㅣ HYUNDAI MOBIS CSR Team(02. 2018. 5204/ jesung@mobis.co.kr) The 2016 HYUNDAI MOBIS Sustainability Report was printed on eco-friendly paper certified by the FSC™(Forest Stewardship Council™) using soybean-based ink. HYUNDAI MOBIS CSR Team 203, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 06141 Korea Tel 02.2018.5204 / Fax 02.2173.6715 / E-mail jesung@mobis.co.kr www.mobis.co.kr
