UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 8 October 2016 City Mart Holding Co., Ltd. City Mart Holding Co., Ltd. Head Office No.1-11, Padonmar Stadium (East Wing), Bargayar Street, Sanchaung Township, Yangon, Myanmar. Tel: +95 (01) 508460, +95 (01) 508461 Fax: +95 (01) 512019 Email: enquiry@city.com.mm http://www.cmhl.com.mm CMHL Communication on Progress 2016 Page 1 Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact Dear stakeholders UN Global Compact The Global Compact is a United Nations initiative that encourages companies to embrace universal principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. CMHL is proud to have participated in the Global Compact since 2012. I am pleased to confirm that CMHL reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. This information will be shared with our stakeholders on the Global Compact website (www.unglobalcompact.org) as well as CMHL’s own website (www.cmhl.com.mm). Win Win Tint Chief Executive Officer, CMHL winwintint@city.com.mm 8 October 2016 CMHL Communication on Progress 2016 Page 2 Human rights Assessment, policy and goals We are committed to respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. As a retailer, we have identified three key areas in which we must be aware of the potential for human rights abuses: 1. We employ approximately 8,000 employees and must work to ensure that we protect their human rights 2. As part of the global supply chain, we recognise that we have a responsibility to encourage human rights among our suppliers and the farmers, fishermen and manufacturing workers upon whom our suppliers depend 3. We undertake construction projects for our shopping centres, supermarkets and hypermarkets and people’s land rights may be affected by our developments Regarding our employees, our measures to protect their rights are set out in the next section, “Labour”. In our terms and conditions with suppliers, we require that all our suppliers confirm that they comply with our Code of Conduct which includes our commitments to human rights. We undertake due diligence to test potential suppliers’ commitments to protecting human rights. We will choose not to deal with business partners who we believe are not doing enough to uphold human rights. We are committed to recognising and protecting people’s land and resource rights, particularly the rights of those located near to, or who may be affected by, our operations. Our goals are to (1) protect the human rights of all our employees and people who may be affected by our operations and (2) deal only with business partners who also work to uphold human rights. CMHL Communication on Progress 2016 Page 3 Implementation During the past year, we have been complying with an environmental and social action plan (ESAP) that we prepared in conjunction with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group. A copy of our ESAP is available to view on www.cmhl.com.mm/news-release/. We are taking the following actions to improve our systems and procedures as regards human rights:  We are improving our systems to screen primary suppliers for potential child and forced labour practices and address issues if found, to the extent that the company has commercial leverage over those primary suppliers.  We are refining and improving our life and fire safety systems Measurement of outcomes We measure our human rights compliance by monitoring:  Employee grievances which have been communicated through the channels we have established  Continuing due diligence on suppliers and other business partners regarding their human rights record  Feedback from communities that may be affected by our developments Our CSR body, the City Love & Hope Foundation meets regularly to review the outcomes of its initiatives to improve the lives of people in Myanmar. CMHL Communication on Progress 2016 Page 4 Labour Assessment, policy and goals CMHL employs approximately 8,000 members of staff. Our employees are entitled to all applicable rights under Myanmar law and international standards. In particular, we commit to safeguard the following rights:  We recognise the dignity of all persons and respect their freedom and privacy  All employees shall be entitled to just and favourable remuneration  Employees shall be entitled to fair working hours and holiday entitlement  We allow our employees freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining  We will not discriminate on the grounds of gender, marital status, age, religion, physical ability, sexual orientation, political beliefs or social class in the workplace or when considering promotions  All employees should be allowed to perform their role without being bullied, harassed or threatened  We will not force anyone to work for CMHL and will refuse to deal with business partners that engage in forced or compulsory labour practices We consider these rights to be the minimum standards that we offer our employees. In order to foster a culture where people are proud to work for us, we offer various benefits to all employees, including provision for health care, favourable terms to buy expensive household essentials using hire purchase, a special provident fund and staff discounts. Implementation We have begun a process of advanced implementation of our Code of Conduct. Under this process, we will appoint “Code of Conduct Champions” from each department of our operations to ensure that our company and all employees are living by the principles contained in our Code of Conduct. CMHL Communication on Progress 2016 Page 5 Measurement of outcomes We measure our human rights compliance by monitoring:  Employee grievances which have been communicated through the channels we have established  Employee satisfaction and staff turnover We review our staff benefits on a regular basis to ensure that we continue to offer a fair deal to our employees. CMHL Communication on Progress 2016 Page 6 Environment Assessment, policy and goals Our shopping centres, branches, distribution centres and offices use resources such as electricity, water, diesel and paper. It is our policy to reduce use of these resources as much as possible. We also commit to support environmental causes through the City Love & Hope Foundation. Implementation As part of the IFC ESAP we are undertaking the following actions:  We are setting up a practicable system to screen primary suppliers for potential impacts on biodiversity (primarily in relation to farms located in ecologically sensitive areas which may potentially entail significant conversion of natural or critical habitats), and address issues if found, to the extent that the company has commercial leverage over those primary suppliers.  For properties which discharge directly to surface water, and those that discharge into the sewer system of cities/towns which do not have a municipal waste water treatment plant, we are commissioning tests of waste water levels by a qualified testing entity. We will propose corrective actions (including equipment/facility retrofit as needed, such as ensuring that sewers are sealed and putting in place separate storm water discharge systems where technically and financially feasible) should results exceed World Bank Group Environmental Health and Safety General Guideline levels.  We are using an internationally recognised methodology to annually quantify total greenhouse gas emissions from our operations, and explore technically and financially feasible options for greenhouse gas reduction. We run “no plastic bag days” in our stores on one day every month. The City Love & Hope Foundation works with a Myanmar NGO, Forest Resource Environment Development and Conservation Association (FREDA), to fund and support a tree-planting initiative. CMHL Communication on Progress 2016 Page 7 Measurement of outcomes The City Love & Hope Foundation meets every month to review the outcomes of its environmental initiatives. We measure our electricity, water, diesel and other resource usage to identify where we can make environmental savings. CMHL Communication on Progress 2016 Page 8 Anti-corruption Assessment, policy and goals CMHL takes a zero tolerance approach to corruption or bribery committed by our directors or employees, regardless of their position in our organisation, or business partners. We do not give, promise or offer to give or discuss giving an undue advantage to any person, whether a public official or a private employee, in order to influence that person to act in an improper manner. We have a comprehensive gifts, hospitality and expenses policy to ensure that our employees are not receiving undue advantages. Implementation We are reviewing the due diligence that we perform on our suppliers and business partners to ensure that they also commit to work against corruption Measurement of outcomes Our audit committee regularly reviews company transactions for signs of any irregular payments. Our audit committee also monitors gifts and expenses received by our employees to ensure that they are proper.
