Communication on Progress MB Consulting Lda. MB Consulting has joined the Global Compact initiative in 2013 and has committed to integrate its ten (10) principles into the companies strategies and operations. This report is a annual Communication on Progress (COP ) by MB Consulting after joining the initiative. 02 September 2016 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that MB Consulting Lda reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact ( UN Global Compact) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, We describe our actions that integrate the Global Compact it´s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. MB Consulting is also committed to share this information with its stakeholders using its website, newsletter (“Finanças Públicas”) and other means of communication. Yours sincerely, Mariam Bibi Umarji CEO and Managing Partner Maputo, 02 September 2016 2. About MB Consulting Lda MB Consulting, Lda. Is a fully Mozambican company established in 2010. It specializes in provision of the following: Consultancy, Technical Assisteance, Training, Project Management, Private Sector Development, and Service Support to Civil Society Organizations (CSOs). It also has special expertise in Public Financial Management (PFM) and Strategic Planning The company is composed of a team of young but highly experienced, dynamic consultants who are responsive to the needs of each client/project. The company has been certified by the IFC/Word Bank under the SME-Business Edge initiative as capable of delivering 51 standard training packages in different fields and capable of tailoring them specific needs and requirements. 3. Our Approach to the 10 principles 3.1. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessments, Policies and Goals. Actions up to August 2016: § Reference to statement of support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other international standards renewed for 2016; § Written Company policy on respecting and supporting Human Rights being revised and redrafted to address the country specific situation and immigration related issues; § Specific goals in the area of Human Rights for the upcoming years being discussed and set; § Awareness Raising/Training of employees on Human Rights trough the realization of session for staff on a monthly basis; § Allocation of Responsibilities for the respect and support of the Human Rights within MB Consulting and a focal point has been appointed; 3.2. Labour Principles Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, politics and Goals; Actions to August 2016: § Written company policies to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour child, child labour and employment discrimination exist and are being re-draft to adapt to the current country crisis context; § Written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits exists, are communicated and reinforced in the team; § Consultation with employees and other stakeholders takes place regularly in monthly meetings; § Human Resources policies and procedures supporting the labour principles are used and aligned with country national applicable legislation; § Allocation of responsibilities the protection of labour rights within your organization exists trough a appointed focal point; § External Audit is carried out under the ISO certification; 3.3 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals; Actions up to August 2016: • Assessed the environmental footprint of company and action implemented for reduction including the setting up of a partnership with a non for profit organization for paper recicling; • Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks exists and is used; • Description of specific goals in the area of the environment for the upcoming year is being done and since the company will move to a new office space; • Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes have been done and in preparation of the office move; • Allocation of responsibilities for environmental protection amongst MB Consulting exist and there is a focal point. 3.4 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its form, including extortion and bribery. Actions up to August 2016: § Commitment to be in compliance with all relevant laws, including international and national anti – corruption laws visible through specific clauses in all signed contracts; § Statement of support for international and regional legal frameworks; § Policy and anti – corruption regarding business partners with a verification mechanism in place; § Communication channels and follow-up mechanisms for reporting concerns and seeking advices established and in use in the company; § Internal checks and balances to ensure consistency with the anti – corruption commitment exist and are used; 4 Measurement of Outcomes The enforcement of activities contributing to the compliance of the 10 principles is challenging and we continue to develop efforts to be better in our compliance and as our team grows. Our company is also implementing a social corporate responsibility (CSR) programme which is distinctive from the general CSR programs. Ours consist of providing technical support to small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) free of charge and the programme is implemented in partnership with government´s Institute for Promotion of SMEs (IPEME).
