SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 01 About Alliance arkitekter 02 About Global Compact 03 The Principles 04 Statement of Continued Support 05 Living the principles 06 Achievements in the report period 07 Sustainable design in our projects 08 Our Goals for the next year The scope of our work spans from case studies CURIOUS, RESPONSIBLE and CHALLENGING. and area planning to the development and In the spring of 2007, as the first architectural completion of building projects. Our projects office in Norway, we became members of the range from detailing a 50 m² boat house UN’s Global Compact, where members commit 01 to developing 470 000 m² area plans. We to aligning their operations with ten principles About primarily work with new construction, but are concerning environment, anti-corruption, human also involved in renovation, restoring and rights and labour. extensions to existing structures. The majority Alliance arkitekter of our commissions consist of residential and commercial developments. We do developement OUR STATED VISION: design from concecept to completion. WE MAKE Our studio is organized as a non-hierarchical/ ARCHITECTURE Alliance arkitekter AS is a Norwegian architectural horizontal structure and we continuously seek FOR A BETTER WORLD to collaborate with groups and individuals studio established in June 2005, with offices both in from other disciplines. We believe that such Oslo and Stavanger. The studio collaborates with collaboration contributes to a positive synergy Our involvement so far is mainly concerned various offices and disciplines, and we frequently effect as well as add inspiration and learning to with environmental sustainability and labour the work processes, resulting in creative methods standards. Furthermore, we promote the role of participate in architectural competitions. and original results. We carefully assemble architecture as a trigger in encouraging the public teams with the necessary requested experience to participate on environmental and social issues. in combination with innovative strategies. This As architects we aspire to encourage the discourse represents the energy and an attitude that on our current and future urban development, inspire us in our daily work. We also have a set of where the interests of private developers may values that we strive to implement in all we do: diverge from the needs of the society. Restaurant Onda, Aker brygge in Oslo / Photo by Terje Skåre 02 The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy Compact. This ever-increasing understanding is About initiative for businesses committed to aligning reflected in the Global Compact’s rapid growth. their operations and strategies with ten universally With over 12.000 corporate participants and accepted principles on human rights, labour, other stakeholders from over 145 countries, it Global compact environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, is the largest voluntary corporate responsibility business, as a primary driver of globalization, initiative in the world. can help markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. The Global Compact is a practical framework for the development, implementation, and As social, political and economic issues — at disclosure of sustainability policies and practices. home or in other regions — increasingly affect Offering participants a wide range of work business, many companies recognize the need streams, management tools and resources, to collaborate and partner with governments, the framework is designed to help advance civil society, labour and NGO’s like the UN Global sustainable business models and markets. “Due to the type and small size of our business, our biggest impact is via our clients, various connections to collaborators and the media. We are committed to raise awareness around Global Compact and the ten principles, and pro-actively encourage them to take actions” Founder & Creative Director Harald M. Gjøvaag 03 The Principles ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should work against Alliance arkitekter is committed to work against Principle 6: Businesses should support Alliance arkitekter is committed to the protection corruption in all its forms, corruption in all its forms. and respect the protection of of international human rights within our sphere including extortion and bribery. internationally proclaimed of influence. human rights. Principle 7: Make sure that they are not Alliance arkitekter fulfils all its responsibilities complicit in human rights abuses according to Norwegian law, including implementing LABOUR a health and safety management system. The company holds a third party certification as a Principle 2: Businesses should uphold the Alliance arkitekter is committed to protect “Sustainability lighthouse” (Miljøfyrtårn), with freedom of association and the labour rights, including freedom of association, obligations on healthand safety management effective recognition of the right to abolition of forcedand child labour, and the beyond the legislative minimum. Progress is collective bargaining. elimination of any type of discrimination. reported annually since 2012. Principle 3: The elimination of all forms of Alliance arkitekter fulfils all its responsibilities ENVIRONMENT forced and compulsory labour. according to Norwegian law. Beyond the legislative demand, Alliance arkitekter has Principle 8: Businesses should support a Alliance arkitekter is committed to the promotion Principle 4: The effective abolition of child appointed employee representatives in both precautionary approach to of greater environmental responsibility and labour. office locations as council and neutral support environmental challenges. precautionary approaches to environmental for employees on issues regarding salary challenges in our sphere of influence. Principle 5: The elimination of discrimination negotiation and contractual dispute. Principle 9: Undertake initiatives to promote in respect of employment and greater environmental responsibility. We seek to involve users and stakeholders at occupation. Alliance arkitekter sees great value in geographical an early project stage. We design for a healthy and ethnic diversity among its work force. Principle 10: Encourage the development living-, workingand social environment, and and diffusion of environmentally believe this is key to a sustainable society. friendly technologies. We make an effort to reduce our resourceand energy use in our running of the office and the project development. We aim to achieve best practice for our projects through the use of international building and area planning certification systems, such as BREEAM, and recognized national standards like the passive house principle. Finse Mountain Lodge, Norway / Photo by Alliance arkitekter Architecture, as a part of the building industry, is knowledge on sustainable design, offering a the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions broader range of services to our clients. This has led worldwide. Every time we design a building, to a more environmentally sound project portfolio. we project its energy consumption and its greenhouse gas footprint for the next 50-100 We have implemented different internal measures years. This emphasizes why the building industry to improve our social impact. Furthermore, we and architecture is so critical, and why our have attended different network meetings and 04 membership in The Global Compact is a vital seminars on sustainable design. We participate and relevant tool for our practice. in the public debate concerning architect’s social Statement of responsibility and role in society and strive for an Since the office was launched in June 2005, we innovative architecture. have been focusing on how to utilize the ten continued support principles within our sphere of influence and how to encourage other companies, partners and collaborators to act likewise. After nine years of We believe that the social and environmental components are crucial in the development of long term profits and competitive advantages, Global Compact activities, it’s clear to us that and we plan to continue and further develop our even a small architectural office can make a commitment to the Global Compact principles. considerable contribution in our common efforts to improve the world. Additionally we continue to seek ways to develop our work and proficiency through workshops, During the last few years, our most successful courses, a wide range of interdisciplinary strategy towards the principles has been through collaborations, study trips, literature as well as changing our client’s attitude on environmental the constant exchange of ideas and experience. design. Parallel to this, we have increased our Oslo, May 2016 Harald Martin Gjøvaag Founder & Creative Director It is now more than nine years since we took on for the first eight years of practice, securing a board The Global Compact in our office. Since fair salary development in the initial years of the beginning, we have had a rapid growth in practice, regardless of gender, parental leave 05 both project volume and staff, including setting or negotiation skills. Living the up a second office in Stavanger. Following the G.C. principles, we have put a lot of effort into The office has done a competence mapping of developing both a good work place and great the staff to ensure that the competence at hand is principles projects. This has required both a process of used correctly. We also seek to develop new areas defining and reaching for our goals, and to of expertise through education and courses, and develop a framework of implementation. by encouraging staff to enter the public arena through debates, lectures, and teaching. In terms Since the start up, the office has regularly used of sustainable design, we are committed to raise surveys to map staff priorities for the resources at the bar on both the types and number of projects As architects we have a remarkable opportunity to influence hand. Now that we have settled in as a medium with this approach, and in terms of developing the building industry in areas considering design, methods size company with some years’ experience, we skills in our management framework. and materials. We take advantage of this opportunity as have managed to put more of the priorities of the staff into life, such as a shorter workweek The office has chosen BREEAM as the preferred often as we can. and a better pension scheme. In addition, we tool for environmental assessment in planning have put extra effort into health and safety and building projects. We also work with issues such as optimizing the workspace and other environmental standards such as the providing a good health insurance for the staff. passive house standard or area specific The office has developed a fixed salary system sustainable programs. Housing development, Støperigaten 25 in Stavanger / Photo by Tove Laluten HUMAN RIGHTS IN-HOUSE ANTI-CORRUPTION IN-HOUSE Goal Goal Establish a partnership relation for a specific Continue with a transparent economy and project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO working company administration open to all employees. with human rights. Result Result All staff has open access to our administrative We have not yet reached our goal, and material not underlying any pledge of continue to pursue the issue in our efforts for the confidentiality. The office economy and current year. strategies are shared with the staff on a regular 06 basis as part of office philosophy to have everyone on board to tackle opportunities and Achievements in HUMAN RIGHTS IN BUILDING PROJECTS challenges. the report period Goal Recommend materials where human rights are ANTI-CORRUPTION IN BUILDING PROJECTS considered in the producing process. Goal Continue to promote the principles by Result implementing our ethical standard in contracts, The company continues to disseminate in dialogue with our project groups and through In 2015 we set specific goals for the principles for the knowledge on sustainable and responsibly our publications and social media activities. next year. Our goals and achievements are described sourced materials within its staff, and actively suggest such material alternatives in our Result in the following. projects, including awareness on recognized We have achieved our goal for 2015 and will material certification. pursue this goal further for the next report period. LABOUR IN-HOUSE LABOUR IN BUILDING PROJECTS ENVIRONMENT IN-HOUSE Goal Goal Goal Result Measure the quality of the indoor climate Define at least one innovation factor in each project Decrease the number of flights per year. We aim We have not managed to reduce the amount regarding oxygen levels. Also, explore the to promote learning and quality awareness. to reduce our flights from 73 to 63. of waste significantly, mainly due to our major possibility of green plants in the office. cleanup this year, where a larger amount of Result Result paper was sent to recycling. We uphold this goal Result We have several projects where we have We failed to reach this goal, with 86 flights of for the next period. We have undertaken measurements of the managed to implement innovation/learning regular office business last year plus a study indoor air quality, with results of low humidity factors, but can improve both on the percentage trip of 35 flights extraordinarily. We continue to Goal and high dust levels. Following this, we have of projects and on making these factors evident pursue low flight numbers through our policies Continue to use less electricity in the office by initiated a comprehensive office clean-up for to the entire staff and to our clients. We uphold of staffing projects from the nearest office taking actions such as: using the stairs instead moving archive material to a different location, this goal for the next period. department, using video conferences and of the elevator, adjusting lights and heat extra focus on areas hard to reach during choosing other transport modes where feasible. according to climate, and turn off computers regular cleaning and improving our routines at the end of the day. We will also find a more for clean desk particularly before regular Goal energy efficient printer. cleaning. Through these measurements the Make sure that most of our purchases are ecoair quality has improved significantly. We also labelled, organic or Fairtrade products. Result invested in green plants that improve the air We have followed our goal, and our in-office quality, and intend to increase the number Result electricity use has gone slightly down, but we during the next report period. We continue to choose sustainable products have been unable to get our concrete measures where available and to inquire such alternatives for district heating use, the building doesn’t have Goal where not, for future purchases. energy metering for each unit. A new and more Have presentations of both ongoing and energy efficient printer was provided for the finished projects to inspire and share knowledge Goal office. We have influenced the house owner to between co-workers Reduce the amount of waste by 10 %. We will get energy certification for the ventilation facility especially stress the importance of updating and to improve airtightness of our windows. The Result the calendar to make sure we order the correct owner also has gone through a list of possible We have had some presentations through the amount of lunch. energy savings, hopefully giving improvements year, but see that we can improve further on this both in the electricity use and concerning district issue. We uphold this goal for the next period. heating. We uphold this goal for the next period. ENVIRONMENT IN BUILDING PROJECTS “People must be in the sentre of all urban Goal Result development” Increase our focus on sustainable development For the report period we have had an overweight in area planningand building projects. of planning projects and early stage projects. Founder & Creative Director Harald M. Gjøvaag We have therefore had focus on material as leader of the council regarding Fornebu Result consumption, recycling and life span issues, area outside Oslo. Last year we worked out a number of area and mass handling in large scale planning. We plan schemes and building projects with a uphold this goal for the next period. strong sustainable profile. We also continue to promote sustainable development in a number of public arenas and to our clients. We now have EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION our first BREEAM Communities urban planning Goal project on its way, and several other plans with Participate on at least three events on strong sustainable monitoring plans as part architectural issues related to the principles, and of the development. We continue to promote in particular on environmental sustainability. sustainable materials and energy efficient solutions where possible. We uphold this goal for Result the next period. We have reached this goal, with participation on the Global Compact network meeting, Goal Oslo Urban arena, Oslo BOBY plus other Always offer BREEAM certification to our projects. smaller events. Result We have offered BREEAM certification to a large number of projects, but not to all. We uphold this goal for the next period. Goal Reduce the amount of waste on construction site by challenging the suppliers and contractors when it comes to material consumption and recycling. Also, consider recycling for the future when choosing materials. In-fill at Nordre gate, Grünerløkka Oslo / Illustration by Alliance arkitekter 07 Sustainable design A major part of our projects consists of area planning, master plans and feasibility studies that lay down the framework for future For our building projects we have a growing portfolio where sustainable issues have been implemented. The majority of projects with in our projects buildings. Getting the regulatory framework right is key to optimizing the future buildings sustainable issues are in the range of offices, schools, housing and industry. We strive towards in terms of sustainable issues. We see a need a broader range of sustainable projects and for a broader and more holistic approach issues and for more ambitious goals. to sustainable planning that includes management of the sustainable issues In the following is a short introduction to through the process. For this reason, we some of our planning and building projects have started to use BREEAM Commmunities and how we have implemented the Global as a tool in several of our planning projects. Compact principles in the work. HARBOUR AREA A4 Development plan for Bjørvika, Oslo HAV Eiendom AS is developing the harbour area at Bjørvika in Oslo planning an office building for long-term rental. They aim to realize a plan which will transform the area from just being a left over space after the E18 road ramp to be a well-established part of the city. The office building will be very modern and environmental friendly, with functions for the public. An urban public area will also be situated above the submerged tunnel ramp. HAV Eiendom AS looks upon this task as a necessary city repair which will ensure the premises for a sustainable and contemporary settlement within the area. Illustration by Alliance arkitekter TU PRIMARY SCHOOL A passive house star The primary school is shaped like a star, where the arms meet in an open common area connected to the canteen and library. One wing is lowered half a floor to reflect the sloping terrain, and provide the possibility for the stairs outside to flow through the building and form an amphitheatre on the inside. This creates a strong contact between inside and outside. Tu School is planned as a passive house building and houses a total of 350 pupils. Completed january 2015. Photo by Terje Skåre SAKKESTAD GARDEN VILLAGE New consept outside of Haugesund Enter Eiendom AS have developed in cooperation with Haugesund municipality a new area plan for Sakkestad focusing on residential buildings. Today Sakkestad is an open-air landscape 3-4 km south of Haugesund center with good public transportations. In the future, there will be a pedestrianized residential area with up to 300 homes of varying sizes, types and shapes. The concept of the garden village brings entirely new qualities and living environments to Haugesund commune. Alliance arkitekter have created the concept, the illustration project and the design manual for the outdoor area. Together with Plan Vest the office have been responsible for parts of the impact assessment and the elaboration of plans and regulations. The area plan was unanimously approved June 10, 2015. Illustration by Alliance arkitekter 2020-01 BREEAM excellent 2020-01 is the first building of a larger area transformation from industry to mixed use housing and commerce. The building is close to completion and it’s asbuilt BREEAM certification. The goal and the preliminary design phase certificate level is BREEAM Excellent. Sustainable issues given particular attention are energy use, materials, ecological impact, indoor climate, transport, pollution and sustainable project management. Photo by Alliance arkitekter 2020PARK PLAN Ten minute city 2020park on Forus Stavanger seeks to become the most significant urban borough in the region through the development of an all-embracing area that provides good physical frames for living, working, recreation, local shopping and services. The work is planned in phases and the estimated completion time is 20-30 years. The area will contain roughly 10 000 modern office workspaces, 500 homes plus a range of shops, cafés and other services. This strategy is based in the principles of the “ten minute city”, where as many people as possible should be able to manage their everyday needs within as small area. This reduces the impact of transport on the environment and local infrastructure. The project is part of the NGBC pilot consortium adaptation of BREEAM Communities to Norwegian context, and aims at a high certification level. Illustration by Alliance arkitekter SCANA JØRPELAND A small town outside Stavanger A feasibility study, as an input to the town plan, regarding the area’s development potential for the future, including the expansion of Jørpeland town center. In 2019, the Ryfast tunnel from Stavanger will open; this will most likely cause an increased demand for housing in Jørpeland as the village then becomes a central suburb to Stavanger. In this perspective, Jørpeland can have a successful development as small town, based on its inherent attractive qualities; it is a small town with shops, kindergarten and schools that covers daily needs within close proximity, situated in a spectacular landscape. Our feasibility study shows how Jørpeland can reconnect with the bay, while establishing a fish market, a city bath, sailing club, cultural center and 600 new homes. Illustration by Alliance arkitekter KDP STAVANGER Downtown Stavanger Alliance arkitekter was invited by Stavanger to author a study for the revision of the municipal plan, applicable to key parts of Stavanger south city center. Each area was assessed for its existing character and potential for densification, focusing on short distances between jobs and housing, in the context of a sustainable city development. The study emphasizes on infrastructure and restructuring for a more efficient crowd transportation, as well as protection of the built environment, in relation to new attractive urban spaces and specific infill principles, including suggestions for new features and utilization of height. After the initial study, we were hired as a consultant for further feasibility studies in connection with the on-going political process. This work forms the basis of the plan details, EIA and provisions for the planning map. Illustration by Alliance arkitekter MØLLEGÅRDEN The gateway to Sandnes centre A revitalizing concept design for Møllegården, which is situated in central Sandnes, and consists of 4 apartment buildings with varied building heights, as well as a high rise building. The new apartment buildings, together with existing buildings, form a consecutive quarter with a large green communal garden. Along Jærveien, new building volumes are designed with attention to creating high quality outdoor spaces and attractive entrance zones to homes and business. The location of the high-rise will contribute to the establishment of an urban square, which along Jærveien becomes a new attractive venue with al fresco dining and drinking, surrounded by water surfaces and green spaces. The ground floor, both in the high rise and the apartment buildings, are planned with high ceilings and transparent facades along the sidewalk, which will contribute to an active and attractive street environment. Illustration by Alliance arkitekter HUMAN RIGHTS In-house Establish a partnership relation for a specific the knowledge obtained within the office, and project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO where feasible, with our clients and the public. working with human rights. In building projects ENVIRONMENT Recommend materials where human rights are In-house considered in the producing process. Decrease the number of flights per year. We aim 08 to reduce our flights with 10% and to increase the number of video conferences or alternative Goals for ANTI-CORRUPTION In-house communication by 10 %. the next report Continue with a transparent economy and Make sure that most of our purchases are ecocompany administration open to all employees. labelled, organic or Fairtrade products. In building projects Reduce the amount of waste by 10 %. We focus Continue to promote the principles by on reducing unnecessary printouts, ordering the implementing our ethical standard in contracts, correct amount of lunch. in dialogue with our project groups and through In order to track our progress on promoting the ten our publications and social media activities. Continue to use less electricity in the office by principles, we have set specific goals for the coming taking actions such as: influencing the house owner management on standard temperature report period. LABOUR levels, avoiding unnecessary use of the elevator, In-house adjusting lights and heat according to climate, Measure the quality of the indoor climate and turn off computers and other equipment at regarding dust, humidity and oxygen levels. the end of the day. Also, increase the number of green plants in the office. In building projects Increase our focus and mapping of results on Have presentations of both ongoing and sustainable development in area planningand finished projects to inspire and share knowledge building projects. between co-workers. Always offer BREEAM certification to our projects. In building projects Define at least one innovation factor in each project Reduce the amount of waste on construction to promote learning and quality awareness. Share site by challenging the suppliers and contractors when it comes to material consumption and recycling. Also, consider recycling for the future when choosing materials. Put extra focus on the Global Compact 2016 areas of special attention relevant to our industry: Accelerating transport emissions • flexible mobility • crowd transport • low transport cities A generation wasted • futurepreneurs • the digital labour market • closing the skills gap Global food crisis • New diets • Smart farming This Communication of progress has • Reduce food waste been discussed, reviewed and approved by our board and all our employees. EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION This report is published on the United Nations Global Compact website Participate on at least four events on architectural issues related to the principles, and in particular WWW.UNGLOBALCOMPACT.ORG on environmental sustainability. and our own website WWW.ALLARK.NO KRISTIAN AUGUSTS GATE 13, 0164 OSLO +47 22 36 40 44, post@allark.no RYFYLKEGATA 22, 4014 STAVANGER +47 45 03 62 18, www.allark.no
