STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Malmö, July 2016 Wihlborgs will in 2016 and 2017 continue to embrace, support and enact the ten principles in Global Compact, within our sphere of influence. This commitment also implies that we shall continuously evaluate the ten principles with regard to our related conduct and performance. Wihlborgs operates within two countries Sweden and Denmark and we believe it is important that we carry out all parts of our business activities in a sustainable and ethical manner. We also wish to contribute to a long-term approach vis-a-vis our employees, partners, suppliers, customers, and society in general. In April 2016 we could proudly present our fifth Sustainability Report, GRI G4 Core Level. The report has been assured by Deloitte. Our Sustainability report includes our seventh Communication on Progress. On page 35 in the report you can take part of the cross table for Global Compact and GRI. We have been reporting our Communication on Progress since 2010 and the first two years (2010 and 2011) we published two independent Communication on Progress. Since 2012 we have been reporting our sustainability work in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and since then our Communication on progress has been included and integrated in the yearly report. During 2015 and 2016 we have been members in several networks, such as; WSP Sustainable Biz, Malmö Fair trade City, CSR Skåne and in the chamber of commerce’s´ green network discussing sustainable development. Our aim is to obtain and share knowledge, experience and tools to work with social and community responsibility. We recognize that a key requirement for participating in the Global Compact is the annual submissions of a Communication on Progress which describes our company´s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore annually continue to report on progress according to the Global Compact COP policy. Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Anders Jarl, CEO
