INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Communication on Progress 2016 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LIMITED Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LIMITED December 9, 2016 Prepared by: Muhammad Arshad Human Resources and CSR department 1 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Communication on Progress INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LIMITED Human Rights Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Commitment: Indus Motor Company always respects and honors the human rights of people involved in its operations. Through its social responsibility program, “Concern Beyond Cars”, it also supports the rights to education, health care and basic facilities of the community. SAFETY We recognize our responsibility for managing the safety, health and welfare of all our employees, contractors and visitors and are committed to ensuring a safe and healthy related and illnesses. Since safety and health risks are inherently associated with manufacturing operations, we take a holistic approach towards all aspects of safety management, from increasing employee’s safety sense through hazard identification and near-miss reporting to communicating and implementing safety management systems. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 No significant changes were made to existing policies, though as a result of the review we improved our processes for clarity, control and minimizing risk. Our approach to health and safety also reflects the principles of the Toyota Production System (TPS) which aims to eliminate waste and the potential for hazards, in addition to promoting consistency. Members of the manufacturing team are involved in quality circles, and participate in a safety suggestion scheme involving identifying areas requiring ongoing focus to help stimulate Kaizen. A manufacturing safety dojo in the training center assists the company to establish and maintain the systems necessary for compliance and support safety training, including modules on risk assessment, occupational health and safety law, accident investigation and job safety analysis. 2 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Safe Working Condition: Our Safety philosophy strives to make Safe Working practices a part of life at work and outside by inculcating habits that develops safety mindset. By creating systems and processes that are difficult to bypass, we foster an environment where safety is practiced actively and passively. Our Safety Policy clearly dictates that Safety is Everyone’s responsibility Al accidents are preventable All employees are empowered to stop and unsafe job or act No task is so important that risks of injury to people is justified At Indus Motor Company limited safety always takes precedence over production and profits. At IMC, employee safety is assured across the board at all functions and in all departments. Safety assurance is in form of safe practices that are inculcated in all employees. Furthermore, people working in areas with vulnerability are provided the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) ranging from uniforms, to safety shoes and helmets. Depending upon their job nature. Being a Toyota affiliate, we endeavor to follow Toyota Motor Corporation (TMC) Global Safety Standards and are subject to their audit. We implement the Japanese 5S concept which stands for Sifting, Sorting, Sweeping, Spick/Span and Supreme Attitude. These five elements mainly focus on improving cleanliness and working condition. Top Management conducts 5S-Walks of the plant and work places and audits against standard at regular intervals. 5S competitions are also held to motivate and reward superior 5S performance among departments We strictly follow the safety guidelines as per Plant Management Requirement (PMR) under KI-J program of our principal, Toyota Motor Corporation, Japan (TMC). In the area of safety, the KI-J philosophy of TMC is to strive for preventing fatal or near fatal accidents. KI-J stands for “Kaizen Initiatives through Jiritsuka Self Reliance”. Since the year 2014, the concept of Safety DOJO Simulation Training was introduced to give the feeling of potential hazards that employees may face in plant and office environments. The Dojo has been upgraded and additional Safety training facilities have been included such as working at height. In 2016, January and June were dedicated as Safety & Environment months to promote collaborative efforts for safer workplace and creating collective environmental awareness respectively. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 We undertake periodic scheduled checkups of fire extinguishers, fire alarms, sprinkles, etc. A joint platform has been established within the Toyota network in which every assembly plant shares safety examples and accidents to take proactive measures for prevention. All IMC employees are insured while Air traveling whether nationally or internationally. IMC’s SHE (Safety Health and Environment) activities are part of new employee orientation and ATM's (Apprentice Team Member) classroom training modules. Fire drill practices to test fire alarm systems, fire reporting evacuation procedures under simulated emergency conditions are carried out on routine basis, including workplaces emergency plan consisting of staff actions, evacuation plans and arrangements for contacting the fire brigade. All workforce, serving in plant are provided Safety Shoes as PPE 3 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD All IMC workers are encouraged to walk on defined Walk-Ways with Safety Call-Points on each intersection. Talking on cell phones whilst walking is strictly forbidden To promote Wellness, campaigns discouraging use of chewing tobacco, beetle leaves and cigarette smoking were launched earlier. Complete ban on consumption of Beetle leaves and other chewable addictions has been enforced and from employee recruitment and selection to his daily routines, random checking is carried out to ensure adherence. Employee Transport Safety Pick & drop facility is accorded to all employees. Our contractors’ drivers, much like other employees, have attended Safety trainings and additionally, they attend Driving Courses. Every staff Van has an assigned coordinator who monitors and reports any unsafe driving practices, travel route issues, vehicle or employee complaints regarding transport. All vehicles are equipped with Fire Extinguishers and First Aid Box Frequent vehicle maintenance and fitness checks are carried out Wearing seat belt is mandatory for company transport drivers Use of mobile phones is prohibited while driving and walking on Walk-way. Road Safety awareness and compliance session for Company's drivers is being held at regular interval Internal Company Road Safety branding was undertaken for awareness creation First Aid and safety training sessions are held for drivers and Vehicle Coordinators Customer Vehicle Safety We are committed to world-class safety to protect the lives of customers who choose Toyota vehicles and to let them feel good about driving. Active safety of vehicles starts from the very design of the vehicles. All vehicles Manufactured and distributed by IMC are designed on Global Outstanding Assessment (GOA) standard of Toyota, that incorporated ergonomic and safety in design aspects of the vehicles. All vehicles also contain seatbelts to provide primary safety to the driver. All vehicles produced and distributed by IMC have Whiplash injury lessening (WIL) Seats with headrests designed to cushion head in case of impact to avoid whiplash injury. In line with global vehicle recalls, 6 Special Service campaigns were held during 2015-2016. SOPs have been developed to ensure Shipping Quality Audits (SQA) at plant, proper Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 transportation and vehicle delivery inspections at dealerships. All vehicles are insured during transit to dealership network. Road Safety Campaigns: Our Company has a CSR slogan, Concern Beyond Cars , and as a good corporate citizen, we have undertaken several initiatives on Road Safety as mentioned in our website. These initiatives involve different stakeholders in various sectors, including government, private organizations, NGOs, Corporates, Health and Educational institutions, Traffic Engineering and Law Enforcement agencies. 4 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD In 2012, a research project named “Toyota–Research on Traffic Congestion” (T-RTC) was initiated in collaboration with NED University of Engineering & Technology, Karachi a leading engineering institution in Pakistan with an objective to determine the cost of congestion and to highlight to relevant authorities to take corrective measures The findings of this research project were shared with concerned authorities that helped to quantify the problem objectively Construction and up gradation of the Roads identified in our research as high congestion areas is still in progress which has provided already provided major relief to the traffic. However more work is currently under progress and we are constantly engaging with stakeholders to expedite the process. HEALTH Healthy Environment for Employees: Our Company has 'Green Areas' where we always plant trees. Every year new trees are planted in the deserted area around the plant. So far, more than 7100 trees have been planted. We provide excellent working conditions in line with ISO 14001. Spot coolers are installed to improve air circulation and lower temperature on production line for comfortable working conditions. A Committee has been formed to regularly monitor and improve IMC canteen facilities. Ensured periodical medical test/vaccination of canteen staff Further expansion and renovation of IMC canteen was carried out in 2016 to improve environment and quality of food, improving timeliness and availability of food with more emphasis on self-service to eliminate waiting times for diners at the cafeteria Renovation of Corporate Building was completed in 2016 as per modern office atmosphere and comforts Inside the plant, Rest areas are developed for technical workers where tea and refreshments are served to people for keeping them refreshed. IMC ensures compliance to Pakistan NEQS (National Environmental Quality Standard). Basic Health and Education Facilities: Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 Our company follows the Basic Health Factory Act, which includes factory environment, hygiene, employee personal hygiene, vaccination, emergency medical assistance, employee hygiene cards and periodic medical checkups. In 2015-16, the annual Hepatitis-B Vaccination program was undertaken for 375 newly recruited ATMs and Team Members We have a common cafeteria for all employees where nutritious food is served at subsidized rates. Distribution of milk, bread, juices and high energy foods are provided to production workers as per operational best practices during break times and lunch time. Drinking water is filtered, cleaned and regularly tested to ensure fitness for human consumption. 5 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD For any health emergency, employees are rushed to hospital for checkup and first-aid service One equipped ambulance is kept standby 24/7 Hospitalization insurance and group life insurance coverage are provided to all employees. Employees Financial Assistance Committee meets at least once a month to provide financial assistance to employees and their families for emerging illnesses or accidents, not covered by insurance or hospitalizations coverage as well as educational expenses, etc. Under the Social Security Ordinance and Education CESS we make contributions to institutions for educational assistance to the children of permanent workers. We contribute to EOBI (Employees Old Age Benefit Institutions) for each employee. There is IMC Scholarship Scheme for staff children upto higher education as well as single female parent. INDISTRIAL RELATIONS AND EMPLOYEES Fair Investigation Procedures: The Company follows the Industrial and Commercial Employment (Standing Orders) Ordinance 1968, which contains the procedures for disciplinary actions against misconduct. Investigations and disciplinary actions at Indus protect employees' rights; ensure fair treatment and the opportunity to be heard. Suggestion boxes are placed at prominent locations for employees to provide feedback Compliances of Anti Sexual Harassment Act 2010 for women at workplace is ensured Whistle Blowing Policy was designed in June’12 that enables directors, officers and employees including temporary staff to provide an opportunity to raise complaints internally on irregular practice, if any, without any repercussion or fear Quality of life and entertainment actions for the internal public: Every year, Indus Family Day is held where employees and their families participate The company sponsors Hajj (pilgrimage) package to 4 Team Members annually through balloting. In 2016, Four team members were selected through balloting for Hajj sponsorship Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 IMC encourages sports and healthy activities, like Inter Department Cricket Tournament, in which every department participates. IMC also has an official Cricket Team, which takes part in various tournaments. Starting from July 2016, birthday for every employees are being celebrated at an internal ceremony. A birthday Cake, a personalized card signed by the Top Management and a Tea party is hosted from the CEO. These birthdays are celebrated twice a month, once in the first half and another in the second half of every month. More than 240 people’s birthdays are celebrated each month on an average. All departments are allocated an annual entertainment budget for staff welfare and entertainment. Every department at IMC regularly holds departmental picnics to increase motivation and for team building. LFA (Leave Fare Assistance) for all employees is also provided. 6 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Employees Survey Surveys of Staff Canteen and Company Transport are regularly done. Results of the survey are used to make positive improvements in the standard and quality of service. IMC conducts morale survey as per TMC Global Employee Morale Survey (conducted once in two years and results are shared and countermeasures adopted. Periodic sessions are held with new employee groups to get feedback and to improve orientation process Preventing forcible displacement of individuals There has been no forcible displacement case reported in 2016 Company follows the prescribed Labor Laws Employee Achievement Recognition In 2016, total 88 employees qualified for Best Attendance Award with 100% attendance during the year. In addition, 18 employees also qualified for CEO's Best Attendance Award 2016 with 100% attendance during the last three years. Attendance incentives (monetary benefits) are also offered which have led to significant increase in attendance. Long Service Award is given to the employees in appreciation of 15 year working relationship with the company. In 2016, 26 members were given 15 year award and another 11 people received the 25 year service award. Special Farewell parties for retiring employees are held. Recognition and mention of outstanding employees who have contributed at various milestones. Scholarship awarded to children of single parenting female employees Awarding “Man-of-the-Month” to outstanding performer at Shop Floors (7 departments) Creative Suggestions received from employees and awarded, and accordingly implemented Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 at respective areas. In 2016, total 16,755 Creative Suggestions were received. Employment Policy for disabled people Alternate job assignments are given to employees who are handicapped or who suffer service disabilities. No discrimination is made if job can be performed by disabled person COMMUNITY AND EXTERNAL PUBLIC Protect economic livelihood of communities: 7 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Wherever we do business, we actively promote and engage, both individually and with partners, in social contribution activities that help strengthen communities and contribute to enrichment of society. We are helping the local community by providing free meals of good quality (Chicken Biryani) once a week to economically marginalized people in the neighboring villages, and during the year, around 20,000 people benefited through this activity. During the holy month of Ramazan, we provide free ration items to above 300 families Three medical camps at different allocated locations are held weekly that provide treatment with free medical supplies and advisory. Last year, more than 35,000 patients were treated. In order to promote education in neighboring areas, IMC provides 221 scholarships to deserving students under its “Toyota-Goth Education Program” with the prime objective of providing education to underprivileged and disadvantaged communities. The word “Goth” is taken from Sindhi language, which means “Village”. , Supplier/Contractor pre-qualification requirement regarding human rights We ensure that our supplier or contractor pass the pre-qualification criteria to be a business partner with IMC. Every contractor is advised to meet IMC's and SHE (Safety, Health &Environment) requirements Principles of transparency, fairness and equal opportunity for qualified and capable suppliers and contractors are followed. Use of Security services to protect operations standards for use of force are respected SOP with communication and command levels have been established to meet emergencies and security threats Travel Advisory is issued to all members and visitors to IMC Safety handouts for Safe Traveling are provided to foreign travelers and visitors to IMC. Liaison with Overseas Investors Chamber of Commerce and Industries (OICCI) for an update regarding Security Situation of the City. Regular visits of Local Police personnel on Motor cycles during day/night around IMC to watch for any abnormal activity. Complete manning of IMC premises 24 hours, through Security Towers/Security Guards for Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 early warning. CCTV installed and being monitored for security/surveillance Conscious security awareness by evolving standard operating procedures for scaling up from routine functioning to ALERT and HIGH ALERT status. Car Parking area for Staff and Visitors in IMC is properly marked and sign boards installed In the event of Traffic Jam or any untoward situation, employees travelling between home to work been prompted quickly through SMS/Email guiding for alternate routes 8 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Human Rights Principle 2 Business to make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment: Indus Motor Company is fully committed to avoiding complicity with human rights abuse in all areas of its operations. ETHICS Our Vision and Values aspire the company to be the Most Respected and as a Good Corporate Citizen. The company expects its employees to uphold and enhance the reputation of the business by: Maintaining a high level of integrity in all business relationships, both inside and outside the Company. Fostering the highest standards of conduct and competence amongst those for whom they are responsible. Ensuring transparency in business transactions, and rejecting any business practice which might be deemed to be improper. Promoting fair business practices and ensuring compliance with regulatory and legal requirements. The Company’s Statement of Ethics asks employees to maintain an environment that is free from harassment and in which all employees are equally respected. This means any action that creates a hostile or offensive work environment, e.g. sexual harassment and any disparaging comments based on gender, religion and race or ethnicity, are prohibited. Statement of Ethics is signed by each employee. Complaint tracking is done to ensure intervention and countermeasures. Compliance with Standing (Order) Ordinance 1968. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 We believe in open environment and respect for people. Every year the Code of Ethics is reviewed for any upgrade. Violations of Code of Ethics are viewed seriously and have resulted in disciplinary action and in some cases led to termination of service. Code of Conduct on Sexual Harassment and Harassment at work is in place 9 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD EMPLOYEES Equal opportunity programs: Female employees are given equal opportunity in all aspects of employment including international assignments and trainings. We have female employees in various functions, including engineers in our manufacturing departments and even at our production lines. There are Equitable Career paths and growth opportunities for female employees. Ladies Day Out is a special leisure activity designed for female workers EXTERNAL PUBLIC Vendor/Supplier Pre-Qualification: We encourage all vendors and suppliers to be ISO certified or have an acceptable Industry or Trade Certification Education, Research, Health and Community Development Programs with NGOs: Our community-based Food Distribution Program is aimed to eliminate the menace of hunger and malnutrition in our neighboring socially exclusive community We distribute out-sourced cooked food weekly to the point of need in a coordinated and timely manner to financially downtrodden families throughout the year During the holy month Ramadan, ration items are distributed to around 200 families Community-based Free Medical Service activity with free medicines supply is being undertaken on every Tuesdays and Wednesdays. Monthly around 3,500 patients are being treated for major diseases like: Respiration Tract Infection, Asthmatic Bronchitis, Hepatitis Gastroenteritis, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Jaundice, Malnutrition, etc. Apart from treatment, family planning advisory service and pills as well as vaccination on Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 need basis are also being provided In order to promote education in neighboring areas, IMC provides 270 scholarships to deserving students under its “Toyota-Goth Education Program” with the prime objective of providing education to underprivileged and disadvantaged communities to make the children productive members of the society in coming days. The word “Goth” is taken from Sindhi language, which means “Village”. 10 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Labour Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining: Commitment: Indus Motor Company believes in freedom of association and the right of collective bargaining of all its workers. It also believes in taking a proactive approach to employee issues. INDUSTRIAL RELATION AND EMPLOYEES Freedom of Association Employees of Indus Motor are represented by Labor Union, as Workers have the freedom to form a Trade Union of their choice without any fear of intimidation or reprisal The company complies with Sindh Industrial Relations Act 2013, wherein employees are free to join any trade union of their choice The company, at present, has two registered Trade Unions. Using Collective Bargaining for addressing working conditions and terms of employment and relations: CBA along with their stewards and Union members coordinate with the management for improving their working conditions and other job related issues. The Union has the right to negotiate for its demands related to working conditions as per the Industrial Relations Act. Collective bargaining has provided employees with better benefits and working condition while also enhancing their morale and productivity. Union Charter Signing: As a recurrent practice, new agreement with the IMC Labor Union, titled Charter of Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 Demands (COD) was signed in June 2015 for the period up to March 31, 2017 between the union and management in a win-win situation. No cases of unfair labor practices have been filed by the union Freedom of Union to protect employee interest without management recrimination: Union activities are governed by the Standing Ordinance 1968 and Industrial Relation Act 2008. The Company complies fully with the law for all cases pertaining with disciplinary action and termination of employees, including any members of the union. The office bearers of the trade union enjoy freedom to discharge their legal responsibilities without any interference from management 11 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD The company provides special leave to CBA union/steward for appearance in court cases, if it is party to disputes The company also provides special leave or early release to CBA union/steward for attending trainings, workshops, conferences arranged outside by ILO and Union. Cases related to Unions and how they were decided: No cases related to Labor Unions reported during the year Industrial relations and organizational climate is very cordial. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 12 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Labour Principle 4 Business should ensure elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor: Commitment: Indus Motor Company forbids any form of compulsory labor in any of its areas of operation, or by any of its business partners. EMPLOYEES Employment Contracts state terms and conditions of service, voluntary nature of employment, freedom to leave and any penalties associated with departure or cessation or work: Employment contracts do not violate any human rights or labor laws. Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period. Exit Notice period varies from 30-90 days. Exit Interviews are taken to solicit feedback. Record of Checking lowest wage rate against regulated amount: All employees of the Company are above minimum wage as specified by the government and are paid according to market conditions. Third party audit of supplier/contractor/vendor labor conditions: Basic Employer is responsible for encouraging and ensuring all vendors and contractors to fulfill their legal requirements regarding the health and safety of their employees and workers according to the Law of Land. No supplier has been excluded because of forced labor issues. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 Supplier Registration: Suppliers are selected after they confirm the legitimacy of their labor practices and no forced labor. Vendor, Supplier and Business Partnership contract: Contracts are executed with Suppliers after they confirm that they are not using any form of forced labor in the supply chain Encouraged after performing evaluation 13 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child compulsory labor Commitment: Indus Motor Company forbids any form of child labor in any of its areas of operation, or by any of its business partners. EMPLOYEES: Failsafe documents and procedures for preventing under-age employees: All our permanent workforces are in the category of an adult person in accordance with the Factories Act 1934 and no under-age employee was hired in any period of time. To prevent under-age hiring, at the time of their induction, the ages of all candidates are confirmed either through their Matriculation Certificate from Education Board, or Birth Certificate/National Identity Card/Form-'B' of NADRA (National Database & Registration Authority). No underage employee is working in the Company. Third party audit of labor conditions: Regular third party audits are conducted by the Labor Directorate which covers health and safety, working hours and environment and other requirements of the Labor Laws. EXTERNAL PLUBLIC Suppliers, Contractors, Vendors and other business partner’s Pre-qualification: All contractors are liable to fulfill their social security and human rights requirements as prescribed by different laws, including prohibition of under-age workers Company’s employees visiting suppliers and vendors are encouraged to visually observe and Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 report non-compliance with any laws to the Company’s management. Program for Community Children to keep them out of workforce: Food distribution and Ration distribution in neighboring communities Scholarships program for underprivileged children pursuing education Distribution of School bags, books, stationary, tuition fees to 270 students on roll Based on results of exam, regular mentoring session conducted with students and their parents seeking support in properly carrying out their education. Weekly programed, three Free Medical Camps organized in neighboring community for their healthcare services 14 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment: Indus Motor Company supports equal employment opportunities, diversity and inclusion for its employees and does not discriminate against them. The company strives to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for all employees. EMPLOYEES: Ensure equal access to employment by women and minorities: IMC endeavors to be an Equal Opportunity Employer. Women and minorities are offered jobs in the Company without any discrimination. Minorities are given special holidays in accordance with their religious customs. Workforce Diversity: Workforce 2016: Total 2,765 including Apprentices Average age: Team Members 26 years and Management 34 years Number of Male 2,704 and Female 61, in spite of the nature of our operations and plant location, which is a challenge in itself for woman in applying for jobs at IMC. Career Progression: Hiring and promotions are done on merit, professional performance and qualification Constant disclosure in Company’s internal communication Creating working environments for various employees to work proudly and with loyalty and confidence in fulfilling their potential, which realize their self-growth Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 Maintenance of the Code of Ethics: Code of Ethics document is signed by all employees hired by IMC Ethics Committee: Ethics Committee aims to analyze possible violations of the Code and directs the most serious cases to senior management for action In weekly and monthly management meetings, serious violations, if any, are highlighted HR Committee also assists in compliance of the Code of Ethics and considers cases of violation 15 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Avoid systemic applications of job requirements that disadvantages certain groups Our system ensure no disadvantage to any group EXTERNAL PUBLIC T-TEP and Apprenticeship Program: The T-TEP (Toyota-Technical Education Program), in collaboration with Toyota Motor Corporation, Japan and three leading institutes in Pakistan provides skills training in the latest automotive technology to young technicians in three major cities of Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad. Started from the year 2000 upto June 2016, More than 248 students were successfully graduated of this program and ready for employment. Till date, above 740 students graduated have been hired by the Toyota network Besides the three institutes, a fourth T-TEP institute is already established in collaboration with the Aman Foundation’s subsidiary AMANTECH in Karachi. The institute is the first of its kind in Pakistan that provides training in the discipline of Auto Body and paint repairs technology. Our company provides technical professional education related to automobile production to high school graduates under the Apprenticeship Program at plant. We have in-house Technical Training Center for developing multi-skilled workers. All deserving students from universities are eligible to apply for meritorious internships at IMC. Desirous students from recognized universities are encouraged and provided support in their research projects with IMC. Plant Tours/Study Tours, especially for college/university students, are facilitated on regular basis (max 3 visits/month). Programs and partnerships to aid minority Suppliers, Contractors, Vendors and Business Partners: Minorities’ business partners and suppliers are provided equal opportunities and right as per our company policy. The Company operates a Vendors Development Program where vendors can obtain Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 financial, technical, managerial and other assistance without any discrimination based on business case. Study tours are conducted for vendors to foreign manufacturers, so that they can see and learn by observing onsite (Genchi Genbutsu). SPTT (Supplier Part Tracking Team) consisting of IMC and TMC representatives visit vendors monitor project performance. To ensure quality of Suppliers product, regularly audits are conducted as per SQAM (Suppliers Quality Assurance Manual 16 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Commitment: Indus Motor Company is committed to act in all areas of operations to avoid or mitigate the negative impact on the environment, complying with the National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS) ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT Our philosophy and policies on the environment are based on the Guiding Principles at Toyota and the Global Vision that stresses the importance of “respect for the planet”. The company strives to bring continuous improvement in its environmental management system to enhance the health, safety and environmental performance under the three priority themes of: 1. Contribution to a low-carbon society 2. Contribution to a recycling based society, and 3. Environmental protection and contribution to a harmony with nature society Comprising of senior management, our SHE Steering Committee reviews compliance Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 requirements, approves plans and monitors their progress: Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) Steering Committee, which is chaired by the CEO, meets regularly as per agreed calendar. SHE Sub-committee comprising of representatives from all departments has led to improvement of SHE practices Our no loss working days injuries stood at 9 day, whereby minor injuries were recorded and reported, nonetheless, the injuries were too minor to hamper effective work performance., At IMC, our management philosophy is based on a proactive approach to minimize risk is in accordance with best management practices. On this regard, the concept of Hiyari Hatto (accident prevention tool) is adopted which encourages employees to analyze their work environment and process for risk identification and improve for occurrence prevention. 17 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD 2015-16 there was no Lost Work Day (LWD) injury in the plant for the fourth consecutive year, thereby setting a new record. IMC has implemented WWF green office certification in collaboration with WWF on 30 Oct, 2016. To embrace greener practices, IMC is working with wwf on reducing Paper consumption, water conservation and electricity conservation in order to minimize carbon footprint. Initiatives to advance environmental awareness within the company: At IMC, the Environment Theme “Seven Billion Dreams; One Planet; Consume with Care” stirred a lot of interest and disseminated information encouraging conservation and prudent use of resources. Safety Healthcare and Environment is the top most agenda item in daily, weekly and monthly meetings. An Eco Photo Contest was held among employees to share pictures depicting environment concerns Eco art competition was also done to raise environment awareness amongst children of employees. These arworks were later used in developing ecofriendly, reusable cloth bags distributed along the company Regular training and education programs conducted for our employees. Communication through Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Visualization Boards and SHE Bulletins. Daily Production Circle Meetings held to communicate safety tips in the plant. “World Environment Month” is celebrated every year in June at IMC according to the guidelines of principals (TMC/TMAP) to commemorate under the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP). During Environment Month company-wide awareness Posters and Notices are displayed for all employees. Senior Management and employees planted more than 150 trees in the plant area during environment month every year. For awareness enhancement on environmental issues, movie screening sessions were conducted for around all employees. Banners displayed based on energy conservation theme and promoting the 3R Concept of recycle, reduce and reuse. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 During the year, several additional measures were taken to reduce impact on environment: Reduction of Carbon Footprint through deployment of Solar Panels across the company With such implementation, IMC has joined the ranks of certain major regional production hubs, such as Thailand and Indonesia in terms of standing on environmental issue. Performing Environmental Impact Assessment: We have established a procedure for identifying, recording and mitigating the environmental impacts of our operations each year. Gas emissions from generator, ovens and vehicles are regularly being monitored. 18 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Sound Levels are monitored on regular intervals at the plant. Over the last Eight years, IMC maintained its impressive record of zero non-compliance in EMS ISO 14001 audit ensuring strict adherence to the requirements. It’s a laudable achievement that we strive to sustain in the future. Regular Environmental Auditing, Certification and Awards: Surveillance Audit of ISO 14001 was completed for 2015. No major or minor non-compliance was observed during audit by the external body Certificate renewal for ISO 14001 was successfully done by external bodies. Toyota GEMS Audit: Toyota conducted a stringent environmental audit of IMC annually to ensure compliance with the Toyota GEMS and declared IMC as a fully compliant entity and improved our rating of environmental self-reliance (Jiritsuka). During 2015-16, the Environmental Management Team of TMAP audited non-manufacturing functions, such as Communication, Training, CSR activities, Sales & Services, Procurement & Logistics to check the level of management’s commitment to environment and were pleased with results comparative with other affiliates. IMC has developed own five year plan for environmentally friendly business to take along our business, in line with Toyota Motor Corporation, Japan. Greenhouse Gas Reduction Strategy: “Respect for the Planet” is a special emphasis as a global car manufacturer. We committed to promote clean environment and encourage efforts made by our employees and management to enhance Ozone protection and minimize Green House Effect by continuously reducing consumption of ozone threatening Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) constituents as well as reduction in electricity consumption. As our contribution to low carbon society we always promote the use of designs, based on the recycling concept with effective utilization of resources borne in mind. Use of Recycle Bins for parts supply is an example of the same. To reduce Greenhouse Gasses, IMC has deployed Solar Panels and Variable frequency drive motors, (VFD) that result in lesser electricity consumption and subsequently, reduction in CO2 emission by more than 140 tons per year. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 We monitor electricity and natural gas consumption on a monthly basis in various sections of the plant and every year, set electricity and natural gas consumption reduction targets to contribute indirectly to CO2 emission reduction as a responsible corporate citizen. We strive towards minimize electrical power consumption due to the prevailing national power shortage. IMC has its own Co-Generation Power Plant for electricity supply to plant and corporate office. By using Co-Generation, IMC has significantly reduced CO2 emissions and also saved energy as compare to last year. Burners are tuned and calibrated on monthly basis to reduce CO2 emission and save energy. We have implemented Energy Management System (EMS) to monitor the consumption of gas in process areas which help us in monitoring overall efficiency and target achieving. 19 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD EXTERNAL PUBLIC : Pre-Qualification of untested materials: We have established a Green Purchasing Guideline in consultation with Toyota Motor Corporation, Japan to promote environmental activities at Suppliers’ end. Periodic visits are arranged at vendor sites to check product quality. IMC achieved noteworthy results in the annual environmental audit conducted by certified auditors from TMAP, who evaluate the workplace in line with standard criteria set by Toyota Motor Corporation. With the support of WWF-Pakistan, 100 saplings were planted near parking area of Karachi Airport We distributed Cloth bags branded with environment related messages and artworks to crease consciousness regarding environment Two-Way Communication with Stakeholders about uncertainties and potential risks: IMC provides significant platform for employees to share individual/departmental contribution, success/achievements and experience through internal newsletter Inspire Magazine . Internal Magazine Inspire showcases employee achievements and passions to raise motivation Annual report for the year 2016 was dedicated to our commitment for a better Pakistan and depicted our efforts towards our commitment WE published our first ever independent sustainability report in FY 2016 that describes our sustainability efforts in detail Periodic visits by external stakeholders, regulatory bodies, government officials, financial analysts, shareholders are arranged in which they are given presentations and plant tours. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 Participate in industry-wide collaborative efforts to share knowledge and deal with issues: As per TMC’s guidelines, a self-audit and awareness system has being introduced at dealership to fulfill a number a stringent requirement of DERAP (Dealers Environmental Risk Audit Program) Currently 37 dealerships (out of 43) are certified for DERAP. Under IMC’s Environment Management System, currently 11 dealerships (out of 40) are certified for Green Dealer Program – an upper level of DERAP. 20 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Environment Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Commitment: Indus Motor Company is committed to promoting environmentally responsible thinking within the company through encouragement of better environmental friendly practices. We also believe in spreading this thinking to our extended family of suppliers and dealers. ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Under the Environmental Section of Company’s Code of Ethics, employees are required to: a. preserve and protect the environment b. design and operate the Company’s facilities and processes so as to ensure the trust of adjoining communities c. promote conservation of resources and minimize the release of chemical and gas into the environment Code of Ethics is signed by all employees for compliance during their tenure with the Company. Company-wide goals: o ensuring non-smoking offices o adopting basic rules in office premises (Stop, Point, Call) for crossing internal roads o identify potential hazards and taking corrective actions (Hiyari Hatto) o No major accidents and lost working day were reported during the year. Environmental Inspection and Improvement plan: Emission aspects are identified, and EMP (Environment Management Plan) is developed accordingly. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 Team from our Maintenance department inspects the plant at regular intervals. Environmental inspection by TMAP Audit Team. Monthly monitoring EPI (Environment Performance Indicators) including CO2, water and waste and Volatile Organic Compound (VOC). To achieve the target of EPIs, Visualization Board has been created for progress review on set frequency. Reduced CO2 emissions footprint by 1,655.2 metric tons annually and facilitating Pakistan Economic Forum research on water situation for Karachi in support of the climate change initiatives. 21 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Introducing, certifying and continually improving environmental management systems: ISO 14001 Certified. Gas meter and electricity meters have been installed to monitor regular energy consumption IMC remained committed to Environmental Management by complying to National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). Future Activities of IMC’s Chemical Management Task Force: Restriction upon usage of Toyota Banned Chemicals by all direct & indirect suppliers to IMC As per Green Purchasing Guidelines (GPG) of Toyota, IMC has a plan to implement SoCs (Substances of Concerns) Management System (subject to reaching at level-2 of Green Dealer Program) As per Green Purchasing Guidelines (GPG) of Toyota, IMC has implemented No Use of SoCs (Substances of Concerns) in Suppliers’ products. All direct and indirect Suppliers to submit declaration certificate of non-usage of banned chemicals and No Use of SoCs (Substances of Concerns) Training Program: We support environmental management by affiliates through the sharing of best practices and exchanges information to mutually strengthen relationships, as well as environmental audit trainings. As part of our efforts to protect the environment, we have also involved our dealers, by introducing our Dealer Environmental Risk Audit Program and training to fulfill a number of stringent requirements including water and hazardous waste management. During 2013-14, all Shop Floor members received extensive training in Kiken Yochi (Hazard Prediction) in order to develop their ability to recognize hazards at a glance. Energy Conservation Reduction in per unit usage of utilities: The 5 Years Environmental Action Plan (2011-15): Main Status of Actions Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 Field Status of Action (FY 2015) Achieved the CO2 Reduction goal in 2015 due to increased Energy Global Warming production volume and tighter control Number of parts receiving in returnable plastic bins Recycling of Resources increased in 2014 Consolidated Environmental Continuous monitoring of NEQS for air emission and waste Management water, noise and drinking water 22 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Implementation of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) Reduction Program: Significant reduction in thinner usage with the help of regulator in reciprocator. Implementation of electrostatic guns that have higher transfer efficiency of 60% to 80%, has resulted in reduction in VOC Discharge into the environment Reduction in usage of consumables: Thinner recycling activities are done twice per day. Color guns have been separated for each color, Bell flushing consumption reduced. Minimize the Production of Solid Waste: Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 Reduced packing materials and introduced returnable boxes for some vendor supplies. Returnable bins and reusable bins have yielded approximately 151,277 tons worth of Carton box savings, equivalent to saving 23,297 trees Pollution Prevention or Reuse/Recycling Programs: Move towards paperless office environment. Concerted efforts to reduce stationary costs. Use of recycled paper for photocopies and rough work. Internal Memos are circulated through emails 23 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Gate Passes and departmental Attendance Sheets are processed through SAP software Seasonal Greeting Cards being sent through email Use of Recycled Materials and Consumables: More than 70% per day of thinner recycling is being done. Industrial water is treated in our Waste Water Treatment Plant and reused for plantation. Monitoring Soil & Underground (S&UG) Fuel Tanks: Monthly checks of UG fuel tanks to avoid soil and underground water contamination Practicing Hazardous Solid Waste Management: Incineration of hazardous solid waste is carried out through an external certified contractor. Scrap contractors segregate scrap before disposal or resale Hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are properly segregated in order to avoid environment risk minimization and properly disposal and incineration through external certified contractor as per legal requirement. Working with Supplier, Vendors and Business partners to improve environmental performance and exclude environmental hazardous raw material in manufacturing of vehicles: IMC persuaded it suppliers for the certification of ISO 14001. IMC support its suppliers in not only for obtaining ISO 14001 certification but also in implementation international standard. It is being done through periodical evaluations and sharing of best practices. Currently 80 % suppliers are ISO certified while remaining suppliers are going through process of certification. IMC shall soon achieve its goal of EMS ISO 14001 compliance at suppliers. Suppliers are also implementing Environment Management System ISO 14001. Currently, 27 Supplier out of 49 suppliers are certified, other 8 are planned to be certified till June 2017. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 IMC initiated programs with Toyota Motor Asia Pacific (TMAP) to reduce SOC from our vendor and suppliers to ensure a clean working environment for employees. 24 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Environment Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment: Indus Motor Co is committed to the adoption of environment friendly technologies which minimize the environmental impact from its day-to-day operations and from its products ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGY Implementation of energy efficient projects Programs involving technologies to improve internal energy efficiency or reduce water use Co-Generation Power Plant for environment friendly energy production with natural gas operated engines and turbine. Maximize use of environmental friendly parts in car manufacturing. We use transparent porcelain sheets in our plant roofs for natural sunlight during day time that reduces consumption of electricity for lighting. Recycled water is used for plants, duly treated through our Waste Water Treatment Plant. Implementation of WWF Green office program that supports reduction in Paper consumption, reduction in Electricity consumption and reduction in water consumption. Environment friendly product certifications Implementing Ozone protection measures: All products are environment friendly certified under the environmental laws of the Country. Building cars that burn cleaner fuels: With the research and our continuous efforts, we launched Corolla Ecotec (factory fitted CNG) in 2012 as a cleaner fuel car, that was later discontinued due to Government’s restriction upon all auto industry to limit production of CNG cars due to gas shortage. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 We fulfill all government regulations regarding environmental policies and get renewed NOC every year from regulatory body SEPA. Building car that emit less emissions Continuous technical improvements are made in vehicles to minimize exhaust emission. The New Corolla introduced in 2014 is in compliance with Euro-II Standards of emission. IMC sponsors teams from various engineering universities to design and build fuel efficient vehicles under the banner of Shell Eco Marathons, held abroad. 25 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Support vendors for environment friendly technology transfers Support dealers for environment friendly technology transfer Support university students to focus on environment friendly technologies We assist our vendors in obtaining TAAs (Technical Assistance Agreements) with foreign manufacturers, organize study tours and plant visits abroad, arrange technical drawings, assist in improving their manufacturing processes, etc. We are continuously supporting engineering universities to innovate Environment friendly technologies. Traffic Congestion is one of major factors that impact badly the environment creating pollution. IMC commissioned to NED Engineering University for conducting a research “Toyota – Research on Traffic Congestion” (TRTC) in 2012 for the determination of overall impact in the environment and on economy in dollar term. The findings of TRTC were made public and shared with its stakeholders in December 2013 that provide valuable planning data to development authorities. We advocate and actively encourage our suppliers to adhere to Green Purchasing Guidelines, in order to encourage sustainability in our value chain As identified by TRTC, construction of overhead flyovers in underway at the major traffic choke points. This is likely to be an efficiency game changer for the industries at Port Qasim and minimizing the impact of environment overall. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 26 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment: Indus Motor Company acts to eliminate corruption in all its forms, through the implementation of ethical codes and policies that govern business operations and relationships with external stakeholders Call to Action: Anti-Corruption and Global Development Agenda EMPLOYEES: Code of Ethics for Employee Every employee at the time of joining signs the Statement of Ethics of Business Practices and this commitment is renewed every year. All employees are forbidden to accept gifts or borrow money from another employee of the Company or from a Distributor, Dealer, Vendor or a Customer. Full compliance is required to give full disclosure every year on their business interests, if any, and trading of Company shares. Confidentiality, honesty and accuracy of information in the course of business are required by all employees of the Company. Core value are included as part of Annual Performance Appraisal Corporate Governance Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 Statement of Ethics and Business Practices followed. Adopt internationally acceptable accounting standards. All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly recorded in the Books of Company. In particular, no funds or accounts are established or maintained for purpose that is not fully and accurately reflected in the books and records of the Company. Comply with regulations of the Security & Exchange Commission of Pakistan. Signed Statement of Compliance included in the Company's Annual report. Regular checks by Internal Audit department are carried out for all departments to ensure compliance with company procedures and ensure course correction, if required. 27 INDUS MOTOR COMPANY LTD Once again, following esteemed institutions have recognized our performance and engagement with the society through prestigious award presentation, which is a matter of great pride for us and we laud the efforts of employees and business partners for their contribution. (1) The Pakistan Stock Exchange Limited (2) The Consumer Association of Pakistan (3) The Management Association of Pakistan Apart from above, the local Global Compact Network of Pakistan has also awarded us the Business Excellence Award as UNGC Champion Organization (JV category) in recognition of our best practices in embracing and integrating the 10 Principles of UNGC. EXTERNAL PUBLIC IMC adopts a policy that is grounded on transparency, creditability and trust regarding the disclosure of material information to investors and external publics Plant Operations data displayed transparently in production and other areas for visual information and management control. Quarterly briefings for Financial and Security Analysts. Quarterly Board of Directors Meetings. Plant Tours for shareholders and other stakeholders. During the year we conducted around 33 plant tours for over 1000 people. Quarterly Media/Press briefings and interviews after disclosure of each financial performance Consultative meetings with CSR partners, NGOs, industry and trade bodies, etc. Communication on Progress| 12/9/2016 The end 28
