Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 1 / 32 Our Sustainability Work in 2015 Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 2 / 32 Nolato in 15 seconds Nolato is a Swedish publicly listed group with 7,800 employees in Europe, Asia and North America. Nolato develops and manufactures products in polymer materials such as plastic, silicone and TPE for leading customers within medical technology, pharmaceuticals, telecom, automotive and other selected industrial sectors. Nolato’s business model is based on close, long-term, innovative collaboration with our customers. Nolato endeavours to create added value for both customers and shareholders through leading polymer technology, wide-ranging capabilities and highly efficient production. Contents The CEO’s introduction ........................................................................................................... 3 The Nolato Group in brief ........................................................................................................ 4 2015 in brief .......................................................................................................................... 6 Sustainability work for long-term growth ................................................................................ 7 Sustainable development targets and key figures .................................................................. 11 Environmental responsibility ................................................................................................. 12 Social responsibility ............................................................................................................. 17 Business partners and other stakeholders............................................................................. 20 Financial responsibility ......................................................................................................... 22 Sustainability-related risks .................................................................................................. 23 A busy year .......................................................................................................................... 24 About our sustainability report ............................................................................................. 25 Nolato and GRI .................................................................................................................... 26 UN Global Compact COP report ............................................................................................. 30 Definitions and glossary ....................................................................................................... 31 Nolato AB (publ), SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden, +46 431442290, www.nolato.com, info@nolato.com Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 3 / 32 Sustainable development in everything we do New record year responsibility issues and our UN Global 2015 was Nolato’s best ever year for the Compact-based guidelines are a fully intefourth consecutive year, with both record grated part of our business operations. sales and profit. Our sales totalled SEK We work within numerous areas of 4,726 million (4,234) and operating profit sustainability issues, and we prioritise (EBITA) was a record SEK 570 million issues regarding good business ethics, (470). meeting customers’ needs and ensuring All three of our business areas pergood health and safety. We also aim to formed very well and over the past two use resources such as materials, energy years Nolato has made significant investand water as efficiently as possible and, ments in expanding its project and proof course, to minimise our environmental Hans Porat duction resources. We have extended our impact. Our work is underpinned by our Outgoing President & CEO factories in Hungary and China, built a certified management systems in accordnew production facility in Malaysia and ance with ISO 14001, ISO 18001 and ISO “A key area for Nolato is our comincreased capacity at some of our Swedish 50001. units. mitment to corporate responsibilSocial responsibility ity. Corporate responsibility issues From contract manufacturer is a high priority and our UN Global Compactto high-tech partner Another high priority is social responsibilbased guidelines are a fully inteDuring my eight years as CEO of Nolato ity. This is true of our operations around grated part of our business operaI have had the privilege of leading a comthe world, but we are carrying out particutions.” pany of the highest quality. During this lar initiatives in China. I am proud of the time we have put a great deal of effort into work we are doing under the Employee repositioning ourselves from historically Care Programme and Building Hope having been a contract manufacturer to Together projects in Beijing, but there are becoming an advanced high-tech partner good examples throughout the Group. for our customers. By offering customers This sustainability report provides detailed innovative technical solutions together information about how we focus on syswith world-class productivity and quality, tematically enhancing Nolato’s efforts we are able to support them from initial within sustainability. concept to finished product. We have come With our highly capable employees, a a long way but there is, of course, plenty solid organisation, responsible business still to do. We want to offer customers practices, a strong balance sheet, and even greater value creation, more integratunder the leadership of Christer Wahlquist Christer Wahlquist ed solutions and greater geographic presas the new CEO, Nolato will continue its Incoming President & CEO ence to become a global partner. journey towards achieving the company’s vision of being ‘the customer’s first choice Continual development of partner’. of our core values Another important issue has been continuTorekov, Sweden, February 2016 ing to develop Nolato’s strong corporate culture. We have continually developed our values, which together with our Code of Conduct are set out in The Nolato SpirHans Porat, President and CEO it booklet. Sustainable development is a key area Our commitment to CR – corporate responsibility – is important and vital for good business operations. Corporate 4 The Nolato Group in brief Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 4 / 32 The The Nolato Nolato Group Group in in brief brief Development, production & sales Sales & technology Sales by market North America etc. 9% Sweden 23% Asia 36% Other Europe 32% Sales Our operations Our values SEKm Nolato is a Swedish publicly listed group Nolato has a long tradition of responsible 5,000 with operations in Europe, Asia and North business practice, and one of our Basic 4,000 America. We develop and manufacture Principles is that efficient business operations 3,000 products in plastic, silicone and TPE for must be combined with ethics, responsibility 2,000 leading, often global, companies within and environment awareness. These areas 1,000 three areas. are therefore natural and integral aspects 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 medical devices (such as autoinjectors, of our business activities. insulin pens and catheter balloons). We are signatories to the UN Global Operating profit (EBITA) Compact and report sustainability work in SEKm telecommunications components (such accordance with GRI. 600 as subsystems for mobile phones, often 500 with significant cosmetic content, as well Our employees 400 300 as methods and materials for shielding The average number of employees in 2015 200 electronics). was 7,759. Of these, 90% were outside 100 0 products for industrial companies (such Sweden. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 as vehicle components, hygiene products and specialist packaging). Our shares Earnings per share Nolato was listed on the stock exchange in SEK 18 Our offering 1984, and its B shares are listed on NASDAQ 15 Nolato’s customer offering comprises most Stockholm in the Mid Cap segment, where 12 technologies in the field of polymers and they are included in the Industrials sector. 9 covers the entire value chain from develop6 3 ment to product delivery. Our history 0 We endeavour to develop close, long-term Nolato was founded in 1938 as Nordiska 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and constructive collaboration with cusLatexfabriken i Torekov AB, with the tomers and we are often chosen for the trademark Nolato, which has been the Cash flow after investments production of complex products with company name since 1982. SEKm 400 stringent technical demands. Today’s global Group is the result of Our wide-ranging capabilities support organic growth and acquisitions. The head 300 our customers’ product development. Our office is still in Torekov, Sweden, but the 200 involvement in customers’ development work majority of operations are now based abroad. 100 at an early stage allows us to optimise 0 materials and product design to help achieve 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Excluding acquisitions and disposals better and more cost-effective end products. The Nolato Group in brief 5 Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 5 / 32 Nolato Medical Nolato Telecom Nolato Industrial Financial highlights: 2015 2014 Financial highlights: 2015 2014 Financial highlights: 2015 2014 Sales, SEKm 1,464 1,333 Sales, SEKm 2,017 1,799 Sales, SEKm 1,251 1,106 Operating profit (EBITA), SEKm 191 176 Operating profit (EBITA), SEKm 272 199 Operating profit (EBITA), SEKm 132 118 EBITA margin, % 13.0 13.2 EBITA margin, % 13.5 11.1 EBITA margin, % 10.6 10.7 Average number of employees 1,053 1,031 Average number of employees 6,002 6,297 Average number of employees 698 687 Customer offering: Customer offering: Customer offering: Development and manufacture of complex product Design, development and manufacture of advanced Development and manufacture of products and systems and components within medical technology components and subsystems for mobile phones, product systems for customers in the automotive and advanced packaging solutions for pharmaceuand products and systems for shielding electronics industry, hygiene, packaging, gardening/forestry, ticals and dietary supplements. to achieve electromagnetic compatibility (EMC). furniture and other selected industrial segments. Geographic information: Geographic information: Geographic information: Development, production and sales in Sweden, the Development, production and sales in Sweden, Development, production and sales in Sweden, UK, Hungary, the US and China. Sales offices in China and Malaysia. Sales and technology offices Hungary, Romania and China. Denmark, Germany, France and the Czech Republic. in the US, India, Korea, Japan and Hungary. Success factors: Success factors: Success factors: Technology, project management and productivity. Medical understanding, broad technological offering, Creative development work, cutting-edge technology, expertise in developing robust product solutions, advanced project management, fast production Customers include: global production and robust quality. start-ups and high productivity. Atlas Copco, Brose, Geberit, Husqvarna, Jaguar/ Land Rover, MCT Brattberg, Scania, SKF, Volvo and Customers include: Customers include: Volvo Cars. Abbot, Becton Dickinson, Boston Scientific, Coloplast, Ericsson, Huawei, Microsoft, Motorola Solutions, Medtronic, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi and Nokia, Sonos, Sony Mobile, Xioami and ZTE. Volatility: Takeda. Medium. Follows the Northern European industrial Volatility: business cycle. Volatility: High. Project-based operations. Low. Steady market growth. Product life cycle: Long-term growth potential. Product life cycle: Medium/Long. Short. Product life cycle: Long. 31% 32% 43% 46% 26% 22% Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s net sales operating profit (EBITA) net sales operating profit (EBITA) net sales operating profit (EBITA) Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 6 / 32 2015 in brief Financial performance further developed, with important initiatives, Health and safety through the continued Nolato’s sales for 2015 amounted to SEK including in China and Hungary. introduction of the OHSAS 18001 stand4,726 million (4,234). For the fourth succesard. sive year, operating profit (EBITA) was the Continued work A persistent focus on suppliers’ sustainbest in the company’s almost 80-year history, In 2016, Nolato will be working on measability measures, including through new amounting to SEK 570 million (470) and ures including the following: procurement of transportation services. corresponding to an operating margin (EBIActivities to help improve energy efficiency, Further development of social engagement TA) of 12.1% (11.1). The good performance cut carbon emissions and reduce waste. and social responsibility, including projects came from across the Group, with sales and Adaptation of the environmental managesuch as the Employee Care Programme profit increasing in all business areas. Earnment system to the new version of ISO and Building Hope Together. ings per share were SEK 15.97 (13.84) and 14001. Updating sustainable development targets. the equity/assets ratio was 54% (54). Sustainable development Key sustainability figures The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact permeate our organisation and in 2015 2015 2014 2013 we continued our sustainable development Financial responsibility efforts. One such example is the updating of Sales, SEKm 4,726 4,234 4,522 The Nolato Spirit booklet to make a clearer Operating profit (EBITA), SEKm 570 470 427 link between business operations and sustainable development. EBITA margin, % 12.1 11.1 9.4 We implemented energy efficiency measAverage number of employees 7,759 8,020 9,357 ures throughout the Group and as part of Environmental responsibility this our UK company introduced the ISO Breach of environmental and occupational environment legislation, 50001 energy management standard. Our 2 0 0 number of cases carbon emissions measures involve initiaEnergy consumption, MWh/SEKm sales 0.035 0.038 0.036 tives such as improving energy efficiency and Water consumption, m3/SEKm sales 37.9 37.8 35.2 phasing-out of fossil fuels for heating. The Greenhouse gas emissions, CO2 tonnes/SEKm sales 12.1 14.7 13.7 purchase of ‘green electricity’ in Hungary is Waste, tonnes/SEKm sales 1.1 1.0 1.1 the latest step in reducing our carbon footCertified environmental management system,% of total no. of plants 95 100 100 print. Another example of environmental sustainability measures was our investment Social responsibility in advanced purification equipment to help Workplace accidents, (cases of ≥1 day’s absence; 35 43 34 reduce air pollution in Beijing. cases per employee) (0.004) (0.005) (0.004) Work on introducing the OHSAS 18001 Certified environmental management systems, OHSAS 18001 30 26 16 % of total no. of plants health and safety standard continued with Female employees, % 53 52 57 the aim for all units to be certified under this standard. Nolato participated in the updatTraining on Nolato’s Basic Principles and Code of Conduct, >90 >90 >90 % of employees ing of the ISO 14001 environmental manApplication of ethical & humane principles and number of registered 0 0 0 agement standard and Group companies are breaches of corruption rules now starting work on adapting to this new Evaluation of suppliers; evaluations performed with regard to environment/social responsibility 134 161 106 standard. Our social engagement work was Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 7 / 32 Sustainability work for long-term growth Sustainability work is an integral part of Continual improvements Energy audits and energy efficiency measNolato’s strategy for growth and value creaNolato began its sustainability work when ures were widely implemented and ISO tion and is a natural part of our day-to-day the company was formed in 1938 and a 50001 was introduced at several plants. work. The aim is to create business opportufocus on responsibility and good organisaReduced carbon emissions through energy nities, reduce costs, minimise risks and meet tion was part of the corporate culture from efficiency measures, phasing-out of fossil the requirements and expectations of exteran early stage. Since then we have made fuels and the purchase of green electricity. nal and internal stakeholders. constant improvements and consistently Reporting of carbon emissions under the raised our ambitions in this area. The time Carbon Disclosure Project, which Nolato Nolato and international goals line below shows some of the key steps along is doing along with around 5,500 other 2015 will be seen as one of the Group’s most the way and developments will continue global companies. important years yet for its work in sustainwith new initiatives and activities. It has Involvement in a school in a poor area able development. During the year, the UN always been important to meet environmenof Beijing, known as the Building Hope presented new global development goals and tal and health and safety legislation, but the Together project, is highly valued by teachexpectations for efforts by businesses are requirements and expectations of society ers, students and Nolato employees. high, both in terms of responsible business and the Group’s stakeholders have become Work on introducing the OHSAS 18001 practice and in terms of developing prodincreasingly significant. These include growhealth and safety standard continued with ucts and services that contribute to sustaining requirements among Nolato’s customthe aim for all units to be certified under able development. Working towards these ers relating to the environment and social this standard. new goals is a natural extension of Nolato’s responsibility and expectations on us to Nolato’s sustainability work was analysed commitment to the UN Global Compact. pass these requirements on to our suppliers. by Swedbank Robur and the Group was The Group’s targets are currently in line Another example is involvement by staff, once again approved under the bank’s with a number of these global goals and the and in this respect we see the importance responsible investment criteria. long-term aim is to enhance our sustainable of sustainability issues in attracting new development efforts. In so doing, Nolato also employees. Sustainability strategy contributes to Swedish environmental qualThe Group has long had preventive measures ity targets. 2015 highlights in place relating to health and safety and Nolato has also opted to sign up to a numWork based on the UN Global Compact environmental issues and these are imporber of global initiatives regarding the reportwas further developed and Nolato’s objectant elements of The Nolato Spirit. Views on ing of sustainability measures. This reporttives are contributing to the UN’s global corporate social responsibility have changed ing is prepared in accordance with Global sustainable development goals and Sweover time and issues relating to social Reporting Initiative (GRI G4) guidelines and den’s environmental quality targets. responsibility and good business ethics have the Group’s carbon emissions performance The Nolato Spirit booklet was updated, become increasingly important. is reported in accordance with the Carbon with a clearer link between business operaThere are also significant expectations that Disclosure Project (CDP). Nolato received a tions and sustainable development. Nolato and other companies must apply a score of 89 out of 100 in its CDP reporting. Continued focus on energy efficiency. clear life cycle approach to raw materials, Some important steps on the road to sustainability Group-wide sustainTougher energy and carISO 50001 is introGroup-wide enviability targets bon emissions targets duced at several units Responsibility and ronmental policy good organisation The Group Gradual introduction of Employee Care Pro– Nolato’s Basic changes its GRI sustainability OHSAS 18001 health gramme, Building Principles name to Nolato reporting and safety standard Hope Together 1938 1950 1982 1998 2005 2010 2012 2014 2015 2016 Nordiska LatexThe first Group The Basic Prinfabriken i Torecompany achieves ciples, Code of Sustainability A clear link between kov* is founded ISO 14001 certifiConduct and polwork adapted to sustainability and busication icies are comISO 26000 ness in a new version Health and safety piled in The Nolaof The Nolato Spirit and environmental to Spirit booklet Endorsement laws set minimum A whistleblowing requirement of UN Global system is introCompact duced * This translates as the Nordic latex factory in Torekov Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 8 / 32 product development, processes and prodmunication, company acquisitions, crisis and through internal and external audits. Along ucts. risk management, procedures, reporting and with the annual sustainability report, we also Nolato’s customers face four fundamental training. carry out an in-depth analysis of compliance challenges: Managing continued globalisawith legislation, target outcomes and the tion, meeting customer requirements for Governance of sustainability work development of performance and key indicaconstant innovation and ever lower prices Sustainability issues relate to Nolato’s operators during the year. and meeting growing demands for corporate tions in a number of ways, including the responsibility. The aim of our sustainable introduction of new technology, internal and Materiality analysis development strategy is to contribute sucexternal communication, corporate acquisiWithin the framework of the ISO 14001, cessful business operations by meeting custions, crisis and risk management, accountOHSAS 18001 and ISO 50001 standards, tomer expectations and taking responsibility ing and training. Nolato’s companies endeavour to identify for people and the environment. The strategy The overall focus of and responsibility for and manage significant aspects relating to encompasses the following areas: our sustainability work is set out in Nolaenvironment, health and safety, and energy. Lowering the level of risk, minimising to’s Basic Principles and Code of Conduct. This forms an important backdrop to Nolaharm to people and the environment, as well The Code of Conduct is complemented by to’s materiality analysis, which is developed as reducing costs. We do this through prevenGroup-wide goals on the environment, social based on the requirements set out in the GRI tive measures, risk analysis and investments responsibility and business ethics. Each unit G4 sustainability reporting guidelines. The in modern technology. works towards these overall goals, as well as analysis also includes risks and opportunities Working systematically on continuous their own detailed targets. regarding social responsibility and business improvement. International standards on Operational responsibility for sustainabilethics. The end of the report (pages 26–28) the environment and health and safety are ity issues is delegated to the Managing Direccontains a list of the GRI indicators that we important tools in our systematic improvetor of each company. Group management refer to . ment efforts. In addition to this, concepts regularly follows up on the development of Our approach is based on sustainability such as lean manufacturing and 5S contribthis work and how sustainability measures issues that are significant for Nolato’s busiute to improving the environment and health are being integrated into strategic planning. ness strategy and that the Group has the and safety. One representative on Nolato’s Board has ability to influence. These issues are then Enhancing competitiveness and increase special responsibility for these issues. These weighed up against aspects that we consider customer confidence. Many of Nolato’s cusactivities are followed up through dialogue important for the Group’s stakeholders. The tomers have ambitious sustainable developwith the companies’ management and chart shows the issues that were identified ment targets and this corresponds closely with our own business strategy. Motivating and involving our employees. Materiality analysis 2015 Issues relating to health, safety and employees’ social situation are of particular priority. We want to be an attractive company for both new and existing employees. Being a good corporate citizen. Our social engagement includes cooperation with universities and schools, employment of people with disabilities and support for sporting activities. Applying sound business principles. We have a zero tolerance approach to corruption and anti-competitive practices. Be transparent in our communication. This makes it easier for our customers, investors and other stakeholders to follow up on their requirements and evaluate our work. Endorsement of international guidelines. Nolato is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and reports its sustainability work in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. Integration of sustainable development. Sustainability issues are an integral part of the way we operate. It involves areas such as investments, monitoring, external comNolato Sustainability Report 2015 9 / 32 in 2015 as significant and our sustainability reporting describes how these issues are Ethical & managed and monitored. sustainable The materiality analysis has been modified in a few areas compared with previous years. Long-term Investor requirements have gained greater customer priority as interest in sustainability issues has relationships grown in the financial sector. And facts about the life cycle of plastics have gained signifiBroad cant media coverage in recent years. These customer relate to the origin of plastics in fossil raw offering materials and the occurrence of microscopic plastic particles in the world’s oceans. We are Nolato shall be therefore including these issues in the mateHighly the customer’s riality analysis and are monitoring developskilled first choice of ments within these areas. partner Value for stakeholders Nolato interacts with a number of stakeHigh productivity holder groups, which brings a range of requirements and expectations in relation to sustainable development. Our understandLocal ing of which stakeholders are significant – yet global and what they consider to be important – is presence based on experience, commercial relationships and dialogue over a long period, as well Stable as events over the past financial year. finances Overview of dialogue with stakeholders in 2015 Stakeholder Aims, requirements and expectations Value created Customers Nolato believes that sustainability measures strengthen customer relationNolato’s sustainability work was reviewed by around 50 customers during ships. Many customers demand that Nolato have a code of conduct, certified the year. The overall results were excellent and Nolato’s sustainable develmanagement systems, the phasing-out of hazardous chemicals and active opment aims are valued by customers. The operations in China and Malaysustainability measures in collaboration with Nolato’s suppliers. sia are certified as Sony Green Partners. Consumers The majority of Nolato’s products are sold to industrial customers. Although Consumers’ views were addressed during the year via dialogue with custhis relates to consumer products such as mobile phones, pharmaceutical tomers and the demands they place on Nolato. packaging and hygiene items, it is unlikely that the product will be linked directly to Nolato’s operations. Employees Health, safety, pay, benefits, social conditions, well-being, development opIn 2015, Nolato paid a total of SEK 1,250 million in salaries to employees. portunities. The frequency of accidents remained low and OHSAS 18001 is currently being introduced throughout the Group. Almost 300,000 hours of training were undertaken during the year, which equates to around 39 hours per employee. Positive employee survey results. The Employee Care Programme is being further developed in China. Suppliers Nolato endeavours to have long-term and transparent relationships with supIn 2015, Nolato paid its suppliers a total of SEK 2,996 million. Suppliers pliers. The aim is to ensure the right quality, financial stability and sustainable were provided with the new version of The Nolato Spirit booklet and over development for both parties. the year the Group conducted more than 130 assessments, which also addressed sustainability issues. Shareholders The aim is for this sustainability work to create value for shareholders. Nolato Nolato’s share price rose by 45% in 2015. The Group gained renewed apensures this, for example, through efficient resource usage and investments proval from Swedbank Robur for ethical investments. Reporting of carbon in new environmentally sustainable technology. The integration of sustainabilemissions to global investors in accordance with the Carbon Disclosure ity issues in business operations, such as more environmentally sustainable Project was undertaken with good results. products, reduces risks and creates business opportunities. Society Social engagement is an important aspect and something that is expected by In 2015, Nolato paid SEK 159 million in tax. The Group’s companies conlocal communities where the Group operates. As a global company, the Group tributed in numerous ways to local communities. The Building Hope Tois expected to undertake measures that contribute to national and global susgether school project in China was further developed. By signing up to the tainable development goals. UN Global Compact, Nolato is making a long-term contribution to these global development goals. Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 10 / 32 Environmental and health matters have been undertaken. Within health next 6–18 months. During the year, UKand safety legislation and safety, five of the units were inspected by based Nolato Jaycare achieved certification Nolato’s companies are subject to extensive occupational environment authorities during under the ISO 50001 energy management legislation relating to the environment and the year without any deviations. standard. At Group level, the ISO 26000 health and safety. We use our management social responsibility standard provides a systems to identify applicable legislation and guideline for our overarching sustainability Certifications (% of all units) implement the relevant measures. From a work. This standard is based on seven funstrategic perspective, it is important to evalu100 damental principles and describes how an ate the risks and opportunities of future 80 organisation can work with environmental legislation, and we do this by participating in 60 issues, social responsibility and ethics. 40 networks and through regular contact with 20 various authorities. 0 In Sweden, the Group conducts activities ISO OHSAS ISO ISO Other 14001 18001 50001 9001 cert. that are subject to notification obligations in accordance with the Swedish Environmental Certified management systems Code at ten plants. The units in China, HunThe ISO 14001 environmental managegary, Romania, Malaysia and the US require ment system standard was introduced in permits or are covered by other requirements 1996, and within around a year Nolato had under the environmental legislation of the its first plant certified to the standard. Since country in question. No significant updates then, ISO 14001 has formed part of Nolato’s to permits and conditions are expected in the sustainable development strategy and our near future. Many of the units report reguworking practices, and the environmental Lots of new features in ISO 14001 larly to the environmental authorities, and audits and certification creates confidence The ISO 14001 environmental managethe supervisory authorities carry out inspecamong our stakeholders. All units, expect ment standard has been implemented tions. In 2015, eight plants were inspected by for a newly established unit in Malaysia, are widely throughout the world. It is used environmental authorities and no significant certified and Nolato Medical Devices (Beiby around 325,000 companies and other deviations were noted. jing) achieved ISO 14001 certification during organisations internationally and conLegislation relating to hazardous chemithe year. tributes to better management of envicals (REACH, RoHS, refrigerant regulaOur continuous improvement measures ronmental issues. tions, safety data sheets) largely concerns include internal and external environmental The standard has now been updated the entire business and this is an area where audits. Nolato has around 110 internal envifor the third time and includes a raft of many customers are demanding a guarantee ronmental auditors, who conducted almost new features. Key changes include the of compliance with legislation. In 2015, a 100 environmental audits during the year. structure of the environmental managenew chemicals labelling system, the CLP, was The facilities were reviewed by external audiment system, the view of management’s introduced with new risk symbols, which tors on 19 occasions. responsibility and the importance of Nolato’s operations have adapted to. The A new version of ISO 14001 was pubenvironmental issues being part of straEU Energy Efficiency Directive was introlished in autumn 2015 and in recent years tegic measures. In addition, stakeholder duced during the year, which affects producNolato participated in the Swedish referrequirements and expectations must be tion units, among other things, as a result of ence group on the development of ISO managed clearly and the environmental energy audit requirements. A summary of 14001:2015. We now have three years to impact of the business must be viewed how Nolato will fulfil the Directive has been implement the required changes to envifrom a life cycle perspective. submitted to the Swedish Energy Agency. ronmental management systems and many Together with Richard Almgren, Energy audits have been conducted or are Group companies have already started this Nolato’s Director of Sustainable Develplanned at a number of units. Nolato Jaycare work. opment Torbjörn Brorson has written in the UK fulfils the energy directive through All units are certified in accordance with the book ‘ISO 14001 för små och medelits certification under the ISO 50001 energy the requirements of the ISO 9001 quality stora företag’ [ISO 14001 for Small and management system. Fourteen of the units management system. In addition, approxiMedium-sized Enterprises] and the latest are affected by EU legislation relating to promately 80% of units are certified in accordversion was published in early 2016. ducer responsibility for packaging waste and ance with ISO standards for the automotive The book provides clear guidance on pay annual charges for this. industry (ISO/TS 16949) or medical technolhow to introduce ISO 14001 in a comIn 2015, there were no significant breaches ogy (ISO 13485). At most of the plants, the pany and describes how the existing of permits, conditions or any other relevant various management systems are entirely or environmental management system can environmental legislation. In one case, a partly integrated into the operational system. be adapted to the new ISO 14001:2015 minor penalty was issued relating to incorOHSAS 18001-based health and safety requirements. This will be part of the inrect reporting of refrigerants. In another case, management systems have been introduced house environmental management trainthere were elevated concentrations of pollutat 6 (5) units and a further four units are ing that is now being planned. ants in wastewater. Measures to rectify these planning to achieve certification within the Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 11 / 32 Sustainable development targets and key figures Target-based management is a requirement in order to coordinate activities. The targets ability work and for our stakeholders. The under the ISO 14001 environmental manhave been gradually raised and individual table below provides an overview of how agement standard and the Group’s units have units have significant freedom in designing our work on these targets is developing and therefore been working towards local envitheir own detailed targets and adding targets how we evaluate our ability to achieve them. ronmental targets for some time now. Groupin other areas. Detailed information on emissions data and wide long-term targets for key sustainable The Group’s targets cover those areas other parameters are presented in other parts development areas were introduced in 2010 that are both important for internal sustainof this sustainability report. Area Sustainability target Performance in 2015 Environmental Energy The object is more efficient energy use and for 2014–2016 u Energy audits and efficiency measures were carried out during the year responsibility Nolato is targeting a 10% reduction compared with the average at Nolato’s facilities. The measures included installation of energy-efficient for 2011–2012. The Group-wide KPI is GWh/net sales and many electric injection moulding machines and LED lighting, as well as the introof the production units use locally adapted targets, such as enerduction of energy management systems. It is believed there is good potengy use in relation to the amount of plastic raw material used. tial for achieving the energy target (see pages 12–13). Carbon emissions Carbon emissions are a global challenge and Nolato’s objective u Energy efficiency, a move to renewable energy, more environmentally is to reduce its emissions of greenhouse gasses. The target is the sustainable shipping and the purchase of electricity from renewable sourreduction of carbon dioxide (CO2) from energy consumption by ces is helping to reduce carbon emissions. The situation in China presents 10% during 2014–2016 compared with the average for 2011– a significant challenge, as the Group is currently only able to use electri2012. The Group-wide KPI is tonnes of CO2/net sales and there city generated by coal-fired power plants. Despite this, the trend is positive are also different types of local targets. and it is believed that the target will be met (see page 13). Chemicals Chemicals that are particularly hazardous to the environment or u Over the year a number of chemicals were replaced and further candihealth shall be identified and phased out. dates for substitution were identified. Find out more on page 14. Waste The Group-wide objective is for the volume of waste to be reduu Over a 10-year period the percentage of waste disposed of in landfill ced in relation to net sales. In this regard, the Group’s units are has decreased and the percentage that is recycled has increased. Many using various types of local targets relating to scrap levels and of the Group’s companies have succeeded in their efforts to reduce scrapthe volume of waste. These targets are part of our lean manufacping to very low levels. Positive initiatives have also been undertaken inturing work or other initiatives, and as part of ISO 14001. volving innovative packaging solutions cutting waste for customers and reducing carbon emissions from transportation (see page 15). Environmental maThe objective is for all units to be ISO 14001-certified. Acquired u All units, expect for a newly established unit in Malaysia, are certified nagement systems companies should be certified within two years. to ISO 14001 standard. We now need to adapt these systems to the updated ISO 14001:2015 version, and this work will be completed within three years. Environmentally In 2015, Nolato shall take part in at least three projects aimed at u Projects for environmental adaptation of existing and new products sustainable proreducing the environmental impact of new or existing products. are undertaken in cooperation with customers or on our own initiative ducts (see pages 15–16). Social Safe workplaces Continually reducing the number of accidents and illnesses in the u Systems for reporting incidents are in place at 95% of facilities and responsibility workplace is an essential objective. An intermediate goal towards more than 500 near misses were recorded and addressed. The accident this is for all units to have a functioning system for registering rate remains largely unchanged. OHSAS 18001 has now been introduced and addressing near misses, i.e. events that could have caused at six units (see page 10). an accident. In conjunction with the updating of The Nolato Spirit, the Group introduced the requirement that companies need to be certified in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 health and safety standard. Ethical and humaThere should be no cases of infringements of human rights, disp An updated version of The Nolato Spirit has been produced and training ne principles crimination or forced labour. Active information shall continue to has been provided at the Group’s units. No cases of infringements of hube provided to employees and new staff. man rights were recorded during the year. Activities in China and Hungary regarding integration of employees with disabilities (see pages 16–17). Business partAnti-corruption There should be no cases of bribery, corruption or cartel formap The Group has introduced a whistleblowing system and no events reners and other measures tion. Continued active information for employees. lating to corruption or inadequate business ethics were recorded in 2015 stakeholders (see pages 16 and 20). Suppliers Improved evaluation of suppliers’ sustainability work. In 2015, u In 2015, Group companies conducted 134 (161) evaluations of supplieach company should have evaluated at least five suppliers. ers’ sustainability work. A strong emphasis was placed on environmental and social responsibility in the procurement of transportation services. Several training courses were arranged during the year for accountants, with a focus on suppliers and CR (see page 20). Customers Customer requirements regarding the environment and social reu The results of evaluations and audits were good during the year. Three sponsibility shall be met by a comfortable margin. plants in China and one in Malaysia have been approved as Sony Green Partners (see page 20). Society, investors Reporting must be in accordance with GRI. Nolato shall continue u Social engagement activities in China and elsewhere. Good results from and analysts to endorse the Global Compact. We shall achieve good results evaluations of sustainability work in business magazines and by investors, in evaluations by analysts and independent institutions through such as Swedbank Robur. CPD-based reporting of carbon emissions for transparent information in the field of sustainability. the first time (see pages 17 and 21). p Goal achieved. u Positive trend, but work is still required to achieve target. q Negative trend. Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 12 / 32 Environmental responsibility Technologies and environmental aspects use of Nolato’s products. In the final phase of a heat pump at Skånes Fagerhult and simiNolato develops and manufactures products of their life cycle products are recycled in the lar systems are in place at a few other plants. in polymer materials such as plastic, silicone form of materials or energy, but as with other Energy consumption amounted to 167 and TPE for customers within medical techplastic products some of the material ends up GWh (163) in 2015 and the key performance nology, pharmaceuticals, telecom, automoin landfill or the natural environment. indicator, which relates energy consumption tive and other selected industrial sectors. to sales, has shown a declining trend since We manufacture everything from individual Energy 2011. The cost of energy in 2015 was around components, which customers assemble in Energy is consumed by production equipSEK 128 million (119). their own products, to complete products ment, lighting, ventilation, cooling, transport, that are ready for delivery to a customer’s purification facilities and heating. Nolato Measures aimed at boosting energy efficiency client. We also develop and manufacture our mainly uses indirect energy in the form of include: own products, such as pharmaceutical packelectricity (85%) and district heating (10%). The energy audits that have been peraging. Production technologies include: Some units use fuel oil and natural gas for formed in recent years. These reviews almost Injection moulding –Technology for manuheating and running purification equipment. always identify good energy saving opportufacturing components from plastic, silicone The use of fuel oil is decreasing and being nities. These often involve optimising ventilaand TPE to highly precise dimensions and replaced with heat pumps or biofuel. The lattion, cooling, lighting and compressed air. We stringent quality requirements. Our most est measure in this respect in the installation will be continuing energy audits and relevant common production technology. Injection blow moulding – Technology for manufacturing plastic containers and bottles. We use this method for the manufacture of pharmaceutical packaging. Dip moulding – Technology for the production of flexible, airtight latex rubber products. This is used to manufacture products such as catheter balloons and breathing bags. Extrusion – Technology for the production of tubing and other tubular products. This technique is used to manufacture items such as heart and urine catheters and EMC shielding gaskets. Die-cutting – Technology for producing flat products from one or more materials. We use die-cutting for manufacturing gaskets, seals and cosmetic details such as loudspeaker protection and logos. Post-processing and assembly – We give components the desired finish through painting, decoration or metallisation. We then Nolato Jaycare first to achieve ISO 50001 assemble them to create a complete product The new energy efficiency directive is raising the importance of energy issues within the or subsystem. Assembly may take place on EU. In accordance with the requirements of the directive, a number of Nolato’s plants a fully automated, semi-automated or fully have carried out, or plan to carry out, energy audits. Investments in more efficient injection manual basis. moulding machines, compressors, pumps, ventilation and other technical equipment are an important element of this work. From a life cycle perspective, the above techThe first company to be certified under the ISO 50001 energy management system was nologies cause different types of interaction Nolato Jaycare in the UK. The work to audit the company’s energy use and develop the with the surrounding environment, and in management system was overseen by Darren Whitworth. The Newcastle-based plant also most cases they have a very limited negaestablished an innovative energy and process monitoring system. This computer-based tive impact. At production facilities, direct system allows the energy consumption of infrastructure and production equipment to be environmental aspects may be linked to the continually monitored. During the year, investments were also made in energy-efficient use of energy, raw materials (mainly plastics) injection moulding machines and cooling systems. Training of staff in energy efficiency was and solvents. Other significant environmenanother key aspect of the work. tal aspects are the occurrence of waste and As well encouraging more efficient use of energy, ISO 50001 reduces carbon emissions. emissions to air of carbon dioxide and solThe management system also enables Nolato Jaycare to show how it is meeting UK ESOS vents. Indirect environmental aspects mainly (Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme) legislation. include supplier activities, transport and the Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 13 / 32 measures within the scope of EU’s energy footprint. Measures are carried out where it Energy consumption efficiency directive. is possible to reduce emissions, including the GWh GWh/SEKm The introduction of a certified energy manfollowing: 175 0.07 agement system (ISO 50001) at UK units. The business in Hungary reduced indirect 0.06 150 The change from hydraulic injection CO2 emissions by almost 11,000 tonnes by 125 0.05 moulding machines to electrical machines purchasing ‘green electricity’. The purchase increases energy efficiency and reduces the of fossil-free electricity from autumn 2015 in 100 0.04 handling of hydraulic oils. the UK has already led to reducing emissions 75 0.03 A new dipping robot at Nolato MediTor, by around 4,000 tonnes. The full impact of 50 0.02 which has been in operation for around a this measure will be seen in 2016. year, is saving significant amounts of energy. Continued measures to boost energy effi25 0.01 Replacement of lighting with LED bulbs. ciency, including energy audits and the intro0 0.00 Installation of lighting sensors. duction of ISO 50001. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Production planning to gain maximum The phasing-out of fuel oil and installation Total Group energy consumption, GWh Consumption divided by sales, GWh/SEKm efficiency from equipment and the turning of heat pumps or the use of bio-fuel. off of equipment when it is not being used. Reduced scrap and lower amounts of Shorter cycle times for presses reduces waste. Carbon dioxide emissions, CO2 energy consumption. Purchase of more fuel-efficient vehicles tonnes tonnes/SEKm Measures to minimise scrap and producand improved logistics. 70000 28 tion reruns, which also reduces energy conNolato Jaycare has signed a national cli60000 24 sumption. mate change agreement to counteract climate 50000 20 Training and close monitoring of energy change. The agreement covers energy-intenconsumption gets employees involved in savsive industry and, by reducing energy usage, 40000 16 ing energy. participating companies can receive reduced 30000 12 charges under a system in the UK known as 20000 8 the climate change levy. Atmospheric emissions Nolato Jaycare is taking part through the 10000 4 industry organisation British Plastics Federa0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Greenhouse gas emissions tion and has, for example, access to tools Emissions of carbon dioxide (Group), tonnes Nolato’s emissions of the greenhouse gas for calculating and reducing its impact on Emissions divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm carbon dioxide are caused by energy conclimate. sumption, transportation of raw materials and finished products, and an array of Other atmospheric emissions indirect activities among our suppliers and The use of more than 280 tonnes of paints customers. and solvents resulted in emissions of around Reporting of carbon dioxide emissions 55 tonnes (114) of VOCs (volatile organic includes direct and indirect energy concompounds). The majority of the paints and sumption. Emissions from transport, busisolvents are used for the painting of mobile ness travel, suppliers and users of Nolato’s phones in Beijing. New purification equipproducts are not insignificant but have yet ment helped cut these emissions by half durto be quantified. The new procurement of ing the year. transport services will provide better access There are just over 2.7 tonnes of ozoneto emissions data, which will be reported in depleting substances (HFCs) in air-condifuture sustainability reports. tioning and other equipment at around 10 In 2015, Nolato’s production plants emitproduction units. Minor leakages occurred ted 57,000 (62,000) of carbon dioxide, less during the year, which corresponded to than 3% of which was caused by the use of around 4% of the installed amount. Emisfossil fuels. Other carbon dioxide emissions sions of sulphur dioxide and nitric oxides were generated mainly from the production were low and amounted to 5 tonnes (3). of electricity and district heating in those Emissions of dust and malodorous substanccountries in which we operate. Countries es are usually negligible, but a complaint such as China, the US and Hungary use coal about an unpleasant odour occurred at our extensively for electricity production, causing Beijing facility. The odour may relate to a significant carbon dioxide emissions, which water recirculation system that is used in a has a major impact on the Group’s carbon purification facility for treating solvent emisNolato Sustainability Report 2015 14 / 32 sions. Measures have been taken to reduce in which the aim is to increase the proporwhich it is beneficial form a health and envithe problems for the plant’s neighbours. tion of recycled materials. We are also seeing ronmental perspective to switch to waterinterest in reducing polymer usage in some based products. Our aims sometimes conflict Raw materials and chemicals products, which is beneficial both in terms of with customer requirements for a product’s Production processes used around 30,000 cost and environmental impact. finish, but we undertake continual developtonnes of polymer materials in 2015. More An environmental aspect that concerns ment work in this respect. than 96% consisted of plastics and the rest most of the Group’s companies are customer of synthetic rubber. This involves silicone and requirements for products to not contain Water issues latex rubber used in medical devices. Other certain designated chemical substances. In Water issues have become increasingly materials used, amounting to around 1,100 addition, there is increased interest in the important in global terms and for Nolato it tonnes/year, are paints, solvents and metals. issue of conflict minerals (see Definitions and is important to consider the Group’s water For a number of the Group’s products, the Glossary). footprint. We use municipal water for cleancustomer requires the polymer to consist of Chemical substances that are identified ing, sanitary purposes and cooling. In 2015, virgin raw materials. This mainly applies by customers, and/or that have been identi179,300 cubic metres (170,700) of water to pharmaceutical packaging and medical fied as candidates for risk reduction under were used at a cost of around SEK 2.5 mildevices. However, some customers are interREACH chemical legislation are a priority. lion (2.0). ested in using recycled plastic, such as in the In practice this means that a few chemical A number of Nolato’s units have systems use of some mobile phone models. substances are subject to phasing-out or in place to reduce water consumption, such The amount of recycled plastic used durother risk reduction measures. This includes as closed cooling water systems for injection ing the year was 200 tonnes (300) and there plastic-softening phthalates. moulding machines and other equipment. are number of ongoing customer projects Solvent-based paints are a another area in Nevertheless, there are some processes in New purification equipment contributes to better Beijing air quality Beijing’s poor air quality has long been the Nolato Beijing who has lived in Beijing with topic of much discussion and many residents his family for many years. are concerned about the impact of the pollution on their quality of life and health. Significant reduction Traffic and coal-fired power stations are In 2014, a significant investment was made considered key causes of the problem and in new, cutting-edge purification equipment, a number of measures are being taken to which will lead to a substantial cut in the reduce emissions. volume of emissions in 2015. “Our focus on advanced purification techCutting emissions from paint nology has really been appreciated. We were As part of this work, the authorities have visited by a TV crew who shot a detailed tightened requirements for industrial facilireport about how the purification facility ties. Nolato’s Beijing factory has taken a works,” says Jörgen Karlsson. number of steps to reduce emissions from the “We estimate the facility will deal with painting of mobile phone components. over 95 percent of emissions from painting, “The main action we’ve taken so far is which is a good contribution to improving replacing older purification equipment with Beijing’s air quality.” n more efficient purification processes,” says Jörgen Karlsson, Managing Director of From Nolato Magazine October 2015 Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 15 / 32 which water consumption is relatively high. Sustainability issues were prioritised in Water consumption This applies to the manufacturing of latex particular in the central procurement of rubber products in Torekov, which accounts transportation services in 2015. In addition m3 m 3 /SEKm for just around 15% of total usage. to a reduced environmental impact, we also 200000 100 Just over 5,500 people work at Nolato expect to have better data for calculating 180000 90 Beijing and this reflects the fact that the unit carbon emissions from transportation. 160000 80 140000 70 accounts for just over 60% of the Group’s When changing vehicles and company cars 120000 60 water consumption. The city of Beijing has Nolato chooses low-emissions models, such 100000 50 been identified as a water shortage area and as hybrids. 80000 40 we take continual measures to reduce NolaNolato Cerbo has increased its use of rail 60000 30 to’s water consumption. transport for moulds manufactured in China 40000 20 The amounts of pollutants discharged to and transported to Sweden. 20000 10 wastewater are limited and consist mainly of The use of videoconferencing has 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 sanitary water. All production units are conincreased. nected to municipal sewage treatment plants. A better fill ratio of trucks and coordinatTotal water consumption for the Group, m3 Our Torekov plant has taken measures to ed transport. Consumption divided by sales, m3 /SEKm identify substances in wastewater that cause Bulk handling instead of handling material nitrification inhibition and that may disrupt in sacks reduces shipments. processes in municipal wastewater treatment Intelligent packaging solutions by Nolato Amount of waste plants. So far this work has not generated Jaycare are cutting the number of shipments tonnes tonnes/SEKm the desired results and attempts to treat the between the UK and Italy. 6000 3.0 water using UV light have not been successful. Continued environmental 5000 2.5 adaptation of products 4000 2.0 Waste Working together with customers, we conThe volume of waste for the year totalled tribute concept development, design, choice 3000 1.5 5,000 tonnes (4,400), of which hazardous of materials, structure, prototypes, produc2000 1.0 waste constituted 8% (9). tion moulds, high-volume production and Over the past 10 years the Group’s manpost-processing. 1000 0.5 agement of waste has changed significantly. The environmental performance of prod0 0.0 Less and less waste is ending up in landfill ucts has become increasingly important 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and the percentage being recycled into mateand this applies to everything from mobile Amount of waste (Group), tonnes rials has increased substantially. phones, components, vehicles, domestic Amount of waste divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm Nolato companies are focussing on numerappliances and chainsaws to pharmaceuticals ous specific measures to prevent the occurpackaging and medical devices. rence of waste, improve waste management From a business perspective, it is imporand increase recycling. An ISO 14001-based tant for us to be active in environmentally approach, lean manufacturing and 5S are optimised product development, particularly important tools in this work. given the targets some companies have to Around 60% (49) of waste was recycled phase out fossil-based plastic raw material. as materials and 14% (25) as energy. Waste Here are some examples of projects and sent to landfill is decreasing and this was existing products: helped by Nolato Jaycare’s units in the UK. Nolato Gota and Nolato Lövepac produce Nolato Jaycare has also introduced measures components for Volvo Cars’ Drive-E generato cut the amount of customer packaging tion of engines. These engines are around material, i.e. material that customers would 20% more efficient than their predecessors. otherwise have to handle as waste. Nolato Hertila produces whiteboard pens External waste management costs for the from recycled plastic. year amounted to SEK 3.4 million (2.9). Sustainability issues are increasingly important for customers in the mobile phone Transport sector. Nolato’s unit in China is conducting In 2015, measures were taken to reduce the a number of projects to make greater use environmental impact of the transport of of recycled plastic and water-based paints. goods and business travel: Other measures include cutting the use of Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 16 / 32 environmentally hazardous chemicals in ronmental technology products, such as fuel advanced electronics and functions enabling products and paints. cells. the wearer to leave their mobile in their bag. Nolato Plastteknik is examining possibiliNolato Lövepac has developed eco-friendThe ‘wearable’ vibrates when the phone rings ties of replacing the chrome plating of plasly traps for bedbugs. Instead of pesticide they and to see who’s calling the user can project tic components using a different method. use strips with dark cavities that attract bedinformation onto their hand. Calls can even In addition, aluminium is continuing to be bugs, which are then killed off when exposed be answered using an integrated detachable replaced with plastic in vehicle components. to diatomaceous earth. hands-free unit. Plastics are replacing other materials in Nolato Cerbo produces pharmaceutivehicles, household appliances and chain cal packaging (SC Light Caps) with smaller Accidents saws. This results in reduced weight and fuel amounts of plastic and therefore a smaller A break-in at Nolato Gota resulted in copconsumption. Nolato Plastteknik and Nolato carbon footprint. per thieves destroying a transformer that Gota are some of the companies conducting Lövepac Converting is working with contained transformer oil. This resulted this kind of product development. researchers to develop zirconium dioxidein around 500 litres of oil leaking into the Nolato Jaycare in Portsmouth in the UK based products. Zirconium dioxide is a highground and the surface water network. Small manufacturers containers for handling hazly durable ceramic that is chemical-resistant, amounts reached a nearby watercourse. ardous clinical waste (Sharpak). The aim is has a natural beauty and an exceptionally A well organised clean-up operation to establish Sharpak as the first choice for smooth surface. In addition, the material is was undertaken in cooperation with local clinical waste management globally. fully biocompatible, which means wearers authorities and no permanent damage to the Nolato MediTor’s environmentally optiof items made from zirconium dioxide won’t ground or water occurred. Around 10 tonnes mised breathing bags use less polymer matesuffer any allergic reaction. In 2015, Nolato of polluted soil were sent away for destrucrial and have a smaller carbon footprint. The presented the material in the form of an item tion. company also offers phthalate-free breathing of jewellery at electronics trade fairs in Las bags. Vegas and Barcelona. The Miragii jewellery Nolato participates in developing enviis a high-tech wearable device, containing The Miragii jewellery is a high-tech wearable device, containing advanced electronics and functions. Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 17 / 32 Social responsibility Global operations of men and women varies from country to The average number of employees in 2015 country, and in Sweden and the UK there is was 7,759 (8,022). Around three-quarter of a predominance of male staff. In Hungary employees work at Nolato’s units in China. and China, however, there is a predominance Other countries in which we have a signifiof women. 22% (30) of Nolato’s Board are cant number of employees are Sweden and women, while the corresponding figure for Hungary. Group management is 0 percent (0). Around Nolato has a long tradition of respon30 of other senior executives are women, sible business practice and we believe that which corresponds to 19% (24). this approach helps attract, recruit, develop In accordance with the undertakings in and retain committed and skilled staff. All the Code of Conduct, we work to combat units are wholly owned by the Group and all discrimination. For example, people with comply fully with the guidelines in Nolato’s disabilities are treated the same as other Basic Principles and Code of Conduct. The Nolato employees. People with disabilities practical work relating to personnel issues in work at units in Beijing (China), Gothenburg the Group is decentralised. This means each (Sweden), Newcastle (UK) and Mosonmagindividual Group company is responsible for yaróvár (Hungary). Nolato’s work in Hunmanaging these issues in a way that complies gary has received significant attention and with both Group guidelines and the legislahas been recognised with awards. tion and culture of the country in question. Whistleblowing Code of Conduct provides guidance All staff have the opportunity to raise conNolato’s Code of Conduct provides clear cerns about serious irregularities, without guidance on how the Group’s business printhe risk of harassment or opposition, using ciples and values should be put into practice. Nolato’s whistleblowing system. Serious It can be viewed as an ethical compass to be irregularities include unethical or illegal followed by all staff, irrespective of workbehaviour, fraud and serious breaches of place and function. The Code applies to the Code of Conduct, such as bribery or Nolato’s Board members and contract-based discrimination against employees. No seristaff as well. The Code of Conduct also sets ous irregularities were identified during the out what we expect of our suppliers in terms financial year. of responsible business practice. Training and personal development Everybody has the right of representation Training is a key development tool for perAll Nolato employees have the right to be sonnel, and we run management developrepresented by trade unions, and to collective ment courses, as well as large number of agreements. At 14 units in Sweden and Chispecific training courses on quality, technolna, all employees are covered by collective ogy, our Code of Conduct, and health and agreements. At the units in other countries, safety. In 2015, employees attended a total of there are no unions or collective agreements, 300,000 (230,000) hours of training, which and this reflects a normal situation in these equates to 39 (30) hours per employee. A countries. particularly large number of courses were arranged in China, Hungary, Sweden and the Gender equality and US. New employees are an important target combatting discrimination group for information and training measGender equality work at Nolato is based on ures. the Code of Conduct but is decentralised During the year, around 2,600 (1,000) in practice. It is conducted according to the employees participated in performance gender equality plans of the individual comreviews, career development or other assesspanies and includes activities aimed at crements of their own work. Employee surveys ated a balance between men and women in are carried out regularly at a number of the employment and career development, as well Group’s units. In most cases, they are peras measures that create opportunities for formed every other year or every three years, people with disabilities. and in 2014 six surveys were conducted. In 53% (51) of Nolato employees were womChina and Hungary the majority of employen in 2015. The balance between the number ees were included. Overall, the work atmosNolato Sustainability Report 2015 18 / 32 phere was deemed to be good and a number the continued introduction of OHSAS 18001 Causes of occupational accidents of constructive improvements were suggested at all units. Other Energy by employees. In 2015, there were 36 (43) lost work Hazardous substances We carry out special initiatives in China to cases (LWCs), which resulted in a total of Lifting, etc attract, retain and develop both permanent 405 (929) days of absence. The most comand temporary employees. These activities mon causes were injuries from heavy lifting, come under the umbrella of our Employee repetitive work, machinery and falls and Care Programme , which includes activities slips, which in most cases resulted in limited Falls/slips relating to health, safety lifestyle, opportuniabsence. Load-bearing injuries resulted in ties to take language courses, and employee some cases of long-term absence and comMachinery surveys that are supplemented by a forum in pared with previous years the number of which staff can discuss issues with the commuscular and skeletal injuries was higher. pany’s managing director. Systems for registering near misses were enhanced and are now in place at virtually Occupational accidents Health and safety all units. During the year, 501 (475) near Our preventive health and safety measures misses were investigated and corrective and Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 are targeted and systematic. We identify preventive action taken. LWC* 28 64 34 43 35 risks, take appropriate action and implement Training courses on the environment and LWC per 0.005 0.007 0.004 0.005 0.004 technical improvements and training courses. health and safety are part of our preventive employee Formal safety committees are in place at work and an average of 5.1 (4.5) hours per LWD * 755 616 381 929 405 95% of units, which corresponds to essenemployee were spent on these courses. TrainLWD per 0.1 0.08 0.04 0.1 0.05 employee tially all employees. An important element ing on first aid, chemical health risks, perof this systematic work is the introduction sonal protective equipment, fire safety and LWC = Lost Work Case (absence ≥ 1 day) of health and safety management systems machine safety is provided frequently. LWD = Lost Work Day (OHSAS 18001). Six (five) units are currently During the year, Nolato Beijing received certified and a further four are planning certhe Excellent Organization of Safety Productification in the very near future. The Code of tion award from Beijing Business DevelopConduct contains an undertaking regarding ment Area. Informing visitors and customers about Nolato’s safety rules is important. Here Nolato Lövepac Production Manager Mattias Leonardsson shows visitors how to access the protective equipment to be used when on the production floor. S OCI AL RESPON S IBIL IT Y Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 19 / 32 From Nolato Magazine, Sustainable developOctober, 2015 ment at Nolato in China At Nolato’s facility in Beijing, sustainable development issues are a high priority, and this has been recognised in the form of awards for a safe work environment. A wide range of activities were undertaken in 2015 to develop employees’ skills. Over 500 employees participated for a total of 28,000 hours in an online training system focussed on lean manufacturing, quality management, safety, financial management and other subjects. Around 30 people took courses in English and a new book club generated lots of interest among employees. Various departments participated enthusiastically in competitions to produce the best video on the subjects of health and safety and correct behaviour in the workplace. The Employee Care Programme was furNew version of The Nolato Spirit ther developed, with greater communication between company management and employees, improvements to the canteen and meals, with extended Code of Conduct access to sports facilities and a number of social activities. Over 1,000 people particiNolato has a long tradition of responsible business practice, pated in excursions to central Beijing. Exerefficiency and professionalism. A new version of the Group’s cise breaks have been an important feature of work for some time. corporate values booklet, ‘The Nolato Spirit’, has now been For a number of years now, Nolato has produced. been involved in helping students and teachers at a school in a poor area around four Nolato has a long tradition of responsible policies on the environment, quality managehours’ drive from Beijing. The school has business practice. It’s part of the company’s ment and information are now incorporated around 100 pupils between the ages of 7 and spirit to be a good employer and corporate in the Code of Conduct. It is also based on 12. Through the Building Hope Together citizen, and to take responsibility for what it Nolato’s undertakings under the UN Global project, Nolato has donated computers and does and always apply sound business ethics. Compact, international guidelines and conother equipment to improve lessons and stu“We believe that a future-oriented, responventions, and the ISO 26000 social responsident welfare. In 2015, Nolato donated new sible approach is not only necessary from bility standard. mattresses, pillows, blankets and bedsheets a sustainability perspective, but also that it “This enhancement of our corporate values for the children. It is reported that they are creates opportunities and business benefits. document places significant emphasis on the now sleeping so well that it’s difficult to Especially when combined with our strong fact that everything Nolato does is connectwake them up in the morning! focus on efficiency and professionalism,” says ed,” says Hans Porat. “We’re helping to creNolato President and CEO Hans Porat. ate a sustainable future by taking responsibilThe Nolato Spirit brings together the ity for all aspects of our business, in which Group’s core business principles and values both financial and non-financial factors comin terms of business mission, vision, how it bine and help take us forward.” n achieves its vision and, of course, Nolato’s Basic Principles. The document also contains Nolato’s Code of Conduct, which acts as an ethical compass to be followed by all B A CKG R O U ND: The Nolato Spirit Group employees, board members and others involved in Nolato’s operations. The Nolato Spirit booklet is available “It also sets out what we expect of our in Swedish, English, German, French, suppliers,” notes Hans Porat. Hungarian, Mandarin, Romanian The Code of Conduct has been expanded and Malay. It can be downloaded at significantly since the Nolato Spirit was first nolato.com/sustainability published in 2009. The previously separate Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 20 / 32 Business partners and other stakeholders Application of sound business ethics they expanded their activities in relation to In addition to review systems, some customIn accordance with the principles of Nolato’s suppliers during the year. ers have established systems under which Code of Conduct and the tenth principle of A whistleblowing system has been introsuppliers qualify for sustainable development the Global Compact, our business princiduced in the Group, giving employees the certification. One example is Sony Green ples should be characterised by integrity and opportunity to confidentially report seriPartner, for which Lövepac Converting, responsibility. The Code of Conduct states ous irregularities. Nolato Beijing and Nolato Malaysia have that Nolato: qualified. An assessment for the year shows that the As part of these requirements from cusDoes not offer gifts, benefits or payments Group’s companies are working on issues tomers, Nolato is expected to pass corthat could influence, or be seen to influof business ethics at the same high level of responding requirements along its supply ence, the objectivity of the recipients’ ambition as previous years. No cases of chain. This is done by informing suppliers decisions or that breach legislation and/or bribery, corruption or cartel formation were about Nolato’s Code of Conduct and specilocal practice. identified in 2015. fication requirements, as well as different Avoids situations where company loyalty types of monitoring. could come into conflict with personal Interaction with customers and suppliers In 2015, we carried out 134 (150) reviews interests. Many of Nolato’s customers operate in of suppliers with a focus on sustainable Complies with competition law and proindustries in which issues regarding the envidevelopment. Around 40 of the reviews were motes fair competition. ronment, health and safety and ethics have a based on questionnaires and about 40 cases Ensures that all staff can raise concerns high priority. This applies to sectors such as involved formal audits. These reviews did about irregularities within the company automotive, food, telecom and pharmaceutinot identify any risks relating to the environwithout the risk of personal consequences cals, in which requirements for suppliers are ment and social responsibility that cannot be for whistleblowers. gradually increasing. managed, but we did identify a number of We monitor developments closely and cusareas that need improvement. For a global company, these matters are comtomer requirements are making a construcAuditors were trained in China and the plex and the perception of normal business tive contribution to the development of our UK to strengthen this review work. principles varies between countries and culsustainability work. Assessments of suppliers’ sustainability tures. The Group uses the following methods In 2015, virtually all units reported cusmeasures are complex and time-consuming. for governance and monitoring of the applitomer requirements within sustainable We therefore apply a risk-based model for cation of sound business ethics: development (see table below). Requireselecting suppliers for review. A substantial ments relating to REACH and RoHS have proportion of Nolato’s suppliers consist of Nolato’s Code of Conduct applies to all increased over the past five years. This is also global groups in the polymer and chemical employees and Group company managetrue of requirements for a code of conduct. industry. These companies often have their ment teams are responsible for conveying Recent years have seen significant interest in own advanced CR measures in place and are the values in their organisation. guarantees that no conflict minerals (see Deftherefore not the primary target of the evaluWe monitor costs, expenditure and revinitions and Glossary) are used in products. ation. The detailed criteria for which supenues on an ongoing basis. In 2015, 14 of the Group’s units were pliers are selected varies among the Group’s We pay particular attention to ethical reviewed by customers from a range of companies, but it is usually new suppliers, issues in our relationships with our partsectors. This involved more than 50 queskey suppliers, or suppliers with particular ners. Standard business practice must tionnaires and audits. The results were risks that are selected for follow-up. be observed in each individual country, largely excellent, although some customers but if business principles do not comply did request improvements. These requests Investors with Nolato’s Code of Conduct, we must include phthalate-free products for medical Nolato’s sustainability work in 2015 was refrain from doing business or take alterdevices. analysed by Swedbank Robur and the Group native relevant actions. Using the Global Compact checklists, we Customer requirements Percentage of units reporting sustainability conduct annual evaluations of what measrequirements from customers ures companies take to counteract brib(%) 2015 2014 2013 2012 ery. The assessment for 2015 shows that Introduce environmental management systems 55 53 32 33 this work is governed by Nolato’s Code Phase out hazardous chemicals 40 42 42 48 of Conduct and the companies continue Compliance with REACH and RoHS 30 37 26 14 to actively combat corruption. They have Product-related environmental information 65 53 42 57 established detailed policies and guidelines covering gifts, entertainment and Compliance with customer’s CoC/CR issues 75 79 74 71 expenses. Several companies report that Other requirements (including ‘conflict minerals’) 85 58 21 9 Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 21 / 32 was once again approved under the bank’s with Nolato in connection with presentaan excellent contribution to the company’s responsible investment criteria. tions for students about future job opportuwork. Our units in China and elsewhere also nities. Degree work and internships were also employ people with disabilities. Social engagement undertaken at our facilities. In 2015, Nolato Nolato provides financial support for We engage with those local communities continued its collaboration on sustainabilschools, healthcare, sports associations where we have operations. It is important for ity issues with the International Institute for and social activities, and in many cases our Nolato to maintain contact with universities Industrial Environmental Economics (IIIEE) involvement is long-term and involves many and schools. This may take the form of ‘open at Lund University. of our employees. One such project is Buildhouse’ days, study visits, degree work, internIn Hungary, the employment of staff with ing Hope Together in China, where for the ships and development projects. Half of the different types of disability has been further past three years we have been involved in units had contact with schools and universideveloped. Employment has provided people helping a school in a poor area. ties. Over 1,000 students made a study visit with visual and hearing impairments with to one of our production facilities or met a better quality of life, and they are making From Nola S U STAI NABI LI T Y IN P R A C T IC E to Magazine October 2 015 Planting trees and teaching kids in Mosonmagyaróvár What do you do when you have to cut down trees when expanding a factory? You plant new trees. Then why not also take the opportunity to show children from the local school sustainability in practice? When Nolato extended its Hungarian plant teach them about sustainability in practice. recently at Mosonmagyaróvár it had to cut “The children also helped plant the new down some trees to make way for the new trees and then were given a tour of the facbuildings. Nolato Hungary’s management tory,” says Norbert Meleg, Head of Sales and decided to plant not one but four trees for Administration. every one that had been cut down. “We explained the importance of compaSome of the new trees were donated to the nies being sustainable and how Nolato works town’s parks and were planted there, with the with these issues, all at the school children’s rest being planted in green areas around the level.” factory site. The visit by the children was successful and Nolato also took the opportunity to invite they were then able to develop their experiyear 8–9 year-olds from the local school to ence further in the classroom. n Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 22 / 32 Financial responsibility New record year Financial highlights 2015 was Nolato’s best ever year for the fourth consecutive year, with both record SEKm (unless otherwise specified) 2015 2014 2013 sales and profit. Our sales totalled SEK 4,726 Net sales 4,726 4,234 4,522 million (4,234) and operating profit (EBITA) Operating profit (EBITA) 570 470 427 EBITA margin, % 12.1 11.1 9.4 was a record SEK 570 million (470). The figProfit after financial income and expense 555 462 403 ure corresponds to a margin of 12.1%, comProfit after tax 420 364 314 pared with 11.1% the previous year. Return on capital employed, % 29.6 28.4 26.7 This success is based on two key elements Return on shareholders’ equity, % 25.3 25.0 24.9 of our strategy. First, for a number of years Cash conversion 52 28 82 now we have been working specifically to Equity/assets ratio, % 54 54 52 reposition Nolato from being a contract Earnings per share, SEK 15.97 13.84 11.94 manufacturer to being a high-tech partner Dividend per share 10.00 8.50 8.00 for our customers. Second, we have made Average number of employees 7,759 8,020 9,357 continual and ongoing improvements based on lean manufacturing to offer our customEnvironmental investments Environmental costs ers efficient world-class production systems. It is therefore especially pleasing that one of Authority charges 1% Waste management 3% Other investments our companies received the Swedish Lean 1% External services 4% Purification facility Health and safety operation 44% Award for 2015. Being a Swedish champion improvements 18% Certifications 7% lean manufacturer is a great honour and Administration 19% shows that our efforts to create efficient production systems and administrative processes are generating results. Purification facilities 1% Sustainable development and financial performance Energy efficiency Waste management 25% During the year, Nolato invested SEK 15.0 77% million (23.7) in measures to reduce enviPercentage share of the Group’s investments Percentage share of the Group’s costs ronmental impact and improve health and in environment, health and safety. in environment, health and safety. safety. The largest investments were made in systems and equipment to increase energy efficiency and boost safety in the workplace. Financial value for stakeholders (SEKm) Environmental costs amounted to SEK 13.6 million (12.2) and are dominated by Stakeholder 2015 2014 2013 Comment operating expenses for purification facilities, Suppliers 2,752 2,166 2,438 Payment for materials and services waste management, internal administraEmployees 1,250 1,112 1,095 Salaries and benefits tion and fees to authorities and certification Shareholders 263 224 210 Dividend companies. During the year, environmental Creditors 7 10 11 Interest expenses improvement measures generated cost savSociety 135 98 89 Reported effective tax for the Group ings of SEK 3.7 million (4.1). Savings arose Total 4,407 3,610 3,840 mainly from more efficient energy consumption and increased recycling of production waste. The cost of water supply and sanitation amounted to SEK 2.0 million (2.0) and energy costs were SEK 128 million (119). Financial value for stakeholders Nolato’s business generates financial value that is allocated to the various stakeholders. This includes suppliers, employees, shareholders, creditors and society. See also page 20 for further information about the value created for stakeholders. Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 23 / 32 Sustainability-related risks Nolato’s strategy includes continuously minibe carried out over the next few years. This is closely regarding plastics made from renewmising operational risks through active and associated with costs, but the Group’s experiable materials. planned risk management, while still capitalence is that there are good opportunities for ising on the business opportunities that conimproving energy efficiency and opportuniClimate-related risks trolled risk-taking brings. The main features ties for making cost savings. One of the Group’s plants is located in an of risk management are identification, evaluarea where future climate changes could ation, governance, reporting, monitoring Contaminated soil and hazardous cause landslips (Gothenburg). Here, we and control. For different types of significant substances in buildings monitor the risk and vulnerability analyses risks, there are routines for accepting, reducThere has been no known occurrence of performed by the authorities. ing or eliminating the risk. contaminated land, neither are there any Climate change is an important issue to Nolato’s annual report for 2015 provides requirements in terms of investigations or Nolato, and an overview of how we work to detailed information about operational and decontamination. In Sweden, three plants reduce our carbon footprint is provided on financial risks. In terms of sustainability, we have been classified according to the ‘MIFO’ page 13. However, we need to be prepared have identified a number of risks of potential method for contaminated soil. The risk for how climate change may affect the Group importance to the Group’s financial posiassessment is administrative in nature and in financial terms. This may relate to damage tion. More demanding environmental legisis not based on actual sample-taking of land to plants and infrastructure, and also aspects lation, taxes, fees and other environmental and ground water. All the plants are in the pertaining to raw materials supply, supplier requirements can entail significant costs for lowest risk category and are not prioritised circumstances and changed customer behavindustrial operations. There are also risks by the authorities for further inspections or iour. Taxes, charges and limitations on emisfrom a business perspective relating to the measures. sions could, of course, also affect Nolato. environment and social responsibility, which Hazardous substances such as asbestos have gained attention in recent years, with a are present in some individual buildings Business ethics particular focus on our own production and and only result in measures in the event of Deficient business ethics can damage Nolathat of suppliers. Nolato carries out regular refurbishment or renovation work. Their to’s reputation and business operations. As risk assessments in the countries where we occurrence is documented and their status set out by the information on page 20, we operate. The aim is to identify new risks and/ is inspected regularly. During the year, the take a number of measures, including within or costs relating to the environment, ethics remaining asbestos was removed from one of the framework of the UN Global Compact, and social responsibility as early on as posthe Swedish facilities. PCB inventories have to prevent corruption and other irregularisible. been conducted at our Swedish operations ties. Sustainable development also creates lots in which small amounts of these hazardous of opportunities for Nolato and by integratsubstances were identified. DecontaminaHuman rights ing these issues into strategic efforts, product tion has been carried out in accordance with Infringement of human rights at the Group’s development and marketing we actively try Swedish environmental legislation. companies or our suppliers could damage to utilise these opportunities. both the Group’s reputation and its busiEnvironmental adaptation of products ness operations. Nolato’s Code of Conduct Environmental legislation Society has a growing interest in environapplies in the same way around the world. Nolato’s production units have the permits mentally sustainable products, and one idenWe promote the protection of human rights required for their operations, and no more tifiable business risk is our product range by informing people, training staff and extensive applications for permit renewals including products that are not accepted through internal regulations and monitoring. are planned for 2016. Authorities in Beijing, by customers for health and environmental China have tightened air pollution regulareasons. As mentioned previously in this Energy costs tions. We met these new requirements by sustainability report, the fossil fuel origin There is a risk of electricity prices rising and installing an advanced purification facility in of plastics has been called into question by having a material negative impact on profit2014 that cuts solvent emissions. Given the various stakeholder groups. And the issue of ability and within Nolato this mainly applies air pollution situation in Beijing, there is still microscopic particles of plastic in the world’s to the purchase of electricity. The risk of a risk that environmental requirements will oceans has also gained attention. As a supplinegative effects from rising electricity prices increase gradually. er, Nolato has some possibilities to counter is addressed by the Group entering into fixed Where applicable, the Group’s units meet this risk, but as most products are produced price agreements for 20–80% of electricity REACH chemical legislation, RoHS product for customers, development must be carried requirements for the next four to 12 quarlegislation, producer’s liability Nolatos produktionsenhet for packaging i Torekov out in collaboration with our clients. ters. waste, CLP chemical legislation (on classifiWe continually monitor developments so cation, labelling and packaging) and other we can initiate the substitution of hazardous relevant environmental and health and safety substances, introduce more environmentally laws. We currently expect no increase in friendly polymers and develop new products. risks concerning new or amended legislation. We also have Group-wide targets relating to Nolato is subject to the EU’s energy efficienenvironmentally sustainable product develcy directive and additional energy audits will opment. We are following developments Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 24 / 32 A busy year Our work on continuous improvements decreased. The use of district heating was number of suppliers were evaluated with forms the basis of our sustainability work lower than the previous year. regard to sustainable development. The comand here we provide examples of initiatives Nolato Plastteknik in Gothenburg continpany received the Well Organized Company and activities at Nolato’s units around the ued to implement energy efficiency measures and Excellent Organization of Safety Proworld. You can read about various sustainand key performance indicators on energy duction awards from the health and safety able development measures elsewhere in this consumption improved by 6%. department of BDA Beijing. sustainability report. Nolato Lövepac in Beijing declared June Hungary and Romania the safety month for the year. Other months Sweden Nolato Hungary in Mosonmagyaróvár focused on culture, books and good organiNolato Polymer performed an energy achieved OHSAS 14001 and OHSAS 18001 sation. Expanded dialogue with employees. audit which highlighted good opportunities re-certification. The company published its Nolato Lövepac in Shenzen carried out to increase energy efficiency. first own sustainability report in Hungarian. expanded health checks of employees and Nolato MediTech in Hörby and Lomma Nolato Romania in Negoiesti introduced a safety month was introduced. A regular are further developing the Medical Excela system for the reuse and collection of exercise break was introduced. A system for lence concept and received the Swedish Lean packaging that is sent to customers. The unit collecting packaging from customers was Award 2015 for its work. A total of 3,600 experienced zero accidents during the year developed. proposed improvements have been impleand undertook a number of extensive trainmented. Nolato MediTech conducted numering programmes. Malaysia ous activities to inform students about the Nolato EMC in Penang became a certified sector and its business, including attending UK Sony Green Partner. A system for improved the ARKAD career fair at Lund University Nolato Jaycare in Portsmouth achieved sorting of waste for recycling was introFaculty of Engineering, the Futures evenISO 50001 certification. The installation of duced. ing event in Hörby and the Industry evening two electric injection moulding machines is event in Malmö. Over 900 students attended helping improve energy efficiency. The supUS these events. plier evaluation programme was expanded. Nolato Contour in Baldwin cut the cycle Nolato Silikonteknik in Hallsberg continNolato Jaycare in Newcastle achieved ISO times of presses to increase energy efficiency. ued implementing continuous improvements, 50001 certification and its energy efficiency The percentage of waste sent to landfill has including the training of all its staff on better measures included the installation of systems decreased by almost 40% compared with waste management. for free cooling and electric injection mouldpast three years. Increased safety at the Nolato MediTor in Torekov completed ing machines. Water consumption decreased workplace as a result of all forklift trucks the final phase of its installation of a new by 20%, trials using reusable plastic pallets being removed from production premises dipping line. The new lines provide more were introduced and the volume of waste and replaced with cranes. efficient production and are much more fell. energy-efficient. An energy audit was also carried out. China Nolato Gota in Götene achieved OHSAS Nolato Beijing further developed its 18001 certification. Bulk handling of the Employee Care Programme, including largest raw materials reduced the number of expanded dialogue with company manageshipments. The installation of modern hybrid ment, Sunday excursions to central Beijing injection moulding machines is reducing involving the participation of over 1,000 energy consumption. employees, lots of different leisure activities Nolato Lövepac in Skånes-Fagerhult in the company’s sporting clubs, the introreplaced its existing oil heating with a geoduction of a book club and improvements to thermal system, which minimised carbon one of the canteens. A major training initiaemissions. The company was the recipient of tive, partly using e-learning, was undertaken the Volvo Cars Quality Through Excellence during the year. Continued support of BuildAward (VQE). ing Hope Together, a programme through Nolato Cerbo in Trollhättan phased out which Nolato supports a school in a poor three hazardous chemical substances. The area of Beijing. Work to reduce energy and number of workplace accidents and incidents water consumption continued and a large Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 25 / 32 About our sustainability report A focus on materiality Company/plant Country Number of BuilEstablisEnviSignifiNolato’s sustainability report for 2015, in employees ding hed (year) roncance area mental for the accordance with GRI G4 and the Commu(m2) persustainnication On Progress (Global Compact), mits ability report includes aspects relating to the environment, health and safety, social responsibility Nolato Beijing, Beijing China 5,565 36,309 2001 Yes High and ethics. Our ambition is for this report, Nolato Hungary, Mosonmagyaróvár Hungary 540 18,431 2000 Yes High together with supplementary information, to give our employees and external stakeholders Lövepac Converting, Beijing China 204 6,313 2000 No High a transparent view of the company’s corpoLövepac Converting, Shenzhen China 156 2,635 2008 No High rate responsibility activities and how these Nolato Romania, Negoiesti Romania 31 2,960 2010 Yes Medium interact with our business activities. All units belonging to Nolato in 2015 are Nolato Polymer, Torekov/Ängelholm Sweden 56 11,035 1973, 1995 Yes Medium included in the report, including a new busiNolato Jaycare, Portsmouth UK 141 11,132 1986 Yes Medium ness in Malaysia. In total, 20 production facilities contributed data. A summary of the Nolato Jaycare, Newcastle UK 122 4,790 1998 Yes Medium different units’ significance in terms of susNolato MediTech, Hörby Sweden 128 7,000 1999 Yes Medium tainability reporting is provided in the table. Nolato MediTech, Lomma Sweden 57 5,000 1980 Yes Medium Reporting principles Nolato Cerbo, Trollhättan Sweden 110 11,000 1971 Yes Medium Each production unit provides quantitative Nolato MediTor, Torekov Sweden 58 4,500 1973 Yes Medium and qualitative information in accordance with Nolato’s sustainability reporting form. Nolato Gota, Götene Sweden 139 23,004 1965 Yes Medium The head of each company/unit is responsiNolato Contour, Baldwin US 208 8,361 1993 Yes Medium ble for assuring the quality of the information submitted. The year’s performance is Nolato Plastteknik, Gothenburg Sweden 111 13,000 1980 Yes Medium compared and verified against information Nolato Lövepac, Skånes Fagerhult Sweden 48 4,200 1968 No Low for previous years. Further quality controls Nolato Hertila, Åstorp Sweden 25 4,474 2000 Yes Low are conducted in connection with interviews and site visits. Nolato Silikonteknik, Hallsberg Sweden 50 3,600 1995 Yes Low Emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur Nolato EMC, Penang Malaysia 51 3,350 2015 No Low dioxide and nitric oxides from direct energy usage are established using conversion fac* Average no of employees. tors. These are based on the energy content and quality of the fuels used. Carbon dioxide emissions from indirect energy consumption (primarily electricity) in China and the US are based on emissions data from the Reporting of data Questionnaire for all units Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (GHG Quality control of data Protocol). For the European units, emisQ4 Q1 Preparations for a new report Sustainability section in the annual report sions factors based on the EU Covenant of Mayors (2010) or on emissions data direct from electricity suppliers are used. InformaQ3 Q2 GRI/COP/CDP report tion about VOC emissions (Volatile Organic Compounds – solvents and paints) is based on mass balance calculations and/or measurements of the efficiency of the purification Follow-up and review of sustainability data equipment used. Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 26 / 32 Nolato and GRI The organisation behind GRI (Global ers. The reporting should provide a compreevaluation of aspects on pages 8–9. The table Reporting Initiative) has established volunhensive, balanced, comparable, thorough and below shows the extent to which Nolato tary comprehensive guidelines for how comcredible presentation of the organisation’s works in accordance with GRI G4. SR in panies and other organisations should report sustainability performance. It should include the table refers to pages in the Sustainabiltheir sustainable development activities. both positive and negative aspects. ity Report, and AR to pages in the Annual Reporting in accordance with GRI should Nolato has chosen to report in accordReport for 2015. focus on sustainability aspects that are signifance with the Core GRI G4 level, and the icant to the organisation and its stakeholdindicators have been adapted in line with the Core areas covered by the report (General Standard Disclosures) Designation Requirement or indicator Reference External according verifito GRI cation Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation on the importance of sustainability issues and SR3; AR6-7 — Nolato’s sustainability strategy. G4-2 Description of the most important effectors for Nolato’s stakeholders, risks and opportunities. Trends, targets and SR7-11 — programmes. Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation. Nolato AB (publ) — G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. AR5 — G4-5 Location of Nolato’s headquarters. Torekov — G4-6 Number of countries where Nolato operates and other geographic areas that are material with regard to sustainable SR16, 23; AR4 — development. 17, 25 G4-7 Ownership and legal form. AR36-37 Yes G4-8 Nolato’s markets and customers. AR18-29 — G4-9 Number of employees, number of operations, net sales, debt and equity, quantity of products provided. AR4 Yes G4-10 Employees (employment type, gender, region, variations in employment numbers). SR17 — G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. SR17 — G4-12 Description of Nolato’s supply chain. SR20 — G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period (size, structure, ownership, supply chain). SR25; AR37 — G4-14 How the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by Nolato. SR7-8,10 — G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Nolato SR7 — subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Membership of national and international organisations. SR29 — Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Companies included in Nolato’s financial report. SR25 — G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. SR25 — G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content. SR8 — G4-20 Reason why aspects are regarded as material within Nolato. Internal limitation of the aspects. SR8-9 — G4-21 Reason why aspects are regarded as material outside Nolato. External limitation of the aspects. SR8-9 — G4-22 Comments on any restatements of information provided in previous reports. None during the year — G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. No significant changes — Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Nolato. SR9 — G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. SR9 — Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 27 / 32 G4-26 Description of Nolato’s stakeholder engagement. SR8,9,18,20-21 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how Nolato has responded to these. SR9 — Report profile G4-28 Reporting period. SR25 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. Mars 2015 — G4-30 Reporting cycle. SR25 — G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Torbjörn Brorson — GRI content index G4-32 References to requirements and indicators in GRI. This table. — G4-33 Policy for external assurance for the report. No external verification. — Governance G4-34 Structure for Nolato’s governance of sustainability work. SR8 — Ethics and integrity G4-56 Nolato’s core values, Code of Conduct and policies. SR19; www.nolato. — com/sustainability G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical behaviour, e.g. whistleblowing SR17 — Indicators Designation Requirement or indicator Reference External according verifito GRI cation Finance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. SR22 Yes G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change. SR23 — G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. AR71 Yes G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. None during the year — Environmental responsibility Material G4-EN1 Use of renewable and non-renewable materials. SR14 — G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. SR14 — Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption. SR12 — G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption. SR12 — G4-EN5 Energy intensity. SR11-13 — G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. SR11-13 — G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products. SR15-16 — Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. SR15 — Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1). SR13 — G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3). SR13 — G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. SR11, 13 — G4-EN19 Initiatives for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. SR13 — G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). SR13 — G4-EN21 NOx, SO2 and other significant air emissions. SR13-14 — Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 28 / 32 Effluents and waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge. SR15 — G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. SR16 — G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. SR16 — Products and services G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and results. SR15-16 — Compliance G4-EN29 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. SR10 — Transports G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products. SR15 — Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments. SR22 — Supplier assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria. SR20 — Social responsibility G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region SR17 — G4-LA5 Participation in safety committees. SR17 — G4-LA6 Rates of injury and occupational diseases. SR18 — Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee. SR17 — G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving performance and career development reviews or equivalent. SR17 — Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age SR17 — group, etc. Supplier assessment G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using labour practices criteria. SR20 — Human rights Non-discrimination G4-HR2 Proportion of employees informed/trained on human rights policies. SR6,16 — G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. SR17 — Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at signifiSR17 — cant risk, and measures taken to support these rights. Child labour G4-HR5 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken. SR17 — Forced or compulsory labour G4-HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken. SR17 — Supplier assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers screened using human rights criteria. SR20 — Society Local communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement. SR21 — Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. SR20 — G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. No recorded — incidents Product responsibility G4-PR1 Proportion of products for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. SR15-16 — Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 29 / 32 The UN Global Compact 10 principles tion. The Global Compact also links in Communication On Progress on responsible business practice with the 17 global development targets Organisations that have endorsed the Global In 2009, Nolato endorsed the UN initiative presented by the UN in autumn 2015. Compact must produce an annual Comfor responsible business, the Global ComThe booklet The Nolato Spirit, which covmunication on Progress (COP) detailing pact. This meant the Group joining a global ers Group’s Code of Conduct, is an imporhow they meet the 10 principles. In Nolato’s network of more than 12,000 organisations, tant internal document, guiding and coordicase, we use the information provided in 8,000 of which are businesses, in 135 counnating employee activities in line with the ten the Annual Report and the Sustainability tries principles. Report. Together, these reports provide a By participating in the Global Compact, Group companies’ compliance with the fair presentation of Nolato’s support of and Nolato endorses 10 basic principles in the Group’s Code of Conduct is evaluated on a compliance with the Global Compact princiareas of human rights, working conditions, regular basis. In the introduction to the susples. In order to simplify Communication On the environment and anti-corruption. These tainability report, Nolato’s CEO Hans Porat Progress, we use GRI indicators and the table 10 principles are based on various UN concomments on the company’s Global Comof cross-references below shows which indiventions, such as the Declaration of Human pact work during the year. cators are relevant in the context. Rights and the Convention against CorrupThe Global Compact Principles GRI indicators Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights. G4-HR2, G4-HR7, G4-SO1 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G4-HR1, G4-HR10-11 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to coll. bargaining. G4-11, G4-HR4 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. G4-HR6 5. Businesses should work for the effective abolition of child labour. G4-HR5 6. Businesses should work to eliminate all discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. G4-10, G4-LA1, 9, 11, G4-HR3 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. G4-EN1, 3, 8, 15, 17, 20, 21, 27, 31 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. G4-EN1-10, 15-24, 27 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. G4-EN6, 7, 19, 27 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. G4-56, 58, G4-SO4, 5 Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 30 / 32 Definitions and glossary 5S A Japanese method of organisation in the sibility, financial responsibility and business ISO 14001 International standard relatworkplace. It involves sorting, systematising, ethics. Often used in the same sense as the ing to environmental management systems cleaning, standardising and ensuring. 5S is an term ‘sustainable development’. that was introduced in 1996. Over 325,000 important element of lean manufacturing. organisations globally are currently certified EMC The shielding of electronics to achieve according to ISO 14001. An updated version Carbon dioxide (CO2) Carbon dioxide is electromagnetic compatibility (EMC). of the standard was published in 2015 (ISO formed in all carbon combustion processes, 14001:2015). such as fossil fuel combustion. It is very Energy consumption Nolato reports both likely that carbon dioxide increases global direct energy consumption (usage of fuel in ISO 26000 International standard that prowarming (the greenhouse effect). own energy facilities) and indirect consumpvides guidance on how organisations can tion (purchased electricity and district heatdeal with social responsibility issues. The CFCs/HFCs Refrigerants such as chlorofluoring). standard was introduced in 2010. ocarbons (CFCs) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) have negative impacts on the enviEnvironmental aspects The parts of an ISO 50001 An international standard relating ronment as a result of their ozone-depletorganisation’s activities, products or services to energy management systems. ing properties and their effect on climate. that interact with the environment. Demand for more eco-friendly refrigerants is LWC Occupational accidents causing at least growing globally. Environment-related costs Costs attributone day’s absence (Lost Work Case). able to measures for preventing, reducing CLP Classification, Labelling and Packagor restoring environmental impact directly NGO Non-governmental organisation, a voling is EU legislation that addresses dangers caused by the organisation’s operations. untary organisation. posed by chemical substances and mixtures The same applies for costs concerning the and how users should be informed about occupational environment. The costs include NOx (nitrogen oxides) Gaseous oxides them. These regulations were introduced in administration, purchase of services exterformed during combustion processes 2015. nally, authority fees, environmental managethrough the oxidation of nitrogen. Harmful ment system maintenance, waste and exterto health and the environment and causes Code of Conduct Guidelines for Nolato’s nal inspections and audits. acid rain and eutrophication. employees, Board of Directors, suppliers, etc. regarding business ethics, the environment, Environment-related investments InvestOccupational disease A work-related disease labour relations and social responsibility. ments for preventing and reducing environis a disease caused by long-term exposure mental impact from the organisation’s operato a particular factor in the occupational Conflict minerals Tantalum, tin, gold and tions. The same applies for investments to environment. Examples are noise, dust and tungsten are referred to as conflict minerals if enhance the occupational environment. solvents. they originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and neighbouring countries. The Extrusion A method for continuously manuOccupational injury A work-related injury term arose because of the armed conflicts in facturing products in strands, such as tubing. is a sudden incident (accident) attributthe region, where mining operations often able to work that gives rise to a wound or contribute to continued conflicts and lead to Global Compact A UN initiative for responsiother injury. Typical injuries in the polymer human rights abuses. ble business practice. Participating organisaindustry are cuts, falls and injuries caused tions undertake to endorse ten fundamental by heavy lifting and repetitive tasks. Nolato COP Communication On Progress is an principles in relation to human rights, occureports occupational injuries as an accident annual report submitted to the United pational conditions, the environment and that causes more than one day of absence, Nations specifying how Nolato operates anti-corruption. Nolato became a signatory called Lost Work Case (LWC). The rate is according to the 10 principles of the Global to the Global Compact in 2009. gauged by the number of occupational injuCompact. ries per 1,000 employees (LWC/1,000). GRI The Global Reporting Initiative has CSR/CR Corporate Social Responsibility/ established voluntary comprehensive guideOHSAS 18001 Standard relating to health and Corporate Responsibility is a term that lines for how companies and other organisasafety in the workplace. It will be replaced by encompasses how companies handle issues tions should report their sustainability activithe ISO 45001 standard. concerning the environment, social responties. GRI G4 was introduced in 2013. Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 31 / 32 PCB Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group cation of watercourses and soil. Large conhigh pressure into a mould in which the comof industrial chemicals that are hazardous to centrations are harmful to human health. ponent is formed. health and the environment. The use of PCB was prohibited in Sweden in 1972, but the Sustainable development Development that VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds). A group substance remains in the environment due to “satisfies today’s needs without jeopardisof organic compounds that easily vaporise its slow decomposition. ing future generations’ possibilities to satat room temperature. The concentration of isfy their needs”. Sustainable development volatile hydrocarbon in the air has a negative Polymers Chemical compounds comprising encompasses ecological, social and financial effect on health and the environment, e.g. it very long chains made up of small, repeatsustainability. contributes to the formation of ground-level ing units (monomers). Plastic and rubber are ozone. examples of polymer materials. Lean manufacturing A systematic method for the efficient management of resources. Lean Water footprint The total volume of fresh REACH EU chemical legislation for the safer manufacturing aims to identify all the factors water used to produce a company’s goods handling of chemicals. Chemical substances in a production process that do not create and services. must be registered for a certain use and value for the customer. particularly hazardous substances can have restrictions imposed on them. The energy efficiency directive The EU directive that was introduced in 2015 and RoHS EU legislation limiting the use of certhat, among other things, covers energy tain substances that are hazardous to health audits at large companies. Nolato is subject and the environment. to the directive. SO2 (sulphur dioxide) Sulphur dioxide is Injection moulding A method for manufacformed in the combustion of petroleum turing polymer components. The material, products. The gas contributes to the acidifisuch as a type of plastic, is injected under Nolato Sustainability Report 2015 32 / 32 Nolato AB Nolato Hertila Nolato Lövepac Nolato Silikonteknik SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden Persbogatan 1 Ringvägen 5 Bergsmansvägen 4, Street address: Nolatovägen SE-265 38 Åstorp, Sweden SE-280 40 Skånes Fagerhult, SE-694 91 Hallsberg, Sweden Phone: +46 431 442290 Phone: +46 42 66880 Sweden Phone: +46 582 88900 Fax: +46 431 442291 Phone: + 46 433 32300 Beijing, China Email: info@nolato.com Nolato Hungary 402 Longsheng Industrial Park Nolato MediTech 7, Rong Chang Road East Nolato Beijing Jánossomorjai utca 3 HU-9200 Mosonmagyaróvár, Hungary Box 93, SE-242 21 Hörby, Sweden Beijing Development Area 402 Longsheng Industrial Park Phone: +36 96 578770 Street address: Medicingatan Beijing 100176, P.R. China 7, Rong Chang Road East Phone: +46 415 19700 Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 Negoiesti, Romania Beijing Development Area DIBO Industrial Park, H13 Lomma, Sweden Penang, Malaysia Beijing 100176, P.R. China Negoiesti, Prahova, Box 28, SE-234 21 Lomma, Sweden Nolato EMC Production Center Phone: +86 10 6787 2200 Romania, 107086 Street address: Koppargatan 13 Lot 1107 & 1108, Jalan Kebun Baru San Diego, USA Phone: +46 415 19700 IKS Juru Light Industrial Estate 16208 Palomino Mesa Ct Nolato Jaycare 14100 Bukit Mertajam San Diego, CA 92127, USA Nolato MediTor Penang, Malaysia Phone: +1 858 859 5270 Walton Road, Farlington Phone: +604 50 40 706 Portsmouth Hampshire, PO6 1TS SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden Nolato Cerbo United Kingdom Street address: Nolatovägen Phone: +44 2392 370102 Phone: +46 431 442260 www.nolato.com Box 905, SE-461 29 Trollhättan, Sweden Newcastle, United Kingdom Street address: Verkmästarev. 1-3 New York Way, New York Ind. Park Nolato Plastteknik Phone: +46 520 409900 Newcastle upon Tyne NE27 0QF Box 4123, SE-422 04 Hisings Backa Paris, France United Kingdom Sweden 15, Rue Vignon Phone: +44 191 296 0303 Street address: Exportgatan 59 FR-75008 Paris, France Phone: +46 31 588400 Phone: +33 1 47 975284 Lövepac Converting 4th Floor, Building 3, Nolato Polymer Nolato Contour No. 21 Xingsheng Road SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden 660 VandeBerg Street BDA, Beijing, 100176 Street address: Nolatovägen Baldwin, WI 54002, USA P.R. China Phone: +46 431 442200 Phone: +1 715 684 4614 Phone: +86 10 6780 5580 Ängelholm, Sweden Shenzhen, China Framtidsgatan 6 Nolato Gota Unit 401, Factory 2 SE-262 73 Ängelholm, Sweden Box 29, SE-533 21 Götene, Sweden Hasee Hua Sai Industrial Park Phone: +46 431 442200 Street address: Alsborgsgatan 2 #466, Ji Hua Road, Bantian Phone: +46 511 342100 Longgang District Shenzhen, 518129, P.R. China Phone: +86 755 8610 6804 Penang, Malaysia Nolato EMC Production Center Plot 368, Lorong Perindustrian Bukit Minyak 21, Penang Science Park, 14100 Simpang Ampat Penang, Malaysia Phone: + 604 50 57 830
