United Nations Global Compact: Communications on Progress By Generation Alliance Pty Ltd For the period 23 July 2015 – 30 July 2016 CONTACT: info@generationalliance.com Tel: +61 (0)2 8292 1900 Image supplied courtesy of Pacific Islands Trade & Invest 1. INTRODUCTION STATEMENT OF CONTINUED COMMITMENT Generation Alliance Pty Ltd (Gen.a) is proud to be a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and a member of the Global Compact Network Australia (GCNA). This Communication on Progress Report demonstrates our continued support for the Global Compact and its Ten Principles. Since 2009, Gen.a has been a signatory to the United Nation’s Global Compact, a foundation member of the GCNA Steering Committee and until recently, a Board member. We are a small business committed to social development and compliance with the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Within Australia, our business has played a leadership role in helping to promote the work of the GCNA and the value of the Global Compact to small businesses, particularly within the creative industries sector. We also actively promote the Ten Principles of the UNGC through our work with international clients, particularly in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific Islands. I have pleasure in presenting our 2016 Communication on Progress. David Faulks Managing Director 23 July 2016 2 2. EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION This section details Gen.a commitment to the UNGC’s Ten Principles across areas including human rights, the environments, labour and anti-corruption. In 2015 and 2016, Gen.a has actively furthered its commitment to the Ten Principles through numerous activities, procedures and systems. Gen.a intends to continue and develop this commitment over the next 12 months. In our 2015/16 Business Plan goals, we have made specific commitment to ensure we work with clients that are engaged in international development agenda and the principles of the UNGC. As strategic brand and communications consultants we have worked with international clients and stakeholders including the African Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), Pacific Islands Trade and Invest, the State Secretariat for Economic Aﬀairs (Switzerland) and the Department of Foreign Aﬀairs and Trade (Pacific Women in Business and Partnering Pacific). Our commitment to human rights and labour has been supported by our recent hire of a researcher, Raphael Manirakiza, who is a political refugee seeking asylum in Australia from Burundi. Raphael is engaged across Gen.a’s business and is an important part of our team. We have written, designed and produced a children’s book ‘Dream a Little Dream’ which is being distributed as a welcome gift to refugee families in Australia. The details of our commitment is further demonstrated on the following pages. 3 2. EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION Gen.a is committed to embedding the principles of the UNGC in their everyday business. Below is a summary of our progress and development over the past 12 months working towards the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Principle Gen.a ….. Examples Measurement of outcomes HUMAN RIGHTS • Supports the Universal 1. As part of a World Bank initiative, Gen.a • Code of Conduct Declaration of Human has worked on the creation of a country developed to deal with Principle 1 Businesses Rights brand for The Gambia with the aim of abuses of human rights, should support and respect increasing international perception and no reports registered. the protection of • Acknowledges the addressing human rights record, to internationally proclaimed Traditional Custodians and increase investment, visitation and • No investigations, legal human rights; and the present Aboriginal and export potential. Gen.a continue to cases, rulings, fines or Torres Strait Islander provide communications support and other relevant events to Principle 2 Businesses people who reside in this advice to the Government of Gambia. report. should make sure that they area. are not complicit in human 2. Gen.a has provided high-level strategic rights abuses. • Is committed to advice to the Government of Vanuatu maintaining and related to leveraging their national brand supporting the health and strategy to deliver greater value back to safety of all employees, the people of Vanuatu. Gen.a will aim to contractors and visitors. continue this work throughout 2016/17. 3. Through a joint initiative between the Australian Government’s Department of Foreign Aﬀairs and Westpac, Gen.a has provided design and editorial services to a new initiative around encouraging women in the Pacific to engage in business and finance projects titled Pacific Women in Business. 4. Writing and production of a children’s book, ‘Dream a Little Dream’ which was donated as a gift to welcome refugee families and children to Australia. 4 2. EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION Principle Gen.a ….. Examples Measurement of outcomes LABOUR • Has systems in place to 1. As per 1. To 3. above under Human • Significant support for monitor and manage Rights. gender equality in the Principle 3 Businesses labour rights issues within workplace 50% of should uphold the freedom the business. 2. Through a joint initiative between the employees are female. of association and the Australian Government’s Department of eﬀective recognition of the • Creates a safe and secure Foreign Aﬀairs and Westpac, Gen.a has • Introduction of intern right to collective bargaining; workplace for employees. provided design and editorial services to policy – ensuring a good a new initiative around encouraging representation of age Principle 4 Businesses • Supports the elimination of women in the Pacific to engage in groups within the business should uphold the employment business and finance projects. and reward for eﬀort. elimination of all forms of discrimination, child labour forced and compulsory and forced labour. 3. Implementation and monitoring of an • No investigations, legal labour; internal Code of Conduct ensures that cases, rulings, fines or • Committed to ensuring employees understand their rights, other relevant events to Principle 5 Businesses comparable pay for responsibilities, compensations and report should uphold the eﬀective comparable work. benefits. abolition of child labour; and • Is committed to the 4. Regular internal discussions with Principle 6 Businesses development of principles employees about topical human rights should uphold the to support employment and labour issues and suggestions to elimination of discrimination conditions in the coming improve the business and support in respect of employment year. mechanisms, including accessible and occupation. professional development. 5. A commitment of 10% of profits to lowbono and pro – bono work with clients who encourage businesses to work in ways which support the UNGC’s 10 principles. 6. Employ and support individuals across various demographics including the recent hire of Researcher who is a political refugee in Australia from Burundi. 5 2. EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION Principle Gen.a ….. Examples Measurement of outcomes ENVIRONMENT • Is committed to reducing • Purchasing of recycled paper products • Quarterly reports on the impact of its operations (including paper towels, printing paper, recycling of cartridges and Principle 7 Businesses and services on the toilet paper etc.) oﬃce products, from should support a environment. Close the Loop – total of precautionary approach to • Recycling and proper disposal of printer 27.5 kg of waste diverted environmental challenges; • Is committed to the cartridges, excess electrical equipment from landfill in Australia. ongoing measurement and and e-waste. Principle 8 Businesses monitoring of • Internal awareness of should undertake initiatives environmental initiatives • A preference to work with Forest environmental awareness to promote greater and protocol within the Stewardship Council (FSC) certified tested through weekly WIP environmental responsibility; business. printers wherever possible. sessions for all staﬀ. and • Aims to continue to reduce • No investigations, legal • Development of car-pooling programs Principle 9 Businesses its impact on the cases, rulings, fines or and walk to work incentives for should encourage the environment in the coming other relevant events to employees. development and diﬀusion of year. report environmentally friendly technologies. • Election to pay the carbon-oﬀset surcharge (i.e. when travelling). • Participation in an internal clothes recycling project “Exchange for Change.” ANTI-CORRUPTION • Is committed to high • Change of Conduct enforced for all • No reports of corruption, standards of personal, employees, suppliers and contractors to extortion or bribery within Principle 10 – Businesses ethical and professional maintain ethical and professional the business through should work against all forms conduct. standards within the business. internal issues of corruption, including management mechanism. extortion and bribery. • Supports the UN Convention against • No investigations, legal Corruption. cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to • Will continue to develop its report. support against corruption in the next year. 6 3. SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITY In 2015/16 Gen.a continued its work in social development and Volunteering Support community support locally and internationally. The following examples demonstrate Gen.a’s commitment to in the Ten Gen.a supports employees who wish to volunteer their time and Principles and the impact of this within our local community over make a diﬀerence in the local community. This commitment is the past 12 months. outlined in Gen.a’s internal Code of Conduct. Dream a Little Dream Exchange for Change Gen.a have demonstrated our support of human rights within Gen.a employees hold a regular clothing swap and make a the local community through writing, designing and producing a donation to the charity of their choice including the Australian children’s book, ‘Dream a Little Dream.’ The book is a gift for Red Cross and Sydney Children’s Hospital. refugee families and is illustrated with a series of Australian images about waking up full of joy and hope. Through a crowdfunding project, we raised $11,000 to help cover the cost of printing 4000 copies that we have donated to refugee families. We want to create a sense of optimism, a joy of family and hope for the future. The book has a special connection to the Australian environment through the inclusion of uniquely Australian animals, but is relevant to children anywhere. 7 CONTACT: info@generationalliance.com Tel: +61 (0)2 8292 1900
