RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com TH 20 February 2016 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) FOR YEAR 2015 On behalf of Rongai Workshop & Transport Ltd.’s I would reaffirm our Company’s support for and commitment to the UN Global Compact initiative and its ten principles in respect of human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. We have long striven to demonstrate that it is possible to run a commercial trucking business with these principles as the foundation. Given that in Kenya, as in many African nations, many children and adults have less than adequate access to education and information, poverty levels are considerable, jobs are difficult to find and there is little or no social welfare support we feel it is vital that businesses should assist wherever possible to raise awareness of all these matters, enhance their efforts at best practice and lead by example. In 2015 having joined the UN Compact as well as looking to the future to see how best to position ourselves for transition to third generation, we embarked on a long term, Company-wide training to reexamine our Vision and Mission as well as our overall Company structure as a prelude to embarking on Kaizen-type lean management training to reduce waste of all types including time and effort to get the job done. We closely examined our priorities and core values and felt it important to redefine and reinvigorate RONGAI’S VISION : “TO BE THE TRANSPORTER AND EMPLOYER OF CHOICE BY 2017” and further detailed RONGAI’S MISSION to achieve our Vision by:  Offering efficient, reliable and customized transport solutions to our customers.  Providing best employment conditions and growth opportunities to our employees enabling empowerment.  Ensuring fair returns to our shareholders’ investment with ethical practice.  Achieving the above through safe, sustainable and environmentally friendly practices whilst enhancing community development. In this first annual Communication on Progress made I am happy to report on the actions and initiatives that we have made in 2015 to integrate the Global Compact and its principals into our business thinking, culture and our working lives. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders through as many channels as we can. We have added our Vision and Mission to our website as a first step and we update our website with our activities as often as we can. Rongai Workshop & Transport Ltd. was started by Mr. Gordon Eccles in 1947 as an agricultural workshop in rural Rongai near Nakuru but soon added transport to the range of services offered to local farmers and plantations in the area. The Company was incorporated in 1966 as Rongai Workshop & Transport Ltd. with its extensive workshop now devoted to the maintenance of our current 100 truck articulated fleet. We transport import and export containers from and to Mombasa, Nairobi and most areas in Kenya for raw materials, agricultural produce as well as for distribution of locally manufactured goods and 2 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com commodities and offer our transport customers and logistics partners container handling and temporary storage facilities at our three sites in Mombasa, Nairobi and Rongai. Strong ethics and a continuous drive for high standards in all areas of our operation have been a hall mark of Rongai’s operation and Rongai looks forward to our 70th anniversary in 2017. We joined the UN Global Compact in February 2015 wishing to add our effort to this noble initiative to promote respect and support for human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption and to also learn further from like-minded companies what else can be done to thoroughly embed and re-inforce these principles throughout our organization and in our relationship with all our stake holders. FOCUS ON ENHANCING HUMAN RIGHTS Primarily through our Human Resource Department and our Director of Health, Safety and Environment we seek to provide our whole workforce (numbering 294 people in December 2015) with decent working conditions that go beyond mere compliance with statutory requirements. Our organization has always recognized the implications/importance of good health amongst our employees, a safe working environment and promotion of best practice in all aspects of our operations, all of which impact motivation and productivity. In the past this health and safety consciousness was generally conveyed to our workforce informally by hands-on training, daily operational communication and board bulletins/notices and to new employees via induction and section supervision while under probation. However in recent years we have made conscious efforts to formalize, review, upgrade and sensitize our workforce on the importance of EOH&S, its integration as part of our daily work and operations as well as to ensure compliance with all regulations to conserve our environment and natural resources as well as endeavor towards an accident/illness and discrimination free, healthy and safe work environment. This has taken a great leap forward in the second half of 2015 with the introduction to and implementation of THE 6 “S” SYSTEM through our Kaizen type training: 1 S SORTING • Space Saving • Improved work efficiency 2 S SYSTEMATIC • Reduced search time ARRANGEMENT • Improved response 3 S SHINING • Healthy, clean work environment • Abnormalities are visible & corrected 4S STANDARDIZATION • Higher productivity • Better Quality 5S SELFDISCIPLINE • Habit of doing right • First time right • Total employee Involvement 6S SAFETY underpins everything Ensuring safety while doing all the above 3 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com During the course of 2015 we have put in place or thoroughly reviewed the following policies to uphold human rights within our organization:  Workplace Policies in Place:  Health Provision Policy  HIV/AIDS Policy (includes Discrimination)  Implementation & Management Plan for H&S in the Workplace  Environment Policy & Management Plan  Ethics Policy  Discrimination Policy  Emergency Action Plan  Fire Safety Policy  Dangerous Occurrence Policy Any new policies or amendments to existing policies have been discussed and disseminated through our weekly hour (Wednesday 2 pm) OSHA briefings either as a General Assembly or in Departments as well as in sectional briefings. We comply in all aspects of the National OSH Act 2007 Health & Safety Compliance but go well beyond mere compliance as we seek to develop individuals through training and enhance their prospects for promotion as well as access to information on general health and welfare issues, life style choices through the following:  Trained OSHA team in place, quarterly self audits & mitigation meetings held.  All our employees are encouraged to be self disciplined & take up responsibility to ensure our workplaces are kept safe & healthy through weekly H&S Briefs. All statutory safety trainings are undertaken, First Aid & an Emergency Action Plan with designated responsibilities in place to ensure we always have sufficient trained personnel on site at any time  Comprehensive Workplace Programmes through Peer Education since 2008, partnering & networking with various NGOs like APHIA II RV, APHIA PLUS, was reinvigorated in the last quarter of 2015 when we found and signed up with DANDELION AFRICA (through to the end of 2016), for once-a-month, onsite Peer Education enrichment on topics requested by employees including HIV/AIDS & integrated Health awareness, healthy lifestyles, Reproductive Health & Family Planning, sensible budgeting, combating stress, etc with a monthly DANDELION DAY. We planned to dedicate more days for Drivers/Turnmen & for Employees Wives as well as part sponsor a local Community Reproductive Health Outreach in Rongai Area. These activities happen in working hours and our work load is scheduled to allow as many employees as possible to be freed up and encouraged to attend. The Dandelion Africa group is dynamic and enthusiastic and we are delighted to see the active interest their approach has generated 4 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com COMPREHENSIVE WORKPLACE PROGRAMME 2015 SAFETY AT WORK CELEBRATING INTERNATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY DAY : 29/4/2015 General Assembly. 2015 Theme: Joining together to make a preventative culture for OSH in our Workplace. Role play performances by all workshop sections presented to assembled employees. Video recorded by IT Dept. H&S Motivational Competition Launched: for the best Personal Reponses List on ‘How to present yourself for work & work in a safe & healthy manner” Winner to share their list with everyone in the workplace SAFE WORK PROCEDURES FOR MACHINES & EQUIPMENT  Disseminated Safe Work Procedures during Wednesdays H&S Toolbox/Briefs for all High & Medium Risk Machines & Equipment identified from Workshop Risk Assessment.  Celebrated International H&S Day by declaring May H&S month including access to company internet in quiet time/lunch hours to H & S clips and interactive discussions in relaxed setting to mark H & S Month. HEALTH MONITORING  In-house Clinic staffed by a Company Nurse who runs a daily health/first aid clinic who decides whether to refer to local clinic or to Company doctors/hospitals in Nakuru.  Driver Health monitoring – including annual eye checks & pro-active management of any chronic health issues,  Employees who know their HIV status and have requested support go for monthly review at St. Mary’s Hospital HIV Clinic Gilgil at company expense.  Treated nets given out free as PPE for our drivers and turnmen who move between high risk malaria areas and available at subsidized cost price to other employees  Raincoats sourced and cost shared for all our workshop & on site employees Rongai, Mombasa & Nairobi yards with high visibility tape added to ensure those on the move after dark can be clearly visible for road safety  Close monitoring of hygiene standards and nutritious menu in Company canteen on site.  5 Bay shower room provided on site for mechanics to wash before leaving for home.  AAR ON SITE HEALTH DAY 10/6/2015 – A resident AAR Doctor Nakuru & her team came all day to talk on healthier lifestyles, better ways to combat stress & avoidance of alcohol dependency. BMI & BP monitoring in Healthroom for all employees during the day. PASTORAL CARE Thought for the Months of 2015: Monthly inspiration from anyone willing to share/ encourage workplace colleagues January Searching for true contentment in today’s consumeristic world. H&S Director February – Good Parenting – Are we passing on important eternal/spiritual values. Workshop Coordinator 5 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com March – Are you Stressed out about money – Need for fiscal/self discipline and realistic budgeting Managing Director April – Seek Wisdon & Understanding – recognise/seek out/emulate wise people avoid bad company – Workshop Supervisor May – Appreciating your Wife – sharing a list of what a good wife does to help with wellbeing of family – HR/Admin Assistant June – 7 Billion Dreams, 1 PlanetConsume with Care – Launching Environment Month H&S Director July – Be Mindful of the Grapes in Your Pocket – Count the blessings the Company gives you before speak out harmfully & undermine the collective benefit – H&S Manager August – Benefits of bringing some fun into the Workplace – humour/fun needs to appropriate/caring but boost morale/positivity as well as creativity – Fuel Manager SeptemberEmpowering Ourselves – Propelling & restraining forces needed in our lives for true balance. H&D Director October – 5 Keys to Unlocking God’s purpose for our lives – God’s promises come with challenges, call to persevere but focus/have faith in Him. – Mechatronics Technician November – Developing & Promoting a Safety Culture at the Workplace – Guest Speaker OSHA Auditor December – Choices have Consequences – Evaluate properly before you make one. IT Manager. PEER EDUCATION  Promotion through Peer Education Groups 5 widely shared values of CONTINUITY, NATURE, WELLBEING, FAIRNESS & DEMOCRACY.to encourage Progressive Parenting & Functional Families, endeavouring to open minds & promote individual responsibility towards promoting a better, shared world, conservation of natural resources to pass a brighter future for all species & generations to follow.  Second Chance & Alcohol Dependency Counselling for re-employed skilled mechanic with history of dependency.  Peer Educators Refresher Course (3 days in July) Nakuru provider Wellness Assistance Initiatives to supporting local entrepreneurship & employment as well as adding 5 new Peer Educators to our Team now 14 strong.  DANDELION DAYS – OctDec 2015 we requested Dandelion Africa to trial a partnership arrangement with us whereby their education team with MOH medical partners come on site one day per month to help us enrich our Peer Education, at the same time provide some income generation for them to assist with their Reproductive Health/Family Planning Outreaches in the Rongai Area. This was well received & we have agreed to continue for 2016 for our mutual benefit. Topics presented/discussed in groups were: October: HIV/ADIS Awareness/How to disclose status with family & workplaces to ensure good support, November: Importance of Self Discipline & the role of men in society. Prostate Cancer Screening & VCT services were availed. 36 employees tested HIV Status & 32 over 40s screened for Prostate. December – Prostate Cancer Awareness for Drivers – Christmas Eve a special Drivers Dandelion Day arranged. Discussions, Screening & Voluntary testing opportunity availed to our long distance drivers & crews who sometimes miss out as they are on the road. 6 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT EMERGENCY RESPONSE 13/1/2015 – Rongai Fire Team responded to Fire Emergency in Rongai Town – Market centre & succeeded in putting out the Fire with no loss of life before the Nakuru County Fire Engine reached the scene. Letter of appeal to Local Authorities sent requesting an Emergency Action Plan with persons responsible & mobile contacts put in place so that our fire team of key personnel are not put at high risk for lack of professional/public firefighting capacity and request for a review of town planning to avoid overcrowding & lack of access DANDELION REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH/HIV/AIDS & SALGAA MEDICAL OUTREACH/WIVES DAY Salgaa Chief’s Office on 27/3/2015 Provided tents & benches & water tanker, cash donation to paid MOH nurses, stationery, diesel fuel & chemist items as well as helping with mobilization on day. Interested employees were given transport allowance for their wives to attend. Our Peer Educator team also helped people manage & peer education.  481 people seen and treated by MOH doctors  214 women Family Planning of which 110 were screened for Cervical Cancer  VCT 100 people tested  777 people dewormed  5 Immunisations given RONGAI COMMUNITY POLICING MEMBERSHIP Our H&S Director or Security Team Leader attends the monthly meeting of all local authorities in charge of public security, DO, Policy, AP s, Chairmen of Nyumba Kumis (community watch groups) & Gogar Farm Security Network & vehicle team. Any matters for public dissemination given out to our workforce at H&S Briefs. Our Community Policing Group was commended by the County Governor & Chief of Police as one of the best in country presently. Maintenance of Rongai Police Vehicle – we provide once a month maintenance service & repair as necessary assisting with spares sourcing & free labour COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY Water supplied to MOH Rongai town clinic during dry weather when no borehole provision, 10,000L tanker sent once a week or when required. Local Schools water provision Rongai Sacred Heart Boys Secondary School when pump broke down. RONGAI YOUTH SUPPORT Supplied Rongai Lonestars football team with uniforms & footballs for 2015 & together with other neighbouring businesses provide fuel & sponsorship for away matches. The team came 3rd in the County League & have now graduated into the Super League. We will continue to support them where possible and will also provide support to bringing another Rongai youth team up to County level. We found it is very effective way to engage youth in our area RONGAI INTERCOMPANY HEALTH DAY 2015 We celebrate annually World Aid Day together with 6 other neighbouring companies by holding a health/sporting/fun day for 25-30 strong representative company teams to promote healthier lifestyles amongst our workforces. Theme 2015 “What you do for yourself in life leaves with you when you go but what you do for others remains as your Legacy” 7 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com th Sunday 29 November’s programme included:  Intercompany cross country 3 Kms mixed gender relay at 7.30 am followed by  Picnic Breakfast for all participants followed by a  Fun games:  Peer Educators Song/dance presentation – by Gone Fishing Ltd, reminding all on risks & fall out from unacknowledged HIV infection.  Drama presentation by Dandelion Africa highlighting need for responsible roles men should play in family life for healthy functional families. The need for leaders & examples in our communities to positively influence the younger generation & society at large.  Dandelion Africa/MOH provided Prostrate Cancer Screening for men & VCT services for all  Guest Speakers invited: 1. Uzima Filters – Start with One NGO who brought their bucket filters & advised on good hygiene & properly filters drinking water. 2. Rongai Youth for Change – ACK Church group promoting behavior change in our County youth. 3. MOH Doctor spoke on benefits of Prostate Cancer Screening & warned on risks of multiple sexual partners not only for HIV transmission but also the direct link with Human Papiloma Virus which cause Cervical Cancer in women.  Awards & Asante Ceremony – Winners of the Relay mini trophies/ medals & 2015 Overall winners of the Intercompany Challenge Trophy  Efforts were made this year to ensure a representative group of 25 long distance drivers were also present for our annual Health Day & most took advantage of the Prostrate screening services. Company Directors and the Senior Management Team are fully committed to enhancing lives of all our employees through helping to provide useful information and insights into how our employees might best cope with the challenges of their daily lives whether at work or at home. Considerable resources in time, effort and money are put towards this. LABOUR Rongai has been Unionized for more than four decades, we believe in equal opportunity for all subject to the physical and skill demands of any job irrespective of any other consideration and we also firmly believe in the right to representation and a fair investigation and fair hearing in the event of any productivity or disciplinary issue. We do not employ minors, we seek to employ all workers on a permanent basis other than temporary hand labour chores, actively encourage long service and seek to promote from within where possible positions and opportunities become available and offer in-house training and guidance to individuals for who show aptitude for higher positions of responsibility. CBA 2015/2017: we negotiated a new Collective Bargaining Agreement with our recognized Union, which will run to 31st May 2017, which saw a raise of 12% in basic minimum wages with generous annual average increment for each of the two years for existing employees, as well as increments in Housing Allowance, Leave Travel Allowance and safari allowances. 8 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com The Company has long had an open door policy, now assisted by largely open plan offices, where senior Management including Executive Directors are available to any member of the workforce of whatever rank in the event their concerns are not being addressed through their Department supervisors and managers. To help encourage and widen communication challenges we hold forum meetings with our drivers on a regular basis, at least every two months where on the given day, those who are able to attend are encouraged to raise concerns and challenges they face to senior management and get immediate3 feedback or an undertaking to look closely at the issue. In 2016 the Forum will be held every month and incorporated into our meeting calendar. In 2016 we seek to extend and tailor our 6 ‘S’ principles to our long distance drivers who largely work offsite to better promote their understanding of and engagement with the Company, its vision and mission to further assist drivers to manage the heightened challenges of their work/family life balance and provide a counter to the often non-constructive culture of the trucking industry. The Senior Management are currently drafting a written Disciplinary Policy to clarify our procedures and process in this respect and to this end the Managing Director and Human Resource Manager attended a Workshop for ensure best practice and close compliance with current legislation and Labour Department expectation for the same. ENVIRONMENT Rongai is committed to ensuring we protect our environment to the very best of our ability and continually seeking to find better ways to improve on our footprint on our environment. We have long focused on high standards of maintenance of our trucks, trailers, service vehicles and other equipment in use in our business to ensure minimum possible effect on the environment. The introduction of the 6 ‘S’ system through our lean management training has a large component of protection of the environment under pinning it not least by the drive to reducing unnecessary waste of resources, by keeping our workplaces clean and well ordered. Rongai has a long tradition of re-cycling, and we continually seek to find new and additional areas in which we can re-cycle our waste productively. We adhere to all the standards and recommendations issued by NEMA although we are often frustrated by the lack of easily available information on opportunities for better disposal of waste which we cannot re-use ourselves. Environmental Compliance We undergo an Annual Audit by outside and registered auditors, which includes asking our neighbours for feedback, this report is sent to NEMA. We put together a programme and budget allocation to upgrade any areas we deem feasible for the year as recommended for such by our Auditors. We have very strict approach to cleaning up any debris or displacement of vegetation in the event of a serious accident on the road. 9 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com We only deal with licensed Re-use and Scrap dealers and make a great deal of effort to visit and understand how and what our waste items are used for. We measure and document our production of waste products as well as the disposal; we continually assess and refine how we may lower the volume of residual waste products which makes good business as well as environmental sense. We consult widely to find better ways to dispose of our waste products and drive continuous improvement in this area. Enhancement of Environmental Awareness In 2015 we linked Peer Education in with Environment via VALUE OF NATURE & why we need to preserve our natural resources & ecosystems & our human impact on other living species & reasons we humans also need them for our wellbeing. 3/6/2015 General Assembly in Workplace to launch World Environment Month & Theme 7 Billion Dreams, 1 Planet, Consume with Care. Video Clips were shown and interactive discussions with their respective Peer Ed groups in the Company training room. Continued our Partnership with FOMAWA (Friends of Mau Watershed) to help defray their vehicle operating expenses and in addition Rongai sponsored K.shs 100,000 to fence and plant: i) Half acre income generation woodlot for Shalom (IDP) Primary School, Rongai. The area was fenced to keep out livestock, 500 seedlings planted. ii) Further half acre fenced to add to existing half acre of woodlot at Lenginet Primary School, Rongai District –due to harsh climatic reasons in late 2015 this is still unplanted and awaits long rains in April 2016. Friday 5th June 2015 the RWS Environment Team visited both Schools, engaged with the pupils on importance of trees, reason for & maintenance of their woodlot. A Wangari Maathai memorial Peace Olive tree was planted and resources donated to both schools Environment Clubs. Award were presented to pupil “tree carers” pupil bodies shown video clips of inspirational work of some of Kenya’s environmental campaigners like Wangari Maathai and David Sheldrick. July 2015 Installation of ECO Cooker to save wood energy & provide for easier/more hygenic cooking facility for the catering team. The canteen was upgraded. Workplace Environmental Awareness 2015  17/5/2015 Solid Waste Management practices & awareness of where our wastes are disposed. Filling Part 1 of Enviro questionnaire for NEMA self-audit.  24/6/2015 Re visiting our Environment Policy & discussions on company performance for Environment & suggestions for improvements for Part II of NEMA self-audit questionnaire  Prevention of Oil/Fuel spills, cleaner work practice, need to rectify leaks quickly & provide sufficient drip trays Sorting of Wastes in sections generated for easier identification of re-usable items and those for disposal 10 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com ANTI-CORRUPTION Rongai Workshop & Transport Ltd has a very long standing and high standard of ethics and we do not condone or perpetrate any form of corruption in our business relationships. Our Company Profile, often distributed to and discussed with existing and prospective clients and suppliers has a prominently displayed Business Ethics page which reads as follows: Our ethics are strictly adhered to and remain a central business tenet for the Company:  A strict “no bribery” policy in all areas of business, whether with the various arms of the Government, Police or Port or in private business relationships with clients and suppliers  We load within the axle limit Government regulations  Transparent accounting practices including good tax compliance  We seek to offer fair remuneration and good working conditions to all employees  We seek to continually improve our HSSE standards beyond mere compliance This clearly stated and adhered to stance is a critical part of our value system as a Company and makes us stand out from the crowd in the road transport industry in Kenya. Our uncompromising position on this, loses the Company considerable business opportunities and we also recognize that corruption has a major and negative impact on the development of Kenya as a destination of choice for business and economic empowerment of its populace. We often struggle with the challenges faced in our day to day operation by maintaining our stance in this respect and it has been one of the major reasons why in the last few years we have joined several additional business associations such as Kenya Association of Manufacturers, Shippers Council of Eastern Africa and others as we seek to find new strategies from a wide group of people who are all very keen to counter corruption and eradicate it and why when we heard about UN Global Compact activities in early 2015 we were immediately keen to join a world wide body committed to Anti-corruption ideal as well as the support for the other nine principles. We believe it is not only important for individual Companies to “walk the talk” but also as stakeholders in the long term, to engage positively and proactively through such organizations with Government Ministries and policy makers to help ensure laws are fair and encourage compliance and that enforcement of those laws is widely applied without fear or favour to level out the playing field to enhance and accelerate sustainable national development. To this end, I have attended a seminar in 2015 offered by UN Global Compact to understand how to better ensure adherence throughout the Company to corruption free practices as well as several breakfast sessions addressed by prominent business leaders who have shared how they deal with some of the challenges of refusing to indulge in “the fast track” and encourage corruption free approaches to all relationships in the course of their business dealings. 11 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com Employees take pride in our reputation for a very standard of ethics, which earns them respect in their work and home lives. We continually encourage and teach how important it is that they personally act in an open and honest fashion and train, particularly our drivers, how to approach and relate to people who may be seeking to harass them to provoke an opportunity for bribery. PROMULGATION OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES We would like to make this COP report available to all our stakeholders and will upload this report as part of our website and would ask that it be uploaded to the UN Global Compact Website. We would also like to be able to avail a copy to our Customers and Suppliers on request. Our shareholders and all members of our Board of Directors value the opportunities for participation, information and support provided by our membership of UN Global Compact and this COP report will form part of our AGM Agenda for the Year 2015. We have had very hectic and productive 2015 as we have sought to re-evaluate and re-define our Company Vision and Mission and continue our long term training and implementation of Kaizen type lean management in a sustainable and measured manner to further encourage engagement and development of all our workforce and to clearly exhibit our foundation principles and values. We look forward to a busy and invigorating 2016 under what look like challenging business conditions and would thank UN Global Contact for their assistance and initiatives in promoting the very essential principles of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption VANESSA EVANS MANAGING DIRECTOR RONGAI WORKSHOP & TRANSPORT LTD 12
