SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015-16 Just as necessity is the mother of invention, disruption is the father of progress. It is wellunderstood that the challenges that exist in the world today, cannot be solved by the level of thinking that created them. It is imperative to apply Alternative Thinking. Disruptions change entire ecosystems. One such success story is our 'H2Infinity drive' that saw the Mahindra Group achieve Water Positive status. Through the Integrated Watershed Management WE We are disrupting the sustainability narrative Project, we are rejuvenating water availability and empowering over 20,000 people in 32 villages across Damoh, by shifting focus from Madhya Pradesh. These are the kind of disruptions that we love. The ones that enliven natural ecosystem, create jobs, cause conservation to economic surge and raise the standard of living. rejuvenation. WE Across history, progress and higher standards of While reducing consumption may sound as the easiest route, living have been achieved not by cutting demand, the best we can achieve is optimisation. Post optimisation, but by rejuvenating supply sources. absolute consumption will increase as billions Thus, the key to sustainability lies in developing a feasible in the developing world climb up the alternative to conservation. This will ensure, we do not paralyse standard of living ladder. progress by the scare of scarcity, but go in hot pursuit of plenty. index Executive Messages 01 66Product Performance 05 01 Message from Chairman & Managing Director 73 Overview 03 Message from Chairman, Group Sustainability Council 74 Management Approach 75 Environmental Impacts 73 79 Health & safety Impacts 82 Social Impacts 85 Compliance REPORTING PROCESS 85 Marketing & Communications 07 05 Report Boundary 05 Report Scope Limitations 05 Feedback & Suggestions Economic Performance 07 Independent Assurance Statement 87 Overview 89 Management Approach 90 Highlights 92 Performance 89 93 Local Supply Business Proﬁle 94 Financial Implication of Climate Change 09 The Mahindra Group 95 13 Mobility | Automotive Division 15 15 Mobility | Farm Division Environmental 95 Overview Performance Corporate Governance 97 Management Approach 98 Environmental Policies 17 Overview 99 Environmental Management 17 Shareholder Value 100 Air Quality 27 18 Governance Framework 103 Biodiversity 19 Purpose & Values 23 Codes of Conduct 106 Energy SOCIAL Sustainability & Us 25 Policies 25 Compliance 114 Water 118 Waste PERFORMANCE 121 Materials 125 Management Approach 29 Overview 26 Public Policy Advocacy 127 Key Highlights 123 Packaging 30 Sustainability Structure 27 Awards 129 Policy & Governance 124 Spills 31 Materiality 133 Investments 124 Compliance 35 Roadmaps & Progress 134 Esops Employee Social Options 36 Stakeholder Engagement 58 145 Educational Support 151 Health Support 153 Cultural Contribution Driven by our People 43 Overview 45 Management Approach 51 Talent Management 57 Employee Engagement Annexures Sustainability Snapshot 155 202 202 Acronyms 61 People Policies 66 Health & Safety 206 Glossary Subsidiaries & Associates 208 GRI-G4 Content Index MESSAGE FROM As I had shared with you last year, our practice of reporting our sustainability performance was triggered by an investor who asked us, eight years ago, if we had a triple bottom line report. That made us realise that it is not enough to act sustainably; we must also CHAIRMAN & MANAGING DIRECTOR let people know about it. And we have been doing so ever since. So it is a pleasure to share with you the strides that we have made on the triple bottom line parameters of profits, people and planet since the last report. Our focus last year was on institutionalising sustainability by adopting customised roadmaps for major businesses, and creating a tighter fit between sustainability and the businesses. This year we have gone one step further and integrated the brand philosophy of Rise with our sustainability journey. The current narrative on sustainability emphasises limits how resources which were once in abundance are now limited; how we have breached the limits of the natural ecosystems; how there are limits to growth, limits to economies of scale, limits to human productivity. In short, the focus is on conservation and reduction. This has propelled us to think beyond just conservation, to rejuvenation. Our Rise philosophy encourages us to accept no limits and to use alternative thinking to drive positive change. This has propelled us to think beyond just conservation, Doing Our Keeping Our Commitments to Forging to rejuvenation Bit for the Planet Through our Integrated Watershed Management Communities India is in the throes of an Global Bonds We continue our quest for learning and a journey Project (IWMP), we are rejuvenating water resources and empowering over 20,000 people agrarian crisis and farmer suicides are alarmingly high. from the best globally by collaborating with internationally back to abundance. in 32 villages across Damoh, Madhya Pradesh, with assured water availability, opportunities for livelihood and better standard of living. This To help address this issue, the Group launched 'Seed the Rise'India's largest crowdfunded recognised bodies in the field of sustainability. The United Nations Climate Change Conference COP 21 in We are trying programme has received the Ninth Aqua Foundation 'Excellence Award for Promoting CSR effort. This digital initiative raises funds from urban Paris has given a fresh impetus to aligned action on climate change. I to do this Sustainable Agriculture & Rural Development'. I am also proud to share that Mahindra & centres for the welfare of farmers, and the total amount witnessed this impetus first hand, when I had the honour of addressing in many ways. Mahindra Limited is the first company globally to sign the EP-100 programme launched by The collected is matched by the Group. INR 10 million was raised from donors in a period of 40 the gathering at the signing ceremony of the Paris Agreement at the United Nations HQ in New York, as the Climate Group. The programme aims to get days. Another initiative is our representative of the corporate world. some of the world's most influential businesses start-up Trringo, through which to commit to doubling their energy productivity Looking ahead, the journey from we are developing an and maximising the economic output from each constraints to abundance will be long ecosystem of organised rental unit used, by 2030. Within our locations, we are and complex. Nevertheless, it is the of farm equipment in rural reconfiguring the energy mix to include energy only long term solution and I am sure India. The objective is to from abundant sources. We have commissioned that with our heightened awareness, provide the benefits of solar power plants worth 2.5 MWp this year. enthusiasm and dedication, we will mechanisation to economically Beyond our walls, Susten, our solar EPC vertical rise to the challenge. marginalised farmers. executed external projects of 544 MWp. As part of our community The Mahindra Group has planted 1.23 million outreach, we are committed to trees this year as part of Project Hariyali, our help the government in continued endeavour to add to India's green addressing city cleanliness cover. This brings the total number of trees Anand Mahindra issues and are working closely Chairman, Mahindra Group planted since the inception of this initiative with Municipal Corporation of to over 9 million. Greater Mumbai on a comprehensive, four-phased 'Swachhmev Jayate' exercise. 01 02 MESSAGE FROM CHAIRMAN, This year has been a very special one in our sustainability journey. At Mahindra, we have been focussing on GROUP SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL rejuvenating ecosystems, re-energising communities, and reconfiguring our products and supply chain to ensure sustainable growth, and also involving our stakeholders across the spectrum in addressing issues of sustainability. Promoting Responding to Sustainability Product Performance Measurement Indices In the Auto and Farm divisions, our focus This year our disclosures conform to the fourth generation ‘GRI G4 CORE continued to be on rolling out green, Option’. This enhances the quality of our sustainability report by making it smart & inclusive products and initiatives. focus on issues which are of critical importance to our stakeholders. In Complementing the sustainability report e-Maxximo, the electric vehicle pilot project was launched as part of the Indian addition, the Mahindra Group has also reported its performance against the 10-point declaration of the India Business & Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI). is our newly-developed Government's National Electric Mobility Mission Plan. GenZe 2.0, the world's first connected electric scooter, was launched Sustainability Dashboard, in the US in December 2015 and the first waterless car washing service station was rolled out in India. Additionally, we Global Recognition Industry recognitions, ratings and awards give us the confidence that we are which helps us monitor introduced new-generation lighter tractors with increased fuel efficiency and greater on the right path to make our business more sustainable. Listed here are some awards M&M received across the three sustainability pillars. progress on sustainability versatility across 15 hp, 45 hp and 60 hp categories, in order to better serve a wide spectrum of farmers. Retained place in the Emerging Markets List of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the third straight year parameters across Featured in CDP’s Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for actions to address climate change all businesses in a Partnering the Supply Chain Ranked amongst the top 10 sustainable companies of India in 2015 with Platinum Rating by CII’s Sustainability Plus system. structured manner. We re-engineered our supply chain management system to streamline and improve the environmental footprint of Won the CII-ITC Sustainability Award 2015 for Excellence in Sustainable Supply Chains suppliers in our Auto & Farm divisions. A Recognised as the ‘Best Company for CSR in India’ in a survey conducted by number of improvements in packaging India’s leading business publication, The Economic Times. and transportation were identified and implemented, leading to significant Declared the ‘Manufacturer of the Year’ at the Overdrive Awards conducted by outcomes such as a 31% decrease in the CNBC-TV18, a leading business channel on Indian television. use of wood in packaging. Assigned the Baa3 rating with stable outlook by Moody’s Investor Service, a leading international credit rating agency. Addressing Received ‘Conglomerate of the Year’ and ‘Company of the Year’ awards at the Operational Efficiency ICICI Lombard & CNBC TV 18 India Risk Management Awards and ‘Golden Peacock Award for Risk Management’. We reduced our dependence on fresh water by greater use of recycling. Our Igatpuri facility set up a 10 kl/day bio-filter While we are proud of the progress we have made and the accolades we have plant to treat water from the canteen, received, we are aware that this is a journey and that we must always be on yielding twin benefits of water our toes. Thank you for taking the time to review this report. Please share conservation and organic manure your feedback with us, so we can strengthen our efforts on sustainability. generation. In a similar effort, Mahindra Research Valley in collaboration with Mahindra World City commissioned a bioCNG plant which can convert 10 tons of Ulhas Yargop food waste every day into biogas. Chairman, Group Sustainability Council, Mahindra Group 03 04 REPORTING PROCESS G4 17, 18 MAHINDRA SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING JOURNEY Report Boundary 9 The reporting period of M&M Ltd for its ninth Sustainability Report is 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016. As mentioned in our first Sustainability Report in FY 200708, we remain committed to report our triple bottom line performance on an The Report Includes: 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 annual basis. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Automotive Division (AD) Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Farm Division (FD) For this Report, we are following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Swaraj Division (SD) Sustainability Reporting G4 Guidelines. The most widely adopted non-financial Spares Business Unit (SBU) reporting framework in the world, the GRI Guidelines are used to help Mahindra Research Valley (MRV) communicate sustainability performance and encourage transparency & Corporate CentreMahindra Towers-Worli (CC) accountability. Report Scope Limitations This year too, the Report is aligned 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 with the nine principles of Ministry This Report is India-centric and excludes: of Corporate Affairs' National Voluntary International operations Guidelines (NVG) on social, environmental SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2015-16 and economic responsibilities of business. Businesses which were acquired or commenced operations in FY 2015-16 Companies / plants / locations of manufacturing sectors:  Mahindra Trucks and Buses Ltd. (MTBL)  Mahindra Navistar Engines Pvt Ltd.  Mahindra Aerospace Pvt Ltd.  Ssangyong Motor Company Ltd. 2015/16 This report has been  Swaraj Engine Ltd. externally assured by KPMG, India.  Mahindra Gujarat Tractor Ltd.  Mahindra Graphic Research Design  Mahindra (China) Tractor Co. GRI has confirmed  Mahindra USA INC that the report was  Mahindra Yueda (YANCHENG) Tractor Co.  Mahindra Ocean Blue Marine prepared according to the GRI G4 guidelines As always, your valuable feedback and suggestions are Location of the organisation's with Core rating. solicited to sharpen our efforts and reports. Please spare headquarters Call our toll free number a few minutes to share your insights. Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Please email your suggestions / views / opinions to: Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, sustainability@mahindra.com Mumbai 400 001 05 06 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Draft Independent Limited Assurance Statement to Mahindra & Mahindra Limited on their MAIN ELEMENTS OF OUR WORK OBSERVATIONS Sustainability Report for Financial Year 2015-16 We have obtained all the evidence, information and explanations that were considered The following is an excerpt from the observations and necessary in relation to the assurance scope and to arrive at conclusions mentioned opportunities reported to the management of the below. Our work included a range of evidence-gathering procedures including: company. These do not, however, affect our conclusions To the Management of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited regarding the Report Mahindra Towers, Dr. GM Bhosle Marg, Worli, Mumbai 400018 • Assessment of stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment process for 1 Principal of 2 Principal of 3 Principal of determining material aspects Materiality Stakeholder Stakeholder • Interaction with the senior management at various plant locations and the Inclusivity Responsiveness corporate sustainability team • Assurance site visits to sample sites namely; INDEPENDENCE INTRODUCTION General Standard Disclosures Automotive Sector (Kandivali; Nashik Plant 1, Nashik Plant 2); The assurance was conducted by a multidisciplinary team • Organizational Profile (G4 3 – 13, G4 15 – 16) including professionals with suitable skills and experience KPMG India was engaged by Mahindra & Farm Division (Kandivali; Zaheerabad Plant, Swaraj Plant 1, Swaraj Foundry); Mahindra Limited (M&M) to provide • Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries (G4 17 – G4 19) in auditing environmental, social and economic Spares Business Unit (Bhiwandi); information in line with the requirements of ISAE 3000 independent limited assurance to their • Stakeholder Engagement (G4 24 – G4 26) standard. Our work was performed in compliance with Corporate Sustainability Report ('the Report') Mahindra Lifespaces (Mahindra World City; Jaipur); Residential projects for the Financial Year (FY) 2015-16. the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for • Report Profile (G4 28 – 33) (Ashvita in Hyderabad; Antheia in Pune); Professional Accountants, which requires, among other • Governance (G4 34) Mahindra Finance (Mumbai; Nashik); requirements, that the members of the assurance team Assurance Standards Tech Mahindra (Pune Hinjewari; Mumbai; Hyderabad); (practitioners) as well as the assurance firm (assurance We conducted the assurance in accordance • Ethics and Integrity (G4 56) provider) be independent of the assurance client, in with: Mahindra Intertrade (Mumbai; Vadodara); relation to the scope of this assurance engagement, • Limited Assurance requirements of Specific Standard Disclosures Mahindra Logistics (Mumbai; Kolkata); including not being involved in writing the Report. The Mahindra Susten (Mumbai; Telangana; Jodhpur); Code also includes detailed requirements for practitioners International Federation of Accountants' • Economic regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence (IFAC) International Standard on Economic Performance (G4 EC2, G4 EC4), Procurement Practices (G4 EC9) Mahindra Holidays and Resorts (Virajpeth; Kandaghat); and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 3000, Mahindra First Choice Services (Mumbai; Bangalore) KPMG has systems and processes in place to monitor Assurance Engagements Other than • Environment compliance with the Code and to prevent conflicts Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial • Evaluating the Report's content to ascertain the in accordance option as per Material (G4 EN1), Energy (G4 EN3, G4 EN5 6), Water (G4 EN8, G4 EN 10), regarding independence. The firm applies ISQC 1 and the Information, Global Reporting Initiative's G4 Guidelines Biodiversity (G4 EN11), Emissions (G4 EN15 – G4 EN21), Effluents and Waste practitioner complies with the applicable independence Under this standard, we have reviewed (G4 EN23), Overall (G4 EN31) • Testing on a sample basis, the evidence supporting the data and information and other ethical requirements of the IESBA code. the information presented in the report against the principles of • Evaluating the appropriateness of the quantification methods and models used • Social RESPONSIBILITIES relevance, completeness, reliability, to arrive at the data presented in the Report. Labour Practices and Decent Work neutrality and understandability. Employment (G4 LA1), Labour/ Management Relations (G4 LA4), • Verification of systems and procedures used for quantification, collation, and M&M is responsible for developing the Report contents. Occupational Health and Safety (G4 LA6), Training and Education (G4 LA9 10) analysis of sustainability performance indicators included in the Report. M&M is also responsible for identification of material sustainability issues, establishing and maintaining • Type 2, Moderate level assurance Human Rights • Understanding the appropriateness of various assumptions, estimations and appropriate performance management and internal requirements of AA1000 Assurance Non Discrimination (G4 HR3), Freedom of Association and Collective materiality thresholds used by M&M for data analysis. control systems and derivation of performance data Standard 2008 by AccountAbility. Bargaining (G4 HR4), Child Labour (G4 HR5), Forced or Compulsory Labour • Discussions with the personnel responsible for the evaluation of competence reported. This statement is made solely to the (G4 HR6), Security Practices (G4 HR7) required to ensure reliability of data and information presented in the Report. Management of M&M in accordance with the terms of Under this standard, we have our engagement and as per scope of assurance. Our reviewed the nature and extent of Society • Discussion on sustainability with senior executives at the different plant Local Communities (G4 SO1 – 2) work has been undertaken so that we might state to adherence to the AA1000 locations and at the corporate office to understand the risk and opportunities M&M those matters for which we have been engaged to AccountAbility Principles and the from sustainability context and the strategy M&M is following. Product Responsibility state in this statement and for no other purpose. To the quality of publicly disclosed Customer Health & Safety (G4 PR2) fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or information as part of the Report assume responsibility to anyone other than M&M for limited to performance CONCLUSIONS our work, for this report, or for the conclusions indicators/information required by the SPECIFIC LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS expressed in this independent assurance statement. Reporting Criteria. We have reviewed the Sustainability Report of Mahindra and Mahindra Limited. Based on our review and procedures performed as described above, nothing has The assurance engagement is based on the assumption • Verification of claims was limited to data and information presented in the that the data and information provided to us is report for the period 01 April 2015 to 31 March 2016. Data and information in the come to our attention that causes us not to believe that: ASSURANCE SCOPE report was not subject to verification complete and true. We expressly disclaim any liability or • The Report is in accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines and covers M&M's co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity The report was based on the Global sustainability performance covering its operations as mentioned in the scope. would make based on this assurance statement. By • Any statement/ remarks/ comments indicating intention, opinion, belief and/ or Reporting Initiative's (GRI) G4 Guidelines – aspiration by M&M were excluded from scope of assurance. reading this assurance statement, stakeholders 'in-accordance' core option and included • The standard disclosures and key performance indicators presented in the report acknowledge and agree to the limitations and • Determine which, if any, recommendation should be implemented by M&M, are fairly represented in line with the identified material issues. data and information for the period of 01 disclaimers mentioned above. April, 2015 to 31 March, 2016. The reporting boundary included M&M and its subsidiary • The assurance statement does not include verification of financial performance companies mentioned in the Report. The indicators/information that was sourced from M&M's FY 2015-16 Annual Report. Santhosh Jayaram GRI aspects and performance indicators • Assurance visit was limited to those sites mentioned in the Assurance Procedure. Partner, Climate Change & which were assured include: Sustainability Services KPMG 7th July, 2016 07 08 Our aim is to make 'Mahindra' one of the 50 most admired global brands by 2021. A brand that empowers BUSINESS PROFILE people to RISE to their dreams and achieve their full potential. A premier Utility Vehicle (UV) and farm solutions provider, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. is the flagship Company of the Mahindra Group. Since assembling our first vehicle in 1947, we have grown rapidly. We commenced our exports in THE MAHINDRA GROUP 20 key industries the 1960s, and today our vehicles and tractors can be found in all six continents of the world. Buoyed by a phenomenal growth 200,000+ people in revenues, profits and geographical spread in the last decade, we are pursuing our aspiration of making 'Mahindra' a globally admired brand. 100+ countries ‘Mahindra’ is the largest selling 1 purpose to enable people to tractor brand, by volume, We are a USD 17.8 billion in the world global federation of Companies, headquartered at Mumbai, India with operations in 20 key industries that form the foundation of modern economy. Our federal structure empowers each we strive Accepting No Limits Company with entrepreneurial freedom and supports it with Group-wide to build synergies, results in a thriving and not just products & sustainable business model. services, Already a frontrunner in the fields of but new Alternative Thinking utility vehicle manufacturing, information possibilities technology, tractors, financial services, for a truly sustainable real estate and vacation homes, we are surging ahead in aerospace, aftermarket, future. automotive components, consulting services, defence, energy, logistics, retail Driving Positive Change and two wheelers. ‘Mahindra’ is the only Tractor company in the world to have been awarded the Guided by the Deming Prize and the Japan Quality Medal three pillars 09 10 H I G H L I G H T S At the historic Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. and Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. became the ﬁrst Indian Company 'Paris Agreement on Mahindra Lifespace Developers Ltd. to join 'EP100', a global energy campaign led by 'The Climate represented the business world at Group', an international non-proﬁt group. The campaign will the United Nations Climate Change work with the world's most inﬂuential businesses in setting Conference COP 21 (Conference of the Parties) commitments to double their energy productivity Climate Change' signing ceremony at the UN headquarters in New York, Mr. Anand Mahindra represented the corporate world, amongst leaders from various countries, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. launched a digital campaign 'Seed the Rise', a Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. launched SmartShift businesses and NGOs crowdfunding initiative for farmers. a technology-enabled load The aim is to raise funds for farmers, exchange platform. SmartShift from urban crowds, match an equal will act as an exchange platform amount from Mahindra and use the for cargo owners and money for farmer welfare, through transporters, enabling them carefully selected projects to work with each other Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. was M&M Ltd. and Tech Mahindra Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. The Auto & Farm Sector Mahindra's new start-up The AFS won the 'CII-ITC assigned Baa3 foreign currency have jointly entered into an emerged as the best Company (AFS) signed an MoU dials-in to rural India Sustainability Award 2015 and local currency issuer rating agreement with Pincar S.r.l. to for CSR in India amongst 115 with Govt. of Maharashtra with www.trringo.com. for Excellence in with stable outlook by Moody's purchase a controlling stake in companies covered under a (MSRDC) in partnership Trringo will be India's Sustainable Supply Chain' Investors Service, a global credit Pininfarina S.p.A., an iconic ﬁrst-of-its-kind study of with SaveLIFE Foundation foremost organised rental rating agency. With this, M&M Italian brand in the automotive 'The Best Companies for CSR' by for the 'zero fatality business model for is now amongst the few Indian and industrial design space Futurescape and IIM Udaipur, corridor initiative' farm equipment corporates who enjoy 'Investment commissioned by For more information, please visit Grade' rating 'The Economic Times' http://www.mahindra.com/about-us 11 12 Shareholding Pattern M&M 2015-16 M&M declared 'Manufacturer of the Year' As on 31st March, 2016 at the CNBC-TV18 Overdrive Awards 2016 Category of Shareholders Total Holdings Holdings in % M&M participated in the FAME India Eco Drive Promoters and Promoter Group 157,989,015 25.44% to promote green electric mobility in India on H I G H L I G H T S the occasion of World Environment Day 5 Mutual Funds / UTI 18,740,00 23.02% Banks, Financial Institutions, Insurance Companies, 93,667,367 15.08% Central and State Governments AD's Igatpuri, Nashik and Haridwar plants bagged the 'Economic Times' India Manufacturing FIIs / Foreign Bodies / Foreign Portfolio Corp 232,502,915 37.43% Excellence Award 2015' Domestic Companies 31,499,476 5.07% The GenZe 2.0, the world's first connected electric Trust 2,286,196 0.37% scooter, rolled out in December 2015 in the US Clearing Members 1,443,265 0.23% NRIs / OCBs / Foreign Nationals 3,549,746 0.57% Mahindra Automotive Australia signed Matthew Hayden, former Australian cricketer, as its brand The Bank of New York Mellon (for GDR holders) 34,530,583 5.56% ambassador for the next three years Others Individuals 44,883,819 7.23% Swaraj (Plant 1) inaugurated the Employee Value Total 621,092,384 100.00% Proposition (EVP) lounge in the presence of around 500 employees The cumulative vehicle production of all the plants touched MOBILITY | AUTOMOTIVE DIVISION MILLION VEHICLES and the milestone was celebrated across all Automotive Division (AD) plants In 1947, we introduced the Utility Vehicle (UV) to India. Nearly seven Businesses in the division decades later, we remain India's No.1 UV manufacturer with a http://www.mahindra.com/What-We-do/Automotive/Companies Mahindra Graphic Research Design* range of category-defining http://www.mahindra.com/What-We-Do/Automotive/ vehicles that are tough, reliable, L A U N C H E S Companies/Mahindra-Graphic-Research-Design refined and built to thrill. Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited Today, we offer a complete http://www.mahindra.com/What-We-do/Automotive/ portfolio – from electric vehicles Companies/Mahindra-Vehicle-Manufacturers to SUVs; from passenger cars to heavy commercial our vehicles Spares Business Unit (SBU) SsangYong Motors Mahindra introduced XUV5OO XCLUSIVE edition, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. entered ply the roads in more than 70 www.mahindra.com/What-We Do/Automotive/ officially launched 'Tivoli' with features of electric sunroof, voice messaging the Madagascar market with its countries globally. We are Services/Mahindra-Spares in Seoul, South Korea system and sporty aluminium pedals premium and commercial vehicles, creating world-class R&D facilities including the SUV category Mahindra Navistar Automotive* in India and the US, and along comprising Mahindra New XUV5OO http://www.mahindra.com/What-We-do/Automotive/ Maxximo', the first electric vehicle pilot project with our Group Company, and Mahindra Quanto Companies/Mahindra-Navistar-Automotive under the aegis of the Government of India's SsangYong Motors of South TUV3OO, designed in-house National Electric Mobility Mission Plan launched Korea, we aim to create a top Ssangyong Motor Company* and built on an all new M&M launched Jeeto, a new global mobility brand. N E W http://www.mahindra.com/What-We-do/Automotive/ platform, launched in 2015 sub-1 tonne mini truck with 8 Mahindra South Africa introduced a new version Companies/Ssangyong-Motor-Company variants and three configurations of its popular 'Genio' single cab utility vehicle and 'Mahindra Bolero Maxi Truck Plus' of varying loading deck lengths Mahindra REVA Electric Vehicles Pvt. Ltd. www.mahindra.com/What-We-do/Automotive/ Companies/Mahindra-Reva-Electric-Vehicles KUV1OO introduced at Supro Maxitruck, a modern load carrier with a Mahindra made its eagerlythe Auto Expo 2016 in payload capacity of 1 ton and suitable for intraanticipated entry into the New Delhi and inter-city transportation of goods, UK automotive market with * Mahindra Graphic Research Design, introduced in Sri Lanka the launch of the innovative Mahindra Navistar Automotive, e2o electric city car Ssangyong Motor Company 13 are not in the scope of this report. For more information please visit 14 http://www.mahindra.com/business/automotive Received the ninth Aqua Foundation 'Excellence Award for Promoting Sustainable Agriculture & Rural Development' for its Integrated Water Management Programme (IWMP) at Damoh H I G H L I G H T S Mahindra Shubhlabh Services Ltd. (MSSL) expanded its global footprint by shipping its first container of Red Globe grapes from Piura in Peru to Europe Won the Grand Master Sustainability Rise Award 2.3 2015 for 'Outperformed Sustainability Performance' FD won the Mahindra Samriddhi India Agri Awards (MSIAA) 2016. Instituted in 2011, the Mahindra Samriddhi India Agri Awards are bestowed upon the farmers and institutions to recognise their noteworthy and purposeful contribution to the field of agriculture Annual sales of over 230,000 units & over MOBILITY | FARM DIVISION MILLION TRACTORS sold till date We are the world's number one tractor Company (by volume) with Businesses in the division annual sales of over 230,000 units and over 2.3 million tractors sold till http://www.mahindra.com/What-We-do/Automotive/Companies Mahindra (China) Tractor Co.* date. With the mission of driving farm http://www.mahindra.com/What-We-do/Farmprosperity globally, we have expanded L A U N C H E S Equipment/Companies/Mahindra-China-Tractor-Co into farm-support services like end-toend mechanisation solutions under Mahindra Yueda (Yancheng) Tractor Co.* Mahindra AppliTrac, and agri-inputs, http://www.mahindra.com/What-We-do/Farmadvisory and post-harvest services Equipment/Companies/Mahindra-Yueda-YanchengTractor-Co through the Samriddhi Initiative. FD Nagpur inaugurated Launched the Arjun Novo 605 DI-I 4WD, a new Green & Smart Data Centre In India, our market share is 42.7% Mahindra USA Inc.* the first steel weld shop tractor variant that carries forward the inaugurated at Swaraj R&D, as and with over 50 years of insights, we http://www.mahindra.com/What-We-do/Farmfor Novo sheet metal technological advancement of the Arjun Novo the Mohali Swaraj R&D Division have set up India's most advanced Equipment/Companies/Mahindra-USA-Inc and sets a benchmark in the 57 HP category becomes the first unit of M&M tractor R&D facility in Chennai. The to commission the Smart Row only tractor Company to win the Mahindra Samriddhi Solution Data Centre www.mahindra.com/What-We-Do/Farm Mahindra Agri Business prestigious Japan Quality Medal and Introduced two new tractor models Swaraj 717 Equipment/Services/Samriddhi forayed into dairy Deming Application prize, our products with 20 HP engine and Swaraj 960 FE with 60 business with 'Saboro' are supporting farmers in more than N E W Micro-irrigation Business EPC Industrie Ltd. HP engine, catering to farmers of marginal and 40 countries across six continents. large land holdings respectively Mahindra Powerol M&M's Agri Business launched NuPro – a range of high-quality branded edible oils and pulses for the health conscious Indian * Mahindra (China) Tractor Co., Mahindra USA Inc. and Mahindra Yueda (Yancheng) Tractor Co. are not in the scope of this report. 15 For more information please visit 16 http://www.mahindra.com/business/farm-equipment GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK All stakeholders whether external like the shareholders, debtholders, trade creditors, suppliers, customers and The governance framework at M&M communities or internal like the board of directors, executives brings all our auto and farm sector At M&M, and other employees can prosper together sustainably, only if there is a strong commitment to business principles. subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures under its ambit and firmly instils the Group's objectives in everyday we derive At M&M, all the policies, procedures and practices are in place, operations. It includes comprehensive A strong to not only meet statutory regulations, but also the long term monitoring of the progress and strength from interests of all the stakeholders. spearheading operational excellence across those verticals. governance Board Committees framework our core values Driven by transparency, integrity and M&M Limited, the flagship Company of the Mahindra Group directly runs two is the Board Committees are formed to plan and oversee key initiatives on vital accountability, the top leadership at M&M to deliver ensures that the top-line growth is accomplished with equitable societal development and businesses: Automotive Division and the Farm Division; and is the chief backbone operations of M&M. These committees ensure implementation, streamlining shareholder in all the other entities. on which and monitoring, giving appropriate value creation environmental conservation. All Group Companies have their own rests the direction to the day-to-day working of the companies. Currently, the Board has for the nation & for the planet. independent Boards of Directors, governance structure and policies which long-term the following Committees: align with those of M&M. Companies who have not formulated their individual sustainable 1 Audit Committee policies also follow M&M policies. growth for all Governance Remuneration 2 and Nomination Committee CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Mahindra & Mahindra won the Golden Peacock Award 2015 for Board of Directors stakeholders. excellence in Corporate Governance and ICSI National Award 2015 The vast experience and varied for being one of the two accomplishments that our Board members Share Transfer and Shareholders / 3 Investors Grievance Committee best governed Companies coming from diverse fields bring to the table, paves the way for a robust structure that guides M&M's actions and operations to maximise stakeholder's interests with integrity and responsibility. 4 Research & Development Committee (a voluntary initiative of the Company) Shareholder Value 5 Strategic Investment Committee For details please visit http://www.mahindra.com/ Investors/mahindra-and-mahindra/Governance At M&M, we have a symbiotic relationship (a voluntary initiative of the Company) with our shareholders and the engagement Our corporate website www.mahindra.com with them is not only limited to sharing the provides comprehensive information and an profits, but also their insights. Interactive platforms are in place to have a continuous exclusive 'Investor Relations' section which informs and addresses shareholder needs. An 6 Loans & Investment Committee (a voluntary initiative of the Company) and consistent exchange of perceptions to exclusive email ID 'investors@mahindra.com' enhance value creation, where we share the has been designated for the investors Corporate Social Responsibility 7 (CSR) performance and progress, while soliciting towards registering complaints and the same pointers and perspectives. These lead to has been displayed on the Company's website Committee possibilities and plans that results in increased shareholder value as well as trust. The quarterly, half-yearly and yearly results The CSR Committee formulates the sustainability agenda, recommends to the are published in national and local dailies. board and oversees the implementation of the policies governing the nine The Chairman, along with the entire Presentations are also made to international principles of business responsibility. Dr. Pawan Goenka, a member of the board board, addresses the investors and and national institutional investors and has been entrusted the charge of executing the newly articulated Business provides clarifications at least once every analysts that are uploaded on the website of Responsibility Policies and Mr. Rajeev Dubey has been nominated as the BR year during the Annual General Meeting the Company and available to all stakeholders head, responsible for the implementation of the BR policies and communication Twice a year, the Chief Financial Officer We also regularly post information relating to to the CSR Committee and/or the CSR Council, on the status of the (CFO), along with senior management, financial results and shareholding pattern on implementation of BR policies from time to time. reaches out to investors across the globe Corporate Filing and Dissemination System during investors and analyst interactions. viz. www.corpfiling.co.in, the common platform In addition, there is a dedicated Investor launched by BSE and NSE for electronic filing Relations Cell to meet visiting investors by listed companies 17 18 CORE PURPOSE Our Core Purpose delineates our purpose of existence and binds the entire M&M workforce across the globe to develop solutions which can create a sustainable future. It sets our aspirations to grow as a sustainable business and outlines our approach to help our stakeholders to prosper and rise. To challenge conventional thinking and innovatively use all our resources to drive positive change in the lives of our stakeholders and communities across the world to enable them to 19 20 Our Core Values inspire us to enable We will continue to seek long-term success in alignment with the needs of the communities the world to Rise and lead by sustainability – we serve. We will do this without compromising on ethical business standards. social, economic and environmental. Good corporate citizenship They are an amalgamation of what we have been, what we are and what we continue to be: Professionalism We have always sought the best people for the job and given them the freedom and the opportunity to grow. We will continue to do so. We will support innovation and wellreasoned risk taking, but will demand performance. Customer ﬁrst We exist and prosper only because of the customer. We will respond to the changing needs and expectations of our customers speedily, courteously and effectively. CORE VALUES Quality is the key to delivering value for money to our customers. We will make quality, a driving value in our work, in our products and in our interactions with others. We will do it 'First Time Right.' Quality focus We will value individual dignity, uphold the right to express disagreement, and respect the time and efforts of others. Through our actions, we will nurture fairness, trust and transparency. Dignity of the individual 21 22 CODE OF CONDUCT n du ct• f co e -o Implementation cod Mechanism t te ique eth The execution of the CoC is uct supervised by the Corporate ond • Governance Cell (CGC) at the -of-c Corporate level. ode •c The CGC comprises four members t te of the Group Executive Board, who ique eth represent business sectors as well uct as the Corporate Centre. The CGC • ond reports to the Board of Directors. -of-c In order to see that the Codes of ode Conduct are well understood and •c practised within the organisation, a formal mechanism has been put in place in the form of 'Corporate Change is imminent. On the one hand is the rapid pace with which we Governance Coordinators' at the business level and 'Corporate are growing and on the other, is the fast evolving business Governance Officers' at the environment and policy landscape. With growing revenues, increasing plant level. uc t t uc t uc These coordinators/officers are companies, spreading operations and surging employees, it is nd nd nd -co -co -co like 'listening posts', where imperative that we evolve our code of conduct as well. The refreshed de -of -of de -of de employees can report irregularities co co co noticed at the work place or get • • • Code of Conduct, which is germane and forward looking, was launched et te et te te et clarifications with regard to policy iqu iqu iqu compliance etc. The irregularities last year. This year, we continued to invest in its communication, so eth eth eth reported are then conveyed by the t• t• t• uc uc uc coordinators/ officers to the CGC, that it reaches all the stakeholders. -co nd -co nd nd -co who would take the matter -of de de -of -of de forward as deemed fit. co co co • • • te te te Benchmarked with the best in business, our new Code of Conduct is our iqu et iqu et iqu et Members of the central policy document, outlining the principles that every single person eth eth eth Corporate Governance working for and with the Company, must comply with regardless of Cell (CGC) as on location. In addition, individual business units issue policies that provide 31st March 2016 An all-inclusive structure, the more specific guidance about certain business practices. new CoC, enables effective Rajeev Dubey President, Group HR & stakeholder engagement, Aftermarket Sector faster & fairer decisions, (Convenor) transparent & unambiguous Behave in an Comply with the Seek guidance Report Pawan Goenka processes, and a professional & ethical conduct. ethical manner, principles and rules wherever non-compliance Executive Director & President, Automotive and Farm Sectors (Member) It underlines our take pride in in our Code, and required if we or breach of Ruzbeh Irani responsibilities to our people, our actions and fulﬁl our legal and feel a working our Code President, Group Communications & Ethics, Chief Brand Officer partners and shareholders as (Member) well as mandates us to: decisions regulatory practice is not immediately Ulhas Yargop President, Information Technology obligations ethical or safe Sector & CTO (Member) Mario Nazareth EVP, Corporate Management Services (Member Secretary) The appointment of a Chief There are many user-friendly features that are 'Ethics Decision Tree' and an 'Approval 'Q&A' and 'Dos & Don'ts' to Disclosures on various new governance Key Ethics Officer has been incorporated in the new document to enhance & Disclosure Matrix' to help every understand the code better and initiatives with regards to Violation For more details, please refer http://www.mahindra.com/Investors/ Highlights mandated by the new CoC clarity of thought and specificity of action employee make informed decisions translate the principles in practice Reporting, Whistle Blower Policy, etc. Mahindra-and-Mahindra/Governance 23 24 While everyone understands the importance of mobility, its environmental impact has been amatter of government POLICIES COMPLIANCE Anand Mahindra Chairman & Managing Director scrutiny inthe last decade. As one of the Mahindra & Mahindra Our policies are outcomes of our commitment to our As we keep raising our bar on corporate governance, biggest automotive manufacturer in India, core values and guide us in our day-to-day operations compliance is a non-negotiable must. Our compliance India Design Council Chairman and help in governance. They continuously evolve with committee ensures that all regulations are respected The Nehru Centre, Mumbai we participate in Indian and international prevailing regulations and by interactions with in letter and spirit. Being a global Company, we abide Executive Committee Member stakeholders. by all international and national laws, and uphold the organisations and think-tanks in order to Board of Trade, Government standards of transparency and accountability. Specific matters are addressed in detail in the of India Member shape better public policies. extensive Corporate Governance Policies of M&M Limited. Though these policies are not explicitly During the last eight years, Chief Minister's Advisory Council, Government of Rajasthan Member instituted across the entire Mahindra Group, it is an unstated decorum for all Group Companies to follow them in letter and spirit. there were no instances of Empowered Committee on Mumbai Transformation Member PUBLIC POLICY ADVOCACY The Mahindra Group's governance policies include: non-compliance by the Group Harvard Business School AsiaPacic Advisory Board Member Ulhas Yargop Pawan Goenka Corporate Communications | Disaster Management and no penalty or strictures Group President (IT Sector), Group Executive Director & President Harvard University Asia Centre Advisory Committee Member CTO & Member, Group Executive Board Automotive & Farm Equipment Sectors Employee Relations | Environment and Pollution Capital Budgeting | Corporate Finance | Quality were imposed on the listed Asia Business Council Member Member of the Advisory Board of Fellow of SAE International and the Harvard Business School (HBS) Indian National Academy of Engineers Global Board of Advisors of the Corporate Representation in Trade & Industry Forums Companies of the Group by Council on Foreign Relations Club of India Chairman of Board of Governors at Member Member of the Managing Committee IIT Madras Dealing with Dealers and Customers Stock Exchanges or SEBI or World Bank Group's Advisory Board of the Harvard Business School (India) Research Centre President of SIAM (Society of Indian E-business Security | Insider Trading | Intranet Usage for Doing Business Member Automobile Manufacturers) Investor Grievances | Investor Relations any statutory authority, on US-India Business Council Member Director on the boards of Tech Mahindra, Bristlecone, FixStream Sits on the Board of National Skills of the Board Technologies Inc. etc. Development Corporation (NSDC) Safety & Occupational Health | Human Resources any matter related to the Natural History Museum of London Managing Committee of Harvard National Council member of CII Sexual Harassment | Trade Marks Board of Trustees Business School (India) Research capital markets. We incurred Centre member Suppliers and Vendors of Services & Products World Banks's Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition Member Rajeev Dubey Board of Governors of the Mahindra Green IT Guidelines | Green Supply Chain Management no ﬁnes from any regulatory United World College President Group HR, Corporate Services and Aftermarket Sector of India member Business Responsibility Policy authority for non-compliance Rajesh Jejurikar President & Chief Executive for Farm A director on the board of President of the Employers' The United World Colleges Federation of India (EFI) Equipment & Two Wheelers, Member We abide by an all-embracing Business Responsibility of laws and regulation in the of the Group Executive Board (International) President of the National Human policy incorporating economic, social and environmental Resource Development Network A Trustee of K. C. Mahindra Education accountabilities of business as approved by our CSR President of the Tractor Manufacturers Committee Board. It is formulated in alignment with year 2015-16. Association (TMA) Trust, Mahindra Foundation and Tech (NHRDN) Mahindra Foundation the nine principles of Business Responsibility, required Co-chair of the National Committee on We continued to abide by Competition Act 2002 a Member of the Governing Body and a Skill Development of CII by SEBI as per clause 55 of the Listing Agreement. mandatory legislation that deals with anti-competitive visiting faculty at S. P. Jain Institute of Management & Research, Mumbai Ashok Sharma Serves on the CII National Committee behaviour. President, Agri and Africa & South Asia of Leadership and HR, and the CII Anti-corruption Policies and Procedures Co-opted Member of the Governing Operations MD & CEO, Mahindra Agri Apex Council on Afrmative Action Council of the Indo-French Chamber At M&M, any act of corruption is non-negotiable and Regulatory Compliance of Commerce & Industry (IFCCI) Solutions Ltd. Member of the Group Executive Board, Mahindra Group Member of the National Executive strict action is taken against anyone found indulging in We are 100% compliant to regulatory laws, guidelines Committee of the Federation of Indian such unprincipled act. Corporate Governance & Business Honorary position on the Enactus Advisor to the Union of Japanese Chambers of Commerce and Industry and specifications relevant to our business. Our audit India National Advisory Board Scientists & Engineers (JUSE) Ethics are an essential part of our induction process (FICCI) committee ensures strict adherence and regulatory and an integral part of our Code of Conduct. All compliance, round-the-year. In case any related Chairman of the CII TPM Club Serves on the Boards of Walchand employees are expected to exhibit the highest level of Pravin Shah of India Talent First, the Lal Bahadur Shastri observations are made, they are immediately brought President & Chief Executive integrity in every sphere of activity. to the notice of the site senior management and Institute of Management and (Automotive) & Member of the Group Technical Advisory Committee of Technology (LBSIMT), the School of necessary corrective actions are executed. Executive Board TUV Member Inspired Leadership (SOIL) and Magic Bus an NGO that works with Regulatory compliance is periodically reviewed by the Member of the SIAM (Society of CII Africa Committee and CII Western underprivileged youth Group Executive Board (GEB). Indian Automobile Manufacturers) Regional Council Member Executive Committee Member of the Council of Global Advisors of the Yale School of Co-chair of the SIAM Exports Group Management (Yale SOM), USA 25 26 AWARDS At M&M, we are driven by excellence and the accolades received strengthen our resolve to raise the bar higher. These appreciations received by peers and multiple industry bodies are a great testimony that Quality & Innovation Swaraj Division received People M&M Ltd. received global Environment Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., our intentions are being translated into actions and policies into performance. These recognitions encourage us to continue on the international acclaim for its recognition for its HR AD Haridwar was awarded Best path we have chosen to accomplish our objectives. Below given are some of the significant honours received during the year. Quality Circle (QC) initiatives practices, placing 10th in 'CSR Excellence Award in the at the International the prestigious 2014 Aon field of Environment' in the Convention for Quality Hewitt Top companies for category of Automobile Industry Control Circles in South Leaders study. at Uttarakhand by TV100 Korea The Automotive Division (AD) bagged the prestigious Automotive Division Employers Federation of received the 'Indiastar 2015' India's (EFI) 'Strong award for packaging Commitment to Employee excellence in the category Dr. Pawan Goenka Relations' Excellence Award Leadership of Transport Packaging in the pan-India category. Solution for Cargo Body Individual Awarded the 2016 FISITA Medal Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Auto Division's Igatpuri, of Honour for his 'particularly bagged two awards in the Top Design-Driven Industry and Top Trademark-Driven Nashik and Haridwar plants distinguished achievement and Industry categories amongst large enterprises in India bagged The Economic Times leadership in the global India Manufacturing Anand Mahindra automotive industry' and is the Excellence Awards ﬁrst Indian Represented the corporate world at the United Nations' historic Paris Agreement ceremony in the United States Named on the prestigious to receive this prestigious recognition After winning the coveted Deming Prize, the Deming Grand Prize, Barron's 2016 list of the Top 30 CEOs in the world TPM Excellence Award, TPM Consistency Award, Farm Division won the Conferred the Chevalier de la Legion d'Honneur (Knight of 'Special Award for TPM Achievement' from JIPM, Japan the Legion of Honour) by H.E. Mr François Richier, Ambassador of France to India Rajeev Dubey Felicitated at the Economic Times HR Excellence Summit 2016 for his outstanding contributions and achievements in the field of HR FISITA promotes knowledge sharing among The FISITA Medal is awarded stakeholders in a way that positively contributes to in recognition of particularly the development of safe, sustainable and affordable distinguished achievement mobility solutions and helps guide the future direction andleadership in the global of the global automotive engineering profession. automotive industry. 27 28 SUSTAINBILITY & US In the reporting year, we deﬁned 'what sustainability means to Our sustainability approach Mahindra' by institutionalising is governed by top-down a sustainability house which well captures our approach towards implementation, enabling the triple bottom line. strategic vision & action plan to not just steer grassroots Sustainability is a complex pursuit. An interconnected web of challenges with varying shades of intensity. The solution for This year, we have adopted a new school of alternative thinking by 'positively disrupting' the dominant sustainability narrative. interventions, but also monitor this triple bottom line construct cannot be sought in a straightjacketed fashion and calls for a systemic change. This is only With conservation becoming a way of life at Mahindra, the ambition now is to make a much larger contribution to the its e ectiveness and disclose it possible by challenging the status quo, continuously. resource challenge. We have, therefore, shifted our focus on rejuvenation of resources. In contrast to conservation transparently. At Mahindra, Alternative Thinking has empowered which was a demand reduction paradigm, us to evolve in every aspect, every year. Over rejuvenation is a supply enhancement the years, we have institutionalised strategy. Slowly but surely, we are sustainability not just at the bending the linearity, one BOARD COMMITTEE FOR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY corporate level, but at the resource at a time, to Set directions for promoting the CSR agenda for M&M Ltd. and all Group Companies level of each business. Enable enduring business create a circularity. by empowering the community SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURE and rejuvenating the environment CSR COUNCIL SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL Approves & monitors spends of philanthropic activities / Approves new initiatives and monitors progress of projects as per the mandate from the Board Committee integration of the ESG parameters in business & operations Rejuvenating enduring Empowering the Environment Business the Community Management of large & Management and GROUP SUSTAINABILITY CELL long term projects through Carbon Neutral Green Revenue Enable the the various Foundations coordination of Drives sustainability through awareness and Community to Rise across the Group employee volunteerism knowledge building across the Group Water Positive Manage Risks Zero Waste Reduce Cost Great place to work Supports individual businesses in integrating sustainability in strategic business processes and operations Supply Chain Evangelism Make all external disclosures SUSTAINABILITY CHAMPIONS Located at all plants / offices to locally drive & monitor various initiatives and collect data for reporting learning & sharing Give back more than we take 29 30 G4 18, 19, 20, 21, 24-27 Materiality is a fundamental principle We conduct this exercise on a In the reporting year, we underwent a of our sustainability approach. A periodic basis to stay abreast structured exercise to refresh, refine and mirror that reflects global emerging with the changing scenarios – redefine our sustainability focus. A stepissues, evolving stakeholder economical, ecological and social. by-step approach was followed starting expectations as well as pressing We have also continually with a detailed stakeholder engagement areas that have a high-impact on our enhanced the breadth and depth exercise, followed with a comprehensive business, our stakeholders as well as of our analysis to sharpen our materiality analysis and dovetailing the the environment. materiality identification process. insights to upgrade M&M's roadmap. Materiality assessment acts 2 Depending on the need and nature of each stakeholder, as an eﬀicient tool to introspect Stakeholder varied engagement mediums were adopted ranging from one-to-one interactions, telephonic interviews, online survey and email exchange. To ferret the issues in order of Engagement on our sustainability journey Mechanism priority, the stakeholders were requested to state their material issues on a 3-point scale high, medium, and low. as well as shape our future plan Over and above across the triple bottom line. engaging to deﬁne materiality, we continue to interact ? with our stakeholders We revalidated our stakeholder set, both external and internal, keeping in mind the below parameters: around the year, MATERIALITY How Company is directly affected 1 Stakeholder Identiﬁcation by stakeholder's decision How stakeholder is directly affected by the Company's activity through a host How critical is their inclusion in the Company's performance of channels.  Reach Out  Water Management Training Peer benchmarking  Krishi Mela Mega Farmers' Meet Based on the above filters, we arrived  Hygiene Facility for the Community at the below list of key stakeholders:  Dining with the Diplomats Senior Management  Road Safety Rally Employees  Sustainability Awareness Workshops Suppliers  Sustainability Assessments & Audits Dealers  Supplier Sustainability Meet Customers / Drivers  Annual Supplier Conference Community  Transport Excellence Awards Academics  Dealer Excellence Programme Government, Regulatory Authorities  Distributor Meet e-Catalog Industry Associations  National Sales Skill Contest Investors 31 32 The various stakeholder responses were filtered and mapped with business 3 imperatives. What emerged was a universe of stakeholder needs, demands Identiﬁcation and expectations, which were further sieved by the level of importance rated by us and our stakeholders. Accordingly, we arrived at our materiality for our of Issues Automotive and Farm divisions: automotive division farm division 100% 100% 42 28 25 11 3 36 19 25 90% 45 34 18 90% 13 31 38 20 39 11 3 36 2 15 22 32 22 28 14 41 30 30 17 26 2 35 44 26 24 5 1 35 Stakeholder Concern Stakeholder Concern 21 48 10 29 48 19 7 1 16 46 9 23 49 4 7 55 10 18 80% 14 29 30 17 39 20 33 80% 8 45 12 23 33 27 53 43 43 37 13 16 12 27 47 21 70% 54 51 40 4 37 70% 32 44 42 34 6 5 50 49 41 40 47 6 15 52 8 38 9 31 56 46 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Business Priority Business Priority Business environment social Business environment social PARAMETERS OF HIGH IMPORTANCE (TOP QUARTILE) PARAMETERS OF HIGH IMPORTANCE (TOP QUARTILE) 1 Cost control and Profit Margin 9 End of Life Management 32 Customer Satisfaction 1 Cost control and Profit Margin 17 Water Intensity 25 Customer Satisfaction 2 R&D impetus 21 Water Intensity 33 CSR Management 2 R&D impetus 18 Energy Efficiency 26 CSR Management 3 Fuel Efficiency 22 Energy Efficiency 34 Employee Productivity 3 Fuel Efficiency 19 Recyclable/Recycled Material 27 Employee Productivity 5 Risk Assessment and Compliance 23 Recyclable/Recycled Material 35 Health and Safety 4 Farm Tech Prosperity (Farmer Prosperity) 20 Waste Generation 28 Health and Safety 7 Market/Product competition 24 Waste Generation 36 Product Safety 7 Risk Assessment and Compliance 38 Climate Change and GHG Emissions 29 Grievance Mechanisms 10 Sustainable Mobility: Electric/Hybrid/H2 Vehicle 25 Climate Change and GHG Emissions 44 Training and Education 8 Solution Selling Beyond Products 39 Water Availability 30 Supplier Satisfaction/Relationship 11 Product Quality 26 Tail pipe emissions reduction 48 Gender Diversity 11 Product Quality 45 Training and Education 18 Supply chain Optimization 28 Life Cycle Management 55 Grievance Mechanisms 13 Soil Health 48 Gender Diversity 19 Logistics Optimization and Sustainable Logistic 14 Supplychain Optimization 49 Talent Retention and Succession Planning 20 Emerging Markets Needs 15 Logistics Optimization & Sustainable Logistics 16 Dealer Management PARAMETERS OF LOW IMPORTANCE 24 Market/Product competition 6 Solution Selling beyond Products 4 Renewable Energy 27 Attrition 8 Integrated Sourcing 29 Packaging 31 Employee Capability (Agility) PARAMETERS OF LOW IMPORTANCE 12 Light Weighting 30 VOC Emissions in Paint Shop 37 Succession Planning 5 Integrated Sourcing 47 Packaging 23 Brand Image of Mahindra 13 Green Dealers 38 Supplier Education 6 Dealer Profitability 31 Employee Capability (Agility) 14 Modularity in design 39 Customer Education 9 Product Obselence and Phasing Out 32 Attrition 15 Dealer Profitability 40 Traffic Safety 10 Sustainable Mobility: Electric/Hybrid/H2 Vehicle 33 Appeal to Customers 16 Sustainability IT Tool 41 Appeal to Customers 12 Government Approvals 34 Dealer consistency (talent retention) 17 Product Obsolesce and Phasing Out 42 Talent Retention 21 Light Weighting 35 Talent Retention 43 Dealer consistency (talent retention) 22 Modularity in design 36 Supplier Education 45 Customers satisfaction with service 37 Customer Education 46 Urbanization and Labour Scarcity 40 Average age of plants 47 Average age of plants 41 Product Safety 49 Brand Image of Mahindra Key Materiality Issues 42 Customers satisfaction with service 50 Social Media 51 Shared Value 1 Carbon Emission 2 Water Security 3 Sustainable Supply Chain 43 Average age of plants 44 Urbanization and Labour Scarcity 52 Supplier Satisfaction (Forecast Accuracy) 4 Health & Safety 5 Product Stewardship 6 Waste to Wealth 46 Traffic Safety 53 Strong visionary goals on sustainability/strategic consideration 54 Employer Attraction 7 CSR Management 33 56 Average age of plants 34 Prepping for Sustainability 2020 G4 24, 25, 26 initiative The M&M Sustainability team organised a sustainability workshop as 4 Updating our Sustainability part of the Sustainability Month celebrations. The workshop enabled the M&M Sustainability Champions with a platform to deliberate on shaping the next sustainability roadmap for the sector, chalk out action plans to advance on the current sustainability targets as well ENGAGEMENT Roadmap as understand the new GRI G4 guidelines for Sustainability Reporting and Materiality determination process. For our sustainability actions to be truly meaningful and their outcomes to be most target actual Baseline effective, continuous engagement with our stakeholders needs to take place. As value 2015-16 2015-16 2012-13 creation becomes a more dynamic and collaborative exercise, maintaining open channels 20% 12% 0.380 Specific Carbon Footprint Reduction of communication with our stakeholders not only helps us get a holistic and informed [GHG Emissions Scope 1+2] (ton/eq. vehicles) view, it also helps us shape our strategies, plans and performance accordingly. 6% 7% 0.025 Use of Renewable Power (% of total power) We believe that each and every stakeholder's point of view, ECO-EFFICIENCY Specific Water Footprint Reduction 25% 19% 2.86 be it a supplier, an investor, a customer, an employee or the community (kl/eq. vehicles) is pertinent and worth addressing. Waste Impact Reduction 25% 45% 2.90 • Reduction in Paint Sludge (kg/eq. vehicles) STAKEHOLDER • Reduction in Packaging Waste (kg/eq. vehicles) 15% 45% 9.76 Wood # Commitment of Vision Correction under Community Development replaced with 15% 29% 21.82 Corrugated Box Upstream Supply (Supplier) GREEN 400 466 • Capacity Building (no. of suppliers) VALUE CHAIN 150 160 0 • Assessment & Green Rating (no. of suppliers) 100 230 • Energy-efficient Projects (nos.) Emission Reduction for M&M Fleet PRODUCT M&M: AD 5% 12.28% 171 (gm/km) RESP. Aim Towards Zero Accident (nos.) Road Safety programme in Sustainability Roadmap. The target year is 2019-20. 0 3 12 Knowledge Enhancement in Sustainability Parameters EMPLOYEE CARE & DEV. 75% 100% 40% • Coverage of Sr. Management 90% 100% 30% • Coverage of Mid. & Jr. Management 50 42.63 5 Vocational Training to Youth (no. in thousand) (AD + FD) COMMUNITY STAKEHOLDER GROUP ENGAGEMENT CHANNELS Road Safety 5,000 1,200 # • Driver Training DEV. # Government / Environmental Compliance, MOU Signed 0 with MSRDC # • Mumbai-Pune Expressway Zero fatality corridor Regulatory Authorities Policy Intervention Employees Conferences, workshops, publications, newsletters & reports, online portals, feedback Specific Carbon Footprint Reduction surveys and one-to-one interactions, employee involvement in CSR activities 10% 16% 0.269 ECO-EFFICIENCY [GHG Emissions Scope 1+2] (ton/eq. tractors) 5.61% 3.05% 0 Use of Renewable Power Customers Interviews, personal visits, publications, mass media & digital communications, (% of total power) feedback camps, plant visits and support programmes Specific Water Footprint Reduction 20% 16% 1.815 (kl/eq. tractors) Suppliers & Dealers Supplier & vendor meets, workshops & trainings, audits, policies, IT-enabled Capacity Building (no. of suppliers) information sharing tools and recognition platforms 250 466 0 GREEN Assessment & Green Rating (no. of suppliers) Investors / Shareholders Annual report, sustainability report, press releases, investor presentations, corporate VALUE CHAIN 50 210 0 website, quarterly and annual results 100 240 0 Energy-efficient Projects (nos.) # Baseline Commitment under review Local Communities CSR activities 0 5 6 Aim Towards Zero Accident (nos.) Knowledge Enhancement in Sustainability Parameters EMPLOYEE M&M: FD + SD Educational Institutes / Technical collaboration, 75% 92% 30% • Coverage of Sr. Management CARE & DEV. Universities capacity building, research 90% 94.5% 25% • Coverage of Mid. & Jr. Management Agriculture Productivity COMMUNITY 50 3.93 # (No. of farmers benefitted in thousand) # Health Care DEV. # 2 1.67 (No. of beneficiaries in lac) 35 36 Stakeholder Engagement Snapshot Dining with the Employees Diplomats At Mahindra, our employees In the reporting year, we hosted the ambassadors are our partners in progress. and senior diplomats representing 25 countries from Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, and Engaged employees bestowed with a sense of ownership work on behalf of the organisation's North America (US and Canada). Each of our goals. They are also likely to be more productive, satisfied and motivated towards work. businesses were represented by our resident A two-way dialogue with our employees, hence, happens most naturally at our units. While we managers who well interacted with the diplomats. share the organisation's vision, mission, culture, and business roadmap with enthusiasm, we also listen to their expectations and personal objectives with open ears. For Mahindra's vast product portfolio, products like 'e2o' and 'Mojo' attracted a great amount of Reach Out | M&M Water Management Training Programme | MIQ interest among all guests. A two-day annual meet was held to award Water shortages have a potential to impact the productivity and industrial Local Communities the contribution of employees. 380 senior delegates from across locations, SsangYong output. To learn techniques of better water management, Mahindra Institute of Quality (MIQ) and Group Sustainability team conducted the 3rd batch of The communities have a signiﬁcant part Motors, overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures graced the meet. training programme on Water Management. 40 participants from group business like Auto, Farm, Reva, Mahindra CIE, Leisure & Hospitality, etc. in ensuring that the eco-system we operate attended the event. One of the suppliers of manufacturing coatings, Shri Ekvira Pvt. Ltd. also participated in the meet. Such trainings help companies in is a positive one and we foster this by engaging with them and communicating with them on a regular basis. to be prepared for situations such as scarce rainfall and water crisis. Check Dam for Water Preservation | M&M Hygiene Facility for the Community | Swaraj Division Mahindra and Mahindra's team from tool and Customers dye plant, Nashik with support from an NGO, Happy customers are the cornerstone Government and villagers built a check dam at Kalampada, Peth with storage capacity of 35 of any successful business. lac litre. This area is situated in North west of Nashik district which lacks water preservation Our approach is to seal a winning relationship with our customers by meeting and surpassing their facility, as a result farmers were struggling to expectations. Towards this objective, we engage with them by ensuring effective feedback mechanisms cultivate even one crop. and providing regular updates about M&M's key milestones, innovations, goals and achievements. Road Safety Rally | M&M Krishi Mela | Mahindra Samriddhi Mega Farmers' Meet | Mahindra Agribusiness Swaraj Division's ESOPs team has been working very closely with the local administration of Mohali to provide good hygienic conditions to the community at large and develop green patches around the vicinity of the plants. For sanitation, a new toilet block is being set up outside Plant-1 to control the problem of open defecation, and location for parking of mobile toilets have been identified in Ambedkar Colony. For green With the objective of creating awareness Mohali, project Swaraj Swacchata Udyan has been launched. As part of Mahindra Samriddhi participated in a Krishi The Crop Care Division of Mahindra Agribusiness conducted meetings for 500 this project, a 5,500 sq. feet area was cleaned and replaced with grass about road safety, M&M partnered with DRTO Unnati Mela in New Delhi where India's Prime farmers in Gannour, Sonipat & Cheeka in Haryana. This initiative is a part of carpeting, shrub plantation and fencing to make it green and clean. Borivali to organise Bicycle & Bike Rally. With Minister Mr. Narendra Modi reviewed the KSKT (Khet Se Khaliyan Tak) activities undertaken by Mahindra Agribusiness. participation of 11,707 bikers, the rally entered Mahindra Samriddhi Soil Testing Lab along As a step towards building farmer confidence for better connect, live the Guinness Book of World Records for the with Mr. Radha Mohan Singh, the Union testimonials of progressive farmers on the benefits delivered in the field by 'Largest number of people attending a Road Minister of Agriculture & Farmer Welfare. our key products like Jingo, Mahindra F1 and Unnati gold were shared. Safety Awareness Rally'. 37 38 Stakeholder Engagement Snapshot Suppliers Maintaining a positive relationship Dealers with our suppliers is a critical cog in Serving as the face of the company, accelerating the growth momentum our dealers act as a crucial channel of our overall business of communication. Our focus on good supplier relationships includes engaging with them in various capacities including enhancing their sustainability knowledge. Which is why we consider them our close associates and constantly engage with them. Distributor Meet | Mahindra Agri Embedding Sustainability Efficiencies in our Value Chain Below are key statistics capturing our efforts to Dealer Excellence Programme | Automotive Division build sustainability efficiency of our value chain: Supplier Sustainability Meet | M&M Igatpuri No. of Suppliers/Dealers Tier I Suppliers AD 382 | FD 366 The Pulses division of Mahindra Agri business Dealers AD 294 conducted a distributor meet for 20+ Sustainability Awareness Workshops distributors from Mumbai, Navi Mumbai & Thane regions. The purpose was to unveil FY 2015-16 the NuPro pulses brand to the distributors 178 suppliers (AD + FD), 38 suppliers (SD) and explain Mahindra's long term plan for FY 2012-13 to FY 2015-16 this business. 428 suppliers (AD + FD), 58 suppliers (SD) A supplier sustainability meet was held with the objective of enthusing our suppliers to take a quantum jump in achieving sustainability goals. 25 suppliers from different parts of India were invited who presentations e-Catalog | Swaraj Division on projects undertaken in areas like carbon neutrality and energy Swaraj Division launched an e-Catalog at We covered all suppliers conservation through innovative. This platform served as a tool to not just engage with our suppliers but benefit from cross learnings. Dealers conference in Paris. The key features of Swaraj e-Catalog include user friendly of AD + FD and select SD We organised the 'Mahindra Dealer Excellence Programme' in Colombo interface, auto scrolling and highlighting of offering a platform for sharing best practices and discussing future parts in plates, online part change history, 3D suppliers for sustainability Annual Supplier Conference | M&M business scenarios. The theme for the Conference was 'Ye Saal Hamara viewing of parts, applicability of parts for awareness from Hai' which aptly captures the way in which AD planned to dominate the market with new products. different models and online order placement. FY 2012-13 to FY 2015-16 The conference covered the results and achievements of FY 2014-15 and was followed by setting the priorities and expectations for FY 2015-16. The best performers of MDEP FY 2014-15 programme were recognised during Sustainability Monitoring the awards night. The event was attended by 375 delegates which 50 M&M supplier assessments were included dealers, their families and senior management from Mahindra. conducted by CDMM/SQA teams in FY 2015-16 and assessment reports and score cards This year's Annual Supplier Conference 2015 was held at Warsaw, shared with them for planning future actions Poland and was attended by 250 delegates from 100 top supplier organisations across the globe. As always, it served as an excellent 243 dealers underwent similar Sustainability National Sales Skill Contest platform to share M&M's plan with its strategic suppliers and align Assessments in the reporting year Mahindra Construction Equipment them to these strategies in order to achieve our business goals. Sustainability Audits (Energy, Water, Waste & To pump up the energy of its sales force, the team of Mahindra Compliance, Fire Safety, Workplace Safety) Transport Excellence Awards | M&M Construction Equipment conceptualised, designed and executed conducted by external agency for our nine 'VEER', an annual National Sales Skill Contest. 85 Dealer Sales Mahindra Transport Excellence Awards recognise and reward various suppliers and audit findings were shared for Executives (DSEs) showcased their mettle in the event. stakeholders in the trucking industry. Supported by the Ministry of improvement Road Transport & Highways for the three consecutive years, the number of entries increased by 38% this year to 4,764. The awards are presented on parameters like Outperformance, Excellence, Innovation With an objective to develop DSEs techno-commercial and Change Leadership, judged against the backdrop of RISE pillars – Accepting No Limits, Alternative Thinking and Driving Positive Change. competency and enhance their selling skills through healthy competition and continuous learning. 39 40 As digital inclusion is fast becoming a reality, across all sectors the importance of a robust online presence is more evident than ever. Not only does a strong online presence help in building a brand, it reaches a much larger global audience. We have used the dominance of the digital medium to our advantage. From Mahindra Adventure 1,277,974 feedback to surveys, interactive campaigns and brand-building exercises, we have utilised the online space effectively. 809,056 Mahindra Scorpio 3,247,415 Mahindra XUV500 2,308,743 25 million+ 1,061,795 views on Mahindra AQ MAHINDRA'S ONLINE FOOTPRINT YouTube 10 Mahindra Bolero 1,953,703 Online status million+ fans on Facebook of M&M Mahindra Xylo 2,192,909 Mahindra THAR 1,224,861 Mahindra Racing Mahindra Scooters 991,659 2,066,962 41 42 As we build capabilities, we lay he strength equal emphasis on health & safety of our employees. f our people DRIVEN BY OUR PEOPLE is the strengt of Mahindr Through consistent engagement and progressive HR policies, we encourage our employees to challenge the status quo, question the norms, and think out of the box. We manufacture vehicles Our talent management processes are beyond attracting and recruiting talents, across the spectrum of mobility extending to nurturing, motivating, rewarding and retaining them. from two wheelers and passenger cars to Utility Vehicles, Light Commercial Vehicle and tractors. To keep such a large and diverse production line running, we require the support of a large workforce of employees and workers who are involved, motivated and take ownership for their work. We focus on excellence of our team along with their health and well-being. The Mahindra Rise Awards and Mahindra Safety Awards are testimonies to our core ethos of synergising individual as well as organisational goals. 43 44 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Engrained in our core purpose of inspiring people to Rise, our Employee Value Proposition is captured by the acronym, CAPable People, REAL Experience. one of our goal is to be the 50 It sums up what we want to be known for TOP as an employer, and embodies the promise that at Mahindra, our employees have the opportunity and the right set of tools to be the very best they can be. The Mahindra Employee Value Proposition Our Expectation Challenge Conventions We have grown by challenging conventions at every turn, and we encourage our people to do the same by accepting no limits. Where others see problems, our people see possibilities. Bring Our Promise Alternative Thinking Recognition for to the Workplace Outperformance Alternative thinking is the new normal at our We encourage healthy competition, and workplace. As we relentlessly seek to break fresh create a high performance culture by ground and solve problems, the ingenious use of MOST ADMIRED recognising breakthroughs, and rewarding our resources and our ability to think differently those who achieve them. power us on. Drive Empowering Environment GLOBAL BRANDS 2021 Positive Change in the Lives of Our Customers We promote a proactive workplace, one where you're encouraged to make your own decisions, and take ownership by & Communities of their ripples and ramiﬁcations. It empowers our people, and in doing so, To achieve this objective, we keep our ears to the ground and understand the We expect everyone at Mahindra to work for the pulse of our employees. We connect with all our employees across designations encourages individual responsibility. greater good, to advance humankind, and make the and departments and create leaders across hierarchies and businesses. world a better place. A signiﬁcant part of our job is to create lasting, positive change in the lives of the customers and communities we serve. Abundant The Mahindra Group has developed a two-tier HR management Learning Opportunities approach one at the Group level and other at the Business Level. While the Group HR provides thought leadership and brings in At Mahindra, we listen and learn every day. Constant learning constitutes a fundamental aspect appropriate tools and methodologies, the Business Level HR ensures alignment with Group HR policies of the Mahindra Experience, with abundant learning and institutionalises customised employee initiatives for the respective business. opportunities at every level, and an environment that Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. is one such business unit of the Group. encourages constant learning. 45 46 Human Rights When it comes to Human Rights, we advocate the highest standards of human behaviour The 'Corporate HR Cell' is in place and respect the dignity of at Mahindra to chart and monitor everyone associated with us. Labour Practices norms, policies and initiatives so Principle 3 BUSINESSES SHOULD as to maintain consistency of UPHOLD THE Discrimination deepens distrust. good people practices across our FREEDOM Any act that violates human rights is unacceptable at Mahindra We are an equal opportunity business segments. Additionally, OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF employer and do not tolerate our employees also undergo training periodically to remain THE RIGHT TO discrimination in any form. updated with contemporary best COLLECTIVE We adhere to all the labour practices. BARGAINING legislations and also recognise and support the right to collective We strictly condemn acts like bargaining. To ensure safe and discrimination, forced and healthy working conditions for In 2001, we became one of the first compulsory labour and child our workforce, all the units of Automotive Division (AD) have labour within and beyond BUSINESSES Indian companies Mahindra boundaries. We also SHOULD WORK been OHSAS certified. BUSINESSES E N S U R E T H AT discourage any form of corruption SHOULD SUPPORT & BUSINES SES AGAINST including bribery or other RESPECT THE ARE NOT CORRUPTION Principle 10 to be a signatory to the United Nations THE ELIMINATION negative practices. Principle 1 Principle 2 OF ALL FORMS OF PROTECTION COMPLICIT IN IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING Global Compact (UNGC), and we remain FORCED We adhere to following UNGC O F I N T E R N A T I O N A L LY HUMAN RIGHTS EXTORTION Principle 4 PROCLAIMED dedicated to operate in sync with its & COMPULSORY principles on Human Rights: HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES AND BRIBERY principles on labour standards. LABOUR IN THE CURRENT YEAR WE DEVELOPED A TRAINING MODULE ON HUMAN RIGHTS. IT PROVIDES INFORMATION ON HUMAN RIGHTS AND Since 2009, HOW HUMAN RIGHTS International Labour ISSUES CAN ARISE OR THE EFFECTIVE Organisation's ABOLITION OF BE RELEVANT TO core labour conventions BUSINESS ACROSS A have been embedded Principle 5 CHILD DIVERSITY OF OPERATING ENVIRONMENTS. in our policies LABOUR Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Right to organise and collective bargaining convention Forced labour convention THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION Abolition of forced labour convention Principle 6 IN RESPECT OF Minimum age convention EMPLOYMENT Worst forms of child labour convention & OCCUPATION Equal remuneration convention Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) convention 47 48 Diversity & Inclusion Diversity instils vibrancy. In recognition of the growing relevance of Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) at the workplace, Mahindra Group has formed Group and Sector-level Diversity Councils. These Councils aim to provide strategic direction to initiate and fuel the D&I journey, and harness the power of diversity cutting across gender, physical abilities and race. Case creating Study equal platforms across “My family is very proud of my achievements and my father took the shop In 2011, Mahindra Swaraj embarked on a unique experiment of great pains to get my passport done diversifying its work environment to allow more women to work on its shop floor. This gave many women an opportunity to be part of and excel in a previously male-dominated work scenario. floor This has been a life-changing initiative for one of our employees in time for my tri p to Sri Lanka. The money I earn Ramandeep Kaur. Hailing from Haryana, this daughter of a junior engineer working with Haryana Roadways, has two younger brothers who are still has also contributed studying. At the age of 23, she was among 25 girls who found themselves working on a predominantly male dominated shop floor. to their progress. My future goals include completing In order to ensure that the process went off smoothly, for everyone concerned, a number of initiatives and process changes were introduced. an M.Tech. degree Intensive training, Gender Sessions with a Appointment of a lady in Customised safety and working including dexterity training to help sensitisation programme for psychologist to encourage the girls to the Employee Relations team to interface with helmets and gloves keeping in mind the as a lecturer sensitise the girls both the girls speak up in case of any the girls and also to smaller build of the in a government on the various as well as the discomfort and stationing understand their ladies. Provision of aspects of their men on the of a counsellor trained in concerns through regular special ladies' restrooms institute.” new environment shop floor industrial psychology Focus Group Discussions on the shop floor In November 2015, Ramandeep and her team went to Sri Lanka to participate in the International Convention for Quality Ms. Ramandeep Kaur The plant management soon noticed their potential and began including them in Quality Circle or QC Control Circles (ICQCC), which saw QC meetings which saw them congregate with other workers to identify, analyse and solve work-related teams from across the world compete problems. Over the years, the team has taken part in and has won a number of QC competition at with each other. More than intra-plant, zonal as well as national level. a hundred teams from over 15 countries participated at the convention and Ramandeep's team won a silver medal. 49 50 We aspire to be a globally admired brand and amongst the top Our Talent TALENT MANAGEMENT companies Management to work with, by 2021. Aspiration Every process we introduce or continue to leverage is a cog in the wheel that is By 2021, Mahindra to be driving towards this goal. amongst the Top 50 most admired global brands by enabling people everywhere to Rise Rigour in Talents, when Talent Mangement process so as to channelised strengthen the talent pipeline towards the By 2021, Mahindra Group to be amongst right direction, the Top 20 Global Companies for leaders to We attract, nurture, revitalise and retain can work work for some of the finest talents from across wonders for an At Mahindra, talent management is a comprehensively planned and executed process that channelises known potentials and encourages hitherto untapped ones. automobile and farming industry through a robust talent management process. 51 organisation. For an in-depth view of our strategic implementation structure and how it leverages individual and team strength, please refer to the Mahindra Group Sustainability Report 2009-10. 52 Integrated Quality Programmes at MIQ Development Mahindra Institute of Quality was established in 2006 with the objective of Strategy developing high calibre professional managers, by facilitating latest knowledge and skills to achieve organisation-wide excellence. Over the years, MIQ, a part of corporate centre, M&M Ltd., has developed a portfolio of training programmes to meet quality management requirements of companies; both within and outside Mahindra Group. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. offers a cradle of opportunities to employees 166 15 to hone their skills, reinforce their KEY LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES learning, stimulate imagination and Introduced invigorate passion. Through wellOur commitment to care for our employees is evident right from the shop floor to the training integrated growth strategies and top floor. In the reporting year too, several new and ongoing development programmes programmes diverse engagement tools, we were conducted for fresh, budding and experienced talent. motivate our team to go the extra mile in their day-to-day lives. Shadow Boards Elaborated below are a select few: Group Management Cadre (GMC) Programme 11,108 training man days new programmes encompassing the domain areas of Process Technology, Leadership Development with an average Service Quality, Risk, Mahindra Group's prestigious strategic leadership development programme for campus Development Centres recruits sourced from top B-Schools of India, participant rating of Sustainability and TRIZ o 360 Feedback Rotation Fireside chats E-learning the GMC continues to strengthen Mahindra's position as an 'Employer of Choice' across premier B-School campuses, and create a strong talent pool to drive Mahindra's future growth. 4.54 on a scale of 5.0 Coaching As per Nielsen's B-school Campus Track Survey of 2015, we were ranked 11th in the list 300 of India's top twenty business schools from where we recruit, thus affirming our Individual Development Action Plans position amongst the most sought after employers at India's premier business schools. improvement projects were completed by participants and total GMC Induction Experience 2015 The GMC Summer Internship Programme cumulative saving of INR 400 In FY 2015-16, a total of 33 GMCs joined It serves as a stepping stone for recruitment of GMCs, with close to the Mahindra Group across its various 70% of GMCs every year hired through a Pre-Placement Offer (PPO), sectors in different functions. based on their performance in summer internship. All these GMCs underwent a detailed one-month long Project based induction, that comprised business leaders speaking to them on organisational values, strategies teaching is one of the unique features million were realised and financial aspects of the business, visits across Mahindra Facilitated process improvements and implementation of MIQ training at Mahindra Group Companies like Swaraj Division, plants, shop-floors and resorts, and CIS Gateway Building, MHEPL, MTBD, MCE, also a rural stint, to help the GMCs Mahindra CIE Stamping and MLL . understand more about the External companies like JSW Ltd., L&T Ltd., livelihoods and challenges faced Elgi Equipments Ltd. and Blue Star Ltd. by rural India. Harvard Manage Mentor Organised its ﬁrst international TQM learning visit to A unique leadership building Japan for a batch of 20 department heads programme which offers a host of interactive management modules. In FY 2015-16, a total of 22 of the 33 GMCs were The top management executives recruited through the summer internship route. of the Group felicitated trainees Launched the ﬁrst e-learning module on Launched six programmes on of the programme this year. The internship comes with ample opportunities for students to interact with Quality Management Basics in collaboration Process Technology under the mentors and learn on-the-job skills. The progress of participants is closely with the Japanese Union of Scientists aegis of Mahindra Leadership monitored throughout the programme. The highlight of the programme is a and Engineers (JUSE) University, and conducted a personal interaction with Mr. Anand Mahindra who shares with them note-worthy lecture by John Shook, insights and inspires them to excel in all walks of professional life. a globally acknowledged guru on Lean Management 53 54 Mahindra Skill Excellence Mahindra Skill Excellence was launched The 8th Edition of the event was rolled out between with the aim of enhancing manufacturing September and November 2015, whereby Mahindra reached out skill standards at Mahindra to a Global level to the brightest young minds across the top B-Schools on the country to provide them with an and also bring India to the forefront of experiential dimension to The Mahindra Global Automotive Skills Arena. allThedivisions major challenge was to being War Room learning, thus enabling them to of M&M Auto, FD, creatively present their Swaraj & Two Wheelers on a solutions for real business common platform of skill standards. issues directly to the respective business heads. continues to After numerous discussions with Our team worked parallel with top management we zeroed in on retain its position as experts under each skill set and 5 core manufacturing skills: conducted in 52 competitions the largest and the most with participation from over Painting Welding recalled Employer 1,800 workers across M&M. To CNC Machining make the recognition for M&M Assembly Branding Events in the from As was evident the Nielsen level winners more enriching, Engine Diagnostics Campus Track top B-Schools of India Survey, 2015 we had the winners felicitated during C1 – A two-day annual communication meet that The Grand Finale of the event happened in November 2015 in the presence of the Group Executive takes place at the start of Board Members (including Mr. Anand Mahindra), who were also the jury for the event. The highlight every financial year. This was a of the event this year was that for the first time, the event was extended across two foreign big shot in the arm for these campuses from China and Korea, and finalists from these campuses presented along with the individuals as it was the first Indian finalists at the Grand Finale of the Event. time that they were being recognised for their skills on won the ‘Medallion of Excellence’ and the ‘Best of Nation’ such a big forum. honour for our country. We at Mahindra constantly strive to improve the products. Aligned with the World Skill competition, the Mahindra team at AFS started journey of skill building. We are hopeful that through this program we Ranked 7th among 38 contestants “We are extremely proud of Sachin Narale who has brought this unique In future, we intend to leverage skills of our workforce and nurture talent to produce the best-in-class will win many similar accolades for our country in the coming years”. these winners as trainers and bring about a gradual change in mind-set with regards to titles at the World Skills Competition 2015 São Paulo, Brazil skilling at Mahindra. for his welding skills Sachin Narale MVML, Chakan Rajeshwar Tripathi 55 Chief People Ofﬁcer, AFS 56 Engagement At Mahindra, encourages we believe that employee engagement is one of our most important involvement best practices. It enables us to motivate our people, garner feedback, enhance employee involvement, This year, the Automation EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT & increase individual Division was chosen amongst We have a plethora of programmes to engage with our people. the 50 other participating Our new and continual engagement platforms include: productivity, organisations to be conferred Founder's Day Celebrated in Sustainable Way which ampliﬁes our the prestigious Employers The 70th Founder's Day was celebrated on October 02, 2015 Federation of India's (EFI) by the Automotive and Farm Equipment Sectors by putting potential to Rise. up sustainability stalls at AD Nashik Plant 2 on the theme of 'Strong Commitment to 'Save Water'. The stalls demonstrated green building Employee Relations' concept and importance of water conservation. Excellence Award in the Pan The celebration included skits on water scarcity performed by the team members, poster competition for families, and India category. The EFI – ER tree plantation drive, which was well-received and Excellence Awards have been appreciated by the participants. More than 32,000 employees and family members from 14 locations of M&M constituted to recognise participated in the sustainability engagement competitions. commitment to employee An independent jury selected the winners. relations across the nation. Boosting Fun Quotient at Work At Mahindra, fun at work is an integral part of our work ethos. This year we conducted recreational activities on regular basis, celebrated Friendship Day, Teacher's Day, organised Corporate Cricket Championship, and rewarded talents with Excellarator Awards at the AD Nashik Plant 2. Through such activities, we ensure that the fun quotient within our workspace remains intact. 57 58 Enablers of All-round Development At Mahindra we create a work culture conducive of all-round development of our team members. 100% We have maintained health check-up compliance as per statutory requirement and have completed 30% follow-up on critical cases. Right from safe working practices through behaviourbased safety, office ergonomics or safety training, to health and fitness activities, we create a workspace that Employee Capability Building motivates our team members to put their best foot forward. Some of the health and wellness activities undertaken during the year were: Enhancing capabilities Stepathlon | Zumba | Yoga | Powerwalk is part of our Employee Body composition analysis | Health Camps Value Proposition. Throughout the year, we conduct or participate in conferences and training programmes that hone the capabilities of our employees. Here are a select few of them: Sustainability Summit Group Level | M&M Sustainability Conference GRI G4 Training across all plants | Human Rights Training across all plants Launch of Sustainability e-Learning Module Launch of Human Rights Module for contractors 59 60 Human Resource Policy Employee Relations Policy Minimum Notice Period of Operational Changes POLICIES Our HR policies resonate with our people management practice. We have a well-structured framework in place to Our HR policy aims to ensure equal dignity and equal All our employee relation policy is aimed at fulfilling the During the reporting period, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. ensure harmonious implementation of policies through a opportunities for all employees by aiding in: following objectives: followed all pertinent regulations in letter and intent while central HR council, comprising business sector HR heads, employing unionised labour. who address all matters related to labour practices. • Resource planning by mappings skills and opportunities • Achieve organisational goals with active involvement of our employees leading to enhanced job satisfaction of employees One such regulation is The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, which As a part of Mahindra Group, M&M Ltd. ensures effective applies to labour relations. It specifically mentions a threeimplementation of the following policies: • Setting high standards of employee behaviour • Focus on attracting, retaining and nurturing people and ensuring dignity of each employee irrelevant with relevant skill-sets and competencies week notice period for all operational changes. It provides Human Resource Policy | Employee Relations Policy of seniority or hierarchy consultation and negotiation opportunities during the notice • Create a mutually beneficial and productive period. If consent is given, only then can the agreement be Minimum Notice Period of Operational Changes • Garnering valuable employee feedback through industrial climate signed to reflect the changes. Parental Leave Policy robust employee relations initiatives and periodic • Manage employees fairly and transparently employee surveys Parental Leave Policy When it comes to offering parental leave, we abide to best practices and have had a good retention track record so far. Women are encouraged to take time out to tend to their bundle of joy and join back the workplace. Policies govern practices, & practices help in evolving policies. Permanent Employees covered under collective bargaining agreements 2015-16 employees Permanent Contract covered under Breakup of Unionised Number Total Breakup of Unionised Number Total collective Permanent Employees (Unionised) Strength Permanent Employees (Unionised) Strength bargaining Bharatiya Kamgar Sena 3,240 3,361 Bharatiya Kamgar Sena 1,098 2,036 agreements Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh 49 54 All India Trade 36 59 Union Congress (AITUC) FY 2015-16 M&M Employees Union 2,685 2,685 General Industries 113 657 Mahindra & Mahindra 2,089 2,676 90% Kamgar Union Workers Union Maharashtra Rajya 481 805 Mahindra Engines 115 115 Rashtriya Kamgar Sangh Associates Union Total 1,728 3,557 Punjab Tractors 231 504 Workers' Union (Regd.) Unionised Swaraj Tractors 286 518 10% Workers' Union (Regd.) Swaraj Engines 136 381 Workers' Union (Regd.) Swaraj Foundry Division 115 281 Workers' Union (Regd.) NON-Unionised Total 14,143 15,780 61 62 WORKFORCE Gender Composition & Turnover and Rate of New Hires Entering & Leaving SNAPSHOT Sector M Head Count F M Turnover F Rate of New Hires Joining M F Rate of new hires leaving M F FD + SD 14,255 293 28% 16% 31% 26% 6% 3% AD 16,969 252 14% 22% 5% 3.76% 5% 4% SBU 112 3 14% 0% 2% 0.00% 2% 0% Total Employment Sectors Distribution MRV 2,262 75 5% 7% 6% 13.33% 6% 13% 14,255 FD + SD 293 14,548 Overall 33,598 623 15% 15% 18% 22% 5% 4% 16,969 AD 252 17,221 112 SBU 3 115 Age Composition 2,262 MRV 75 2,337 % % % Rate of Rate of Rate of Rate of Rate of Rate of Turnover Turnover Turnover new joinee new joinee new joinee new joinee new joinee new joinee 33,598 overall 623 34,221 <30 years between >50 years <30 30-50 years >50 years leaving leaving leaving result Sector 30-50 years <30 years 30-50 years >50 years FD + SD 40% 2% 11% 48% 1% 1% 9% 0% 1% AD 31% 7% 8% 15% 0% 0% 12% 4% 0% SBU 24% 13% 0% 54% 14% 0% 10% 0% 0% MRV 9% 2% 0% 20% 8% 8% 8% 5% 1% Overall 33% 5% 9% 51% 8% 1% 10% 2% 0% Employment Grade & Type Gender Break-Up Permanent Employees Training (Average Man-Hours/Employee) Jr. Management Mid. Management Sr. Management Workmen Total Junior Management Sector M F Total M F Total M F Total M F Total M F Total Training Hours No. of Employees Average Training Hours FD + SD 1,075 73 1,148 855 46 901 156 2 158 3,791 29 3,820 5,877 150 6,027 Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total AD 1,418 111 1,529 1,043 46 1,089 98 4 102 5,921 8 5,929 8,480 169 8,649 FD + SD 16,249.3 497.3 16,746.6 632.0 49.0 681.0 25.7 10.1 24.6 SBU 56 2 58 49 1 50 7 0 7 0 0 0 112 3 115 AD 29.6 16.3 45.9 1,418.0 111.0 1529.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 MRV 1,070 55 1,125 686 17 703 93 1 94 413 2 415 2,262 75 2,337 SBU 1,992 80 2,072 56 2 58 35.57 40 35.72 Overall 3,619 241 3,860 2,633 110 2,743 354 7 361 10,125 39 10,164 16,731 397 17,128 MRV 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 18,270.9 593.7 18,864.6 2,106.0 162.0 2,268.0 8.7 3.7 8.3 Employment Grade & Type Gender Break-Up Middle Management Non-Permanent Employees Training Hours No. of Employees Average Training Hours Fixed Term Contract Third Party Contract Others Total Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Sector M F Total M F Total M F Total M F Total FD + SD 665 11 676 4,341 79 4,420 3,372 53 3,425 8,378 143 8,521 FD + SD 9939.3 302.0 10241.3 571.0 39.0 610.0 17.4 7.7 16.8 AD 1,604 3 1,607 5,354 35 5,389 1,531 45 1,576 8,489 83 8,572 AD 21.7 7.8 29.5 1043.0 46.0 1089.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 SBU 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 SBU 984 136 1,120 49 1 50 20.08 136 22.4 MRV 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 MRV 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Overall 2,269 14 2,283 9,695 114 9,809 4,903 98 5,001 16,867 226 17,093 Total 10,945.0 445.8 11,390.8 2,349.0 103.0 2,452.0 37.5 143.9 39.2 63 64 Senior Management HEALTH & SAFETY Training Hours No. of Employees Average Training Hours Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total FD + SD 778.0 0.0 778.0 86.0 2.0 88.0 9.0 0.0 8.8 AD 7.2 6.0 13.2 98.0 4.0 102.0 0.1 1.5 0.1 SBU 608 0 608 7 0 7 86.86 0 86.86 MRV Total 1,393.2 0 6.0 0 1,399.2 0 0 284.0 0 7.0 0 291.0 4.91 0 0.86 0 4.81 0 A WORKPLACE Workmen Sum of Training Hours Sum of Sum of Sum of No. of Employees Sum of Sum of Average Training Hours Sum of Sum of Sum of CAN NEVER BE Sector FD + SD Male 61.4 Female 0.0 Total 0.0 Male 2594.0 Female 2.0 Total 2596.0 Male 0.02 Female 0.0 Total 0.0 COMPLETE WITHOUT HIGHEST SAFETY AD 0.0 0.0 0.0 5921.0 8.0 5929.0 0.00 0.0 0.0 Total 61.4 0.0 0.0 8,928.0 12.0 8,940.0 0.0069 0.0000 0.0000 Third Party Contract STANDARDS Training Hours No. of Employees Average Training Hours Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total FD + SD 4.2 29.0 33.2 2120.0 63.0 2183.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 AD 0.0 0.0 0.0 5354.0 35.0 5389.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Zero-injury or zero-accident, though difficult Total 4.2 29.0 33.2 7474.0 98.0 7572.0 0.00 0.30 0.00 At Mahindra, we lay utmost emphasis on safe working goal to achieve, can only be possible if best Others conditions for our employees. Our rigorous safety practices are widely shared and ingrained in procedures are constantly upgraded every year, in each team member. Training Hours No. of Employees Average Training Hours tandem with our technological advancement. Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Despite our ardent endeavours, there are few instances of unfortunate incidents of fatalities and accidents. This FD + SD 0.7 1.2 1.9 1,531.0 45.0 1,576.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 year, 1 such fatality at AD Zaheerabad took place, which has made us all the more vigilant. AD 2,328.0 44.0 2,372.0 2,983.0 45.0 3,028.0 0.8 1.0 0.8 Safety Focus Total 2,328.7 45.2 2,373.9 4,514.0 90.0 4,604.0 0.516 0.502 0.516 We are committed to avoid unsafe incidents through adoptions of key safety tools and practices: Human Rights Training (Man-Hours) Installing the latest firefighting system Junior Management Middle Management Senior Management Workmen at our plants No. of % of No. of % of No. of % of No. of % of hours employees hours employees hours employees hours employees Sector of training trained of training trained of training trained of training trained Conducting safety awareness and training FD + SD 355 79 264 94 66 99 0 0 for all employees AD 0 0 0 0 0 0 230 12.88 Fixed Term Contract Third Party Contract Others Instituting safety mechanisms based No. of % of No. of % of No. of % of on the recognised hours employees hours employees hours employees Sector of training trained of training trained of training trained Kaizen and Poka-Yoke concepts FD + SD 306 31.27 1,261 16.39 70 17.72 AD 0 0 0 0 0 0 65 66 Central Safety Council Training and Awareness on Safety | AD Nashik Plant 1 The Plant 1 at AD Nashik was commissioned in 1981. Today more than 5,000 workers and employees manufacture around 220,000 vehicles per year. The A Central Safety Council with plant has a cross-functional sustainability team, headed by a Mahindra collective & representatives from all sectors Sustainability Champion and a CSAP-CII certified sustainability assessor. All creates a pool of ideas, resources the team members are GRI G4 competent. A safety office is part of this team. We have a and practices to improve safety levels across the Group. The collaborative Training and awareness are two of our most important tools for establishing a Council regularly monitors safety culture of safety. Our online platforms like e-Portal covers 100% of our officers initiatives and devises proactive and helps us identify the training need gaps and address them efficiently. mechanisms to provide maximum security against occupations We conduct training sessions on welding, assembly, paint shop, contract work, approach to enhancing safety. hazards. The Council functions to central safety, defensive driving and firefighting to name a few. The key fulfil following broad objectives: highlights this year was Waste Management and Online Training Module, which was executed through Training Gurukuls. Safety Initiatives IMPROVING SAFETY AWARENESS Engineering controls like limit switches, interlocks, sensors, safety mats, light curtains and two hand controls have been implemented SHARING BEST PRACTICES FOR Additionally, behavioural based safety training, human-error ENSURING SAFETY proofing of manual activities and department-wise safety teams have been introduced PROMOTING PROACTIVE MEASURES TO PREVENT ACCIDENTS AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS Hazard Prevention & Safety Training Module explanation in local Marathi language for better understanding at worker level REWARDING AND RECOGNISING The thriving of safety culture at COMMENDABLE ACHIEVEMENTS Nashik plant 1 has resulted in a REGULARLY BRIEFING THE GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD ON SAFETY PERFORMANCE 98.66% reduction in total injuries 99.7% reduction in injury rate vis-a-vis FY 2007-08 Key Health & Safety Initiatives Will Training Initiatives | Across FD Health Index | Auto & Farm Sectors Skill & Capability Building is one of the Safety training constitutes an We have a number of initiatives in strategic priorities of the Employee important aspect of the Will place to ensure that safety is A medical software was also Relations & Development team at every Building in every FD plant's prioritised, practiced and reinforced successfully launched across M&M Production Unit (PU) of Farm Division. This annual training plan. During on a regular basis. Some of the in FY 2015-16, to systematically capability building includes personal as the reporting period, various major initiatives undertaken during analyse the health check-up well as organisational capabilities. FD plants undertook seminars the year include: findings, low fat and health index Because we believe that skill excellence on topics like lifestyle data. This shall help plant doctors stems from a combination of Skill and disorders, dietary advice and plan necessary interventions to Will; where Skill includes technical and yoga, and training workshops improve employee health as well quality aptitudes while Will includes on disaster management, first as measure its effectiveness. behavioural and organisational conduct. aid and firefighting. All permanent workers and officers of M&M undergo periodic health check-up as per the health and wellness policy. Every employee's health is assessed on the basis of a Unique Health Index, consisting of various blood parameters as well as lifestyle factors such as frequency of exercise, junk food consumption and tobacco usage. 67 68 Embedding Safety in Design | FD Zaheerabad case Farm Division's Zaheerabad plant was commissioned in 2012 with the aim of catering study to the large farming sector in South India. This plant is spread across approximately 100 acres and has the installed capacity of 100,000 tractors per annum. Safety Curtain Sensor AD Haridwar Being a new-age plant, it has been designed keeping in mind the Production, Quality, Cost, Delivery, Safety, Morale (PQCDSM) benchmarks of Total Productive Maintenance (TPM). The safety curtain is an electro-sensitive optical safety device used to protect people working near such press machines. When the light curtain Here are some of the safety aspects that have been addressed at the senses entry into the protected zone by an object, Zaheerabad plant: In September 2015, the This achievement of manufacturing it sends a stop signal to the guarded machine. Haridwar plant, M&M excellence is a result of the commitment of Built-in Safety Poka-Yoke's during design & planning stage Ltd.'s sole automotive our workforce. And this commitment can only The benefits of safety curtain plant in North India, be reinforced by providing our workers with Improved safety due Water sprinkler system in entire plant achieved a production world-class safety systems. One such milestone of 700,000 to two-hand controls system introduced this year was the Fire hydrant system inside the assembly building vehicles. It achieved this feat in less than 10 years Safety Curtain Sensors in the press Access Protection Ergonomically designed work stations of commissioning. In fact, machines to prevent hand injury to for the past two years, the workmen. Hand & person the plant has earned the Built-in Jishu Hozen (Autonomous Maintenance) concepts In any automotive plant, the hydraulic press detection distinction of having one of the highest production performs a wide range of functions; from capacities amongst other injection moulding of plastic bumpers to the Hazardous point automotive plants of hydroforming of chassis components. The presses can range from 5 to 100,000 ton or protection Mahindra. more and can operate at blinding speeds, leaving no time for operators to move their hand or body out of the way should a cycle be accidentally started. Today, all press machines at the AD Haridwar plant come equipped with the safety curtain system. 69 70 Safety Dashboard Case Study Zero Sectors reported with Health is a state of complete physical, social and mental well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity. True wellness stems from healthy eating and exercising habits that not only prevent illness but also enhances the quality of life. A c c i d e n t s Permanent Workforce FD, SD, SBU, MRV Permanent Employees Sector Male Contract Workforce AD, FD, SD, MRV Lost Time Injury Rate Female Total Male Note: SBUContract data not reported Lost Day Rate Female Total Fatality Wellness Way to Building on that belief, the Mahindra Group has launched a group-level initiative titled Health & Wellness Troika to spread greater awareness on the importance of AD 0.12 0.00 0.12 250.52 0.00 246.34 1 employee health and deploy health & wellness-related FD + SD 0.93 0.00 0.93 21.24 0.00 20.74 0 activities for employees. The Troika's primary objective is to improve the health of employees and their families while Contract + Other Employees reducing our health-related costs as an employer by implementing comprehensive wellness programmes that would focus on preventive health and lifestyle modification. This means Lost Time Injury Rate Lost Day Rate encouraging employees to focus on key health behaviours such as increasing physical activity, Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total improving eating habits, reducing stress, and ceasing tobacco and alcohol use. AD 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Our Auto & Farm Sectors carried forward this troika and dovetailed it with its Way to Wellness (W2W) programme that was initiated in 2013. Here is how M&M has implemented the programme. FD 1.36 0.00 1.35 49.86 0.00 49.86 Fatality Reporting During the year, there was one Health Awareness Food & Nutrition Health Promotional Activities unfortunate case of fatality as a Periodic health check-up for Appointment of nutritionist In-house health result of electrocution due to officers and cell members at most Production Units screening camps As per the World Health Organization, inappropriate handling of a live welding torch at the AD Zaheerabad Leather forearm sleeves implemented for all the W2W mailers Formation of healthy food Promotion of physical plant. A comprehensive root-causewelders in the plant counters at all M&M locations activities through Goqii Lectures on lifestyle diseases (fitness band), Zumba a healthy workplace is one where employees and analysis of the incidence was (External and Internal faculty) Online nutrition counselling and Yoga conducted based on which the Electric resistant (Fibre toe) safety shoe extended on diet following corrective and preventive to all welders Live video chats\webinar Celebration of major health Training programme for cooks managers collaborate to continually improve the measures were devised: days like World Diabetes Day, Residual Current Breaker with Over-Current on healthier cooking, hygiene World Cancer Day, etc. and sanitation Protection (RCBO) of 30 milliamps implemented for health and well-being of all employees, and by all welding machines and ensured its working Today, healthy food counters, conceptualised by nutritionists, are operational at all M&M plant during permit issue locations and a significant number of employees are benefitting from it. The healthy food counters serve low fat, nutritious wholesome food to employees, resulting in reduction in oil consumption doing this, sustain the productivity of the business Inspection of welding machines on a monthly across M&M. Additionally, services of nutritionist are also available for individual counselling like instead of quarterly basis diabetes, blood pressure, high lipids and obesity. 71 72 We've been Innovation is at the We are investing India's No.1 UV and heart of everything we do. in the future of mobility Tractor maker We are enhancing by combining our for a long time now. our design and innovative manufacturing And we intend technology capabilities capabilities with replicating the India through a neural our investments success story network of R&D centres in downstream on the global stage. across the globe platforms The diversity of India represents a dichotomy of two seemingly The cities, with their burgeoning, aspiring and young middle class, are driving a modern India disparate worlds but still depend upon farm output for basic subsistence. Both require innovations and equipment to help them do more with less rural and urban, effort and go further using less resources. complementing each other. Promote sustainable economies & farming practices PRODUCT PERFORMANCE Explore alternative fuel technologies Enable farm-tech Every product we develop, is an opportunity for people to rise. The best success stories At Mahindra, we aim to catalyse this symbiotic relationship through our passenger vehicles and farm equipment. But in addition to comfort, safety, prosperity we could possibly share would revolve around our product development. With a diligent affordability and quality, we also keep sustainability at the heart of every team and clearly defined goals, we are striving to make the vision of 'Make in India', a product innovation. This manifests in our gamut of products and services reality. The idea is to create new possibilities for people through products and services. proﬁtability, environmental that resonates with our three core standpoints The Mahindra Way reflects our commitment to excellence. It is an institutionalised and structured process that integrates management technology, process technology and responsibility & social responsibility. product technology in areas of manufacturing, vendor management, product development and marketing. Some of our key areas of interventions include: Designing, engineering and manufacturing fuel-efficient engines that lower frictional Our ever-expanding range of sustainable products emanates from our firm commitment to: losses and encourage the use of alternate fuels like CNG, LPG, Bio fuels, Bio CNG, Hydrogen ICE, and fuel cells Emphasis on use of new materials to reduce weight of aggregates and parts MANAGEMENT Design & develop transmissions which are lighter, quieter and more efficient APPROACH Special efforts & focus on electronic systems on Tractors which provides productivity and comfort for the farmers. 73 74 N E W D E V E L O P M E N T S ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AUTO DIVISION | PASSENGER CARS Spearheading Sustainable Mobility The future is automatic XUV5OO and Scorpio Mahindra is geared and committed to develop smart mobility for the 21st century. All our mobility products, existing or new, are regularly put under Cars with automatic XUV5OO the scanner and need to pass the 5C test: transmission are easier The New Age XUV5OO is to learn and more the only SUV in its class to Clean, Convenient, comfortable to drive, offer a 2nd generation 6especially in traffic. They speed automatic are also better at transmission mated to the managing power and 2.2 litre mHawk engine handling gear ratios. with All Wheel Drive (AWD) Connected, Clever Keeping these benefits as an option. It has a in mind, we introduced higher number of gear The compact car with a positive vibe | Verito Vibe automatic transmission ratios than a conventional The Verito Vibe has been designed and developed in-house in the new-generation 5 speed automatic which by Mahindra. Powered by Renault's renowned 1.5 litre dCi diesel XUV5OO and Scorpio. enables the driveline to engine known for its durability, the car delivers a mileage of 20.8 & Cost Eﬀective. deliver the best fuel km/l (ARAI certified). A very dependable family car, the Verito Vibe NEW-GEN SCORPIO efficiency. The New Age also comes equipped with safety features like ABS with EBD, The Mahindra Scorpio XUV 5OO is also powered driver air bag, engine immobiliser, and side impact beams. AT pairs a 6-speed by a micro hybrid automatic transmission technology that to the 2.2-liter, fuelintelligently switches off efficient mHawk fourthe engine when not By constantly reinventing our cylinder diesel engine. required. This makes the vehicles and making them new XUV5OO extremely more fuel-efficient, roadfuel efficient with a friendly and humanmileage of 16 km/l (ARAI friendly, we give shape certified). and form to our belief of leveraging 'continuous improvement' as a key plank and taking sustainable mobility to the last mile. Being green, e cient and clean does not mean that the mileage or distance is compromised. The lithium-ion batteries used in the Most e2o give you a distance of 120 kms India's or more in one full charge. Fuel-efficient Diesel SUV | KUV 1OO Built on an all-new monocoque platform and designed in-house with contemporary urban crossover cues, the KUV1OO is powered by advanced all-new mFALCON engine family with options of both petrol (mFALCON, G80) and diesel (mFALCON, D75). The engines deliver high, low-end torque for peppy performance e2o ElectriCity Car and a fuel efficiency of 25.32 km/l in diesel (ARAI certified). This makes KUV1OO India's most fuel-efficient diesel SUV. NOW ON UK ROADS Mahindra made its eagerly-anticipated entry into the UK automotive market TUV 3OO's ﬁrst-in-class with the launch of e2o the innovative ElectriCity Car. ECO mode function ensures The e2o is an innovative combination of advancements in automotive, electronics and economical fuel consumption information technology paired with minimal running costs and zero tailpipe emissions. By with an ARAI-certiﬁed optimising vehicle weight and performance for city usage, the e2o slashes fuel costs to under £10 per month for e2o owners that charge at home at night and drive the national average of 7,900 miles fuel e ciency of 18.49 km/l per year. This makes it the ideal urban runabout or second car for the two-and-a-half-million UK households that can charge the car at home in a driveway or garage. Designed specifically for easy urban commuting, it features a host of unique technologies including rapid charging, telematics, smartphone app and emergency remote recharging. 75 76 N E W D E V E L O P M E N T S AUTO DIVISION | LIGHT COMMERCIAL VEHICLES The Light Commercial Vehicle (LCV) and Light Goods Vehicle (LGV) segments have long been FARM DIVISION: TRACTORS seen as load carrier that give more importance to capacity than comfort. To remedy this malady, we launched Supro Van and Supro Maxitruck which excel in fuel efficiency, safety and style. Small is beautiful Style packed with substance Mahindra Yuvraj 215 NXT Supro Van & Supro Maxitruck Mahindra Yuvraj 215 NXT is a 15 hp compact Class Leading Mileage tractor with solid style and solid performance. Both the vehicles are powered by Ease of operation and fuel efficiency makes The multipurpose powerhouse Mahindra's powerful Direct Injection the Yuvraj 215 NXT the ideal tractor for small Mahindra 415 DI (DI) turbo diesel engine that pumps landholdings and inter-culture operations. The new Mahindra 415 DI promises to redefine out 45 hp power and still gives a class the 40 hp category with its powerful engine The compact tractor has been specially leading mileage of 23.5 km/l for the and fuel economy. Powered by a naturallydesigned for crops like soybean, cotton, maze, Supro Van and 22.4 km/l for the aspirated 4-cylinder engine, the new Mahindra sugarcane and orchards, and is India's first 15 Supro Maxitruck. 415 DI sets the benchmark in power with a hp water cooled engine that delivers superior performance and fuel efficiency maximum output. It also offers max torque at Safety & Comfort 158 Nm as well as a powerful back up torque Both offer high levels of safety with a robust frontal nose design that allows the tractor to perform in all heavy for added safety in case of frontal collision, high ground clearance and strong agri applications – features that are among suspension for superior comfort and a longer wheelbase for better stability and the best within the category. superior handling. Further the Dual LSPV brakes provide superior braking performance and the (ELR) seat belt systems provide safety against sudden impact. Design The Supro Van has many car-like features such as wide seats, headroom, A modular range for legroom and a large boot space for greater comfort and a more pleasurable modern needs | Jeeto long distance travel. Both vehicles boast of features such as AC and Power Jeeto, our all-new small commercial Steering a first-in-the-segment for both segments. vehicle, is the first ever product in its category with a modular range of 8 mini-trucks to cater to the varied needs of the sub 1 ton load segment A Premium Pick-up customers. Powered by mDura, an allFuel Smart Technology | Imperio new Direct Injection (DI) diesel engine from the Mahindra stable, Jeeto is Conceptualised and developed in house by designed for refined performance and our engineers, Imperio boasts of some classdelivers fuel efficiency of up to 37.6 km/l. leading technology features such as Fuel Smart technology. It is powered by a Direct Injection engine with Common Rail Technology with superior load carrying capacity of 1240 kg. The engine delivers 75 hp power (56 kW), 220 Nm torque (pulling power) and mileage of 13.55 km/l. The Connected Electric Scooter Mahindra GenZe 2.0 GenZe, launched last year, is a mobility solution of the future with zero emission. It offers a sustainable urban transport solution to new generation of US consumers. The GenZe 2.0, launched in January 2016, is designed to help alleviate challenges associated with urban commuting, parking, congestion and pollution. It has a removable lithium-ion battery that can be recharged at any standard electrical outlet, providing optimal freedom and ease of use. 77 78 Safety Built-in | KUV1OO The KUV1OO is ahead of its time by being compliant with the upcoming 2017 safety regulations. It is one of Being an automotive major, we the very few entry-level cars in the Indian market to Being understand the importance of offer dual airbags as an option in the base variant as upholding health and safety in well as top end variant. It also offers ABS with EBD every product we offer. Product safety continues to remain Future standard in the base variant. Other safety features include ISOFIX mounts for child Ready seat on rear seat, a 'body cage' of ultra-high strength OUR TOP PRIORITY, steel that provides enhanced safety to the occupants, ELR seat belts with emergency locking retractors, speed-sensing auto door locking and auto-unlocking in the event of a crash, automatic hazard lights on panic Provisions braking and dual rear fog lamps. for End-of-Life and Health, Safety & Environment considerations are Vehicles HEALTH & SAFETY IMPACTS embedded at the start of every new product endeavour. Every new Mahindra product begins life with an End-of-Life Vehicles (ELVs) have the The Battle Tank on BS-IV intense and unrelenting series of prototype testing potential to release harmful before it is deemed production-worthy. This helps Indian Roads | TUV 3OO substances to environment, if it is not us identify and weed out all possible health and safety concerns before commencement of commercial production. BS-III Designed in-house and built on an all-new platform, the TUV3OO takes design cues from a battle tank stored, treated & disposed properly. We are committed to minimising the Euro-Vb which lends it a tough and bold character. environmental impact of our vehicles Additionaly, we undertake and adhere to best practices like: The vehicle's safety quotient has been enhanced periodic testing across the lifecycle L6 through a toughened high strength steel body shell, None of our major models have any hydro-formed crush tips, dual airbags, Anti-lock hazardous materials like Lead, of every product to monitor, reiterate and manage its OBD II Braking System (ABS) with Electronic Brake-force Cadmium or Mercury, etc. conformation of health and safety norms. Distribution (EBD), Corner Brake Control (CBC) and automatic door lock. OECD It is India's only SUV with autoSHIFT Automated Manual Transmission We have instituted special processes to ensure compliance to EEC directive 2005/64/EC for ELV regulation. Technology (AMT), which makes it effortless to drive. European Exports: In line with the S A F E T Y I N I T I A T I V E S AUTO DIVISION EC directive on Recycle, Recovery & Reuse (RRR), here are the recyclability Our vehicles are currently meeting BS-IV emission norms in 24 cities where these rates of some of our best-selling norms are implemented. In rest of the places, we are meeting BS-III norms. passenger vehicles: We have the current European Emission norms of EuroVb with On board 95.1% Quanto diagnostic (OBD) system on all our export models of Scorpio SC/DC, Scorpio SUV and XUV 5OO (AWD, TWD), Quanto, Genio and Xylo. We have also certified our 96.5% Genio Scorpio SUV for L6 emission norms for Brazil. 94.5% Scorpio OBD II is implemented in all domestic models from April 2013 95.3% Scorpio pick up All the export vehicles are complying with applicable OECD & country specific 93.9% XUV 5OO regulations including those for noise and safety. 50% of our vehicles meant for export market are designed in accordance with European, Australian, South Dismantling manuals have been African & South American motor vehicle safety standards and regulations like developed for the first time for front, offset, side and rear impact with dummy injury criteria. Mahindra vehicles. 79 80 S A F E T Y I N I T I A T I V E S FARM DIVISION Our products are designed to serve two purposes: enhance farm productivity & Our vehicles, products and services not only aim to drive make farming less strenuous the nation's economy but also on the farmer. This year, we introduced tractors across 15 hp, 45 hp and 60 hp category in order to cater to farmers of all income levels and farm sizes. These ergonomically designed tractors keep the user safe and comfortable, while enhancing the productivity. We also introduced specialised services and software to help the farmers get more returns per acre. its social progress. We aim to give the farmers a good quality, cost effective solution that helps them do more with less, whereas we strive to make cars, two wheelers and LCVs for a modern India that is raring to go places. SOCIAL IMPACTS Goodness of nature for the health conscious Indian NuPro We are committed towards developing progressive FARM DIVISION farming practices and are closely associated with the farmers to ensure that only the best quality output Our Initiative Services Rendered to Farmers reaches the end consumer. To deliver on this brand farm division Trringo A one-of-its-kind rental service that aims to make promise, the Agri Business vertical of Mahindra & provides a host mechanisation a cost-effective solution for small farmers Mahindra launched NuPro a range of products for the of o erings health conscious Indian consumer. NuPro brand o ers a bouquet of edible oils and pulses which play a Mahindra Agri-mechanisation NuPro products comply with the most stringent food produced using Mahindra's 'Farm to Fork' model that pivotal role in AppliTrac safety guidelines laid out by the Food Safety and strengthening Standards Authority of India also come with the deploys stringent quality checks at various stages in the the rural fabric Samriddhi Market linkages, Distribution, Agri-support information ranging from water-management to crop solutions and counselling 'Mahindra Quality Standard (MQS)' seal to validate its of India. product value chain; right from production, consistent promise of high quality standards. Mahindra Micro-irrigation, Inter-related requirements of fertigation, and Agronomic procurement and processing to ﬁnal packaging and distribution EPC supportImproved cost structure and supply chain efﬁciency. to ensure that there is minimal loss of natural product Crusade Delivery of quality products and joyful experience for the customers properties or nutrients. 81 82 I N I T I A T I V E S MoU to Eliminate Poverty Mahindra Samriddhi Taking mechanisation to Mahindra Samriddhi has signed an the farms | Trringo MoU with the Society for The India's farmers have still not boarded the Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) that will give us access to over 9 lakh mechanised farming bandwagon largely due the high cost of entrance. The farming sector still largely consists of small farms that either don't have the necessary capital or don't see the return on investment in mechanisation. To capitalise on this opportunity, our Farm Division Self Help Groups (SHGs) forayed into agriculture equipment rental These SHGs have been organised Stimulating farm prosperity | Jingo services with the launch of Trringo, India's into Farmer Producer Companies foremost organised rental service. Jingo is a unique agricultural bio-stimulant (FPCs). Mahindra Samriddhi, over product made indigenously from natural extracts the next few months, will develop that will help plants in producing maximum yields. a plan to work in select Trringo is a first-of-its-kind technology driven model in the tractor rental business geographies with the aim of for those farmers who may not afford their own tractor and equipment. The service providing Samriddhi products and This product conforms to the will operate on a dual business model. services to these FPCs and explore sustainable Nutricycling mechanism, possibilities to buy back pulses and is thus an eco-friendly and toxin-free. from these farmers. SERP is an The first model is one where the franchisee In the second C2C business model, large farmers who own expensive, highentity under the Department of will invest in tractors and equipment to rent end equipment can rent out their assets thereby optimising utilisation based Rural Development, Government of When JINGO is sprayed on plants, it elevates plant it out and set up a hub for operations. Trringo on seasonality, even cutting across geographies. TRRINGO would connect the Andhra Pradesh. hormone synthesis, increases photosynthetic will use proprietary digital platform as an asset owner to the user using the App and by virtue of creating a national efficiency, accelerates cell multiplication and enabler to process orders and pass them to brand awareness. enhances carbon and nitrogen utilisation. The the nearest Franchisee through location precise action of JINGO on plants leads to root based mapping. It will also provide service mass proliferation, shoot length increase and through a dedicated app and a toll-free early growth vigour, which directly translates to number. The franchisee could also tie-up with increase in crop yield. tractor owners in the vicinity enabling them to rent out equipment to farmers on a commission basis. The initiative will drive mechanisation of the agricultural sector, enabling small farmers to Towards Farm-Tech Prosperity access technology that can boost their yields Grape Poly Guard and thereby overall farm prosperity. Grape growers in India are facing a lot of problems due to unfavourable climatic changes like unseasonal rainfall, hail More power in the farmer's hand storms and heavy winds. These not only SWARAJ 960 FE with POWER MAX 60 Engine reduce the quality and yield but also increase the propensity of pests. Keeping Farmers can now haul heavier loads and complete more in mind the vision of Farm Tech Prosperity, field work at a faster rate and in lesser time, thereby EPC Mahindra worked closely with farmers boosting farm productivity. Our Swaraj brand marked its and developed the Grape Poly Guard. entry into the highly competitive 60 horsepower (hp) tractor Grape Poly Guard is a protective covering category, with the launch of the new Swaraj 960 FE. of poly sheet over the grape orchard The 960 FE offers additional power to farmers, especially for which provides protection to the grape haulage and other heavy applications. It features a 3,478 cc, vines against unseasonal rains, hail three-cylinder engine which is the largest in the category storms and wind. While it allows uniform and has also been fitted with a constant mesh gear box, diffusion of light over the vine to enhance allowing its owner to work for longer hours without fatigue. proper photosynthesis, it has UV Apart from more torque and the highest cc, it also offers resistance ability that protects the crop better fuel economy. from high temperatures. The Poly Guard also maintains the Downey and Powdery Mildew diseases below the economical threshold level. 83 84 Blog COMPLIANCE In the last few years, governments Spark the Rise across the world have started giving a Mahindra Xylo fresh look at their regulatory Product and Service Information Mahindra Scorpio frameworks. This has made compliance more difficult to achieve as well as Customer centricity, information security and Mahindra Bolero Mahindra XUV5OO sustain. In such a scenario, we take delivery of high quality & timely information Our Online Presence Mahindra Quanto pride in the fact that our internal are three core ideas that govern our customer service philosophy. Mahindra Thar benchmarks for quality have always Mahindra KUV1OO been a notch above the prevailing We clearly list out the optimum usage methodology, potential risks and means Mahindra KUV3OO regulations of that era. to avoid them in all our product brochures and other branding collaterals. We Mahindra Verito All our businesses have established provide accurate and appropriate information in line with required regulatory Mahindra Verito Vibe strategic systems, procedures and and mandatory requirements pertaining to labelling, brand promotions, Mahindra Imperio review mechanisms to ensure sponsorships and advertising. compliance with laws and regulations relevant to the products and services. Health and Safety Regulations During the year, we continued to comply In our endeavour to enhance the quality of life for many, we take 100% with all applicable statutes and no nongreat care in not endangering the lives of few. We abide by the www.mahindra.com compliance incidences related to regulations and codes pertaining to health and safety and are Mahindra Rise We regularly update product or service were reported. determined to maintain Auto Division our corporate website more engaging, Mahindra Reva in order to make it Mahindra KUV1OO Mahindra KUV3OO Mahindra Verito endearing & user-friendly. c o m p l i a n c e Mahindra Verito Vibe MARKETING & COMMUNICATIONS Our vehicles, products and services are designed keeping the end-consumer in mind their needs, their wants, their fears and their aspirations. Naturally, we leave no opportunity to communicate with the customers; not just to know what they would want us to do, also to inform them about what we are doing for them. Our passion to communicate also comes with the responsibility that the quality of our communication should be transparent, fair and timely. Our marketing plans are chalked out in accordance to this passion and responsibility. We have well-established systems to ensure full compliance to all the statutory laws and standards related to marketing communication, advertising, promotion and sponsorship. We employ multiple communication channels to promote our products, and provide accurate information about our products and services so that the customers are aware Our penchant for social media interaction of their benefits and impacts. starts at the very top. Mr. Anand Mahindra, the Chairman of Mahindra Group is an avid This includes our extensive television and print media campaigns that adhere to the code user of Twitter and uses it to share both his of conduct defined by the Advertising Standards Council of India. views, as well as the organisation's news. 85 86 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE FY 2015-16 INR million Total Economic Value Generated 417,398 Economic Value Distributed 394,140 Economic Value Retained 23,258 However, even amidst this scenario, Mahindra & Mahindra recorded an increase of 6.23% in net income at INR 417.4 billion in the year under review as against INR 392.9 billion in the previous year. While this growth rate has brought a spring in our steps, what's lent us a shot in the arm is the addition of 11 new products in our portfolio. These product launches were across product categories and increase in net income of Mahindra & Mahindra FY 2015-16 reflected on the impacts of two have helped strengthen M&M's presence consecutive droughts. But despite such an across industry segments. unfavourable climate in the homeland and an extremely volatile global operational Auto Division maintained leadership status in environment, the Indian economy continued the domestic UV market by posting a market to show signs of recovery throughout the share of 37.9% with 7.5% rise in sales volume. 1 year. This is impressive and bears testimony to the policy repair that has been wrought since the near crisis experienced in May 2013. Farm Division (including Swaraj Division) recorded sales of 214,173 tractors as against 234,766 tractors sold in the previous year, revenue growth in crop care solutions business The growth momentum, however, remained recording a decline of 8.8%. This slowdown is disappointingly modest through most of the an outcome of a dip in the demand of tractors year. With external demand remaining the Indian tractor industry declined by 10.4% sluggish, rural incomes battered by four in FY 2015-16. Beyond tractors, the focus .5% consecutively weak cropping seasons and domestic private investments constrained by excess capacities and rising balance sheet remained on offering crop care solutions to improve farm prosperity. This business saw a growth of 13.3% in terms of revenue this year. rise in sales volume of Auto Division stress, urban consumption and public capital In the power generation space, under the expenditures were virtually the only sources Mahindra Powerol Brand, M&M continued to of demand that picked up pace this fiscal. rise as one of the leaders in the industry. new products added in portfolio 3.3% .23% across product categories Bolero Pick-Up has been leader in the Indian pick up market for over a decade 87 88 APPROACH MANAGEMENT Auto Division HIGHLIGHTS Bolero retained the title of 10 India's largest selling SUV th consecutive year for the At Mahindra, we can now confidently say that S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y CHALLENGES power our business acumen Credit Worthy M&M has been rated by CRISIL XUV500 continued to be the customer's choice Limited, ICRA Limited, India Ratings Years of disruptive thinking have ensured that ecological and and Research Private Limited (India in the premium UV segment ethnographic aspects are an intrinsic part of all our economic Ratings) and Credit Analysis & considerations. Be it investing in sustainable operations or building a Research Limited (CARE) under with over 36,000 sales in the year green and inclusive portfolio we explore business opportunities Basel II norms. at the intersection of people, planet and profit. In addition to extensive business interests in alternative energy and technology All have re-affirmed the highest credit rating for the Company’s The highlight for the year under review was the launch of two sectors, we are also focussing on introducing newer business models based on 'Rise for Good' and realigning existing businesses. Short Term facilities. all new UVs, the TUV300 and KUV100 in the compact UV segment For Long Term facilities and Non-Convertible Debenture (NCD) programme, CRISIL and ICRA have Over the years, we have continued to invest significantly in R&D. re-affirmed their credit ratings of The aim is to build on CRISIL AAA/ Stable and [ICRA]AAA (stable) respectively. our culture of innovation Further, CARE has also re-affirmed its highest CARE AAA level of credit ratings for the long-term facilities and unveil products & of M&M. India Ratings has also re-affirmed Long-Term Issuer Rating of ‘IND AAA’ with a Stable outlook. services which are both THE RATINGS ARE AN ACKNOWLEDGEMENT On 14th December, 2015, M&M and Tech Mahindra Limited signed an agreement to acquire controlling stake in Pininfarina S.p.A (“Pininfarina”), disruptive and sustainable, OF THE STRONG CREDIT PROFILE OF M&M a leading Italian automotive design and engineering services company OVER THE YEARS. which provides services to global automotive manufacturers such as enabling India to rise. Fiat, BMW, PSA and others apart from our Company. These ratings indicate highest degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations This year our R&D investments and efforts yield us rich returns, and are also a vote of confidence as we presented a myriad of new products with the hope of defining reposed in the Company’s the future of mobility and offering enablers of inclusive development. Management by the rating agencies. Farm Division We introduced tractors across 15hp, 45hp and 60hp category in order to cater to farmers of all income levels and farm sizes. These ergonomically designed tractors keep the user safe and comfortable, while enhancing the productivity. We also introduced specialised services and software to help the farmers get more returns per acre. 89 90 Economic Value Generated and Distributed INR million Economic Value Generated Net Income 417,398 2015-16 Total expenses 375,787 Exceptional items -687 Net current taxes 8,056 Deferred taxes 2,568 Proposed dividend 7,453 Income tax on proposed dividend 964 INR million 417,398 Total Economic Economic Value Generated 394,140 Value Distributed An Army of Beyond Financials Economic Value Distributed 3941,40 Economic Value Retained 23,258 23,258 Electric Vehicles Economic Value Retained Foreign Exchange and R&D INR million Particulars FY2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 In the reporting years, M&M presented Foreign Exchange 22,599.30 23,360.00 24,279.20 Earnings the future of mobility solutions in the form of multiple launches: We unveiled an all-electric sports performance car eVerito, our new electric sedan is a 100% Amount spent 7,381.45 15,796.11 13,009.40 'e2o sport' at the Auto Expo 2016. The car is a manifestation of Mahindra's leadership in the electric zero emission, green vehicle. An automatic 2014-15 on R&D Notes: 1) Foreign Exchange Earnings: Figures are only for M&M Ltd. | 2) Research and transmission sedan, it can be charged at Development: FY 2015-16 data is only for M&M vehicle category in India. It brings together an home and can also be quick charged in 2 hours unbeatable range of 200km with supreme through fast charging. In one charge, Mahindra performance of an 80 KW power train. Some unique eVerito can travel for up to 100 kms based on vehicle features of e2o sports are its instant acceleration of loading and can achieve a top speed of 86 kmph. 0-60kmph in 4 seconds (0-100 kmph in 8 seconds) INR million Revenue and PAT M&M Ltd. INR million and 384V – high voltage power pack. Gross Revenue 444,610 397,944 Total Economic Value Generated The Supro Electric Van is an 8-seater zero-emission mini-van Proﬁt/ (Loss) after Tax 31,670 PERFORMANCE The Mahindra Racing Formula E Team made powered by advanced lithium-ion batteries. Capable of covering its debut in March at the Miami ePrix. The Mahindra Group also had its first joint event a distance of 100 kms on a single charge, the Supro Electric Van is Economic Value Distributed 373,201 fully-automatic and can hit an electronically limited top-speed of 50 in the US around this race to showcase its kilometers per hour. The Supro Electric Van can be a preferred option for Economic Value Retained 24,742 Financial Assistance Received growing expertise in Electric Vehicle first and last mile connectivity for Metro rail and BRTS systems, school vans, INR million technology both with their Formula E racing corporate employee commuting solutions and can further serve the purpose from the Government cars and the GenZe electric two wheeler. of campus commuting. Tax relief / credits 0 Subsidies 0 Investment grants, R&D grants and 0 other relevant types of grants Awards 0 I see electric mobility becoming the 2013-14 Royalty Holidays 0 norm, even in India. It's not far in the Financial assistance from 629.5 Export Credit Agencies future that electric vehicles will share our Financial incentives 0 INR million roads with more conventional products. Other ﬁnancial beneﬁts received or 1,294.2 412,265 Total Economic Value Generated receivable from any government for At Mahindra, we intend to accelerate that any operation transformation.” Economic Value Distributed 385,394 Duty drawback + Focus Market Incentive for Export 421.31 Arvind Mathew CEO, Mahindra Reva Economic Value Retained 26,871 Total 2,345.05 91 92 “More than 100 million people will die and global economic growth will be cut by 3.2 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) by 2030, if the world fails to tackle climate change.” according to a recent report commissioned by 20 Governments of the world LOCAL SUPPLY While we expand our presence in the global market, our intention to retain local operations and sourcing remains steadfast. As a corporate citizen of India, our sphere of local sourcing envelops the length and breadth of the country. However, some businesses have their own definition and boundary of what FINANCIAL IMPLICATION OF CLIMATE CHANGE constitutes as local. This depends on the nature of operation, industry requirements and other on-ground realities like access to technology and know-how, tax and duty regimes and supply of skilled manpower. But in any of the two scenarios, we demand from our suppliers uncompromised quality standards. Some of the parameters which enable us to identify and empanel our suppliers include: At Mahindra, we have been doing just the same – turning financial challenges into financial Performance and On-time Delivery | Compliance on Environment, Health and Safety Guidelines opportunities. Our sustainability journey started by transforming our processes into energy Corporate Policy | Commitment to Reduce the Carbon Footprint | Statutory Requirements | Costs saving and emission reducing agents. Over the years, we have now moved on from 'conservation of resources' to 'rejuvenation of resources' approach by further investing in clean and renewable energy. Following are some of ways in which we keep a sharp focus to Every manmade construct is address climate change: a consequence of natural resources. It is hence only 100% An analysis of the top 10 suppliers as per monetary value for each business shows that on an aggregate basis, natural for the effects of Participate in diverse Continual energy efficiency national and international through process efficiency climate change to disrupt our Mahindra and Mahindra sourced life as usual economic, social as well as existential. climate change think tanks In the reporting year, Mr. Anand M&M's absolute GHG emissions, both Scope 1 & 2, reduced in the reporting year. Mahindra was invited as the sole Our businesses reduced emissions by 10,883 tCO2 Our businesses cover both representative of the corporate as a result of our ongoing conservation manufacturing and world at the historic Paris Climate endeavours. agricultural sectors, and Change Agreement Signing are hence even more Ceremony. Additionally, M&M susceptible to became the 1st Indian Company to Investment in clean power temperamental weathers join EP100, a global energy Green energy is clean energy. Plus, alternative and changing climates. commitment to double their energy energy sources like solar, wind and thermal also Restricted access to raw productivity by 2030. offer an additional input to our power needs. As materials like water, rising of now, 7% of power mix consists of renewables energy costs, changing and we are in pursuit to give clean energy a Sector Total Purchases from Purchases from Percentage of consumer preferences the greater share in our power mix. Purchases Top 10 Suppliers Local Suppliers Local Suppliers implications of climate (INR million) (INR million) (within top 10) (within top 10) (INR million) change pose alarming challenges to the Systemic Intervention to embed Auto sustainability of our business. sustainability in supply chain Division 120,599 32,411 32,411 100% We mentor our suppliers on climate risk and Farm sustainable practices. This year, we developed Division 47,474 12,201 12,201 100% But while all these factors a green supply chain management system to of its requirement locally. can sedate operational streamline the environment accountability of productivity and dampen suppliers of Auto & Farm divisions which will go investor confidence, they can a long way in optimising use of natural resources also act as perfect enablers as well reduce emissions. of competitiveness if thought alternatively. 93 94 Achieved the Disclosed Mr. Anand Mahindra CII Sustainable Plus, our was invited as the sole Platinum Rating biodiversity representative of the performance corporate world at the Featured on on the 10-point historic Paris Climate Change CDLI and DJSI IBBI Declaration Agreement Signing Ceremony We leverage the power of alternative thinking to rise to the challenges of the future. M&M has remained at the forefront of instilling environmental efficiencies in our operations. In the reporting year too, we ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE advanced our conservation drive in an accelerated motion. A myriad of climate friendly interventions ensured that several Climate Change units reduce their specific emission discharge, energy dependence and water consumption. We also spearheaded new initiatives for our value chain to add is one such challenge staring at the entire world greater value to the planet, the stakeholders, as well and calls for constructive & collaborative action as the business. We also secured thought leadership positions globally by setting benchmarks at international platforms such as COP21, the United Nations' 2° For Corporates, this is the ﬁrst step towards visibly integrating our interests with the interests of the future of the planet. Anand Mahindra Chairman & MD, Mahindra Group at Cop21 in Paris 95 96 Environmental Policies MANAGEMENT APPROACH 3 Our approach to environment management is governed by At M&M, the environmental policies are measured with the same weight as a mission statement. CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT These policies continuously guide us COMPREHENSIVE DISCLOSURES to advance the resource efﬁciency of our products, processes & premises. Our environment roadmap is aligned with emerging scenarios and stakeholder expectations which are reflected in our efforts. Our interventions strategically focus on KPIs material to our business: The end objective The teams across all our units possess the enthusiasm and the wherewithal to drive efficiencies in all environment aspects such as Carbon Neutrality Minimise impact on the environment and energy, waste, water and biodiversity. A wellthrough energy conservation and efficiency make efforts to restore the environment structured process ensures comprehensive interventions, right from creating awareness about conservation to managing resources Water Positivity & Water Security reduced water use, recycling and water harvesting Contribute towards long-term through on-ground actions. sustainability throughout the Robust monitoring practices like environmental impact assessment enables us to continuously Zero Waste & Circular Economy life cycle of products & services improve, thereby not just outperform our own radical resource efficiency and zero waste systems targets but also be ahead of the industry curve on environment KPIs. Sustainability reporting contributes to our Green Revenues Find opportunities to improve reduced emissions the local environment in the sustainability agenda in more ways than one. Disclosures result in deliberations and while we communities in which we operate Sustainable report, we also reflect on our performance and Supply Chain realign our efforts with evolving expectations. Management Supply chain accounts for a All manufacturing plants significant portion to the footprint of a manufacturing of M&M are certified with sector like ours. Sustainability in ISO-14001-2004 Every employee adheres to the environment policy supply chain, therefore, is a key generator of business value for Environment Management System and its implementation is M&M. We proactively engage with our suppliers and vendors overseen by plant managers to incorporate environmentof respective facilities. friendly practices beyond our factory gates and encourage them to adopt green initiatives. In the reporting period, many of our suppliers took steps enhancing their green cover, saving the precious resource through rainwater harvesting and conserving electricity through operational efficiency. For our Environment Policy; To refer to our green supply chain please refer to Sustainability Report 2009-10. case study, view page no. 124 97 98 AIR QUALITY In the reporting period, While we all benefit from the ₹174.30 was spent towards environment industries and power generation, protection which includes investments in there is a hidden cost which we setting up plants for renewable sources of pay in terms of our health and energy, waste disposal, treating chemical million waste, and controlling air pollution. environment. We adhere to all statutory norms, and effectively use The quality of air we breathe directly a robust monitoring mechanism to keep a check on various pollutants. impacts the quality of life we lead. At M&M, we recognise this implication and 17.95 The Particulate Matter PM10 (size STP/ETP maintenance less than 10 µm) & PM2.5 (size less than 2.5 µm), Sulphur Oxides (SOx) take onus of our actions. and Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) are commonly monitored at all our manufacturing & service locations, Ambient Air Quality 2015-16 microgram/m3 in line with the revised National 4.54 Ambient Air Quality Standards Sectors PM 10 PM 2.5 SOx NOx Air emission (Stack & ambient) monitoring (NAAQS 2009). NAAQ Limits 100 60 80 80 2009 Some manufacturing plants also monitor more specific pollutants AD 72.54 36.11 9.84 14.60 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT related to their processes like Respirable Suspended Particulate FD + SD 82.24 42.98 14.01 19.15 1.61 Matter (RSPM), Carbon Monoxide MRV 48.08 26.25 5.81 6.46 Water quality monitoring (CO), Methane (CH4), Ozone (O3), Lead (Pb) among others. SBU 33.01 36.31 54.25 9.38 The SOx and NOx emission count of NPD 89.75 26.50 5.69 4.58 all our businesses, is well below the SFD 167.43 68.16 15.34 15.66 1.44 permissible limit. Even the particulate matter emission is below External certification of management systems the limit, except for Swaraj Foundry Division which has devised an action Air Emissions (stacks) 2015-16 Tonnes plan to reduce the same by Sectors TPM SOx NOx installing scrubbers, filters etc. Calculating Specific Consumption AD 28.30 63.22 13.40 18.70 FD + SD 2.90 1.91 9.62 Renewable Energy Certificates We measure our environmental performance on absolute as well as specific basis. The Ozone Depleting Substances specific consumption is calculated by dividing absolute consumption by a denominator SBU 0.00 0.00 0.00 based on the nature of business. For e.g., in case of manufacturing business units, it MRV 9.30 1.86 7.80 is the number of units produced, whereas for services, it is the number of employees, Ozone Depleting Substances or units of services offered etc. The denominators for the Companies of the sector are NPD 0.00 0.02 0.00 18.22 delineated in the following table: (ODS) can adversely alter nature's balance and thus we remain Consent application/ SFD 0.00 0.00 0.01 renewal application sensitive towards its discharge. with respect to Business Unit of Measure Denominator We have geared our processes to pollution control boards 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 reduce consumption of resources and emission of ODS like AD Equivalent number of 345,702 335,055 341,387 Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), halons vehicles manufactured and Hydro Chlorofluorocarbons 31.84 FD+SD Equivalent number of tractors 407,57 345,318 332,577 (HCFCs). In 2015-16, the Non-ODS Waste (R134a) consumption stood at Disposal/Treatment manufactured SBU Tonnes of packaging material 5,329 7,188 6,691 101.2 tonne. Greenhouse Gases The challenges climate change poses have the M&M was featured 80 MRV Full time equivalent 2,371 2,530 2,530 employees potential to disrupt not just our way of life on CDLI 2015, Solar Power Plant but also business as usual. We are committed gaining a score of 98 SFD Tonnes of production 23,970 21,172 21,838 to constructively contribute towards reducing NPD Equivalent dies 464 403 326.8 carbon risk by efficient measuring, monitoring 174.30 CC Area of facility in sq. m. 14,680 14,680 14,680 and mitigation of GHG emissions. Total Environmental Expenditure It is gratifying to know M&M's absolute GHG emissions, both Scope 1 & 2, reduced in the reporting year. 99 100 Total Absolute GHG Emissions tCO2 Total Speciﬁc Emissions (scope 1+2) tCO2 / unit of measure GHG Mitigation tCO2 2013-14 2013-14 2013-14 % Reduction % Reduction 41,602 221,014 365,373 in 2015-16 in 2015-16 Sector 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 over Sector over 2014-15 2014-15 2014-15 previous year previous year 38,274 214,093 217,854 AD 0.361 0.343 0.336 2 AD 1,449 2015-16 2015-16 2015-16 38,051 204,272 214,362 FD+SD 0.221 0.232 0.227 2 FD + SD 8,283 SBU 0.176 0.161 0.188 -17 SBU 77 SFD 0.987 0.957 0.971 -1 MRV 329 NPD 3.61 4.718 6.000 -27 NPD 395 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Direct Emissions Indirect Emissions Other Direct Emissions MRV 8.604 9.379 9.962 -6 SFD 350 CC 0.165 0.168 0.172 -3 GHG Emissions Segmented by Source Notes Scope 1 Direct Emissions tCO2 NPD: The increase in specic emissions is due to new shops being set up within the plant's premises in the reporting period. Majority of our businesses Source 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 SBU: The increase in specic emissions is seen due to the use of extra machinery and construction equipment to facilitate the expansion project at Kanhe during the reporting succeeded in further Diesel/HSD 15,294 15,597 14,602 period. reducing emissions, as a result of our continual SFD, MRV, CC: The businesses have recorded an increase in specic consumption and have been alerted accordingly. FO 722 506 338 LPG + (Bharat Metal 11,241 3,614 3,480 All the above stated reasons are also applicable for the variation in specic energy consumption of the respective businesses. conservation endeavours. Cutting Gas) Natural Gas + CNG 11,137 15,183 15,914 I N I T I A T I V E Petrol 316 396 547 Propane 2,892 2,978 3,171 Optimising Logistics optimisation can lead to both cost and carbon savings and contribute to a more Grand Total 41,602 38,274 38,052 Logistics streamlined and sustainable operation. Scope 2 Indirect Emissions Electricity Purchased 221,014 214,093 204,272 Scope 3 Other Direct Emissions Inbound Logistics, 365,373 217,854 214,362 Outbound Logistics, daily commutation, air travel, paper consumption GHG Emissions Division-wise Composition tCO2 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 As part of the optimisation process, capacity Earlier packaging of 2 fenders Stacking of LT fenders in two Sector Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 enhancement for Non Stop Tuning (NST) Hoods per pallet and 1 hood per pallet layers with optimised layout led was taken up by our logistics partner resulting was prevalent. With a little to easier loading and unloading. AD 20,908 103,959 169,536 18,713 96,302 129,135 18,620 95,948 172,747 in doubled carrying capacity. Earlier only 20 sets optimisation, collective nesting FD+SD 15,162 74,766 192,557 14,362 65,856 69,156 14,000 61,594 35,221 of hoods per truck were carried, now 40 sets of of fenders and hoods was hoods per truck are being carried. made possible. SBU 137 802 1,380 179 978 4,143 143 1,116 4,963 SFD NPD 1,399 17 22,265 1,656 95 19 952 15 19,312 1,887 806 10 873 27 20,337 1,929 780 9 115 tons/annum reduction in CO2 emissions 106.7 tons/annum CO2 emissions eliminated 42.5 tons/annum CO2 emissions eliminated ₹7 ₹8 ₹3.8 MRV 3,979 15,140 1,786 4,051 19,677 14,603 4,385 20,819 642 CC DNA 2,426 DNA DNA 2,471 DNA DNA 2,529 DNA million/annum million/annum million/annum savings savings cost savings 101 102 I N I T I A T I V E S The Never-ending Journey called Afforestation BIODIVERSITY Project Hariyali Snapshot In 2007, the Mahindra Group set an ambitious goal of planting Botanical Garden for School Children 1 million trees every year across the nation to increase India's green cover and offset national greenhouse gas emissions. So A barren plot of 7.5 acres was converted into a green far 9.2 million trees have been planted pan India. M&M has been zone by planting more than 10,000 trees and 130 actively contributing to this Group-wide afforestation movement different varieties of medicinal and botanical species. 2,332,496 since its inceptions and has marked a plantation score of Named Mahindra Hariyali Botanical garden, it has so far attracted 21,850 students from 337 schools and colleges. trees till date (2007-2016) Creating Biodiversity Awareness During the reporting period, we planted 111,430 trees through To create awareness on biodiversity among the locals, the combined efforts of our employees and community partners. we published a pictorial guide book on various species of M&M has been actively working in the direction of Nandur Madhameshwar Bird Sanctury in Marathi. conserving biodiversity for the past several years. Last year, we signed the India Business & Biodiversity Initiative Adopting Borgad Hill. (IBBI) to raise awareness and enhance capacity on Transforming it into a Green Paradise preserving the natural capital. As part of the same, we have undertaken assessment of impacts and dependencies on Borgad Hill, situated in the east Nashik forest division, had become biodiversity across our entire value chain and developed barren due to rampant deforestation, following which, the state strategies to rich ecosystem. government declared the region as a conservation reserve forest in 2007. With an objective to rejuvenate the area's biodiversity, we adopted Biodiversity is the quintessence of life. Borgad Hill and tied up with NSCN to launch the greening effort. The project's aim was to plant 50,000 saplings on the hill. Beginning 2007, The rich fauna and ﬂora, the forests, the water bodies Neem, Mango, Sitaphal, Amla, Jatropha and Badam plants were trucked over from nurseries and from the forest department. It took nearly 18 are absolute essentials for human wellbeing, months to complete the tree-planting exercise. While M&M bankrolled the whole project, NSCN supervised its execution. climate stability and socio-economic growth. The region's bio-diversity has improved vastly. Birds such as the spotted dove, paradise flycatcher, blue flycatcher, Malabar whistling-thrush, eagle and blackbird have once again made the forested area their home. As have butterflies, reptiles and a variety of animals, including hyena, jungle cats, porcupine and mongoose. In the reporting period, Mahindra & Mahindra reported its performance against the 10-point declaration of IBBI. Following are the 10-points on which M&M's performance was tested and outcomes shared. Mapping biodiversity interfaces Including the applicable biodiversity with business operations aspects in the environmental management systems Enhancing awareness on biodiversity within the organisation Encouraging relevant stakeholders to support better biodiversity management Assessing biodiversity risks and opportunities Engaging in policy advocacy and dialogue with Government, NGOs and academia on biodiversity concerns The results are there for all to see today: Considering the impacts of Borgad is being transformed into becoming business decisions on biodiversity Setting objectives and targets for biodiversity management Initiating the valuation of relevant biodiversity and ecosystem services THE MOST PREFERRED Designating an individual within the organisation as biodiversity NATURAL HABITAT FOR ALL THE WILD LIFE CREATURES. champion 103 104 I N I T I A T I V E ENERGY Nourishing the Igatpuri Plant Area Despite scientific advances in renewable sources, factors like economic viability and geographic specificity have long hampered the promotion Water scarcity and deforestation in Igatpuri region was directly affecting the biodiversity in the area. With the objective of of alternative energy sources. Hence from a pragmatic viewpoint, rejuvenating the area and enhancing biodiversity, we surveyed the Igatpuri plant and found that 22 acre of open land is energy still remains an indispensable-but-not-inexhaustible resource, available and can be transformed into a green cover. We zeroed-in setting up a biodiversity park on this land and in the initial which will hinder the sustainability of a business. Add to that its impact phase following activities were flagged-off: on the environment, which poses a direct threat to the human health. Dependence of conventional sources of energy, hence, must be decreased drastically 1 2 At Mahindra, we are responding to this challenge through a two-pronged approach: Increasing the Increasing the share of energy productivity alternative energy Water through process in our energy mix Conservation efficiency Flora & Fauna In 2015, M&M become the first Indian Company to sign up for 'EP100', a global energy productivity campaign, committing to double our energy Air Pollution productivity by 2030. As part of EP100, we will work with the most influential businesses in Control setting commitments to double the energy productivity and maximise the economic output from each watt of Rain water harvesting The land has been divided To reduce soil erosion & minimise energy consumed. Increased capacity of natural pond by in to three zones to harness dust level inside the plant, we increasing its height. This enabled the We have already started taking actions in this direction and the diverse aspects of an developed plantation along the plant to sustain water from 60 to 90 days our teams recorded inspiring success stories in the reporting period: ecosystem. plant building periphery, indoor Watershed management Zone 1 plants in office areas & flowering Bringing down per body power consumption conversion 2 Utilised the water flowing through Planted species such as shrubs in a 1,900 m area. from 132 units/body to 99 units/body in the paint shop canal for watering plants Cherry, Mulberry, Spathodia, Umbar, Pimpal, Akash Nim Micro Irrigation to attract birds Use of drip irrigation & sprinklers for Introducing two-in-one heat pump for heating and watering plants & trees, across the plant Zone-2 Set up a butterfly garden chilling purposes at the Zaheerabad plant Waste water recovery with plants such as Hibiscus, Zero discharge ETP/STP Kanher, Shankasur, Tecoma, Kanchan Achieved 14% reduction in power consumption as against Zone-3 the targeted 10% at our Spares Unit in Bhiwandi Developed a fruit orchard planting trees such as Mango, Coconut, Chikoo, Interventions like these have led to decrease in our energy consumption. In the reporting period, our energy Guava, Cashewnut, consumption stood at 1,528,765 GJ compared to 1,530,569 GJ last year. An elaborate list of energy efficiency Jackfruit, Aonla & Jamun initiatives undertaken in FY 2015-16 has been provided further in this section. We will continue to take these interventions along with renewable energy projects to lighten our dependence non-renewable energy. Our current energy productivity stands at approximately 60% AD + FD aggregate 105 106 Absolute Energy Consumption GJ Energy Savings GJ Sector 2015-16 We continued to identify and harness various Direct Direct Direct AD 10,573 energy saving initiatives through altering our 644,170 599,415 600,258 FD + SD 42,129 processes which helped us save energy savings of 59,917 GJ Indirect Indirect Indirect 966,026 931,154 928,507 SBU 338 MRV 1,445 Absolute Absolute Absolute 1,610,196 1,530,569 1,528,765 NPD 1,733 SFD 3,699 during the reporting period. 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Total Energy Consumption by Source GJ ENERGY SAVING INITIATIVES Source 2015-16 We realise that every watt counts and thus we harness the smallest of energy saving opportunities across the entire production chain. Just like every year, in the reporting year too numerous energy saving initiatives were undertaken across units ranging from Electricity Purchased from Grid 917,778 reduction in fuel and LPG consumption, enhanced usage of power-friendly lights and process redesign. Below is a snapshot view. LPG 55,236 FO 4,362 Energy Saved Emissions saved Diesel/HSD 197,049 Sector Location Description (Kwh) in Tonnes Natural Gas + CNG 283,674 FES Jaipur Dual ﬁring for pre-treatment set up 450,900 369.738 Petrol 7,886 FES Kandivli Installation of Heat pump for solvent heating, 144,000 118.08 which reduces heat consumption by 50% Propane 51,477 FES Kandivli • Improvement through programmable 287,515.2 235.762464 Electricity from Renewable Energy Source 11,300 logic controller (plc) • Provision of automatic switching-off control Total Energy Consumption by Sector GJ • Installation of ﬁxed timer Sector 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 FES Kandivli Nozzle modiﬁcation & encoder value adjustment 189,456 155.35392 AD 791,612 758,494 767,753 FES Nagpur • Removal of 78 Tube lights from areas like 217,800 178.596 FD+ SD 560,202 506,721 484,969 aisle, unloading, etc. • Elimination of one air handling unit in SBU 5358 6,712 5,636 assembly area SFD 116,636 976,33 101,201 FES Nagpur Optimised power consumption 438,547 359.60854 NPD 7504 8,482 8,837 of paint booth engine MRV 118,234 141,647 148,053 FES Nagpur Fan installation in transmission assembly 170,000 139.4 against chiller usage CC 10,650 10,880 12,316 FES Rudrapur Power consumption optimisation in Tractor 264,601 216.97282 assembly equipment Speciﬁc Energy Consumption GJ FES Rudrapur Excess power consumption reduced 587,218 481.51876 % Reduction in in EGA C Shift operation Sector 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2015-16 over previous year FES Rudrapur Excess power consumption reduced 193,435 158.6167 AD 2.290 2.264 2.249 1 in VTU GPM Cleaning Machine FD+ SD 1.374 1.467 1.459 1 FES Rudrapur High power consumption reduced in 139,091 114.05462 Compressed Air System in third shift SBU 1.006 0.934 1.022 -10 FES Zaheerabad Chiller Plant-II (PT CED) running optimisation 297,840 244.2288 SFD 4.866 4.611 4.635 -1 by re-visiting CED paint temperature NPD 16.171 21.048 27.109 -29 FES Swaraj Energy saving by replacement 141,696 116.19072 Plant 2 of induction light MRV 49.867 55.987 58.520 -5 SBU Kanhe Power factor incentive 70,384.38 57.7151916 CC 0.725 0.741 0.758 -2 107 108 Case Study Case Study Challenge Paint shop at AD Zaheerabad requires hot 2-in-1 Action After a detailed study, we installed a hybrid heat pump PUMP TECHNOLOGY TO SAVE FUEL water for pre-treatment with a heating capacity of 819,000 kcal/ hour & chilling baths and chilled water for CED paint cooling. We capacity of 77 TR. had two different facilities for these purposes, a chiller facility and two hot water generators which Increasing were inefficient and consumed more fuel. The challenge was to establish a two-in-one facility which serves both purposes, Challenge Action POWER PRODUCTIVITY while saving fuel. Paint shop consumes the highest amount of energy We decided to enhance power productivity at Nashik Plant-1, about per vehicle i.e. 99 units/body instead of the 44% of the total plant conversion cost. current 132 units/body. Detailed analysis of the equipment and processes at the paint shop was conducted to ascertain the power consumption flow and corrective interventions were incorporated in following areas: • Power consumption of blowers was highest at 69%, so we reduced the frequency of Air Supply Unit to save power Some of the salient features of this hybrid pump include: • Enhanced efficiency of blower's drive belts • Single point solution for dual purpose application i.e. producing chilling and heating • Introduced energy-efficient blower motors, deration of motors • Savings due to reduced gas consumption for the equivalent hot water generation • Operating Air Supply Unit at lower frequency as per day temperature • No requirement of cooling tower hence no water loss and or expensive water treatment • 3 Stage Filtration • Switching off the deionisation air ring during lunch time • Production of higher C.O.P refrigeration system with available waste heat Outcomes Outcome Replacing one chiller and two hot water ₹8.33 Environmental Financial Internal Processes Customer generators with hybrid water pump has Increase power productivity energy dependence reduced ₹8.3 million per Equipment life has increased Number of standby equipment Local Management has recognised the initiatives resulted in fuel savings of from 132 units/body to 99 annum increased and given accelerator award units/body to the team million per year 109 110 Case Study Case Study Challenge Reusing the Heat Compressed air systems at AD Nashik-1 consumed a significant portion of Making the Compressed Air Systems Efficient electricity used at manufacturing plants. The challenge was to bring down the power consumption Challenge In Igatpuri, our for Powering Operations dependence of electricity Action by developing a measurement mechanism, Action was huge which came at a price We began looking for alternative source of energy plugging the heavy air We formed a dedicated team to work on compressed commercial and and decided to leverage the heat generated during leakages and cutting down the excess air pressure air management and laid new objectives and targets environmental price the manufacturing process. supply then required. were established and linked to their KRAs. The need to reduce our Capturing heat wasted through Reusing hot water generated power consumption was Measurement, monitoring and reviews with the team and top management was done. exhaust gases during engine testing during engine testing significant which surely Following interventions were taken up to improve the compressed air management system. Heat generated during engine testing is Around 2,000 litre hot water at about 80 to could not be affected by being utilised again through heat 90o degree is being collected in main tank bringing incremental • Introduced concept of 'monitoring to manufacturing’ • Identified and rectified air leakages recovery project and is being used for from test beds and recirculated to washing changes in the process washing machines coolant media. This media. This has hugely reduced the use of efficiencies. • Eliminated compressed air blow-off • Installed Air flow meters in supply & demand side substantially reduces electrical power electrical heaters at washing media by consumption around 60%. • Shared air leakage audit, pump down test results, concerns in monthly meetings • Benchmarked shops with two of them completely converted into 'zero leakage shop’ Outcome Outcome The above actions resulted in a significant 176,000 Kg 42% reduction in specific compressed air. CO2 emissions reduced Year-on-year cost saving of Way Ahead • Getting an audit from external agency • Provision of standalone compressors for optimisation of power during low production days • Installing variable speed drives ₹1.46 million per annum 111 112 WATER Monitoring the Energy Efficiency of our Significant Suppliers Automobile manufacturing is a water-intensive process. Right from surface treatment Total Energy Supplier Consumption (GJ) and coating, spray painting, washing and rinsing, to hosing, Right Tight Fasteners 32,373 cooling, air-conditioning and boiler operations – Genext Auto Industries 1,500 water use is ever present; Ekvira Coats 1,323 but its supply is not. Innova Rubber 18,361 Maharashtra, home to Sharda Motors Ltd. 5,049 some of our oldest and largest JBM Automotive 5,489 manufacturing facilities, is yet again reeling through a drought. Lear Automotive 9,061 And although the Maharashtra Maharashtra Udyog 1,330 state government declared the drought in the summer of 2016, Kusalava International Ltd. 75,529 the water scenario has been Liners India 28,868 quite grim in the last few years. Sushmi Engineering 66 Deshpande Automech 2,577 Naminath Engineering 765 MG Industries 1,679 NPPL 1,900 Siddhi Forge 14,646 Morex Industrial Corporation 219 Ehara Industries 2,782 Caspro Metal Industries 38,853 Friends Auto 3,523 Prince Metal Works 142 Jagdish Iron 26,535 ALF Engineering 4,115 Mungi Engineers 8,874 Radheya 14,457 Emdet 7,711 Minda Stoneridge 12,853 Autocomp 13,546 In the reporting period, we have continued to spearhead and Malke 1,894 sustain several water management initiatives through special cross functional teams dedicated to the cause. Metal & Metal 532 Continental 1,432 Jay Cee 397 Rine Machine Tools 1,443 Dhiman Industries 389 113 114 Total Water Consumption m3 Case Division / Business 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Studies AD 843,885 817,858 789,572 FD+ SD SBU 653,408 13,562 584,020 11,369 504,612 11,392 Challenge Bio-filter to Purify SFD 60,417 49,084 47,348 Like many businesses, M&M's Igatpuri plant the Domestic Waste Water used to procure water Action NPD 8,333 11,405 9,198 from Maharashtra Jiwan MRV 34,627 133,690 138,271 Pradhikaran. We implemented a bio-filter plant to treat CC 48,892 49,090 40,668 The cost canteen waste water which enabled dual benefits: of water, get manure along with the treated waste water. which increased at A bio-filter removes up to 97% Biochemical Oxygen Demand and the sludge generated frequent intervals Speciﬁc Water Consumption 3 m per unit of measure in the process is organic in nature, and a rich source of nutrients. due to its scarcity Outcome % Reduction in led us to • Treated 10 KL of canteen water everyday being used for gardening in the Biodiversity Park Division / Business 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2015-16 over think alternatively. previous year • Generated organic sludge – being used as a natural manure for plants & trees AD 2.441 2.441 2.312 5 • Contributed to climate stability and maintenance of ecosystems through minimising CO2 footprint FD+ SD 1.603 1.691 1.517 10 • Cut the operational cost and increased security of water SBU 2.545 1.582 1.702 -8 • Eliminated chemical treatment of water SFD 2.521 2.318 2.168 6 NPD 17.959 28.300 28.145 1 MRV 14.604 52.842 54.652 -3 CC 3.331 3.344 2.770 17 Challenge After the poor rainfall over Getting Prepared to Avoid Water Crisis Water Withdrawal by Source Discharged Maharashtra in 2015, Municipal Action Water Quality Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) decided to impose a To deal with such water crises, Total Withdrawal (in m3) a special water conservation team was formed and Source As a % of total withdrawal We ensure that whatever cut of 30% on water supply to Bottled Water 618 0.04 wastewater we generate is industries in Mumbai. Water Groundwater 689,832 46.00 free of pollutants and requirement at the plant is given a special task to insulate the plant production. therefore we monitor the approximately 850 KLD out of which 300 KLD water is Following measures were taken up: Rainwater 31,578 2.10 quality of discharged water through internal and external supplied by MCGM and used for • Streamlined the downstream side process of existing Surface Water 138,088 9.20 agencies. So far we have processes such as cooling Reverse Osmosis (RO) plant and increase its yield by always remained within the towers, drinking etc. This almost 43% Water from Municipality 661,021 41.54 limits permitted by the State makes it important to • Utilisated 2ndRO plant near PT-CED on full scale Water from Tanker 19,707 1.12 Pollution Control Boards and insulate the plant (Capacity 5 KL/hr) Total 1,540,844 100 local regulatory authorities. from such extreme conditions. • Eliminated use of municipal water which was previously used in the café and canteen for washing utensils Volume of Water Recycled & Reused Volume of water % of water recycled & Outcomes recycled & reused (in m3) reused out of total water Division / Business consumption Profit Planet People AD 256,458 33 Sustenance of plant production from Water demand reduced from 300 KLD Sustained adequate November 2015, till date to less than 210 KLD from November to supply of potable and FD+SD 168,059 34 March 2015 bore water for plant Direct saving in Municipal water cost by Employees MRV SFD 34,659 13,553 26 29 ₹1.6 million per annum (₹1 million in FY 2015-16 alone) Municipal water intake reduced by 13,000 KL in absolute when compared to FY 2014-15 115 116 Case Study WASTE Using Water W i s e ly We manage waste in a socially responsible, financially viable, and environmentally sound manner. Whatever waste we generate is responsibly disposed keeping the compliances, rules and regulations of the land in mind. Hazardous waste is handed over to authorised hazardous waste collection vendors equipped with the requisite treatment, storage CHALLENGE and disposal facilities, while a major portion of non-hazardous waste is disposed through contractors who hand it over to large-scale The town and district of Nashik in INTERVENTIONS TAKEN UP recycling units or reuse it. However, a lot of energy, manpower and Maharashtra has been facing severe water FOR WATER MANAGEMENT costs go into waste disposal. scarcity in the recent years. In light of this situation, the consumption of water at Nashik Domestic es the value circulolar Plant was deemed very high. Part of the • Designed water network as per hydrography problem lied in non-availability of a Mahindra recognisid our stakeh ders. economy can prov e to • Shifted all underground piping to above ground in order to identify measurement mechanism and absence of a and address any leakage concerted water management mechanism. • Installed water-efficient dish washers in the canteen Thus it became imperative that we manage water more wisely in order to both reduce • Fitted Orifices for taps to control water flow consumption as well as dependence on • Installed push-taps as all basin taps & Systek aerators for all office taps We aim to eradicate waste, ground or municipality supplied water. not just from manufacturing process, but throughout the lifecycle of the product. • Installed motion sensors inside toilets and blocked flush cocks in toilets ACTION Process • Used level sensors/solenoid valves to avoid wastages in process A dedicated team was formed This will enable us to further to work on water management. • Used low cost automations to avoid manual mistakes create synergy between The objectives & targets for the team • Optimised water by cascading in paint shops, use of VFD for ASU neighbouring industries, and the performance was linked Cooling both within and outside to their KRAs. • Closed looped chillers system to avoid evaporation losses the Group. Projects were identified at the start of the year and • Used natural draft cooling towers measurement & monitoring of the initiatives were done with a review of the team and top management. • Optimised blow down of cooling towers/ASU A water policy was also formulated. • Optimised nozzle sizes of ASU, cooling towers Rainwater Harvesting • Used Rainwater for cooling towers & in paint shop process applications • Created capacity of 4,000 KL rainwater storage through 19 projects • Covered over 1/3rd of the plant area under rain water catchment WAY AHEAD A detailed water management roadmap • Achieved 85 days running of paint shop through rainwater till 2017-18 has been drawn up. This includes: • Focus on domestic water consumption Wastewater Management • Installed ETP/ STP of 1,100 m3/day treatment capacity • Upgradation of sewage network • Used treated wastewater for fire hydrant system • Increase of rainwater harvesting • Recycled treated wastewater to toilet cleaning/urinal flushing, forklift washing • High-end usage of treated water that includes usage of it in process applications • Reused treated wastewater for landscaping, wipers/shop floor cleaning 117 118 Waste Generated AD 2013-15 2014-15 2015-16 Hazardous Waste Case Solid (Tonnes) Solid (Nos) 3,121 50,440 3,239 139,220 2,283 106,055 Study Liquid (kl) 143 21,597 18,645 Liquid (Nos) 0 0 0 Non-Hazardous waste Solid (Tonnes) 50,285 45,072 40,895 Solid, Tyres, Drums etc. (Nos.) 16,955 35,301 36,692 INITIATIVES Liquid (kl) 0 0 0 Making the Best out of Waste Waste Not, FD + SD Recycling of waste helps in reducing Challenge environmental impacts arising from its During an average spray 2013-15 2014-15 2015-16 treatment and disposal. To keep painting process, surroundings cleaner and healthier we approximately 70% of the Hazardous Waste decided to make the best out of the paint goes on the body shell Want Not waste from the Igatpuri plant. while remaining 30% goes Solid (MT) 1,210 21,406 858 waste. This paint sludge is • Scrap forklift tyres and engine parts hazardous waste and needs Solid (Nos) 45,702 34,940 29,129 were upcycled to make furniture such as chair and table to be treated separately, as Liquid (kl) 85 126 160 per government norms. There • Used plastic bottles were turned were two challenges: Non-Hazardous waste into bird feeders Action to reduce the Solid (MT) 13,377 12,157 8,120 • Scrap metal pipes were painted and converted in to pen stands formation of We evaluated various methods of disposal and Solid (Nos) 954 10,508 2,068 waste and to finally got the idea of reusing the paint sludge. • Wooden scrap was made into dispose it in a benches and tables cost-effective • Gunny bags were used instead of metallic containers to collect the paint sludge. The gunny and environmentbags helped the water content to drain off from the paint sludge, leading to reduction in friendly manner. weight which means less disposal cost • Instead of disposing off the paint sludge, we recycled it by using dryer to make powder Making the Best out of Waste • Powder paint made from paint sludge is at par qualitatively with other powder paints. 'Kagaz ke Phool' was launched at Mahindra Towers, Worli, by the Esops It can be used for interior parts of vehicle and CIS teams in partnership with Greenlogix, a waste management company. Through this programme all waste materials in the office including papers, plastic, newspapers, magazines, bottles, and folders Outcomes were collected and recycled by Greenlogix. Further, to make the initiative more efficient, all the office boys and housekeeping staff were educated The funds raised Financial Sustainability Internal Processes Learning & Growth on the importance of waste management. through this recycling Disposal cost saving of Eliminated Carbon Reduced possibility Improved ₹3.03 million effort have been footprints due to paint of human contact or understanding of contributed to support sludge reuse process contamination vendors, supplier, the education of 62 girls customers through Reduced overall GHG cross learning under Project Nanhi Kali. 119 120 We select materials on the basis of its sustainable value. These materials help our product to be more sustainable without affecting their efficiency and performance. Use of innovative technology and methods in Material is an important consideration for manufacturing has helped us reduce material consumption. Of the several any product to be realised. For an initiatives we have taken to be more sustainable with our material, below automotive major like us, it comes in the are the few ones. form of semi-manufactured materials, associated materials, packaging materials and raw material; it comes in the form of INITIATIVES solid as well as liquid. But eventually, every material used in manufacturing, traces its Innovation in Paint Sludge Reduction roots back to nature. This makes it susceptible to becoming With the objective of bringing in innovative technology to reduce paint sludge, a scarce commodity in the future, if not initiatives such as electrostatic gun which allows the paint to wrap around judiciously consumed the product being sprayed, and use of robotic painting were taken up at in the present. Nashik Plant 1. Reducing the Metal Costs MATERIALS Material Consumption AD Reduced the use of steel scrap and pig-iron by increasing turning and boring Material Unit 2013-15 2014-15 2015-16 Net savings Semi-manufactured 846,235 780,708 808,808 ₹7.8 million in FY 2015-16 Associated material Tonnes 0 0 0 Packaging material 0 0 0 Used waste, rejected cores after crushing led to increase in the reuse of sand. Total 846,235 780,708 808,808 Net savings Semi-manufactured kl 5,579 8,358 8,258.83 5.3% per MT of casting in FY 2015-16, compared to 1.58% FD + SD Reduction in Paint Consumption in FY 2014-15 Material Unit 2013-15 2014-15 2015-16 Robotic Painting Electrostatic Gun 23% 14% Semi-manufactured 727,419 418,848 349,925.75 Associated material Tonnes 126 90 305.95 ₹22.3 million ₹10.5 million per year cost saving per year cost saving Raw material 21,785 20,458 31,345.82 Packaging material 538 1,413 1,737.54 Total 749,868 440,809 383,315.06 Semi-manufactured 12,177 7,791 8,037.43 Associated material kl 5,507 1,852 4,041.60 Raw material 0 0 0 Total 17,684 9,643 12,079.03 Semi-manufactured 194,156 160,112 585,466.00 Associated material Nos. 48,525 35,683 161,843.00 Raw material 242,681 195,795 38,396.00 121 122 SPILLS COMPLIANCE PACKAGING Case The best way to handle a spill is to prevent it. Spill preventions needs preparedness and continuous improvement in every Compliance is not just a business requirement; it is a top business priority at M&M Ltd. We proactively keep track of Study phase of operation. At M&M Ltd., we are committed to ensure the compliance throughout the year using internal audits complete safety of our operations and the environment and address the issues as they arise. We adhere to through a comprehensive environment management system, environmental compliances and abide by all the applicable Green Packaging To develop packaging which meets which also encompasses spills. During the reporting period, we laws of the land for all of our projects. During the reporting the objective of sustainability and yet did not record any significant incidents of spills. period, we were not fined for any non-compliance. performs the tasks for which it is required, is a challenge. M&M has taken several steps to weed out any negative environmental impact of packaging from our products. In last few years, we have considerably Initiatives at FD Case Challenge Study A Systemic Intervention reduced our consumption of nonrecyclable material to make the The FD plants used to consume over 700 tonnes of wooden boxes and over 2,300 packaging of our products convenient, tonnes of corrugated boxes for packaging and transporting parts; both within and outside the plants. In addition to consuming precious wood, such packaging also economic, and environmental friendly. had problems like higher likelihood of rejection due to breakage, seepage of moisture during monsoon and non-reusability. Challenge Commitment is a significant but Towards Greening Our Supply Chain not a sufficient factor towards Action Action INITIATIVE ushering in positive change. While we have been engaging We zeroed in on certain environment aspects most crucial for their as well as our business: Packaging Improvements Green packaging is an important constituent of with our suppliers for adopting Conserving Natural Resources | Minimising Waste at Nashik Plant 1 Earlier, the AD Nashik plant 1 the Green Supply Chain Policy adopted by the sustainable practices, a constructive engagement couple Reducing Incidents of Pollution & Occupational Health depended a lot on corrugated and Auto & Farm Sectors. with comprehensive action plan wooden boxes for packaging. Not only was the need of the hour. did this use more wood and other A green supply chain management system was developed for streamlining environment In the reporting period, the Farm Division initiated the packaging journey with the following: natural resources, but also had some accountability of suppliers of Auto & Farm divisions. Below improvements were identified • Monitored packaging improvement projects through a 19-step methodology and actualised: inherent problems like seepage of moisture, etc. • Visited supplier sites for developing confidence in sustainable packaging implementation • Replaced corrugated boxes with returnable PP box Following packaging improvements • Developed packaging SOP and calculation sheet for project feasibility • Reduced transportation by combining various suppliers were introduced during the year: • Revamped design for some component to achieve both sustainability and quality • Cut the number of trucks for long distance by keeping parts within the body shell • Replaced corrugated boxes with rather than sending it separately plastic packaging, returnable PP The FD team identified 340 small and large suppliers of packaging materials and during Pallets, and returnable PP boxes as • Localised suppliers leading to reduction in transportation, inventory and lead time per the category of the product the reporting period, it collaborated with 28 of them to find greener and better ways to package. Following are some of the major results: • Improved process efficiency by introducing automated material inwarding process • Used trolleys wherever packaging material was not necessary for • The lamps and mirrors which were • The sheet metal for H1 Fuel Tanks used to be • Developed mutually beneficial relationship with the customer-supplier relationship intra-plant transfers earlier transported as 4 pieces per packaged in 7 ply corrugated boxes. This by providing training and appreciating them box in corrugated boxes, are now consumed over 200 Tonnes of wood every year • Used Mesh pallets instead of packaged as 6 pieces per box in and also enhanced the likelihood of damage to wooden boxes returnable PP boxes the metal during manual handling. Moreover, • Introduced Baling machines were • Fuel tanks were earlier packaged in the card boxes were prone to moisture Outcomes for compacting the material and seepage during monsoons and as a result over reducing the number of trips required corrugated boxes that showed 7% 8% of the boxes used to get rejected. Today, Tangible benefits rejection during FY 2014-15 itself. PP boxes with internal cushioning material are • Eliminated the use of thermocol This year, PP boxes with metal • 18.63% reduction in cardboard packaging • 62% reduction in fire load used for packaging which protects the inside fully in packaging stands were used to package the material during transit. They are water proof, • 31% decrease in wood packaging • 83% improvement in material inwarding process tanks and there has been 0% and ₹1.8 million reduction in manpower cost reusable and come with 0% rejection. This also • 1,211,000 litre savings on yearly fuel rejection ever since resulted in annual saving of ₹3.4 million. • 5% improvement in 5S score • 3,077 ton CO2 mitigation achieved yearly • BP hoods were transported in • One more important packaging concept cardboard boxes, resulting in 15% introduced during the year was that of Intangible benefits rejection during FY 2014-15. Now merging and combining of parts like CCF they are being transported in • Reduced GHG emission (Green House Gases) • Improved suppliercustomer relationship covers and brake drums. Now, because of the specially designed metal stands • Enhanced moral of employees and associates direct line feeding, no requirement for opening which allows two parts to be and emptying the corrugated boxes and packaged together using the completing the binning, the DOL has improved Green Supply Chain Management policy was also deployed at other Mahindra Auto & Farm division plants nesting doll concept. and wood consumption of 22 Tonnes has including Kandivli, Igatpuri, Haridwar, Chakan & Zaheerabad. The initiative identified 65 local suppliers. been saved. 123 124 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE r o ac h tA p p eme n a n a g M AS C U S ARE a g ood OUR F O ill not be of us to It w for any e place , unless w place live in it a good ive in. l make l of us to for al ed eodo re by Th oach ent uot pr om q ur ap ro nm o f wisd ticulates o s an | E nvi In em r This g lt aptly a lopment. A are only th g e Healperforming tarttosrise. n v ve e Roose unity de ion, w of the i a nat o n | h m se i Educoastupport spoorrtms afnor young tale m s t co r a b a to ion o ple at the nt has d n y a t ever we do, is organ g as peo evelopme of our ron sive d l part tf as st . Inclu an integra ls We a vide a pla m id ro pyra ed and p s form . e an alway s strategy , we se e e e s t ion rpora iv r busin posit bal co to drive nd have s u e g lo y larg rtunit ers a n As a oppo stakehold ugh e d ib le r thro we e Rise incre ou for all g to CSR e the tim e n ge in c cha ib u t s s in t ing h contr ment every been ful invest tence. In to do ht TS w xis e thoug me into e at we Ris GEN a t d . A ca e th ity M r un E o & u s G h M e en comm ilitary N t o HA o , w o u r we d e pursue g OUR C hm ns wit ifest in o .W good ment actio they man jective is to d p at ob develo n, such th . The end c is io su lts equal pre a ct re iency, im p ff ic ing highr in self-su elf-sustain sections h e to us nities and oss weak s er O S O PHY L nd G PHI rt u a c r oppo rmations steer ATIN mitment, passuionitny bottomfo a trans ociety. d us s h elp e of P E R UR O of the a p p roach tribute 2% m m tructu red n to c This s th transitio profit as p . on rescrib ed O trate me co g com a the s trengthen in m-lin e. n s or s b to t from a sm oo e net t 2013 o Dem ionalism f ss o g', draw , and a verag panies Ac ss b us in e Thin kin ities 3-ye ar Com profe we do for rn ative f commun way for New line a s lte r of 'A priorities o e in the powe t pav the s an d t io ns tha ge. age d en n n nee cial interv ositive cha a r tm ent Lever ins ights o e s o nd p CS R Dep mme the ment uniq tainable imple m, self-su u s a tee | o g r a ter mmit teering Pr governmenttse,s lon g CSR Co yee Volun llaborations bwuitshiness associa o Empl Co ther and o Esops NGOs 125 126 Key Highlights Recognition & Accolades Education M&M was recognised as 'Best Company Healthcare for CSR 2014' in India individuals benefited from the medical camps conducted through the Lifeline Express programme this year. Esops was declared underprivileged girl children in India were imparted education through Project Nanhi Kali, of these 14,918 girls were supported by M&M, while Mahindra Group supported ﬁrst runner 53,049 Nanhi Kalis, and the rest were backed up in the Volunteering by corporate and individual donors. NHRDN CSR Summit volunteers contributed 115,365 man-hours this year under Esops. Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) recognised e orts of M&M for Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, 'Swachhmev Jayate'. A special Environment award and appreciation trees were planted by M&M in certiﬁcate was awarded to FY 2015-16 as part of the Mahindra Hariyali Project, a M&M in the category of Group drive that actualises 'Corporate supporting the scholars were awarded the students were awarded plantation of 1+ million trees Swachh Bharat Abhiyan' by the K. C. Mahindra Scholarship every year. the Mahindra All India for Post Graduate Studies Mayor of Mumbai Honourable Talent Scholarship this this year. Cumulative Mrs. Snehal Ambekar. year. Cumulative Tally: 8,003 Tally: 1,201 underprivileged youth were provided livelihood training in Mahindra Pride Schools this year. Cumulative Tally: 15,327 127 128 CSR Policy CSR Governance M&M has in place a CSR policy which is applicable Sustainability resides at the heart of to all its segments and employees. The policy promotes a unified and strategic approach to everything we do at M&M. Ensuring CSR and focusses on following key action areas: the emphasis it deserves, CSR is governed top-down at M&M helmed at Education the top and owned by everybody across the organisation. Healthcare & Sanitation At a Group level, our CSR council helms the Environment Mahindra Group's social responsibility vision with diligence, transparency and ownership. At M&M level, a CSR Committee has Livelihood been entrusted with the responsibility to monitor the implementation this policy, approve CSR investments, Enhancement and undertake periodical assessment of the activities. Women Empowerment For more information, please refer to the corporate Opportunities for Those at the Base of Pyramid governance section of this Protection of Natural Heritage report Foundations & Trusts Art and Culture Our Foundations and Trusts are our mediums of reaching out to the marginalised sections of the society and streamlining our actions to achieve Aid for Armed Force Personnel's Families higher goals. The key focus is to safeguard interests of the society by spearheading highEncouragement for Sport impact initiatives in pressing areas of need at local and national levels. Technology Incubation These professionally-managed institutions work with a clear mandate: work at the intersection of compassion and competence to steer Rural Development effective change; analyse outcomes of programmes for continuous improvement; scale Slum Area Development, K.C. Mahindra up successful models; share progress status with the stakeholders. Each foundation has its Education Trust own individual focus areas which can broadly be Disaster Relief & Rehabilitation We began the journey of K.C. Mahindra summarised as below: Education Trust (KCMET) in 1953 with an Women Empowerment | Education objective of making education accessible to children from financially-challenged families. Since then Livelihoods | Relief and Rehabilitation thousands across multiple age groups and Skill Enhancement & Vocational Training different income levels have been provided with financial assistance and recognition. Empowering Differently-abled Individuals Over 150,000 lives have been transformed so far. Nanhi Kali, Mahindra Pride School and Scholarship & Grants, are the three flagship programmes of KCMET. 129 130 Mahindra Foundation Vijay Vidarbha – Farmer Family Project Mahindra Foundation is dedicated to reaching out to the Chennai Flood Relief citizens through interventions in three core areas: Incessant rains in Chennai in December 2015 resulted in unprecedented floods that left thousands of people stranded with no food, water, shelter and the other basic necessities. USA & UK Mobilising timely, Contributing to the cause, the Mahindra Foundation 1 disbursed a total of INR 10 million to credible local NGOs who comprehensive and were engaged in relief work at ground zero in Chennai, with a view to provide the much-needed relief items to the floode ective disaster relief affected communities. and rehabilitation The Farmer Family Project jointly implemented by the Mahindra Foundation and Naandi Foundation targets to improve livelihood opportunities and Providing medical 2 prosperity of farmers by training them in effective farming relief to the poor and practices including soil health, crop planning and creating underprivileged model farms with bio-dynamic farming practices and thereby With Mahindra Foundation USA, the sphere of support has been expanded on a global level. The volunteer increasing crop productivity. Nanhi Kali chapters in US are reaching out to Americans and Indians residing in the US to contribute Swachh Bharat, Swachh Vidhyalaya Supporting talented to Project Nanhi Kali's efforts in educating the girl child. 10 such chapters across the US in Atlanta, Boston, 3 In support of the Prime Minister's appeal for 'Clean India', the individuals for California Bay Area, Chicago, Dallas, New York, Seattle, Mahindra Group contributed to the Government's 'Swachh Syracuse, Omaha and Washington DC, generate Bharat Swachh Vidyalaya' programme by constructing 4,340 Youth for Governance pursuing advance awareness, conduct fundraisers, mobilise employee toilets primarily for girls in government schools in FY 2015-16 payroll donation programmes and amplify Nanhi Kali's through its Mahindra Foundation. The focus was also on studies or sports The Foundation provided funds to the Public Concern for presence on social network. In FY 2015-16, ensuring maintenance of toilets and organising training Governance Trust for their project 'Youth for Governance' which programmes to bring about attitudinal and behavioural changes the Foundation raised encourages youth to fight against corruption. The project will in the girls, parents and school authorities with regards to safe rope in college students and encourage them to use the RTI USD 187,465 sanitation. Further, a large number of public toilets were also act to fight against corruption in their local communities. constructed for the community. as donations. During the reporting Having received encouraging year, the Foundation response from USA, Mahindra 107 disbursed INR Foundation UK was established Craft for to replicate a similar success in Showcase Event England and Wales. With an aim to help those involved in handmade crafts earn a million Project Hariyali fair and sustainable living, a grant of INR 150,000.00 was provided on various activities. Mahindra Foundation in partnership with the Naandi Foundation to 'A Hundred Hands', a not for profit organisation which works in the area. This grant was utilised in organising the 6th Annual planted 25,000 saplings of Deodar, Peach, and Walnut around 15 Handmade Collective Event. km from Chitrakot, in Kupwara district of Kashmir Valley. 131 132 CSR Investments Employee Social Options Change, be it big or small, cannot be made unless one strives relentlessly towards it. Esops is an impassioned call for action; a burning desire to rise for good; a never-ending journey to contribute to a better future. Esops is a long-running Employee Volunteering Programme of Mahindra where employees leverage their passion and professional expertise to drive positive change in the areas of education, environment and healthcare. Going beyond episodic philanthropy and public service, Esops volunteers construct annual activity plans, ideate projects, implement initiatives 859.04 and monitor results on a regular basis. Esops volunteers are also encouraged to involve their family members. At M&M, our people have long been million participating in Esops, clocking a rise in volunteer strength year-on-year. This year, we saw an army of 18,876 employees, rolling up their sleeves and investing 115,365 man-hours in initiatives addressing areas of local and national priorities. Year Esops Volunteers Esops Man-hours INR million 2014-2015 15,431 124,294 Promotion of Education 457.53 2015-2016 18,876 115,365 Promoting Preventive Healthcare & Sanitation 147.60 Esops' reach spans the Gender Equality/Old age homes, day care 7.82 centre and such facilities for senior citizens entire length & breadth Environment Sustainability 149.10 Rural Development 92.63 of India except Manipur, Others 0.67 Culture 0.12 Sports Total 3.57 859.04 Mizoram and Nagaland. 133 134 WORLD Objective BLOOD Conduct generic and specialty medical camps, polio immunisation camps, Focus Areas Objective Flagship Endeavour DONATION health awareness rallies, Organise blood Thalassemia Support programme campaigns, and distribution donation drives Exclusive periodic blood donation At M&M, our Esops teams including those for drives to support requirements of of information, education and communication (IEC) material. ardently shoulder social DAY thalessemic patients Thalassemia patients responsibilities with WELLNESS passion and dedication. With a view to channelise our Flagship Endeavour ON THE MOVE 1 efforts in the right direction and The M&M Esops members Lifeline Express A Our Esops volunteers have pressed into action a strengthen the outcome of our recorded 6,559 blood hospital-on-wheels that mobile dispensary van which covers 2-3 villages actions, the Esops' sphere of donations at the takes quality medical care surrounding Nagpur every month. The mobile clinic contribution was reanalysed and Jeevandaan Blood Donation to remote regions of India provides access to free treatment and quality health realigned with the priorities of the Drive. Every hour saw the services to all villagers, especially the older communities as well as national number of blood donors rising. generation. So far, 1,900+ villagers have availed the 2 Arogya Sarthi Healthcare goals. We have arrived at the below Even at 6 pm the queues did health benefits. Two blood donation drives were also services for mother and focus areas which also seamlessly not dissipate and the blood conducted by the mobile clinic to treat thalassemia child and promoting align with our flagships endeavours. banks had to work extra hours patients. Over 57 volunteers came forward to institutionalisation to give everyone a chance to participate in the drives and donated blood. In FY 2015-16, a number of small of deliveries do their bit for the greater and big initiatives were carried out good. in these areas over and above our 3 Project Prayaas flagships endeavours, a glimpse of The event was organised Rehabilitation and such initiatives has been provided across all 27 M&M locations Awareness on HIV/AIDS in respective areas. and received an overwhelming with special emphasis on response with more than 900 improving living conditions online registrations on a of People Living with single day. HIV/AIDS (PLHA) TOWARDS HOLISTIC HEALTH Spares Business Unit (SBU) contributed an ambulance to Karuna Hospital, Mumbai with an objective of Objective Conduct eye check-up, supporting the terminally ill patients suffering from spectacles distribution, glaucoma & cataract operations HIV/AIDs and Cancer. SBU has also partnered with Flagship Endeavour Lifeline Express Srujna NGO to provide emotional support to the WE FOR EYE family members of such patients and promote the concept 'prevention is better than cure'. IMMUNISATION The AD Kandivali Esops team conducted a Health Camp at Kosheshari village, Vikramgad. The team reached out to over 900 villagers, out of which 32 individuals were identified with cataract and were facilitated with operation service at a Mumbai hospital. We owe the success of this health camp to the 12 employee Volunteers, CAMPS who worked tirelessly towards such cause. Volunteers of M&M joined hands to conduct immunisation camps for rural students of five The Esops team of Mahindra Shubhlabh Services Limited undertook a comprehensive Government schools. Free-of-cost vaccines were eye care camp for four villages in Nashik and Sangli Districts. A total of 1,282 people facilitated to 160+ students for protection against the were screened, 608 were provided with spectacles and 203 people were diagnosed common ailments like Typhoid and Hepatitis B. of cataract out of which 114 have been successfully operated till date. 135 136 CHILDREN TRAFFIC Objective Flagship Endeavour With road accidents increasing at an Support to schools Nanhi Kali Supports the alarming rate, it becomes imperative such as infrastructure education of to educate school students on traffic development, material underprivileged rules and safe driving habits. distribution and girl children from Towards this cause, AD, Nashik Plant EDUCATION PARK: conducting extramarginalised developed a Children Traffic curricular activities communities Education Park in collaboration with Nashik First, a local NGO and the Nashik Municipal Corporation. A WHOLE NEW WORLD The park, funded by M&M, is spread across three acres of landscaped green zones and equipped with all-weather OF AWARENESS Objective Flagship Endeavour pathways, roadways, a state-of-the-art Protect the environment Relief Programmes training studio, an amphitheater and Social Ambassador Programme and create environmental by Mahindra models of bus stops, bridges, hospitals, An aptitude-based career awareness Foundation and traffic signals. development initiative Objective Promotion of Road safety initiatives through A WELCOME ROAD awareness drives and distribution of aids to drivers like helmets, masks and reflectors CHANGE FOR Flagship SAFETY Endeavour LESSONS GIRL STUDENTS Road Safety Promoting Road Safety education MADE ENGAGING Out of the 900 students studying at Mogadampalli High school 430 are amongst schoolgirls. However, the sanitation and hygiene facilities available are going children inadequate to meet the needs of all students, especially girls. During the and drivers and need assessment phases of this project the FD Esops team discovered 11 Esops members of AD, Kandivali that one of the factors responsible for a high dropout rate was GREEN REVELRY creating Zerofatality corridor plant organised a road safety awareness programme for 300 insufficient toilet facilities at the school. As a result, the team arranged Every year, the immersion of Plaster of Paris students. To make the session more for necessary sanitation facilities, enabling the girls to study with dignity. idols of Lord Ganesh leave the rivers polluted. engaging, one of our volunteers This year, the Esops teams at AD worked dressed as Yamraj the god of death, BUILDING A persistently to prevent the immersion in River ably articulated the message on road With a view to Godavari. Awareness was created on increasing CONDUCIVE encourage grade specific safety which enthralled the audience. water scarcity and adverse effects of river LEARNING learning, the Esops pollution through distribution of leaflets in teams across locations ENVIRONMENT local newspapers, installation of banners set out on a drive to at prominent locations and extensive use IN URBAN SLUMS enhance the delivery of of social media. Following this awareness education by rolling out & RURAL INDIA drive, the citizens of Nashik supported various interventions the initiative wholeheartedly. such as facilitating basic tools of learning such as infrastructure, books A team of 60 volunteers Objective: Facilitate skill development and stationary, uniforms, shoes and e-learning facilities, promotion of civic education, and spreading safety awareness through road safety successfully collected more than 11,000 idols at two WORK WISE awareness rallies and installation of road safety sign boards. In all our Flagship Endeavour FD Kandivali team organised teams reached out to 1,125,739 people. Mahindra Pride School a Job & Entrepreneurship locations, immersing them Livelihood training Guidance Fair with an in a sustainable manner. SOCIAL programme for youth objective to offer guidance explore career options with from socially and to the youth through one-onAMBASSADOR mentors and develop life skills economically one interactions and create that enable the student PROGRAMME community to Rise. disadvantaged groups. For details, refer page employment opportunities through internships and The students were exposed to a world of work through videos, gamesexplore ___ of this section part-time jobs. career options with mentors and develop life skills that enable the student community to Rise. The students were exposed to a world of work through videos, games and discussions. The employees who volunteered were specifically trained to be Mentors for Students. They interpreted the psychometric reports of students along with professional psychologists and counselled the students on making the right career decision. 137 138 SWACHHMEV Objective Upliftment of JAYATE farmer community. Promoting agriculture Flagship Endeavour Seed the rise, Integrated Watershed Management Objective Contribute to cleanliness When it comes to creating a clean nation, one-time acts are not enough. The Esops Programme, Shiv Jal Kranti, team at AD Kandivli plant completed the fourth phase of its Swachhmev Jayate Wardha Farmer Family Flagship Endeavour Campaign. In collaboration with Municipal partners the team accomplished cleaning, Project, Water Management, Swachh Bharat. Swachh Vidyalaya Construction painting and repairing the road that stretches from the Western Express Highway, Vijay Vidharbha of toilets primarily for girls in government schools. all the way down to the Samta Nagar Road which is adjacent to the plant. Esops Volunteers participated in 'Mission Kakatiya', the Telangana Government's programme aimed at restoring minor irrigation sources like tanks and other water bodies to help small and marginal farmers. We took up the task of de-silting the tanks increasing water retention capacity. The silt was upcycled as a farm fertilizer enabling the farmers to reduce fertilizer costs. SANITATION SNAPSHOTS OF FOR ALL PREVIOUS PHASES Objective LIGHTING Propagating use of solar energy Most of the ailments that occur in rural areas are due Phase 1 to lack of proper sanitation and open defecation. This Clean, paint and repair the entire stretch of Flagship Endeavour is a vexing problem in many developing countries and Akurli Road that borders the plants – M&M Mpowered rural electrification India is no exception. In order to encourage private Phase 2 through solar power defecation and safe disposal, our Esops teams across UP LIVES various units took multiple steps. A unique awareness session to educate Access to electricity can residents on the key benefits of cleanliness 30 volunteers spent six hours to help construct 24 enhance the quality of life in & the importance of hygiene toilets for the residents of Madkepada. This initiative more ways than one. For the was part of a larger village development project Phase 3 330 residents of remote which involves a plethora of programmes such as Pre-monsoon cleaning & overall villages of Belwa & Basahi, our adult education classes, formation of Self Help refurbishment of Lokhandwala Road volunteers ushered in a new Groups, and farmer empowerment. dawn as they not just electrified 66 households with home lighting solutions, but also created e-hubs for livelihood generation avenues 139 140 Objective Flagship Endeavour Integrated Rural Development Programme Objective Touch lives of disadvantaged groups differently abled, senior citizens, etc. Village Boosting livelihood opportunities and capacity building of the development famers and rural youth Flagship Endeavour Care for senior citizens through Adhata Trust A NEIGHBOUR IN NEED WATER towards The AD Igatpuri Plant has been focussing on three villages in the vicinity Objective Responding to the fire incident at the Damunagar slums of FOR ALL completed this project at two villages with 6,000 beneficiaries. making them self-reliant in water availability. The team has Expanding the green cover Kandivali (E) that destroyed 1,200 homes, M&M was the first to take steps to mitigate the disaster. Fire engines were pressed into The scope of work included activation of water distribution pipeline and refurbishment of Flagship Endeavour service to control the fire. Even after the fire was arrested, Esops water well & pump as well as installation of groundwater borewells along with hand water Mahindra Hariyali A volunteers remained at the location for three days distributing pumps. Similarly, our FD Nagpur unit facilitated a water purification plant to a village programme with an aim to food packets and offering medical support to the affected. neighbouring their vicinity enabling access to fresh drinking water for 2,500+ villagers. plant a million+ trees every year. For details, refer page ENDURING THE HEAT, ___ of this section JALDOOT PROVIDING IN THE TIME OF NEED ARAKU SAFE DRINKING WATER The true measure of individuals can be gauged from how M&M spent over 1.5 crore rupees to take up construction of water tank, setthey help others in times of challenge. Mr. Nitin Mohod, an VALLEY up of bore wells and hand pumps, installation of RO plants and water coolers officer at FD, Kandivli, just proved his mettle by coming to benefitting 11,061 people. his neighbour's rescue when a fire broke out in a flat near his residential complex. PROJECT On observing heavy smoke emitting from the adjacent KEEPING WATER A STITCH building, he immediately rushed to the location and switched off the power supply, and doused the fire using AVAILABILITY IN CHECK the available extinguisher. His presence of mind won him praises and a hundred smiles. IN TIME With an objective to enhance livelihoods of farmers, M&M team with the support of NGOs, Government departments and the villagers built a Responding check dam at Kalampada, Peth with storage capacity of around The recent unprecedented 3,500,000 litre. This effort will go a long way in benefitting the farmers rainfall in Tamil Nadu led to of the region who could cultivate only in monsoon due to unavailability flooding in four of the most of a proper water store facility and needed to migrate to nearby cities populated districts, with A team of 6 Esops volunteers of FD Jaipur for alternative livelihoods the rest of the period. devastating effects on life, organised a tailoring course for females of property, infrastructure and Mehlan Village. Esopians held multiple meetings livelihood. Chennai city and with the local panchayat and sarpanch prior to its surrounding areas, in the activity to get maximum buy-in and support. To the recent which MRV is situated, were The course empowered 70 women of the village. amongst the worst affected. The HR & Admin Team and other Volunteers from MRV sprang into action lending a hand in evacuation, rescue and relief work. The teams' efforts were divided in to three phases – Flood disaster MRV BIO GAS PLANT As part of the tree plantation drive at Araku valley, 850,000 trees were planted in the tribal belt of the region in the reporting year. Till date, a total 1 Safe and timely evacuation of MRV employees Rescue and relief for M&M A Tripartite Agreement with Naandi Foundation & Mahindra World City Developers Ltd. was signed to set up a biogas plant to convert food and other 1.23 million trees have been planted in the valley. 2 employees and their families marooned in water logged areas 3 waste into energy and fertilizer to be used by Relief operations for the local community. Testing lab has been communities in the vicinity set up and trials are on. Through this of MRV 141 initiative 300 people benefitted this year. 142 INITIATIVES OTHER To harness the spirit of competition in our volunteering actions, encourage more employees towards volunteering, and Participation in Esops Awards celebrate the joy of giving – we regularly participate in the Groupwide Esops Awards. Two awards have been instituted, unit-wide Seed the Rise honour and individual recognition, M&M launched 'Seed the Rise', a unique to recognise the exceptional work digital crowdfunding campaign aimed at in the area of CSR. supporting Indian farmers. The objective In the reporting year, the Esops Mahindra Saarthi Abhiyaan was two-tiered, firstly to source funds to team of SD Mohali won this Mahindra Saarthi Abhiyaan is an endeavour to promote the be invested for farmer welfare through award under 'Factory Location' education of girl children of drivers working for Mahindra Truck carefully-selected projects, secondly to and Bus Division. Under this scheme, scholarships were given to change the sentiment around the farmers category. This recognition was conferred for their Mahindra 1,300 girls to pursue education beyond the tenth grade. This and the agricultural sector as a whole. Shiv Jal Kranti Primary Health and Cancer Care addresses the issue of many young girls not pursuing their Marathwada is one of the most waterhigher education owing to their fathers earning a meagre salary. Jointly driven by the Strategy team FES Project committed towards and CSR department – M&M, the campaign deficient regions of Maharashtra. Three addressing one of the major health garnered support of celebrities such as successive years of drought have challenges in Punjab. Sachin Tendulkar, Saina Nehwal, Gul Panag compounded the condition of this arid area Cancer is closely identified with Baja – Project and Dia Mirza on social media, helping us with devastating ecological, economical as well as socials impacts. In an effort to restore indiscriminate use of agro-chemical Based Learning of reach a wider audience. the water table of this water-deprived region, in agriculture and direct exposure to pesticide. In order to do their bit Auto Engineering we chanellised our energies towards repairing old structures as well as building new water to combat the above situation Esops Volunteers at Swaraj Division Concepts storage structures. 56 structures were repaired or built in 34 villages, leading to initiated a stand-alone project increased water availability for 38,357 people which takes care of the terminally during the dry season. ill cancer patients and also spreads awareness on the precautionary approach. Conducted in association with Global Cancer Concern, an NGO, the Esops team organised 512 Rise for Safe Roads – screening camps, 625 awareness With INR 10 million raised Zero Fatality Corridor programmes and made 459 from donors in a period of We signed a Zero Fatality Corridor MOU with the Maharashtra palliative care visits in the reporting year, providing much 40 days and Mahindra State Road Development Corporation, in association with SAVE needed relief to the patients and matching the donated Life Foundation. This initiative is our contribution to make roads safer. To be executed over a period of 5 years, this is a first-oftheir family members. amount, 'Seed the Rise' its-kind project aimed to create a zero fatality corridor on the saw a resounding success Mumbai-Pune Expressway by training long-haul truck drivers for becoming India's largest safe driving. This year, 1,200 drivers were trained. crowdfunding effort. “It has always been our endeavour to educate people about road safety and going forward we will undertake multiple activities to help imbibe values of road safety.” Veejay Ram Nakra, Senior Vice President, Sales & Customer Care, Automotive Division, M&M Ltd. Lighting up lives A platform for undergraduate engineering students, it Access to electricity can enhance the empowered 12,500 students with hands-on experience quality of life, in more ways than one. in automobile engineering through project-based learning. For the 330 residents of remote villages of Belwa & Basahi, our volunteers ushered in a new dawn as they not just electrified 66 households with home lighting solutions but also created ehubs for livelihood generation avenues. 143 144 Project Nanhi Kali Mahindra Pride School The education of a girl child means the education of a whole new generation. The Mahindra Pride Schools through their one-of-a-kind livelihood training Instituted in 1996 by the K C Mahindra Education Trust in partnership with the programmes continue to take forward their vision to completely Naandi Foundation, Project Nanhi Kali makes primary education accessible to girls transform youth from socially and economically disadvantaged from economically backward communities in India. communities by training and placing them in high-growth service Educational Nanhi Kali continues to provide educational support to underprivileged girls, thanks sector careers. Support to a strong collaboration with 19 NGOs. Today, it works to change the lives of little girls in 30 districts across nine Indian states Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, A Journey Full of Pride: Education builds a nation and Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Delhi, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. Five Mahindra Pride transforms lives. When we address the story so far problems that plague education, we In addition to facilitating the girls' academic journey, Nanhi Kali also takes care of Schools Institutionalised resolve multiple issues that can uplift other requirements such as their uniforms, school bags and stationery. This Pune 2007 society in its true sense. comprehensive nature of the project helps keep the dropout rates in check. Commenced in 2007 with one school in Chennai 2011 For us at Mahindra, education is a Nanhi Kalis are selected based on multiple aspects such as the family income, crucial facet of our social responsibility. parents' educational portfolio, social background and the child's aptitude. The project Pune, this institution has spread wings Patna 2011 Our well-designed and ablyhas a sponsorship support programme with international arms in the US and UK, to in districts as diverse as Chennai Chandigarh 2012 implemented interventions focus on extend its reach, and empower more girl children in India to realise their dream of and Srinagar and trained more than 15,000+ students till date. Srinagar 2012 three key objectives: education. 15,327 students E In the financial year 2016, the project supported the education of 120,466 girls. Of these 14,918 girls were supported by M&M while the Mahindra Group as a whole trained till date across all schools 3,135 students trained in FY 2015-16 supported 53,049 girls. The balance girls were supported by other corporates & empowering individuals. Key employers who recruited MPS students the girl child in large numbers during the reporting year 100 % 1 by making Placement highlights education Top No. of Students Average Some of the new Employers in Recruited in salaries FY 2015-16 FY 2015-16 offered accessible employers this year: Café Coffee Day 205 10,717 Reliance Trends, Tanishq, placement in C Guys n Girls, Shoppers TCS 156 19,150 reputed Stop, BIG BASKET organisations Wipro 131 21,300 INR437.5 creating for every batch 2 Burger King, Aja Resto, Eagle Boys Pizza, Hotel Fern Absolute Barbeque 99 10,500 employment 3 PVR 92 10,405 Aditya Birla, Airtel, AV In FY 2015-16, opportunities Services, Axis Bank, Big Marriott 75 10,200 with vocational million Flix, Reliance Digital, HIGHLIGHTS Samsung, SM InfoTech, ADFC 73 16,900 and livelihood Sony, HCL, Zalaris, TBSS 71 11,500 training worth of donations were raised for Nanhi Kali 4 AGS Health Care, Columbia Asia, PVR, AB Life Insurance Broking Pvt. Ltd. HBL 58 13,500 12,641 Nanhi Kalis Serco 42 11,600 M With such support, Nanhi Kali has proved to have successfully be a resounding success Sector-wise placements for FY 2015-16 completed education with an increase in monetary aid learning outcomes by Percentage of and scholarships 10th grade till date 10% and dropout rates being curtailed to less Average monthly Sectors students placed for deserving than 10%. ITES 43.70 starting salary underprivileged Mahindra Group is the largest per batch of Hospitality 36.46 students donor, and supports 53,049 MPS increased to Retail 17.03 Others Jobs (like accountancy, 2.30 INR 11,602 per month clerical and front desk jobs) 145 146 Mumbai Public Schools OPENING DOORS Education should not just be accessible but also valuable. With a view to advance TO A WORLD the quality of education imparted in government schools, Mahindra has been supporting 28 Mumbai Public Schools since FY 2013-14. These are Mumbai city corporation's Englishmedium schools which are run by the Naandi Foundation. OF HOSPITALITY Employer Testimonials Testimonials of employers are Success Story Vikas Kumar belonged to an impoverished family living in Chandigarh. Since his father died early, proof of the quality training his mother was the sole breadwinner. Though she that Mahindra Pride Schools worked hard, as a domestic help she could only have been providing: manage a meagre wage of INR 300 in which she had to support three children. This job too was lost, as her health deteriorated. This forced all the children to take up petty jobs at an early age. Great initiative by After his school, he would sell snacks to add to Mahindra! What a the marginal family income. super way of identifying talent and educating them to After his 10th standard, Vikas took a job at a call be employable. I'm sure this centre with a monthly salary of INR 5,000. But he would help increase the The improvement hoped more from his life and joined Mahindra employability and create interventions focus on Pride School, Chandigarh. employment opportunities for These efforts have empowered Vikas was initially hesitant but soon found the needy. WNS takes pride in teaching as a key enabler to enhance the Training teachers to teach 15,586 children so far. The impact of e ectively in English and to being associated with MPS in comfort and encouragement of his trainers. He quality of education: the project has been noteworthy: this initiative.” Rohit Sathe 17% was exposed to a world of knowledge in hospitality through teachers, visiting lecturers and WNS Global Manager – HR make learning aids along with industry specialists. He also acquired practical learning management tools knowhow through visits to Café Coffee Day. such as assessments increase in enrolment numbers Well trained and equipped with the right skills for Thank you so much 35% the industry he sailed through his very first for the continuous and placement interview and secured a job at KFC as timely support. The a Team Member with a monthly salary of INR quality and attitude of Tracking of learning levels of each child 10,750. Today, Vikas has blossomed not just in his Mahindra Pride students who professional life but also in his personal life are working with us at Burger increase in government teacher recruitment and he attributes this growth to his King are really fantastic and 28 Formation of time spent at Mahindra Pride School. energetic. Hope to get the same quality and support Customising teacher training and always.” Mansi Sharma conducting teaching capability audits Manager HR, Burger King India School Management Committees (SMCs) 147 148 Scholarships and Grants Mahindra All India Talent K C Mahindra Scholarships Scholarship (MAITS) for Postgraduate The MAITS scholarship was launched Studies Abroad in 1995 with a vision of offering K C Mahindra educational opportunities to deserving UWC Scholarship The K C Mahindra Scholarship for students from the financially challenged The KC Mahindra UWC Postgraduate Studies Abroad was strata of society. The scholarship Scholarships are specially instituted with a vision of empowering empowers aspiring candidates to instituted for aspiring lives through education. An interest-free In the reporting year, 38 students were undertake a job-oriented diploma students in the age bracket loan programme, the scholarship is awarded a scholarship of INR 200,000 course with a registered Government of 16 to 18 years. The awarded to deserving candidates each. Recipients have bagged admission in renowned universities Polytechnic in India. Till date, awardees gain exposure and interested in pursuing postgraduate courses like Harvard Business School, Yale, Stanford, Massachusetts insights into international in institutions across the globe. Institute of Technology, Carnegie Mellon, London School of education, shared learning The Mahindra Economics, among the others and are pursuing post-graduation in and community Initiated way back in 1956, the programme allows its a wide range of subjects like Computer Science, Engineering, service, at United All India Talent beneficiaries to pursue postgraduate studies in a Economics and Law. In addition to this, World Colleges number of fields including computer science, (UWC), an umbrella engineering, MBA, law and economics from highlyacclaimed universities such as the Harvard Business The top 3 Scholarships have organisation with been granted to affiliations from Candidates School, Yale, Stanford, Massachusetts Institute of 15 international Technology, Carnegie Mellon and London School of Economics, to name a few. 8,003 students. schools and Were awarded colleges, national committees and short educational programmes Fellowships of in more than 150 countries. Since its inception, The K C Mahindra UWC INR 800,000 each Every year, around scholarships have The total number of scholarships given till date is 1,201. 500 scholarships are transformed the lives awarded to students. of 89 students with This ﬁnancial year, distributions worth 550 students were INR 97.34 million. awarded the MAITS scholarship, with Mahindra Search for Talent Scholarships the total spending To reward and recognise brilliance in academics, amounting to the Mahindra Search for INR 14.35 million. Talent Scholarship has been instituted in 37 institutions across India. Students who are awarded this scholarship for two consecutive years are also entitled to the Honours Scholarship Award, which consists of a cash prize of INR 5,000 and a citation from the Trust. 149 150 6,635 Visited OPD Lifeline Express at 2,789 Other services 906 Bharatpur, Rajasthan Health Support September 2015 Even today, a large section of our population grapples with poverty. When basic Operated necessities such as food, water and shelter are hard to acquire, Lifeline Express at Bharatpur got an overwhelming response with access to medical support seems like a distant dream for the underprivileged. patients receiving counseling and treatment for varied ailments. We have always regarded health support as an integral part of our social interventions, and our aim has beento bring basic healthcare to the poor and Mr. Rajendra Singh Rathore, Health Minister, Government of remote areas of our country. Rajasthan inaugurated the Lifeline Express and the project took off at an accelerated pace. Lifeline Express The world's first hospital on rails, Lifeline Express is a comprehensive healthcare project aimed at providing free medical services to those belonging to financiallyPeople were operated for cataract, cleft lip and hearing issues. The volunteering surgeons screened the patients, post which surgeries were performed. Other treatments including dental, diagnosis of breast and cervical cancer and treatment of epilepsy too were offered. Esops volunteers along with and several employees of the weaker sections of society and geographically-remote pockets of the country. channel partners enthusiastically participated in all phases of the M&M has not just been supporting this venture financially, but also by overseeing project, right from creating awareness about the project to the the programme on the ground. Our Esops volunteers have being volunteering their closing ceremony. time and talent in chalking and rolling out the project to perfection. The volunteering surgeons as well as their teams were ardent Launched by the Impact India Foundation, the Lifeline about providing their services for this cause. Express consists of five fully air-conditioned coaches, Overall Patient Turnout and is equipped with the latest medical equipment with Patients who who received who were a view to provide the best possible healthcare services. Disability visited OPD other services operated Cleft Lip 7 NA 3 Lifeline Express Snapshot Ear 1045 296* 125 No. Patients No. Patients No. of hearing Year Location Treated Operated Aids Distributed Eye 4707 2170**** 400 2014 Zaheerabad, Telangana 7,342 1,095 305 Epilepsy 64 64** NA Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh 3,542 660 256 Dental 788 410** 378*** Motihari, Bihar 4,936 1,537 204 Diagnosis of 24 NA NA Breast & 2015 Bharatpur, Rajasthan 6,635 906 296 * Patients who received hearing aids ** Patients who received counseling and medicines Cervical Cancer Ghazipur, Uttar Pradesh 9,007 1,077 248 *** Patients who were treated with dental procedures like scaling, lling & extraction **** Patients who received spectacles Total 6,635 2,789 906 151 152 Lifeline Express at Cultural Mahindra Excellence Mahindra Ghazipur, Uttar Pradesh Contribution in Theatre (META) Blues 9,007 3,276 A mirror to society, a medium of entertainment, and a means to convey Considered Asia's largest and finest Blues September 2015 strong messages, the impact of theatre on society is manifold. It can make music showcase, the Mahindra Blues people laugh, cry and reflect on burning issues, leaving viewers richly Festival (MBF) is a medley of the best rewarded with new insights. Which is why, theatre is still one of the Blues icons and bands from across the strongest and most popular mediums of storytelling across geographies. world. The Mahindra Blues Festival is one of the most eagerly-awaited events for At Mahindra, we designed META to not only preserve stagecraft, but also Blues fans. This year, the line-up included increase awareness and appreciation for the medium, and bring it into the Visited OPD Other services Joss Stone, Keb' Mo', Malina Moye, 4,654 1,077 national spotlight. The project focuses equally on developing all theatrical Heritage Blues Orchestra, King and aspects such as playwriting, set and light designs, costumes, direction and Soulmate, who enthralled the crowd with performance. their mesmerising performances. The META awards celebrated its 10th edition Consultation Operated in March 2016,and showcased 10 productions People came in huge numbers to avail medical services when the Lifeline Express docked at which included plays like Mein Huun Yusuf Ghazipur. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., the Government of Uttar Pradesh and Impact India Foundation came together to actualise this initiative. Aur Yeh Hai Mera Bhai in Hindi-Urdu, The Cabinet On November 21 and 22, people were screened for cataract issues, and on November 30 and of Dr. Caligari in English, Kuhaimaravasigal December 1, they were screened for cleft lips and hearing problems. The screening took place inside the Ghazipur railway station premises. For cataract surgeries, the volunteering (Cave Tree Dwellers) in Tamil, Haoai surgeons screened the patients. Those eligible for surgery were admitted to the Singh Lifecare Hospital for pre-operative treatment and then brought on board the Lifeline Express (The Eleventh Planet) in Bengali, and 07/07/07 for surgery. Following successful surgeries, the patients were taken back to Singh Lifecare in English, Hindi & Farsi. Hospital for post-operative care, and discharged based on the instructions of the operating Mahindra Sanatkada Lucknow Festival surgeons. A similar process was followed for ENT and cleft lip surgeries as well. Mohit Takalkar Dyuti Ghosh All patients operated for cleft lip, hearing and cataract problems were provided with meals the Best Director Award Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Female) Mahindra believes that conserving and and refreshments. Other medical services included dental treatment (November 20 to 26), Mein Huun Yusuf Aur Ye Hai Mera Bhai for Haoai The Eleventh Planet celebrating our rich culture, arts and diagnosis of breast and cervical cancer (December 1 to 3) and epilepsy treatment (November Prasad Cherkady Asharanya Ramprakash history, strengthens societal bonds. Our 27 to 29), which were directly offered on board the Lifeline Express. Best Actor in a Leading Role (Male) the Best Original Script award annual Mahindra Sanatkada Lucknow Akshayambara Akshayambara Festival takes a leaf out of the Nawabi Overall Patient Turnout Ajeet Singh Palawat Mohit Takalkar and Darshan Patanker lifestyle and celebrates the grandeur of won a Special Jury Mention the Best Innovative Sound Music & our tradition. No. of patients Patients who Patients who Patients Medical who visited the received only received other who were Mein Huun Yusuf Aur Ye Hai Mera Bhai Design Award Issue OPD consultation services operated on Mein Huun Yusuf aur Yeh Hai Mera Bhai Sayalee Pathak Cleft Lip 31 11 NA 20 the Best Actor in a Leading Role (Female) Sasidharan Naduvil A Friend's Story Best Costume Design The Balcony Ear 1,852 1,476 248* 128 Shantanu Ghosh Dr. S. Murugabhoopathy Cataract 5,233 2,647 2,071** 515 Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Male) the Best Choreography award Haoai The Eleventh Planet Kuhaimaravasigal Epilepsy 272 NA 272*** NA The four-day long festival brings Dental 1,099 NA 685*** 414 **** together connoisseurs of cuisines, Diagnosis of Breast 520 520 NA NA poetry, music, dance, arts, literature, & Cervical Cancer and traditional crafts. It is organised in partnership with Sanatkada, a notTotal 9,007 4,654 3,276 1,077 for-profit crafts collective. Every February, history tours, literature and poetry sessions, and a delectable The Esops Contribution at Ghazipur spread of diverse dishes, enthral visitors. It gives an opportunity to the Through the Esops project, our employees as well as employees of our The team of 07/07/07 won the Best Ensemble award artisans and master craftsmen from channel partners enthusiastically participated in all phases of the project; across the world to showcase their right from the publicity of the project to its culmination. Note: For more details on the awardees, please visit www.metawards.com skills through this festival. 153 154 Starting this year, we have revised the reporting format of Mahindra's sustainability performance. While sustainability performance of M&M (Auto & Farm Sector) has been reported individually in line with GRI G4 guidelines, the sustainability highlights of all the subsidiaries and associates of M&M have been captured in a separate section. The reason for this change in presentation is not just alignment with the new G4 guidelines but also enhanced comparability of sector performance. Some of our subsidiaries like Mahindra Lifespaces and Mahindra Finance are already publishing their individual reports. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES INDEX Reporting Process 156 Business Profile 158 Sustainability and Us 163 Driven by Our People 167 Product Performance 181 Economic Performance 185 Environmental Performance 188 Social Performance 198 Annexures 202 155 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates EPORTING PROCESS Report Boundary The reporting period for Subsidiaries & Associates of M&M Ltd. for its ninth Sustainability Report is 1st April 2015 to 31st March 2016. For this Report, we are following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) As mentioned in our first Sustainability Reporting G4 Guidelines. The most widely adopted nonSustainability Report in FY 2007-08, financial reporting framework in the world, the GRI Guidelines are used to we remain committed to report our help communicate sustainability performance and encourage transparency & accountability. This year too, the Report is aligned with the nine triple bottom line performance on principles of Ministry of Corporate Affairs' National Voluntary Guidelines an annual basis. (NVG) on social, environmental and economic responsibilities of business. ETHICS, TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY CUSTOMER PRODUCTS LIFE CYCLE VALUE SUSTAINABILITY 1 9 2 INCLUSIVE GROWTH 8 NVG-SEE 3 EMPLOYEES' WELL-BEING Principles 7 4 6 5 POLICY STAKEHOLDER ADVOCACY ENGAGEMENT ENVIRONMENT HUMAN RIGHTS 156 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates The Report includes following subsidiaries & associates: Automotive & Farm Sector • Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Ltd. (MVML) • Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Pvt. Ltd. (MReva) • Mahindra Powerol • Mahindra Shubhlabh Services Ltd. (MSSL) • EPC Industrie Ltd. (EPC) • Mahindra Two Wheelers Ltd. (MTWL) Real Estate Sector • Mahindra Lifespace Developers Ltd. (MLDL) • Mahindra World City Developers Ltd. (MWCDL) • Mahindra World City Jaipur Ltd. (MWCJL) Leisure & Hospitality Sector • Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Ltd. (MHRIL) Financial Services Sector • Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd. (MMFSL) • Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Ltd. (MRHFL) • Mahindra Insurance Brokers Ltd. (MIBL) Information Technology Sector • Tech Mahindra Ltd. (Tech M) Report Scope Limitations This Report is India-centric and excludes Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Pvt. Ltd. (MSSSPL) international operations. It also excludes all the other subsidiaries and associates reported in M&M annual report FY 2015-16. Aftermarket Sector This report has been externally assured by • Mahindra First Choice Services Ltd. (MFCSL) KPMG, India. GRI has confirmed that the report was prepared according to the GRI G4 Core option. Mahindra Partner Division • Mahindra Intertrade Ltd. (MIL) Call Our Toll Free Number • Mahindra Steel Service Centre Ltd. (MSSCL) • Mahindra Logistics Ltd. (MLL) • Mahindra Susten Pvt. Ltd. (Susten) 157 B Mahindra Partners Division USINESS PROFILE Businesses in the sector Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited (MTWL) Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates (B2B and Clean Energy Business) www.mahindratwowheelers.com Mahindra Partners is a diversified division that Mahindra Intertrade Ltd. (MIL) oversees new businesses in the Mahindra www.mahindraintertrade.com Group such as metal products, steel trading, logistics and solar energy. It is a 900 million Mahindra Susten Pvt. Ltd. USD private Equity & Venture Capital division www.mahindrasusten.com of the Group. Mahindra Steel Service Centre Ltd. (MSSCL) www.mahindrasteelservicecentre.com Highlights Mahindra Logistics Limited (MLL) • Mahindra Susten deployed its first solar www.mahindralogistics.com powered petrol pump for Indian Oil, in UP Information Technology Sector Leveraging on its core competencies, Mahindra's IT Sector has emerged as a global IT industry leader. Delivering customised IT solutions, it has helped clients optimise their strengths and adapt to new challenges in a changing world. In two decades, the Sector has partnered with several Fortune 100 and Fortune 500 companies to deliver outstanding solutions that have helped drive their success. • Mahindra Partner introduced a new website Highlights with all its business under one umbrella • TechM won the Forbes Top 100 Middle East Global Meets Local 2015 Award • TechM Business Services Group included in the IAOP's Global Outsourcing 100 rankings. • TechM won the HYSEA award for its path breaking initiative in the areas of Community Development and Environment Sustainability • TechM developed its web portal www.idayofYoga.org which was launched by the Prime Minister of India, Mr. Narendra Modi at the UNESCO headquarters in Paris • Mahindra Auto and Steel (A JV between MIL, China Steel and Mitsui) inaugurated an automotive steel service centre at Chakan For more information, visit http://www.mahindrapartners.com/index.html For more information, please visit: www.techmahindra.com 158 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Leisure & Hospitality Sector Mahindra World City, Jaipur has been identified as part of Through MHRIL, Mahindra pioneered the vacation ownership concept in India to bring affordable and memorable vacations for Indian families. Members a list of 16 projects globally, enjoy one week of vacation each year at any of our 44 stunning holiday supported by the Clinton destinations across India and South-East Asia or thousands of Resorts Climate Initiative (CCI), a Condominium International (RCI) affiliated partner resorts across the world. Moving into exciting new spaces, MHRIL also offers leisure boats, camping foundation for sustainable vacations, corporate retreats, and homestays. development promoted by Former US President Bill Highlights Clinton. Only 2 of these projects are India-based and Mahindra Holidays expanded its footprint with a new resort at Kanha, Madhya Pradesh. This is the fifth wildlife resort in India and first in the MWC, Jaipur is one of these. state. A greenfield project, it is spread over 15 acres of land. Carrying the philosophy of sustainable urbanisation ahead, the Real Estate Sector has also ventured into affordable housing projects to make quality housing accessible to a wider cross-section of people at affordable prices. Highlights • MLDL participated at the COP21 Global climate summit in Paris. MLDL was represented by Sangeeta Prasad, CEO, Integrated Cities and Industrial Clusters, Businesses in the sector who joined other panellists representing Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Ltd. (MHRIL) Mexico City, Saint-Gobain Group, Lafarge SA www.clubmahindra.com and the UAE. Mahindra Ocean Blue Marine* http://www.mahindra.com/What-We-Do/Leisure-and-Hospitality/Companies/ Mahindra-Ocean-Blue-Marine Real Estate Sector With a mission of transforming urban landscapes by creating sustainable communities, the Mahindra Group forayed into real estate and infrastructure development in 1994. As India's first green homes developer, Mahindra Lifespace Developers Ltd. (MLDL) espouses green design and healthy living as the foundation of all its projects. All its residential projects are precertified by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). • Mahindra World City (MWC), Jaipur added 12 customers over the past one year Mahindra World Cities (MWCs) pioneered the concept of integrated cities which are designed to create a balance between Life, Living and Livelihood. • Mint Institute felicitated MLDL with These integrated urban centres are located near existing metros and Competitiveness Strategy Award in the comprise SEZs, Industrial Parks, Retail and Social Infrastructure. As of now, Construction, Real Estate and Steel Segment MWCs are operational at Chennai, Tamil Nadu and Jaipur, Rajasthan aggregating 4,600 acres and creating industrial/service campuses for more than 100 companies. • Mahindra World City (MWC), Jaipur initiated a drive to light up 800 homes in the neighbouring villages of Bhambhoriya, Jhai and Bagru Khurd villages with LED lights. • Mahindra Lifespaces expanded its footprints in Dubai, with its first international sales office. For further information, please visit http://www.mahindra.com/What-We-do/Real-Estate 159 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Businesses in the sector • Mahindra Finance awarded with: Mahindra Lifespace Developers Ltd. (MLDL) www.mahindralifespaces.com Mahindra World City Developers Ltd. (MWCDL) www.mahindraworldcity.com Mahindra World City Jaipur Ltd. (MWCJL) www.mahindraworldcity.com 'Best HR and Talent Practice' (in NBFC category) in the 'Inspiring Workplace Award 2015' Financial Services Sector Mahindra Finance and its subsidiaries offer a complete range of financial services and insurance solutions for both businesses and individuals. By making credit available, they open opportunities for people to improve their own lives and create lasting systems of livelihood. With more than one million happy customers in rural and semi-urban India, we are the largest Non-Banking Financial Golden Peacock Award for Business World HR Excellence Award Company (NBFC) in the country. 'HR Excellence' & 'National Training for 'Best Innovative Workplace Award' Practices' and 'Excellence in HR'. Highlights For more information, please visit: www.mahindrafinance.com • Mahindra Finance's Rajasthan team hosted a study tour for 24 banking professionals Businesses in the sector nominated by the World Bank from various countries. Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited (MMFSL)* www.mahindra.com/What-We-Do/Financial-Services/Companies/Mahindra• Mahindra Finance supported Lifeline Express and-Mahindra-Financial-Services project in Badohi, U.P. to treat patients at Badohi Railway Station from 28th February Mahindra Insurance Brokers Ltd. (MIBL) http://www.mahindra.com/What-We-do/Financial-Services/Companies/ to 17th March, 2016. Mahindra-Insurance-Brokers Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Ltd. (MRHFL) www.mahindra.com/What-We-do/Financial-Services/Companies/MahindraRural-Housing-Finance *Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited (MIBL) and Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited (MRHFL) are wholly owned subsidiary companies of Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited. Aftermarket Sector The Mahindra Group introduced the Aftermarket Sector for taking care of growing population of vehicles in India. This move ushered in the tenets of organised corporate sector in a larger unorganised market. Highlights Mahindra First Choice Wheels (MFCW) sponsored the 1st All Women TransContinental Road expedition from Delhi to London. Their certified Scorpio took on a challenge of showing its capability across continents covering 23,800 kms and 17 countries 160 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Businesses in the sector Mahindra First Choice Services Ltd. (Multi-brand Service Chain) www.mahindrafirstchoiceservices.com • Mahindra team and the Aspar team Mahindra First Choice Wheels Ltd. (Sale & Purchase of used Cars) partnership for the 2015 MotoGP season www.mahindrafirstchoice.com finished in top 10 in the 4 out of 7 races • Mahindra Racing welcomed the famous Mahindra Two Wheelers and Peugeot Motorcycles brand that will make its TM debut on the Moto3 grid in the 2016 World Mahindra Racing Championship The Mahindra Group entered the Two Wheeler industry by establishing • Mahindra Gusto bagged five awards Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited (MTWL) in 2008. Since then MTWL has grown rapidly by focusing on brand-building via new product development that is • CNBC TV18 Overdrive 'Viewer's choice guided by consumer insights, strategic partnerships, service orientation, and scooter of the year award' building scale. • Car and Bike Awards 2015 'Innovation of the year award' Highlights • Zig wheels 'Readers' Choice Two-Wheeler of the Year Award • Mahindra showcased its global Two Wheeler Prowess at the 13th Auto Expo 2016 • Zeegnition Car and Bike 2015 'Scooter of the Year' Award • Unveiled an all new MGP3O racing motorcycle for season 2016 • Zeegnition Car & Bike Awards 2015 • Showcased an all-electric two-wheel transportation alternative, GenZe 2.0 'Innovation of the Year' Award • Announced the Mojo Tribe Riders Club an exclusive club for Mojo owners who exemplify the true spirit of riding • Mahindra Two Wheelers (MTWL) swept three awards at the Mahindra Rise Awards ceremony. The awards are in CSR, Sustainability and Safety category. 161 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates New Launches • Launched the MOJO for • Launched Gusto in Indian roads setting new Eastern and Southern benchmarks in styling, markets of India performance and ride quality For more information, please visit: www.mahindra2wheelers.com Awards The awards and recognitions we receive are a testament to our commitment and reinforce our faith in the path we have chosen to achieve the goals. Some of our key recognitions received during the year include: Leadership • Mr. Ramesh Iyer, Managing Director of Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services was recognised with 'CEO Financial Services' at the CEO Awards, 2015 • Ms. Anita Arjundas, Managing Director, Mahindra Lifespaces was ranked among '50 Most Powerful Women in Business' by Fortune, India Environment • MTWL, Pithampur received a National Energy Conservation Award at the hands of Mr. Piyush Goyal, the Union Minister of State for power, coal, new and renewable energy • Mahindra Finance ranked in the Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets Index for the third time in a row. DJSI is the world's leading ranking for companies on their Environmental, Social and Governance performance • Mahindra Lifespaces received the Best ESG (Environment, Social and Governance) Disclosure award in small cap category at the 'Investor Relations Society Awards 2015' People • Mahindra Finance was successfully appraised and rated at Maturity Level 3 of the People Capability Maturity Model® (People-CMM®) • Mahindra Finance won the award for 'Best HR and Talent Practice' in the NBFC category Quality and Innovation Mahindra Two Wheelers swept the prestigious Platinum Mahindra Innovation Award in the 'Offerings' category for 'Seat Height Adjustment Mechanism for Scooter' 162 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates USTAINABILITY & US G4 24, 25, 26 Overview STAKEHOLDER GROUP ENGAGEMENT CHANNELS Mahindra is a confederation of diverse Government / Environmental Compliance, businesses spanning from manufacturing to Regulatory Authorities Policy Intervention services to retail. Each business, depending on its products, its scale of operation and the Employees Conferences, workshops, publications, geography it caters to, has a unique set of newsletters & reports, online portals, stakeholders and material issues. Each feedback surveys and one-to-one interactions, employee involvement in business, therefore, has undergone a CSR activities materiality exercise to focus on areas specific to their operations, framed individual Customers Interviews, personal visits, publications, mass roadmaps and appraise their own performance media & digital communications, feedback across the triple bottom line. camps, plant visits and support programmes The diverse businesses of Mahindra own equal responsibility towards sustainability and man Suppliers & Dealers Supplier & vendor meets, workshops & their triple bottom line roadmaps with fierce trainings, audits, policies, IT-enabled information sharing tools and recognition commitment. platforms The companies are Investors / Annual report, sustainability report, press consistently moving towards Shareholders releases, investor presentations, corporate website, quarterly and annual results achieving their targets in order to create a larger impact for Local Communities CSR activities people, planet and profit. Educational Institutes / Technical collaboration, capacity building, Universities research Employees In the following pages, we present a synopsis report of M&M's subsidiaries comprising the We go beyond just engaging with our employees, we energise them. Through triple bottomline highlights of each sector. various activities, it is ensured that employees perform at their peak. Some of the key activities in the reporting year include: Employee Satisfaction Strategy | Tech Mahindra Stakeholder Engagement Tech Mahindra devised an employee satisfaction strategy which includes Stakeholder engagement for us is not only identifying career development plan for the employee, taking input for about getting feedback from the stakeholders, annual and midterm appraisals, setting goals and evaluating employee it's about collaborating and working together performance and giving rewards and recognitions. with them to find a solution. Be it a customer or an investor, a dealer or a supplier, an IMPACT model Hunt 2015 | Mahindra Finance employee or the local communities all To foster a culture where every employee acts as a brand ambassador and Mahindra companies engage with their leaves a positive impact on customers and society, an IMPACT model hunt stakeholders. Following is a summary of the 2015 was organised. The event offered sessions on leveraging social media, various channels that enable the companies to grooming sessions to create lasting impacts, art of networking and learnings engage in a two-way dialogue: through adventurous sports. 163 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Some of the key engagements in the reporting period include: Member Engagement Initiative Mahindra Holidays Mahindra Holidays organised a unique engagement initiative 'Heart-to-Heart' wherein members were provided a platform to bond with other members from their own city. Alongside hosting fun activities for members like zumba workshop, tarot card reading Waste Management Training | TMW at MIQ session and kid's art workshop, the aim was Mahindra Institute of Quality (MIQ) and Group Sustainability have continued also to address member queries, share their journey with all group companies and the value chain to reduce recucle updates and encourage them to holiday at waste by conducting the 2nd batch of training programme ‘Waste to Wealth’ newer resorts. 'Heart-to-Heart' engagements at MIQ. have so far been held at Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mumbai and Delhi. This initiative's response has been satisfactory with outcomes transcending beyond member delight to quicker resolution of member concerns and enhanced member referrals. Travelogues | Mahindra Holidays A new travel series 'Travelogues' was launched on CNBC Awaaz on World Tourism Day. The idea was to showcase some of the enthralling getaways nestled across the length and Wealth of Wellness | Tech Mahindra breadth of India. Popular television actress, Ashka Goradia was roped in to host this show Tech Mahindra flagged off 'wealth of wellness', a programme to improve the for an audience connect. health and wellness of employees through interactive activities like Cookathon to promote healthy cooking, walkathon with the COO, pinkathon, emotional wellness session, health check-up camps, and workshops for various health enablers like meditation, yoga, heart care, balanced lifestyle, etc. Sustainability Challenge | MMFSL To help raise awareness about sustainability and environmental issues, the 5th annual sustainability quiz was organised at Mahindra Towers on the occasion of World Environment Day 2015. Named 'Sustainability Challenge 2015', the event was organised by Group sustainability and was sponsored by Mahindra Finance. A total of 12 teams representing various group companies participated and Mahindra Susten was crowned the winner. Local Communities Our neighboring communities form an indelible part our operating system and, hence, a harmony between their aspirations and our objectives is an absolute must. Towards this end, we continue to engage with the communities surrounding our operations. Customers Customer engagement is a definitive predictor of business growth. We engage with our customers through a two-way dialogue, seeking valuable feedback and sharing our performance and organisational achievements with them. 164 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Urbanscaping Projects | Mahindra Lifespaces Driving Welfare Activities Mahindra Lifespaces introduced 'Urbanscaping', an initiative to improve Mahindra Logistics public spaces through basic infrastructure provision, renovation efforts and Business growth and success rests on the cleanliness drives. The very first Urbanscaping project was conducted at shoulders of our drivers. Mahindra Logistics Mumbai's Sion Station in association with Central Railways, and NGO Die continued to drive welfare activities for drivers Hard Indian. Termed 'Mumbai Sparklers', this one-of-a-kind initiative, aimed this year with activities such as health checkat restoring and beautifying one of Mumbai's oldest and busiest railway up camps, HIV aids awareness, accident stations. 500 volunteers from all walks of life came together for a common insurance, safety training, reward and cause and lent a hand in tree planting, wall painting and cleaning activities. recognition, scholarships for children, etc. Industry Our partnerships with the industry have made a mark in national and international fraternities. Enabling Communities to Rise through Esops | Mahindra Finance Carbon Pricing Workshop Employees of Mahindra Finance through their contribution to various Esops The Mahindra Group was one of the hosts of projects, positively impacted the lives of the under privileged in the the coveted Carbon Pricing Workshop, other community. hosts being the World Bank's Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), World Resources Institute (WRI), CDP and the World Business Suppliers & Dealers Council on Sustainable Development. The aim was to explore the landscape for internally Suppliers and dealers are at the heart of an organisations' operations and pricing carbon within the Indian corporate ensure seamless value chain. Investing time, money and energy in engaging sector, and encourage businesses to with them only yields positive outcomes. voluntarily take action on carbon pricing. Workshop participants included 50+ leading Indian business practitioners, including senior management representation from Mahindra and Mahindra, Tech Mahindra, Mahindra Sanyo, Tata and Infosys. Young Managers Competition MTWL, Pithampur hosted IMA's 21st Young Managers Competition in the plant premises. Dealers' Council Meet | Mahindra Finance Young Managers Competition (YMC) is an Strategic initiatives were undertaken to build synergy with Mahindra and annual competition of the Indore Management Mahindra Auto dealers through Mahindra Finance dealer council meet. Association that aims to cultivate conceptual The meeting was attended by top 40 Auto dealers across the country. thinking, team efforts and presentation skills, An initiative of Smart branches was introduced to provide exclusive services among the Young Managers. The theme for to M&M auto customers and 32 dealerships were recognised as this year's competition was 'India Inc. 'Smart Branches'. Reinventing Growth'. 165 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Engaging with the thought shapers. Gaining the moniker of change makers. Conference of the Parties (COP 21), Paris | Mahindra Lifespaces Mahindra Lifespaces participated in the Lima Paris Action Agenda during COP 21 Ms. Sangeeta Prasad, CEO Integrated Cities and Industrial clusters, represented the company and spoke at a panel discussion on 'Value Chain Transformation' by United Nations Environment Program, Division of Technology, Industry and Economics. Recognition from C40 Cities Signatory to Consortium on Housing Sector Mahindra World City Mahindra Lifespaces Mahindra World City Jaipur became the first Mahindra Lifespaces became signatory to IFC's Asian project to receive Stage 2 Climate Sustainable Housing Leadership Consortium, Positive Development certification from the a CEO-led Consortium aimed at driving C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group (C40), sustainability in India's housing sector. a global network of large cities taking action to address The founding members have committed to make 100% climate change. It also became the largest project in the of their housing portfolio sustainable by 2017 and achieve world (by population) to reach this certification. Stage 2 20% reduction in incremental variable costs, to promote Climate Positive recognition are given to sustainable the widespread adoption of green homes in India. The developers to achieve a Climate Positive outcome. consortium will also provide leadership and advocacy for broader industry and government policy actions to make 20 percent of India's new housing construction sustainable by 2022. Online Engagement Footprint We use our online presence to inform, identify interests, express and share opinions, organise and coordinate interventions with our stakeholders. It helps us build and strengthen the trust and respect among the customers and potential customers for our businesses. Online status of our various businesses: Club Mahindra Mahindra Scooters Mahindra Lifespaces 1,295,785 LIKES 989,417 LIKES 115,182 LIKES 166 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates RIVEN BY OUR PEOPLE Overview A case in point in Mahindra Susten's unique philosophy of safeguarding Human Rights through: Our employees are our prime movers. A collective force which sees no limits, finds • Including human rights principles in the contract clause for all service and possibilities in problems and breaks fresh supplier contracts. ground, enabling the organisation and its stakeholders to rise. It is hence only natural for • Pilot sustainability assessment with Human Rights criteria. us to return the favour by empowering them to rise by nurturing, motivating, and rewarding • Frequent Human Rights training and awareness for staff. them with growth, learning and leadership opportunities. Equal focus is laid on hosting our • Labour camps before the onset of project execution to ensure safe working employees in a healthy and safe environment. conditions and dignity of individuals. These camps offer the workers electricity, dining tents, separate toilets for men and women and access to safe drinking water. In the reporting year, Mahindra Intertrade conducted Human Rights awareness training for Security Guards at Vadodara, Chakan, Nashik, and Bhopal. We ensure to keep our ears to the ground and understand the pulse of our employees through a multitude of employee engagement exercises. We connect with all our employees across designations and departments in order to include the views of individuals from diverse groups in all strategic decisions. An equal opportunity player, we remain on a pursuit of offering employment and creating leaders across hierarchies and businesses. Human Rights & Ethical Labour Practices Dignity is the basic right of every individual and all Mahindra companies adhere to the UNGC principles on Human Rights. We strictly condemn acts like discrimination, forced & compulsory labour and child labour within and beyond Mahindra boundaries. Over and above practicing the policy on human rights, our businesses also incorporate new initiatives to remain in tune with the need and nature of the business as well as evolving standards. 167 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Diversity and Inclusion • Mahindra Intertrade has instituted A Group Diversity Council and Sector-level Diversity Councils are in place at Leaders' Teach Series where experts Mahindra to harness the power of diversity across gender, physical abilities are invited to enlighten the employees and race. Below are a few examples highlighting how our various business on various subjects. In the reporting are leading by example: year, a training session on Goods and Service Tax (GST) was conducted by • Mahindra Intertrade is replete with talented female personnel and its shop Mr. Diwakar Srivastava, Chief floor with women employees is a stellar example for gender diversity. Commercial, to explain the concept of GST. Another initiative 'Premier Learning' • The Mahindra Intertrade Ltd. Service Centre at Vadodara has another first is an opportunity for employees to to its credit with the first female security personnel. pursue a programme in leader development at seminal institutes • MLL is championing gender diversity through various milestones: like IIM, XLRI and ISB. A multi-skilling • Increase in female employees by 14.9% in FY 2015-16 platform named 'Unnayan' focuses on cross-skilling through a unique • The attrition rate reduced to just 1.06% mentoring approach, empowering people to enhance their capabilities • The target set to hire female employees stands at 15% and thereby augment their job profile. • 140 female employees received a free health check-up • Mahindra Susten has developed an • Conducted women's health awareness session innovation induction module where the idea and importance of sustainability will be inculcated into the new joinees right at the onboarding stage. Each new employee is encouraged to 'Be a Susteneer' by taking a pledge towards adapting a green and sustainable lifestyle. Additionally, a communication plan has been chalked out featuring knowledge sharing emailers to sensitise employees towards the emerging concepts of sustainability. • Tech Mahindra has an in-house Diversity spectrum that embraces everyone Management Academy that grooms and At Mahindra, unity in diversity is an integral part of our day-to-day life. Be it develops talent through a structured gender, differently-abled, generational, racial or religious, we have a team 'identify, develop, and leverage that encompasses talents from varied walks of life. potential' approach. Multiple learning avenues are open for employees across Key initiatives: cadres. In the reporting year, 210 training sessions were undertaken to • A Group Diversity Council and Sector-level Diversity Councils are in place at train 22300+ employees on emerging Mahindra to harness the power of diversity. technologies. Further, 600+ e-learning courses, 300+ technical documentations • Project Enable at FSS is an initiative for the differently-abled, where we and several video-based learning tools hired 28 personnel. were offered. • Offered second career opportunities especially to women, wherein we hired • MFCSL spearheaded various training 35 personnel who took a sabbatical owing to personal commitments. programmes like OHS training, Cultural Value Training, Corporate Quality Training, IMS & Audit Workshop, Six Talent Development Sigma yellow belt training and team building workshops. Our talent management processes do not end at attracting and recruiting bright employees but also extend to offering multiple growth enablers ranging from learning opportunities, career advancement to leadership building. Learning is an unending journey at Mahindra. All our businesses have crafted multiple training and development modules that enable employees to learn and grow further in the career path. 168 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Employee Associations and One such regulation is The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, which applies to labour relations. It Collective Bargaining Agreements specifically mentions a three-week notice All our employees are free to choose the union and benefit from the right to period for all operational changes. It provides collective bargaining agreements. We strictly prohibit bias towards any consultation and negotiation opportunities specific employee group. during the notice period. If consent is given, only then can the agreement be signed to reflect the changes. Permanent Employees covered under the For a comprehensive discussion on the act and its various facets, please refer our collective bargaining agreements for FY 2015-16 Sustainability Report 2009-10. UNIONISED 89% NON-UNIONISED 11% Workforce Snapshot Breakup of Number Total Unionised Permanent Employees (Unionized) strength Employment Distribution Quilon District Hotel, Resorts & Tea Shop Worker's Federation AITUC 57 74 Sector Males Females Total MIBL 706 96 802 Perumadu Hotel Employees Union (CITU) 35 62 MRHFL 4,235 126 4,361 Resorts & Hotel Employees Union (CITU) 159 195 FSS 15,316 641 15,957 MRRKS-Maharashtra Rajya Rashtriya Kamgar Sangh 402 402 MWC 47 5 52 Total 653 733 MHRIL 1,657 271 1,928 MSSSPL 2,267 33 2,300 MTWL 806 27 833 Contract Employees covered under the MVML 10,554 145 10,699 collective bargaining agreements for FY 2015-16 MLL 3,774 204 3,978 TechM 44,505 19,851 64,356 UNIONISED 35% NON-UNIONISED 65% MIL 618 18 636 MFCSL 547 72 619 Breakup of Number Total MLDL 6,630 120 6,750 Unionised Contract Employees (Unionized) strength M REVA 353 18 371 Bharatiya Kamgar Sena 497 547 Susten 541 53 594 All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) 13 13 EPC 434 11 445 Perumadu Hotel Employees Union (CITU) 9 9 Overall RHEU(CITU) 40 40 Result 92,990 21,691 114,681 BKKMS-Bharatiya Kamgar Karmachari Mahasangh 98 1285 Total 657 1894 Minimum Notice Period of Operational Changes During the reporting period, all the Group Companies employing unionised labour, followed all pertinent regulations in letter and intent. 169 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Employment Grade & Type Gender Break-Up: Permanent Employees Junior Management Middle Management Senior Management Workmen Total Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total MIBL 633 92 725 64 4 68 9 0 9 0 0 0 706 96 802 MRHFL 4,176 120 4,296 57 6 63 2 0 2 0 0 0 4,235 126 4,361 FSS 14,727 609 15,336 564 32 596 25 0 25 0 0 0 15,316 641 15,957 MWC 11 2 13 18 2 20 9 0 9 0 0 0 38 4 42 MHRIL 130 15 145 127 22 149 46 1 47 595 79 674 898 117 1,015 MSSSPL 413 11 424 73 19 92 19 0 19 442 0 442 947 30 977 MTWL 579 24 603 203 3 206 19 0 19 0 0 0 801 27 828 MVML 490 38 528 153 6 159 41 0 41 2,377 1 2,378 3,061 45 3,106 MLL 1,757 150 1,907 209 18 227 15 2 17 0 0 0 1,981 170 2,151 TechM 34,739 18,312 53,051 8,194 1,221 9,415 448 44 492 0 0 0 43,381 19,577 62,958 MIL 106 7 113 42 4 46 13 1 14 34 0 34 195 12 207 MFCSL 288 27 315 44 4 48 5 0 5 141 0 141 478 31 509 MLDL 99 78 177 135 34 169 65 6 71 0 0 0 299 118 417 M REVA 212 13 225 135 5 140 6 0 6 0 0 0 353 18 371 Susten 281 36 317 65 7 72 16 2 18 0 0 0 362 45 407 EPC 273 10 283 19 0 19 15 0 15 48 0 48 355 10 365 Overall Result 58,914 19,544 78,458 10,102 1,387 11,489 753 56 809 3,637 80 3,717 73,406 21,067 94,473 Employment Grade & Type Gender Break-Up: Non-Permanent Employees Fixed term Contract Third party Contract Others Total Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total MIBL 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 MRHFL 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 FSS 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 MWC 4 0 4 1 1 2 4 0 4 9 1 10 MHRIL 300 69 369 328 73 401 131 12 143 759 154 913 MSSSPL 14 0 14 1,168 3 1,171 138 0 138 1,320 3 1,323 MTWL 4 0 4 0 0 0 1 0 1 5 0 5 MVML 0 0 0 2,537 85 2,622 4,956 15 4,971 7,493 100 7,593 MLL 1,787 26 1,813 0 0 0 6 8 14 1,793 34 1,827 TechM 135 96 231 878 155 1,033 107 23 130 1,120 274 1,394 MIL 0 0 0 391 0 391 32 6 38 423 6 429 MFCSL 6 0 6 63 41 104 0 0 0 69 41 110 MLDL 6 2 8 6,325 0 6,325 0 0 0 6,331 2 6,333 M Reva 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mahindra EPC 19 4 23 160 4 164 0 0 0 179 8 187 EPC Industrie Ltd 79 1 80 0 0 0 0 0 0 79 1 80 Overall Result 2,354 198 2,552 11,851 362 12,213 5,375 64 5,439 19,580 624 20,204 170 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Gender Composition & Turnover and Rate of New Hires Entering & Leaving Head count Turnover Rate of new hires Joining Rate of new hires leaving Sector Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female MIBL 706 96 17% 13% 29% 25% 5% 2% MRHFL 4,235 126 40% 20% 78% 41% 15% 3% FSS 15,316 641 20% 17% 36% 22% 5% 1% MWC 47 5 4% 0% 3% 3% 1% 0% MHRIL 1,657 271 17% 16% 51% 39% 31% 27% MSSSPL 2,267 33 5% 10% 9% 49% 1% 0% MTWL 806 27 22% 40% 9% 5% 1% 0% MVML 10,554 145 39% 14% 85% 17% 31% 4% MLL 3,774 204 17% 19% 39% 44% 5% 3% TechM 44,501 19,851 47% 45% 46% 52% 15% 14% MIL 618 18 2% 12% 5% 36% 0% 0% MFCSL 547 72 54% 28% 34% 21% 4% 1% MLDL 6,630 120 2% 12% 3% 23% 0% 1% M REVA 353 18 2% 5% 15% 14% 14% 50% Susten 541 53 13% 21% 53% 104% 4% 8% EPC 434 11 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Overall Result 92,986 21,691 32% 42% 41% 50% 12% 14% Age Composition % Turnover Rate of new joinee Rate of new joinee leaving between between between Sector <30 yrs 30 50 yrs >50 yrs <30yrs 30 50 yrs >50yrs <30yrs 30 50 yrs >50yrs MIBL 20% 14% 0% 42% 16% 80% 7% 2% 0% MRHFL 41% 36% 0% 87% 58% 120% 16% 11% 0% FSS 24% 17% 6% 52% 18% 3% 6% 2% 0% MWC 0% 4% 3% 16% 3% 0% 4% 0% 0% MHRIL 21% 7% 2% 72% 24% 0% 44% 12% 8% MSSSPL 2% 3% 16% 7% 13% 8% 0% 0% 2% MTWL 35% 18% 15% 16% 6% 4% 3% 1% 2% MVML 47% 7% 0% 139% 14% 0% 38% 2% 0% MLL 18% 15% 9% 52% 24% 7% 7% 3% 0% TechM 57% 33% 28% 71% 18% 10% 23% 3% 1% MIL 3% 1% 10% 10% 2% 0% 1% 0% 0% MFCSL 63% 87% 33% 38% 28% 0% 5% 4% 0% MLDL 28% 16% 17% 63% 18% 11% 2% 0% 0% M REVA 3% 1% 0% 28% 6% 67% 21% 12% 67% Susten 5% 4% 0% 65% 43% 38% 5% 4% 0% EPC 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Overall Result 46% 27% 18% 74% 19% 8% 21% 3% 2% 171 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Training (Average Man-Hours/employee) Junior Management Training Hours No. of Employees Average Training Hours Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total MIBL 17,336.0 1,952.0 19,288.0 633.0 92.0 725.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 MRHFL 116,610.0 60.0 116,670.0 4,176.0 120.0 4,296.0 27.9 0.5 27.2 FSS 1,155,305.0 65,120.0 1,220,425.0 14,727.0 609.0 15,336.0 78.4 106.9 79.6 MWCC 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MWCJ 367.5 43.5 411.0 11.0 2.0 13.0 33.4 21.8 31.6 MHRIL Ashtamudi 23.0 207.0 230.0 9.0 1.0 10.0 2.6 207.0 23.0 MHRIL Binsar 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Coorg 29.0 3.0 32.0 29.0 3.0 32.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 MHRIL Derby Green 4.9 0.0 4.9 9.0 0.0 9.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 MHRIL Emerald Palms 164.0 65.0 229.0 31.0 7.0 38.0 5.3 9.3 6.0 MHRIL Goa 0.0 0.0 0.0 20.0 5.0 25.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Jaisalmer 4 0 4 4.0 2.0 6.0 1.0 0.0 0.7 MHRIL Manali 0 0 0 2.0 0.0 2.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Munnar 189.47 5.81 195.28 22.0 1.0 23.0 8.6 5.8 8.5 MHRIL Kandaghat 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.0 1.0 5.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Pondicherry 432.0 0.0 432.0 8.0 0.0 8.0 54.0 0.0 63.0 MHRIL Thekkady 168.0 0.0 168.0 5.0 0.0 5.0 33.6 0.0 33.6 MHRIL Virajpet 7.0 7.0 14.0 18.0 2.0 20.0 0.4 3.5 0.7 MSSSPL 8,099.3 405.5 8,504.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MTWL 10,856.0 168.0 11,024.0 579.0 24.0 603.0 18.7 7.0 18.3 MLL 214.4 19.9 234.3 1,757.0 150.0 1,907.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 TechM 1,574,286.0 935,417.5 2,509,703.5 34,739.0 18,312.0 53,051.0 45.3 51.1 47.3 MIL 46.9 12.1 59.0 106.0 7.0 113.0 0.4 1.7 0.5 MFCSL 5,357.5 407.0 5,764.5 288.0 27.0 315.0 18.6 15.1 18.3 MLDL 16,347.0 0.0 16,347.0 99.0 78.0 177.0 165.1 0.0 92.4 M REVA 805.2 18.3 823.5 212.0 13.0 225.0 3.8 1.4 3.7 Susten 3,670.5 713.0 4,383.5 281.0 36.0 317.0 13.1 19.8 13.8 EPC 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Grand Total 1,755,017.6 939,504.5 2,694,522.1 43,042.0 18,883.0 61,925.0 92.9 15.2 43.5 172 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Middle Management Training Hours No. of Employees Average Training Hours Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total MIBL 2,720.0 104.0 2,824.0 64.0 4.0 68.0 42.5 26.0 41.5 MRHFL 1,728.0 100.0 1,828.0 57.0 6.0 63.0 30.3 16.7 29.0 FSS 22,978.0 785.0 23,763.0 564.0 32.0 596.0 40.7 24.5 39.9 MWCC 418.5 20.0 438.5 8.0 1.0 9.0 52.3 20.0 48.7 MWCJ 360.0 74.5 434.5 10.0 1.0 11.0 36.0 74.5 39.5 MHRIL Ashtamudi 147.0 5.0 152.0 12.0 2.0 14.0 12.3 2.5 10.9 MHRIL Binsar 10.0 0.0 10.0 8.0 6.0 14.0 1.3 0.0 0.7 MHRIL Coorg 11.0 4.0 15.0 11.0 4.0 15.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 MHRIL Derby Green 4.95 0.0 4.95 13.0 0.0 13.0 0.4 0.0 0.7 MHRIL Emerald Palms 18.0 9.0 27.0 10.0 1.0 11.0 1.8 9.0 2.5 MHRIL Goa 0.0 0.0 0.0 18.0 5.0 23.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Jaisalmer 4 1 5 4.0 1.0 5.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 MHRIL Manali 2 0 2 7.0 0.0 7.0 0.3 0.0 0.3 MHRIL Munnar 86.23 21.79 108.02 15.0 2.0 17.0 5.7 10.9 6.4 MHRIL Kandaghat 0.0 0.0 0.0 11.0 1.0 12.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Pondicherry 648.0 0.0 648.0 12.0 0.0 12.0 54.0 0.0 54.0 MHRIL Thekkady 240.0 0.0 240.0 13.0 0.0 13.0 18.5 0.0 18.5 MHRIL Virajpet 5.0 5.0 10.0 3.0 1.0 4.0 1.7 5.0 2.5 MSSSPL 2,681.4 0.0 2,681.4 73.0 19.0 92.0 36.7 0.0 29.1 MTWL 3,344.0 64.0 3,408.0 203.0 3.0 206.0 16.5 21.3 16.5 MLL 1,179.8 87.0 1,266.8 209.0 18.0 227.0 5.6 4.8 5.6 TechM 392,083.2 56,657.2 448,740.4 8,194.0 1,221.0 9,415.0 47.9 46.4 47.7 MIL 56.7 22.8 79.5 42.0 4.0 46.0 1.3 5.7 1.7 MFCSL 457.0 56.0 513.0 44.0 4.0 48.0 10.4 14.0 10.7 MLDL 2,731.0 0.0 2,731.0 135.0 34.0 169.0 20.2 0.0 16.2 M REVA 747.0 64.1 811.1 135.0 5.0 140.0 5.5 12.8 5.8 Susten 957.0 119.0 1,076.0 65.0 7.0 72.0 14.7 17.0 14.9 Grand Total 410,211.2 57,394.3 467,605.5 9,360.0 1,343.0 10,703.0 43.8 42.7 43.7 173 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Senior Management Training Hours No. of Employees Average Training Hours Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total MIBL 416.0 0.0 416.0 9.0 0.0 9.0 46.2 0.0 46.2 MRHFL 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.0 0.0 2.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 FSS 1,134.0 0.0 1,134.0 25.0 0.0 25.0 45.4 0.0 45.4 MWCC 88.5 0.0 88.5 4.0 0.0 4.0 22.1 0.0 22.1 MWCJ 160.0 0.0 160.0 5.0 0.0 5.0 32.0 0.0 32.0 MHRIL Ashtamudi 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Binsar 2.0 2.0 4.0 16.0 0.0 16.0 0.1 0.0 0.3 MHRIL Coorg 6.0 0.0 6.0 6.0 0.0 6.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 MHRIL Derby Green 4.5 0.0 4.5 1.0 0.0 1.0 4.5 0.0 4.5 MHRIL Emerald Palms 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Goa 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.0 0.0 6.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Jaisalmer 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Manali 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Munnar 48.3 5.2 53.5 6.0 1.0 7.0 8.1 5.2 7.6 MHRIL Kandaghat 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Pondicherry 216.0 0.0 216.0 3.0 0.0 3.0 72.0 0.0 72.0 MHRIL Thekkady 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL Virajpet 3.0 0.0 3.0 4.0 0.0 4.0 0.8 0.0 0.8 MSSSPL 618.5 0.0 618.5 19.0 0.0 19.0 32.6 0.0 32.6 MTWL 88.0 0.0 88.0 19.0 0.0 19.0 4.6 0.0 4.6 MLL 3.0 13.2 16.3 15.0 2.0 17.0 0.2 6.6 1.0 TechM 10,976.8 1,497.2 12,474.0 448.0 44.0 492.0 24.5 34.0 25.4 MIL 49.5 64.5 114.0 13.0 1.0 14.0 3.8 64.5 8.1 MFCSL 14.0 0.0 14.0 5.0 0.0 5.0 2.8 0.0 2.8 MLDL 1,288.0 0.0 1,288.0 65.0 6.0 71.0 19.8 0.0 18.1 M REVA 114.8 0.0 114.8 6.0 0.0 6.0 19.1 0.0 19.1 Susten 218.0 90.0 308.0 16.0 2.0 18.0 13.6 45.0 17.1 Grand Total 14,224.5 1,670.1 15,894.6 652.0 56.0 708.0 21.8 29.8 22.4 174 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Workmen Training Hours No. of Employees Average Training Hours Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total MHRIL-Ashtamudi 489.0 99.0 588.0 16.0 6.0 22.0 30.6 16.5 26.7 MHRIL-Binsar 0.0 0.0 0.0 44.0 0.0 44.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL-Coorg 112.0 17.0 129.0 110.0 15.0 125.0 1.0 1.1 1.0 MHRIL-Derby Green 4.9 4.7 9.6 40.0 11.0 51.0 0.1 0.4 0.2 MHRIL Emerald Palms 0.0 0.0 0.0 16.0 3.0 19.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL-Goa 0.0 0.0 0.0 31.0 5.0 36.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL-Jaisalmer 7.0 0.0 7.0 10.0 0.0 10.0 0.7 0.0 0.7 MHRIL-Manali 5.0 5.0 10.0 6.0 2.0 8.0 0.8 2.5 1.3 MHRIL-Munnar 897.2 125.0 1,022.2 102.0 18.0 120.0 8.8 6.9 8.5 MHRIL-Kandaghat 106.0 25.0 131.0 48.0 6.0 54.0 2.2 4.2 2.4 MHRIL-Pondicherry 3,672.0 288.0 3,960.0 71.0 5.0 76.0 51.7 57.6 52.1 MHRIL-Thekkady 380.0 0.0 380.0 14.0 0.0 14.0 27.1 0.0 27.1 MHRIL-Virajpet 7.0 7.0 14.0 103.0 11.0 114.0 0.1 0.6 0.1 MSSSPL 2,260.3 0.0 2,260.3 442.0 0.0 442.0 5.1 0.0 5.1 MTWL 8,544.0 0.0 8,544.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MFCSL 3,094.0 0.0 3,094.0 141.0 0.0 141.0 21.9 0.0 21.9 Grand Total 19,586.3 570.7 20,157.0 1,184.0 82.0 1,266.0 16.5 7.0 15.9 Fixed Term Contract Training Hours No. of Employees Average Training Hours Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total MWCC 4.0 0.0 4.0 4.0 0.0 4.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 MWCJ 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL-Ashtamudi 206.0 70.0 276.0 14.0 6.0 20.0 14.7 11.7 13.8 MHRIL-Coorg 17.0 13.0 30.0 14.0 8.0 22.0 1.2 1.6 1.4 MHRIL-Derby Green 5.4 6.2 11.6 14.0 9.0 23.0 0.4 0.7 0.5 MHRIL Emerald Palms 543.0 327.0 870.0 81.0 11.0 92.0 6.7 29.7 9.5 MHRIL-Jaisalmer 37.0 0.0 37.0 38.0 0.0 38.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 MHRIL-Manali 5.0 5.0 10.0 27.0 2.0 29.0 0.2 2.5 0.3 MHRIL-Munnar 24.7 24.7 49.4 5.0 4.0 9.0 4.9 6.2 5.5 MHRIL-Pondicherry 936.0 936.0 1872.0 14.0 19.0 33.0 66.9 49.3 56.7 MHRIL-Thekkady 670.0 100.0 770.0 22.0 3.0 25.0 30.5 33.3 30.8 MHRIL-Virajpet 8.0 8.0 16.0 7.0 4.0 11.0 1.1 2.0 1.5 MLL 1165.6 14.6 1180.2 1787.0 26.0 1813.0 0.7 0.6 0.7 TechM 1044.5 598.0 1642.5 135.0 96.0 231.0 7.7 6.2 7.1 MFCSL 14.0 4.0 18.0 6.0 0.0 6.0 2.3 0.0 3.0 MLDL 62.0 0.0 62.0 6.0 2.0 8.0 10.3 0.0 7.8 Susten 53.0 11.0 64.0 19.0 4.0 23.0 2.8 2.8 2.8 Grand Total 4791.2 2117.5 6908.7 2338.0 208.0 2546.0 2.0 10.2 2.7 175 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Third Party Contract Training Hours No. of Employees Average Training Hours Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total MWCC 1,731.0 295.0 2,026.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 1,731.0 295.0 1013.0 MHRIL-Ashtamudi 35.0 0.0 35.0 6.0 5.0 11.0 5.8 0.0 3.2 MHRIL-Binsar 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.0 2.0 6.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL-Coorg 55.0 15.0 70.0 49.0 11.0 60.0 1.1 1.4 1.2 MHRIL-Derby Green 4.5 4.8 9.3 6.0 7.0 13.0 0.8 0.7 0.7 MHRIL-Goa 0.0 0.0 0.0 71.0 5.0 76.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 MHRIL-Jaisalmer 23.0 0.0 23.0 24.0 0.0 24.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 MHRIL-Manali 5.0 0.0 5.0 9.0 0.0 9.0 0.6 0.0 0.6 MHRIL-Munnar 254.2 18.7 272.9 37.0 3.0 40.0 6.9 6.2 6.8 MHRIL-Kandaghat 163.0 48.0 211.0 18.0 11.0 29.0 9.1 4.4 7.3 MHRIL-Pondicherry 2,304.0 1,008.0 3,312.0 33.0 18.0 51.0 69.8 56.0 64.9 MHRIL-Thekkady 100.0 90.0 190.0 7.0 3.0 10.0 14.3 30.0 19.0 MHRIL-Virajpet 6.0 6.0 12.0 64.0 8.0 72.0 0.1 0.8 0.2 TechM 5,988.8 920.0 6,908.8 878.0 155.0 1,033.0 6.8 5.9 6.7 Grand Total 17,386.1 2,140.0 19,526.1 1,816.0 271.0 2,087.0 9.6 7.9 9.4 Others Training Hours No. of Employees Average Training Hours Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sum of Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total MHRIL-Ashtamudi 153.0 49.0 202.0 4.0 1.0 5.0 38.3 49.0 40.4 MHRIL-Goa 83.0 0.0 83.0 15.0 1.0 16.0 5.5 0.0 5.2 MHRIL-Munnar 46.2 12.5 58.7 4.0 1.0 5.0 11.6 12.5 11.7 MHRIL-Thekkady 150.0 50.0 200.0 8.0 1.0 9.0 18.8 50.0 22.2 MSSSPL 1,073.2 0.0 1,073.2 138.0 0.0 138.0 7.8 0.0 7.8 MTWL 0.0 32.0 32.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 32.0 MLL 0.3 5.4 5.7 6.0 8.0 14.0 0.0 0.7 0.4 TechM 161.5 3.0 164.5 107.0 23.0 130.0 1.5 0.1 1.3 MIL 32.7 6.9 39.6 32.0 6.0 38.0 1.0 1.2 1.0 Grand Total 1,807.9 225.8 2,033.7 335.0 41.0 376.0 5.4 5.5 5.4 Human Rights Training (Man-Hours) Junior Management Middle Management Senior Management Workmen No. of hrs. of % of No. of hrs. of % of No. of hrs. of % of No. of hrs. of % of training on employees training on employees training on employees training on employees Sector Human Rights trained Human Rights trained Human Rights trained Human Rights trained MHRIL 491 2.25 182 1.81 27 5.70 1,819 1.64 MIL 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Susten 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 176 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Human Rights Training (Man-Hours) Fixed Term Contract Third Party Contract Others No. of hrs. of % of No. of hrs. of % of No. of hrs. of % of training on employees training on employees training on employees Sector Human Rights trained Human Rights trained Human Rights trained MHRIL 356 2.09 988 1.15 1,777 1.81 MIL 0 0 31 11.92 0 0 Susten 0 0 0 0 85 65 Return to Work and Retention Rates after Parental Leave by Gender Employees who are Employees who Retention Rate of employed 12 months returned to work employees who Employees entitled Employees that after availing after availing returned to work for parental leave availed parental leave parental leave parental leave after leave ended Business Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female MIL 618 18 5 0 0 0 0 5 0.00% 0.00% Susten 541 53 12 0 0 0 12 0 100.00% 0.00% MWC Chennai 16 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0.00% 100.00% MHRIL Ashtamudi 62 21 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.00% 0.00% MHRIL Goa 306 35 0 1 0 1 0 1 0.00% 100.00% MHRIL Pondicherry 141 42 0 0 0 1 0 0 0.00% 0.00% MHRIL Virajpet 199 26 2 1 1 1 2 2 100.00% 200.00% Health & Safety We ensure that safety is prioritised, practiced and reinforced at the workplace on a regular basis. All our sectors are with 'Zero Accidents' reported in 'Permanent Workforce' and 'Contract Workforce' MIL has been achieving zero accident since last 6 years, thanks to a combination of well-defined safety policy and efficient operations. 177 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Some of the major initiatives undertaken during the year include: Wellness before Business | Tech Mahindra Key Highlights At Tech Mahindra, the wellness of employees is as important as the wellness of business. To this end, a comprehensive Health and Wellness programme • Access to doctors on locations has been developed called the 'Wealth of Wellness • Online Chat facility with Doctors (WoW)'. The aim of the programme is to usher in fitness for everyone through below interventions: • On-location and Online Pharmacies • On location company maintained crèches Engaging • Involvement of Location Councils & • Health Camps and Expert Talks Associates & Associates in designing the programme Leaders • Fitness Sessions • Continuous role modeling by leaders 'Walking the Talk' • Launching a web portal called www.idayofyoga.org at the hands of Mr. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of Sustained To increase awareness and enhance India at the UNESCO headquarters in and Targeted demand and utilisation of programmes Paris in April 2015 Communication Expanding • Weight loss management portal for Digital Wellness Associates • Mobile Apps to encourage wellness while on the move Wellness Identify Brand Ambassador amongst Ambassador Associates who can inform, influence and Programme endorse wellness programmes thereby driving higher awareness and participation 178 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Success Measures DIMENSION ACHIEVEMENTS Programme 43% increase Utilisation in Associate participation in FY 2015-16 vis-à-vis FY 2014-15 Associate 9% increase Feedback in Associate satisfaction levels w.r.t. to Wealth of Wellness offerings when compared to the scores of last year Programme 2,200 programmes / events Coverage & across 20 different areas impacting Impact 73,327 Associates Employer Recognised as the Branding 2nd ranked organisation in the country w.r.t. Employee Health and Wellness initiatives as per SHRM Annual HR Awards 2015 and recognised as one among the top 3 organisations for Excellence in HR in the Business World HR Excellence Awards 2015. Also awarded Golden Peacock Award for HR Excellence in 2015 for excellence in people practices Safety Month at MSSSPL A 30-day long safety month celebrated at MSSSPL was abuzz with activities like competitions on safety slogans, safety quiz, fire drill, safety short film, essay, and safety talks. Furthermore, varied training programmes were conducted for team members as well as contract workers. Benchmarking HSE Scores Mahindra Susten achieved 5 million safe man-hours and benchmarked MRFR at 0, a feat none has accomplished so far. This benchmark has been a result of robust HSE management system. Below is a snapshot of key health and safety practices carried out at Susten with military discipline: • First Aid Training • Competency Certificate • Medical Check-up • Drinking water testing • Occupational Health • Rest shed HEALTH O&T Training • Heat Stroke Mock drill • Hospital Tie-up • Health awareness • Sanitation facility • Induction Training • Electrical Safety Training • Tool Box Talk • 5S Training • Fire Fighting Training • Confined Space Training SAFETY • Emergency Response • Height Work Training Training • Hot work Training • Excavation work • Fire, Height work Mock Drill Training • Safety campaign and awareness 179 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Safety Dashboard Permanent Employees Lost Time Injury Rate Lost Day Rate Fatality Business Male Female Total Male Female Total MVML 0.12 0.00 0.12 707.83 0.00 701.26 1 MHRIL 1.99 0.00 1.73 6.35 0.00 5.55 0 MSSSPL 0.45 0.00 0.45 31.00 0.00 30.71 0 Contract + Other Employees Lost Time Injury Rate Lost Day Rate Fatality Business Male Female Total Male Female Total MLDL 1.55 3.48 1.61 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 MHRIL 0.85 0.00 0.73 6.84 0.00 5.81 0.00 Businesses with 'Zero Accidents' reported in 'Permanent Workforce' MReva, MTWL, MLDL, MWC, MIL, MFCSL, Susten Businesses with 'Zero Accidents' reported in 'Contract Workforce' MVML, MReva, MTWL, MWC, MIL, MSSSPL, Susten 180 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates RODUCT PERFORMANCE Every Mahindra product or service is designed 'mPAC' Managed Platform for Adaptive Computing and manufactured to enrich lives, enhance lifestyle and augment livelihood. The sectors mPAC is the next generation cloud management platform which simplifies IT that Mahindra Group Companies cater to and by transforming legacy data centres into adaptive, infrastructure enabling the expanse of their product and service Software Defined Data Centres. An outcome of a strategic alliance between portfolio allows us to touch lives across TechM and HP, it aims to improve agility by reducing service deployment time demographics including diverse geographies. from months to minutes, thereby resulting in significant cost savings. Thus, product innovation at Mahindra is directed to achieve a three-pronged objective: Economic Growth Environmental Stewardship Social Inclusion Organisational Profitability Innovative and Customer-centric IT Solutions MoboMoney By Tech Mahindra India's first contactless digital payment ecosystem, MoboMoney is a prepaid wallet issued in the form of an NFC (Near-Field Communication) Contactless Internet of Things (IoT) Tag. It allows consumers to load their wallet by paying cash at its 1,000+ As a system integrator with wide-ranging retail network. The money loaded into the customers' digital wallets can then experience in back-end ERP systems, TechM be used to 'Tap'n'pay' for payments, recharges, and online transactions. minimises the complexity of IoT by Enabling Digital Payments in a country largely driven by cash presents a huge aggregating ecosystem partners and socio-economic opportunity to bring a positive change in the country's integrating various solution components such financial system. as sensors, devices, platforms, and back-end systems, etc. This enables enterprises to gain the benefits of IoT while maintaining their focus on their core businesses. 181 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates SDN-NFV based Smart City Solutions This best-in-class Software Defined Networks Environmental Responsibility (SDN) and Network Function Virtualization (NFV) based solutions suite addresses the ever changing Customised Solar Power Solutions network scenarios and demands in building the by Mahindra Susten smart cities. Tech Mahindra offers end-to-end vendor-neutral system integration capabilities and Utility Scale Solar highly scalable Managed Services to its customers. This accelerates the customers' Time to Market The Distributed Solar division focusses on decentralised deployment of and lowers Total Cost of Ownership by 25%-30%. solar PV power for on-grid and off-grid applications. It specialises in rooftop PV power plants from a few KW to MW scale and has commissioned over 5 MW of rooftop solutions. Mahindra Two Wheelers Launches MOJO Micro Grid This ensures 24x7 availability to customers through load segregation and management, incorporation of The technologically advanced 'MOJO' introduced home metering in the design of by MTWL aims to set new benchmarks in styling, distribution network, maximum uptime performance and ride quality. It has been with remote monitoring and automatic developed in-house, with inputs from global switching, and 100% system stability. partners and is designed to be on par with global products in this class. Solar Telecom Tower A DC power solution that works with grid, diesel generation and battery Genze 2.0 Now On-road system, both at brownfield and greenfield sites. Mahindra Susten has completed over 1,000 such installations and has reduced diesel consumption by 84%. Designed to help alleviate urban challenges like commuting, parking, congestion and pollution, the Genze 2.0 electric bike, has a removable lithiumion battery that can be recharged at any standard electrical outlet and is equipped with seamless IoT Solar Petrol Pump Solution communication that allows continuous monitoring An intelligent, reliable and economical power backup solution for petrol of more than 95 vehicle parameters. pump, these serve as low-cost alternatives to diesel generators. 182 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Build Solutions Vivante Mahindra Susten's Build Solutions division offers turnkey design and Vivante in Andheri East, Mumbai brings construction solution to build sustainable LEED certified buildings for together a number of green features, industrial and commercial sectors. amenities and a convenient central location that cuts commute and enhances personal life. Single Axis Tracking System Trackers helps improve efficiency, still they have not been widely deployed in the solar industry. Most developers have reservations regarding reliability, installation and environmental suitability of trackers. Mahindra Susten has developed in-house Horizontal Single Axis Tracker (MSAT-100) which overcomes traditional disadvantages of using trackers. Luminare Solaris Luminare Solaris in Gurgaon offers 120 3&4 BHK apartments built amidst 7 acres of lush landscaped gardens. The design elements encompass green architecture, and increased ventilation and natural light. The project is IGBC Gold Pre-Certified. The installation of 2.7 MW tracker system at two sites in Tamil Nadu & Andhra Pradesh has improved energy productivity by about 19%. Mahindra Lifespaces continues to sharpen its green competitive edge Windchimes Windchimes at Bannerghata Road marks MLDL's foray in Bengaluru real estate. It offers more than 400 luxurious 3&4 BHK apartments and has 80% green open space by design. 183 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Social Accountability Our products and services aim to address specific needs of the community ranging from developing affordable housing to promoting inclusivity through rural financing servicing rural customers at their doorsteps to offering sustainable tourism. Happinest, MLDL's residential projects work on a clear mandate make quality housing accessible at affordable prices to a wider cross-section of society. With over 33% of the customers working in the informal sector, we have also focussed on creating an ecosystem for access to finance. Our rural financing model is socially inclusive, providing loans based on our customers' future earning capacities. Moreover, we provide employment to over 16,000 people, most of whom come from the communities we serve. At Mahindra Holidays, we take great care to support social and sustainability practices at all our 45 Resorts. We enhance livelihoods by generating employment opportunities in the remote areas where our resorts are located. 184 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates CONOMIC PERFORMANCE Key Highlights Tech Mahindra Limited (TML) has Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services reported a consolidated revenue of Limited (Mahindra Finance), reported a total consolidated income of INR 264,940 million in the current year as compared to INR 65,540 million INR 226,210 million in the previous year, during the current year as compared an increase of 17%. Its consolidated to INR 60,210 million last year, profit after tax stood at a growth of 9%. INR 31,180 million as compared to INR 26,280 million in the previous year, an increase of 19%. Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited registered a consolidated operating income of INR 15,990 million as compared to INR 8,120 million in the previous year, an increase of 96.9%. The consolidated profit after tax after minority interest for the year is INR 990 million as compared to INR 810 million in the previous year, an increase of 22%. In the residential segment of Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited (MLDL), sold over 1,000 residential units aggregating to 1.16 million square feet of saleable area. The Company launched two new projects 'Vivante' and 'Windchimes', marking its entry in the Bangalore market. In USD million Companies Revenue Revenue of EPC Industrie Limited 31 Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Private Limited 9 Mahindra Susten Private Limited 152 Tech Mahindra Limited 122 Mahindra Life Space Developers Ltd. 78 USD 393 million revenue generated from sustainable businesses 185 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Revenue and PAT INR million Name of Company Gross Revenue Profit/(Loss) after Tax Tech Mahindra limited 264,942 31,180 Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited 91,218 2,785 Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Limited 678 (916) EPC Industries Limited 2,074 92 Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited 59,051 6,726 Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited 4,955 627 Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited 868 129 Mahindra World City Developers Limited 2,136 28 Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited 6,001 1,045 Mahindra Susten Private Limited 10,097 211 Mahindra Logistics Limited 20,274 373 Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited 624 (106) Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited 7,042 (6,152) Mahindra First Choice Services Limited 606 (672) Mahindra Intertrade Limited 11,102 624 Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited 8521 (521) Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Limited 9,626 1,174 Financial Assistance Received from the Government INR million Tax relief / credits 81.76 Subsidies 103.17 Investment grants, R&D grants and other relevant types of grants 38.43 Awards 0 Royalty holidays 0 Financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies 0 Financial incentives 0 Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation 89.107 Duty drawback + Focus Market Incentive for Export 0 Total 312.4 186 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Financial Implication of Climate Change Climate change pose huge risks to businesses and to understand the same the Sustainability team of Mahindra Group conducted a workshop on risks identification along with the Group risk management team and World Resources Institute (WRI). The session was attended by 25 participants representing 14 businesses. Risk templates were filled by each business to map and high impacts risks were identified. Local Supply 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Percentage of Local Suppliers (within top 10) An analysis of the top 10 suppliers as per monetary value for each business shows that on an aggregate basis, Subsidiaries and Associates 60% sourced 77% of its 54% requirement locally. 42% 40% MFCSL MLDL MWCC MWCJ MVML MIL MHRIL TechM SUSTAIN INR million Purchases from Percentage of Purchases from Local Suppliers Local Suppliers Sector Total Purchases Top 10 Suppliers (within top 10) (within top 10) Mahindra First Choice Services Limited 455 272 272 100% Mahindra Intertrade Limited 10,178 9,926 5,962 60% Mahindra Lifespaces 404 419 419 100% Mahindra Susten 8,450 5,915 2,366 40% Mahindra World City Chennai 33 32 32 100% Mahindra World City Jaipur 20 16 16 100% MHRIL 169 106 57 54% Tech Mahindra 8,515 6,493 2,750 42% MVML 64,501 2,142 2,142 100% 187 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates NVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Overview All Mahindra Group Companies are committed Investment in Environmental Management to advance their operations in harmony with INR million the environment. Our people, policies and processes further this commitment to preserve STP / ETP Air Emission Water Quality External Certification the precious natural resources through efforts Maintenance Monitoring & Noise of Management in resource conservation, waste management Monitoring Systems and use of sustainable technology. To create a multiplier effect to our efforts, steps have also 11.22 1.67 2.22 0.55 been taken to make our supply chain sustainable. Renewable Pollution Waste Total Energy Control Disposal/ Environmental Certificates Treatment Expenditure 11.96 10.02 3.80 70.92 In the reporting period, collectively INR 70.92 million was spent towards environment protection. MSSSPL Calculating Specific Consumption became the 1st alloy steel Company We measure our environmental performance on absolute as well as specific to embark upon Life Cycle Analyses for basis. The specific consumption is calculated by dividing absolute consumption 23 major products to address energy by a denominator based on the nature of business. For e.g., in case of and raw material consumption, GHG manufacturing business units, it is the number of units produced, whereas for effects, etc. services, it is the number of employees, or units of services offered etc. The denominators for the Group Companies are delineated in the following table: Tech Mahindra Denominator ranked #1 in CDP's Carbon Disclosure Leadership Business Unit of Measure FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Rated Gold in CII Sustainability Plus MSSSPL Tonnes of production 132,047 159,730 144,953 Corporate Assessments MIL Tonnes of production 242,229 238,466 172,358 Amongst the only three Indian companies MTWL Number of vehicles manufactured 212,849 173,066 167,644 to make it to the DJSI World Index MVML Number of vehicles manufactured 115,101 93,180 138,964 MReva Number of vehicles manufactured 405 581 924 Mahindra Lifespaces participated in COP 21 Paris, the United Susten Power generated in MWh 102,169 130,856 180,962 Nations' summit on Climate Change and MWC Acres of area developed and was invited to represent the Lima Paris maintained 2,759 2,759 2,788 Action Agenda (LPAA) panel discussion MLDL Built up area in sq. ft. 1,625,617 1,669,673 1,931,177 MLL Full time equivalent employees 1,378 1,747 2,151 MHRIL Room nights booked 267,760 411,664 401,213 FSS Full time equivalent employees 1,304 1,011 1,584 MFCSL Number of vehicles serviced 41,996 46,633 33,450 TechM Full Time equivalent employees 55,560 60,005 64,356 EPC Tonnes of production 5,705 4,299 6,535 MHEPL No. of engines produced NIS NIS 25,878 188 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Air Quality Energy Our Group Companies monitor pollutants like Particulate Matter (PM10, M2.5), All Mahindra Group companies are taking steps Sulphur Oxides and Nitrogen Oxides in line with the National Ambient Air to make their processes energy efficient, Quality standards (NAAQS 2009). thereby not just cutting emissions but also reducing costs. In the reporting year, Mahindra businesses reported energy savings as below: Ambient Air Quality microgram/m3 Sum of Sectors PM 10 PM 2.5 SOx NOx Sectors GJ Mahindra Intertrade 4,494 NAAQ LIMITS 2099 100 60 80 80 Mahindra Lifespaces 32 MFCSL 52.7 22.6 6.7 18.4 Mahindra Susten 29 MHEPL 62.22 27.68 18.81 28.7 Mahindra Two Wheelers 390 MIL 48.81 26.13 20.27 19.58 Mahindra World City 667 MLDL 90.18 34.03 14.28 29.75 Mahindra Holidays & Resorts 443 MReva 68.65 29.40 4.55 13.65 MSSSPL 84,606 Susten 35.76 24.12 6.46 7.68 Total 90,661 MTWL 69.55 0 6.75 16.74 MVML 54.92 20.99 12.56 11.83 MSSSPL 78.38 47.89 6.14 28.13 MSSSPL TechM 48.48 25.20 4.98 19.60 Reduced energy consumption from MWC 64.48 32.37 8.78 22.31 1,024 kwh/mt in 2013 to 980 kwh/mt in MHRIL 52.40 32.70 7.52 12.69 2015 and lowered Scope 2 GHG emissions by 4% through implementation of EnMS ISO 50001 Air Emissions Stacks Tonnes MTWL Sum of Sum of Sum of Installed variable speed drive (VSD) Sectors TPM SOx NOx compressor at the paint shop so that no-load hours can be capitalised to MReva 0.00 0.00 0.00 minimise energy consumption SBU 0.00 0.00 0.00 Susten 0.00 0.01 0.01 MFSCL MTWL 0.64 DNRM DNRM Cut-off power during lunch time in the MVML 1.52 7.79 0.42 shop floor area to optimise power use of idle and high power-consuming MWC 0.03 0.06 0.11 equipment MFCSL 0.00 0.00 0.00 MHEPL 2.06 4.26 0.00 MHRIL 4.70 2.68 5.16 MIL 0.00 8.55 0.00 MLDL 0.22 9.08 1.04 MRV 9.30 1.86 7.80 MSSSPL 4.92 4.95 0.70 TechM 0.00 0.00 0.00 DNRM: Do not require monitoring as per the pollution control board 189 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Absolute Energy Consumption Total Energy Consumption Our conservation efforts transformed into outcomes and we witnessed a drop by Source in direct energy consumption. Absolute GJ Absolute Absolute 2,341,308 2,261,432 2,225,935 Indirect Indirect Indirect Total 1,224,899 1,386,239 1,406,825 2,261,432 GJ Direct Direct Direct 1,001,036 955,069 854,607 FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 GJ Electricity from Grid 1,402,932 Charcoal + Gel Fuel 3 Electricity from renewable energy source 14,241 FO 464,441 LPG 21,013 Natural Gas + CNG 170,200 LDO 11,946 Diesel/HSD 173,666 Petrol 2,990 Total Energy Consumption (Sectorwise) GJ Energy FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited 1,123,604 1,188,074 1,005,094 Mahindra Intertrade Limited 12,876 17,716 14,578 Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited 47,299 32,258 36,560 Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited 322,217 270,696 383,336 Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Limited 4,016 4,511 4,167 EPC Industries Limited 15,801 12,772 17,085 Mahindra Susten Private Limited 2,284 3,915 10,021 Mahindra World City 40,394 44,409 45,631 Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited 34,879 34,069 28,363 Mahindra Logistics Limited 3,332 2,691 4,158 Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Limited 64,181 107,193 111,715 Financial Services Sector 9,090 15,357 9,947 Tech Mahindra Limited 543,292 603,384 566,883 Mahindra Heavy Engines Pvt. Ltd. NIS NIS 21,635 Mahindra First Choice Services Limited 2,668 4,262 2,260 190 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Specific Energy Consumption GJ / unit of measure % Reduction in FY 2015-16 over Energy FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 previous year Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited 8.509 7.438 6.919 7 Mahindra Intertrade Limited 0.053 0.074 0.085 -15 Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited 0.222 0.186 0.218 -17 Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited 2.799 2.905 2.759 5 Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Limited 9.915 7.764 4.510 42 EPC Industries Limited 2.770 2.971 2.614 12 Mahindra Susten Private Limited 0.022 0.030 0.055 -83 Mahindra World City 14.641 16.096 16.367 -2 Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited 0.021 0.020 0.015 25 Mahindra Logistics Limited 2.418 1.540 1.933 -26 Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Limited 0.240 0.260 0.278 -7 Financial Services Sector 6.970 10.9 6.28 42 Tech Mahindra Limited 9.778 10.056 8.809 12 Mahindra First Choice Services Limited 0.063 0.091 0.068 25 Mahindra Heavy Engines Pvt. Ltd. NIS NIS 0.836 NA Notes: Susten recorded an increase in consumption due to new project sites. | MLL recorded an increase due to reporting of better quality data. All the above stated reasons are also applicable for the variation in other specific data of the respective businesses. NIS Not in Scope | NA Not Applicable GHG Emissions Greenhouse gases pose dire consequences for all of us and all our companies are actively contributing to reduce emissions. During the reporting period, multiple measures were undertaken to mitigate emissions and various businesses achieved reduction in emissions. tCO2 Reduction Sector in Emissions MWC, Chennai reduced vehicular emissions by Mahindra Intertrade Limited 301 restricting usage of individual transport Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited 2 and use of biogas operated buses Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited 89 Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Limited 101 Mahindra World City 152 Mahindra Susten Private Limited 7 Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited 10,960 Total 11,612 Total Absolute GHG Emissions tCO2 Tech Mahindra ranked #1 in CDP's Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) 2015 with a 312,062 298,323 score of 100/100. The company was one 279,130 of the only five Indian companies to be featured in this index in 2014 107,477 73,554 70,611 77,667 83,753 61,244 Scope 1 Scope 2 Mahindra Finance Scope 3 was also featured in CDLI 2015 FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 191 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates GHG Emissions (segmented by source) Scope 1 Direct Emissions tCO2 Source FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Diesel / HSD 17,098 17,572 13,017 LDO 1,018 1,062 885 Petrol 150 142 207 FO 46,539 44,740 35,948 LPG+ (Bharat Metal Cutting Gas) 2,904 1,389 1,324 Natural Gas + CNG 5,709 6,048 9,548 Propane 0 0 0 Others (Charcoal + Gel fuel ) 144 168 314 Total 73,562 71,121 61,243 Scope 2 Indirect Emissions tCO2 Source FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Electricity Purchased 294,271.5 302,128.4 312,062 Scope 3 Other Direct Emissions tCO2 Source FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Inbound Logistics, Outbound Logistics, daily commutation, air travel, paper consumption 107,477 77,667 83,753 GHG Emissions Sector-Wise Composition tCO2 FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Sector Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 MSSSPL 47,729 115,316 1,220 45,502 129,716 1,335 37,058 112,222 989 MIL 164 2,396 22,079 467 2,437 13,092 235 2,570 13,087 MTWL 1,757 5,112 4,513 1,127 2,592 3,194 1,166 2,518 3073 MVML 7,845 41,531 14,348 6,220 34,756 15,908 9,420 49,674 16532 MReva 43 754 4,840 45 826 3,010 65 731 0 EPC 4 3,588 6 4 2,896 756 5 3876 0 Susten DNA 520 81 DNA 892 99 316 1,312 359 MWC 658 7,236 167 497 8,588 170 291 9,498 135 MLDL 2,172 1,280 2,274 2,085 1,346 1,246 1,462 1,961 1194 MLL 42 635 198 48 465 285 70 732 93 MHRIL 1,941 8,943 703 3,227 14,536 580 4,103 13212 559 FSS 87 1,810 735 479 2,025 668 127 1,874 419 TechM 11,068 89,531 32,118 10,839 104,103 37,185 6,257 108,052 47,227 MHEPL NIS NIS NIS NIS NIS NIS 485 3,427 DNA MFCSL 45 477 79 70 756 140 37 403 17 NIS Not In Scope | DNA Data Not Available | NA Not Applicable 192 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Total Specific Emissions tCO2 / unit of measure % Reduction in 2015-16 FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 over previous year Sector Scope 1+2 Scope 1+2 Scope 1+2 Scope 1+2 Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited 1.235 1.097 1.03 6 Mahindra Intertrade Limited 0.011 0.012 0.016 -36 Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited 0.032 0.021 0.022 -5 Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited 0.429 0.440 0.425 3 Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Limited 1.968 1.499 0.861 43 EPC Industries Limited 0.63 0.675 0.594 12 Mahindra Susten Private Limited 0.0051 0.007 0.009 -29 Mahindra World City 2.861 3.293 3.511 -7 Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited 0.002 0.002 0.002 0 Mahindra Logistics Limited 0.491 0.294 0.373 -27 Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Limited 0.041 0.043 0.043 0 Financial Services Sector 1.454 2.159 1.263 41 Tech Mahindra Limited 1.811 1.916 1.776 7 Mahindra Heavy Engines Pvt. Ltd. NIS NIS 0.151 NA Mahindra First Choice Services Limited 0.0124 0.018 0.013 27 NIS Not In Scope | NA Not Applicable Biodiversity Conserving the variety of life on earth is becoming a serious issue due to factors such as habitat loss, degradation, and various kinds of pollution. We are preserving the biodiversity and also restoring it through various endeavours: Mahindra Susten MLDL • Planted 500 saplings at Bhandup pumping • Plantation of tree species native to the Boisar Area in Happinest station with an objective of putting a tap • Imparted knowledge on environmental conservation to children of 13 on the depletion of mangroves in Mumbai schools in Mumbai under the 'green army' campaign. The core idea • Used alternative material to river sand in behind the Green Army campaign is to create a pool of One Million cable trenches of the solar panel Caring Citizens with sustainability embedded right from their installations to reduce the natural sand childhood. Since its launch in FY 2014-15, over 10,600 children and 5,300 consumption to zero people have been impacted by the programme. • Optimised land grading in solar panel installation to avoid disturbance to natural ground terrain • Developed 13,000 sq. ft. of land for backyard farming and local crop cultivation in two towns Aruppukotai, Tamil Nadu and Mulugu, Telangana 193 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates MHRIL Tech Mahindra Initiated a project in Kerala to conserve House Celebrated World Environment Day at a school Sparrows in 9 villages. So far, 1,950 pots have near Hinjewadi, Pune with the motto of go been placed in schools, shops, and homes to green, grow green. Saplings were planted across encourage the sparrows to nest and thrive the school as part of this event WATER Reducing industrial water consumption is a means of addressing the global water crisis. We recycle and reuse water for various purposes. Water Consumption by Sector m3 Sector FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited 740,402 773,098 697,215 Mahindra Intertrade Limited 37,058 45,068 43,509 Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited 53,880 42,546 45,011 Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited 392,371 435,552 513,010 Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Limited 12,942 14,197 13,688 EPC Industries Limited 22,225 20,361 28,117 Mahindra Susten Private Limited 6,488 12,369 39,744 Mahindra World City 1,761,917 2,403,615 1,995,511 Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited 434,278 366,280 281,793 Mahindra Logistics Limited 13,896 21,698 26,715 Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Limited 285,612 464,250 455,879 Financial Services Sector 13,990 13,648 20,701 Tech Mahindra Limited 615,610 1,007,453 877,729 Mahindra First Choice Services Limited 2,879 17,224 11,367 Specific Water Consumption m3/unit % Reduction in 2015-16 over Sector / Business FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 previous year Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited 5.607 4.840 4.810 1 Mahindra Intertrade Limited 0.153 0.189 0.252 -33 Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited 0.253 0.246 0.268 -9 Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited 3.409 4.674 3.692 21 Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Limited 31.955 24.435 14.813 39 EPC Industries Limited 3.896 4.736 4.303 9 Mahindra Susten Private Limited 0.064 0.095 0.220 -132 Mahindra World City 638.607 871.191 715.750 18 Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited 0.267 0.219 0.146 33 Mahindra Logistics Limited 10.084 12.420 12.420 0 Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Limited 1.067 1.128 1.136 -1 Financial Services Sector 10.728 13.499 13.069 3 Tech Mahindra Limited 11.080 16.789 13.735 19 Mahindra First Choice Services Limited 0.069 0.369 0.340 8 Mahindra Heavy Engines Pvt. Ltd. NIS NIS 1.125 NA NIS Not In Scope | NA Not Applicable 194 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Volume of Water Recycled and Reused Volume of % of water water recycled recycled and and reused reused of total Sectors (m3) water consumption Mahindra Intertrade Limited 2,244 5 Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited 6,000 2 Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Limited 4,278 31 Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited 14,289 32 Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited 69,798 14 Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Limited 241,223 51 Mahindra World City 367,536 18 Tech Mahindra Limited 145,040 21 Water Withdrawal by Source Water Savings Initiative Index Total m3 % MLDL Bottled Water 10,233 0.21 Deployed a portable Sewage Treatment Plant at Aura, Gurgaon site Ground Water 1,370,359 27.73 to treat 50,000-55,000 litre water per Rainwater 114,155 2.31 day for construction use. Surface Water 823,982 16.68 Wastewater from another source 417,587 8.45 Water from Municipality 14,331,738 29.05 Water from Tanker 759,788 15.42 Grand Total 4,921,635 100 Waste Across the Group, waste management is approached in a holistic manner prevention minimisation reuse recycle responsible disposal Some of the initiatives are mentioned below: MTWL MHRIL • Reduced the use of polythene bags in Commissioned 'Bioneer' Organic parts packaging to save natural Waste Convertor in resource and make the process more Mahabaleshwar that turns organic sustainable. wastes such as kitchen waste, garden waste and food processing • Replacing paper board packaging with waste into a compost in just 24 recyclable packaging leading to hours. Bioneer is a revolutionary significant savings, up to 3,000+ trees in-vessel composter that has the (1.3 kg paper per vehicle) for a potential to change how the world production volume of 100 K. treats organic waste. 195 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Total Waste Generated Hazardous Waste FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Non-hazardous Waste FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Solid (Tonnes) 775 1,177 Solid (Tonnes) 114,306 48,398 Solid (Nos.) 65,862 83,591 Solid (Nos.) 30,097 42,606 Liquid (kl) 1,256 4,711 Liquid (kl) 135 20 Our subsidiaries and associates have reported an increase in the waste statistics owing to improvement in data collection process and tracking mechanism. Business Breakup Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited Hazardous Waste FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Hazardous Waste FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Solid (MT) 8 4 36 Solid (Nos) 12 435 177 Solid (Nos) 177 1,541 1,291 Solid (MT) DNA 2 0 Liquid (KL) 6 1 11 Liquid (KL) DNA 1 1 Non-hazardous Waste Non-hazardous Waste Solid (MT) 34,276 34,604 15,692 Solid (MT) 564 1,637 864 Solid (Nos.) 10,361 5,858 3,957 Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Limited Liquid (KL) DNA 135 20 Hazardous Waste FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited Solid (MT) 1 1 0 Solid (Nos) 873 0 2,808 Hazardous Waste FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Liquid (KL) 1 42 651 Solid (MT) 157 122 150 Solid (Nos.) 0 1,118 3,277 Non-hazardous Waste Liquid (KL) 8 1,005 4 Solid (MT) 551 54,334 34,038 Solid (Nos) 1,378 702 1,083 Non-hazardous Waste Solid (MT) 1,861 1,437 1,426 Mahindra First Choice Services Limited Solid (Nos) 47,701 22,973 36,935 Liquid (KL) DNA DNA 4 Hazardous Waste FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Solid (Nos.) 17,377 25,324 12,455 Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited Liquid (KL) 28 55 26 Hazardous Waste FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Mahindra Intertrade Limited Solid (MT) 690 593 817 Solid (Nos) 43,628 36,037 59,911 Hazardous Waste FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Liquid (KL) 155 138 222 Solid (MT) 1 1 3 Solid (Nos) 0 23 48 Non-hazardous Waste Liquid (KL) 61 10 8 Solid (MT) 11,570 9,777 15,204 Solid (Nos) 3,452 564 631 Non-hazardous Waste Solid (MT) 8,429 9,045 10,243 196 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Mahindra World City EPC Industries Limited Non-hazardous Waste FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Non-hazardous Waste FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Solid (Tonne) 1,954 2,860 3,049 Solid (MT) DNA 56 48 Tech Mahindra Limited Mahindra Heavy Engines Pvt. Ltd. Hazardous Waste FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Hazardous Waste FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 Solid (MT) 14 51 166 Solid (Tonne) NIS NIS 1 Solid (Nos) 243 1,008 6,430 Solid (Nos) NIS NIS 0 Liquid (KL) 9 5 8 Liquid (KL) NIS NIS 3,780 Non-hazardous Waste Non-hazardous Waste Solid (MT) 385 532 545 Solid (Tonne) NIS NIS 560 Green Supply Chain Greening the supply chain is all about integrating environmental thinking in the supply chain. It contributes to sustainability performance of the Company. MLDL Organised annual suppliers and contractors meet to inform them on various sustainability aspects introduced in 2015. 200+ companies participated in the event. 197 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates OCIAL PERFORMANCE All our Companies own the same degree of responsibility towards fostering social inclusiveness, as they have towards business growth and good governance. They contribute in key areas of equitable development health & safety education skill building Out of these, at least 50% were girls/young women and 10% were people with disabilities. Through a well-planned corporate volunteering programme, the foundation galvanised 10,000+ associates, who contributed over The objective is to strengthen the base of the 50,000+ hours. pyramid, enable the marginalised with tools to rise and change their world for the better. All Mahindra Group Companies spearhead their Employability Programme social interventions through Mahindra's SMART (Skills for Market Training), the Foundation's flagship programme employee volunteering platform, Esops stems from a vision of an educated, enlightened and employed India. (Employee Social Options). Tech Mahindra also A range of specialised courses are offered: carries out its CSR activities through its social arm Tech Mahindra Foundation. Customer Relationships and Sales | Hospitality | IT-Enabled Services | BPO | Lab Assistant | Multimedia | Nurse Aides | Office Administration | Pharmacy Assistant | Quick Service Restaurants | Tally CSR Investments Subsidiaries INR 992 million FOUNDATION The Programme started with three centres in 2012, The Foundation essentially works with children and is currently running 65 centres at ten locations and youth from less-privileged urban across India. communities of India in three core areas school education, employability and technical education. All Round Improvement in School Education (ARISE) In the current year, TMF reached Under this long-term school improvement programme, the Foundation out to 80,000+ primary and adopted 55 schools across India during the reporting year and is working with 400,000+ secondary beneficiaries. 18 partners to transform these schools into model schools of excellence. 198 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Shikshaantar Tech Mahindra has also undertaken a Research Project in Vocational Education and Training (RiVET) along with the National Skill Development Authority Aimed at making a difference to education by (NSDA), to understand the overall scope of skill development in India. empowering the educators, this year the programme provided capacity enhancement to 1,500 400 Esops Initiatives teachers school heads 70 120 Across the year, employees of all Mahindra Companies volunteered their time education master trainers functionaries trained and talent to roll out programmes to address the pressing needs of the communities. While 250 more teachers were trained in English language, about 100 Balwadi teachers A total 137,754 volunteering man-hours were and 25 primary/pre-primary teachers were contributed by 19,986 volunteers towards various trained in pedagogical aspects. initiatives. Shikshaantar was awarded the Silver Award for Best CSR Practices in Education, by CSR Times. Shiksha Samwardhan An education enrichment programme aimed to retain school dropouts, Shiksha Samvardhan consists of thematic interventions around learning enhancement, which makes learning interesting, child-centred and activity-based, reduces the cumulative burden of noncomprehension and promotes gradeappropriate competencies for children who remain or have fallen out of the safety net of the education system. The Foundation runs 12 projects under Shiksha Samwardhan. Highlighted below are a select few: Boosting the Health Status of the Community | MVML • Organised a Health Check-up & Road Safety Awareness Camp for the truck drivers at Pune. A total of 163 drivers attended this camp, out of which 92 identified individuals were provided spectacles • Held six Antenatal Care (ANC) Camps in six villages benefitting a total of 142 women Sharing the Significance of Safety | MWC, Jaipur Technical Education Programme Organised a road safety week which not just witnessed participation from The SMART-T offers training in technical trades Esops volunteers, but also clients of MWC Jaipur, community members and a like automobile technician, civil works, local NGO. Tools deployed included road safety awareness rally, road safety computer numerically controlled (CNC) machine presentations & videos, oath taking and distribution of safety stickers. A technician, AC and refrigeration, electrician, total of 500 people, including students, clients, drivers and general public fitter, maintenance technician and welding. directly benefitted from this road safety drive. Shramdaan to Ease the Loss | MLL • Esopians did their bit by participating in uploading relief material at Nepal Embassy in Delhi to support the victims of the Nepal earthquake tragedy • A tree plantation drive was held at Zaheerabad Plant, wherein 30 Esopians rolled up their sleeves to plant trees 199 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Driving Safety Awareness among Drivers Big Moments of Joy for the Little Kids | MIL MTWL Developed a playground replete with various playing equipment for small Organised a Driver's Training Camp at children on the vacant ground available with the Anganwadi in Nashik. Pithampur emphasising on safe driving techniques, fitness of drivers and routine medical check-up on yearly basis. The team Adding the Lifeline to Survival Blood, Health and Education | FSS covered around 152 drivers in 4 days and 40 • Organised blood donation drives at Bhubaneswar, Kolkata, Kharagpur, volunteers participated in the activity. Guwahati, Dibrugarh and Chennai, benefitting 151 people • Launched scholarship programmes with an aim to encourage education among rural students residing in regions neighbouring Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur and Satna areas • 25 volunteers organised a free health check-up camp for the underprivileged people of nearby villages at Manali. 210 people from the villages benefitted • A free dental check-up camp was organised at Pimpri, Pune in association with an NGO MobiDent. 5 Esops volunteers took part in the initiative which benefitted 70 people Recognising World AIDS Day Mahindra Susten Lifeline Express | Mahindra Finance Held an extensive awareness drive to In the reporting year, Lifeline Express chugged off to reach out to the people celebrate World AIDS day, with an objective to of 3 villages. Out of the three projects, the Bhadohi Project was sponsored by inculcate knowledge and awareness about HIV Mahindra Finance. 84 Esops volunteers worked relentlessly to make the and AIDS among the citizens of Telangana. services of this hospital-on-wheels available to maximum number of people. Posters, audio-visuals, quiz competitions and Free-of-cost treatment was provided to over 7,421 people. active discussions formed part of the communication aids. Developing a Talking Book | TechM Launched a digital audio library project at L. V. Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, for the visually impaired students. The scope of project included recording and editing text books and other general knowledge books in Daisy format, a digital talking book designed to be a complete audio substitute for print material and is specifically designed for use by people with 'print disabilities', including blindness, impaired vision and dyslexia. Project Jeevandaan | Group-wide Organised 'Blood Donation Drives' across Mahindra locations witnessing participation of a total of 14,861 Esops volunteers. 13,476 units of blood were collected in a single day. This Lifeline Express is a unique hospital-train that travels the length and breadth of the country, bringing medical aid and healthcare to the most inaccessible areas of India. As part of the outreach activity, the dentists visited schools in Bhadohi to impart knowledge on oral / dental health and distributed free dental kits to 113 children. 200 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Patients who Patients who Patients No. of patients received only received who were Disability who visited OPD consultation other services operated Cleft Lip 40 34 NA 6 Ear 1,428 995 320* 113 Eye 4,918 2,223 2,361** 334 Epilepsy 109 NA 109*** NA Dental 638 NA 209*** 429**** Diagnosis of Breast & Cervical Cancer 288 288 NA NA Total 7,421 3,540 2,999 882 * Patients who received Hearing Aids ** Patients who received Spectacles *** Patients who received counselling and medicines **** Patients who were treated with dental procedures like Scaling, Filling and Extraction Disaster Relief | MHRIL Gram Vikas | MHRIL When the floods affected the Coromandel Coast of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Under this project Esops team at Ashtamudi Pradesh and Puducherry, Esopians at Chennai immediately responded. The started 'Fish Farming through Cage Culture' for team first donated four cartons of clothes to children, women and men at the local women. The activity involves building the Central Library Rangoon Street where 300 slum dwellers were displaced. a cage out of the fishing net. These cages will Then the Esopians teamed up with Vruksham Foundation NGO and enable the SHG to grow fishes in them. Not organised Medical Camp benefitting 327 people who were also provided only will this help them with their day-to-day living basics like toiletries, buckets and bed. At Puducherry, Esops Team meals, but will also enhance their family provided food packets to almost 750 families of nearby villages. income. 201 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates NNEXURES Acronyms ABCI Association of Business Communicators of India CEO Chief Executive Officer ACE Awards for Customer Excellence CGC Corporate Governance Cell ACETECH Architecture, Construction, CFC Chlorofluorocarbon Engineering Technology CFL Compact Fluorescent Lamp AD Automotive Division CFO Chief Financial Officer AGC Avaya Global Connect CFT Cross Functional Team AIDS Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome CGSF Common Guaranteed Safety Programme AIMA-IOCL All India Management Association CLHA Children Living with HIV AIDS Indian Oil Corporation Limited CII Confederation of Indian Industry ABS Anti-lock Braking System CIO Chief Information Officer ANM Auxiliary Nurse Midwife CITU Centre of Indian Trade Unions AT&T American Telephone & Telegraph CMO Chief Marketing Officer ASSOCHAM Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India CMTT Club Mahindra Tusker Trail BCL Business Continuity Leader CMVR Central Motor Vehicle Rules BCMS Business Continuity Management Systems CMAI Communication Multimedia and Infrastructure BCP Business Continuity Plan CNG Compressed Natural Gas BIA Business Impact Analysis CO Carbon Monoxide BKS Bharatiya Kamgar Sena CRISIL Credit Rating & Information Services of India Ltd. BMW Bavarian Motor Works CRM Customer Relationship Management BPO Business Process Outsourcing CSR Corporate Social Responsibility BPI Business Psychologists International CTO Chief Technical Officer BR Business Responsibility CV Commercial Vehicles BS British Standards D&B Dun & Bradstreet BSE Bombay Stock Exchange DNA Data Not Available BSS Business Support Systems DSIR Department of Science and Industrial Research BS-III Bharat Stage three EBD Electronic Brakeforce Distribution BS-IV Bharat Stage four ECM Energy Conservation Measures BT British Telecommunications ECEM Enterprise Carbon and Energy Management C2 CRDe 2-cylinder Common Rail Diesel Engine EDGE Enterprise Driving Growth & Excellence CO2 Carbon dioxide EDC Engine Development Centre 3R Reduce/Recycle/Reuse EFI Employers Federation of India CH4 Methane ELV End of Life Vehicle CAE Computer Aided Engineering EDMC East Delhi Municipal Corporation CCI Clinton Climate Initiative EPA Environmental Protection Agency (USA) CDP Carbon Disclosure Project EPC Engineering, Procurement, and Construction CED Cathodic Electrodeposition ESCo Energy Services Company 202 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates ER Employee Relation HR Human Resources ERP Enterprise Resource Planning HRD Human Resource Development ESI Employment Status Indicator IBA International Bird Area ESP Electronic Stability Program ICAI Institute of Chartered Accountants of India ESIC Employee State Insurance Corporation ICRISAT International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics Esops Employee Social Option Scheme ICT Information, Communication, and Technology ETP Effluent Treatment Plant IDC International Data Corporation EU European Union IGBC Indian Green Building Council EURO IV European emission standards Four IHECT International Centre for Hydrogen EURO V European emission standards Five Energy Technologies EVP Executive Vice President IIT Indian Institute of Technology EVP Employee Value Proposition IIMM Indian Institute of Materials Management FAPCCI Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chambers ILO International Labour Organization of Commerce IMC Indian Merchant Chamber FD Farm Division IMDS International Material Data System FE-EVI Financial Express Emergent Ventures International IMS Integrated Management System FICCI Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce INR Indian Rupee and Industry IRADe Integrated Research & Action for Development FIDC Finance Industry Development Council ISO International Organization for Standardization FIFA Federal International Football Association IT Information Technology FMS Feedback Management System ITDP Integrated Talent Development Process FTM First Time Managers ITES Information Technology Enabled Service g/hph Grams per horse power hours JAU Junagadh Agricultural University GDP Gross Domestic Product JCMM Jagdish Chandra Mahindra Memorial GDR Global Depositary Receipts JNNSM Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission GHG Greenhouse Gas KCMET K.C. Mahindra Educational Trust GJ Giga Joules KPO Knowledge Process Outsourcing GEB Group Executive Board KL Kilo Litres GMC Group Management Cadre LBSIMT Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of GoB Government of Bihar Management and Technology GPS Global Positioning System LCV Light Commercial Vehicle GPMD Global Program for Management Development LEED Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design GRI Global Reporting Initiative LED Light Emitting Diode GRIHA Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment LDO Light Diesel Oil GSM Global System for Mobile Communications L&D Learning and Development H2O Water LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas HCFC Hydrochlorofluorocarbon LSPV Load Sensing Proportioning Valve HCNG Hydrogen Compressed Natural Gas LTL Learning to Lead HHD Hand Held Device MACE Mahindra Consulting Engineers HOC Heat of Compression MAITS Mahindra All India Talent Scholarships HP Horse Power MBCSPL Mahindra Business & Consulting Services Pvt. Ltd. HPCL Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited MCD Municipal Corporation of Delhi 203 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates MCL Mahindra Composites Ltd. MWCDL Mahindra World City Developers Limited MD Managing Director MWCJL Mahindra World City Jaipur Limited META Mahindra Excellence in Theatre Award NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standards MFCSL Mahindra First Choice Services Limited NAPCC National Action Plan on Climate Change MFCWL Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited NASSCOM National Association of Software & Services Companies MFL Mahindra Forgings Limited NATRIP National Automotive Testing & MFUSA Mahindra Foundation USA R&D Infrastructure Project MGD Million Gallons Per Day NBFC Non-Banking Financial Companies MGTL Mahindra Gujarat Tractor Limited NBC National Building Code MGTPL Mahindra Gears & Transmissions Private Limited NDTV New Delhi Television Limited MHIL Mahindra Hinoday Industries Limited NGO Non-Governmental Organisation MHRIL Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited NHRDN National Human Resource Development Network MIBL Mahindra Insurance Brokers Ltd. NIS Not in Scope MIDC Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation NITIE National Institute of Industrial Engineering MIL Mahindra Intertrade Limited NMACS Networking, Mobility Analytics, Cloud & Security MILES Mahindra Integrated Logistics Execution System NOx Oxides of Nitrogen MIQ Mahindra Institute of Quality NOA National Outsourcing Association MLDL Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited NRI Non-Residents of India MLL Mahindra Logistics Limited NSE National Stock Exchange MMDC Mahindra Management Development Centre NSDF National Sports Development Fund MMFSL Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited NVG-SEE National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, MN 25 Mahindra Navistar 25000 kg Environmental and Economic Responsibilities MNAL Mahindra Navistar Automotives Limited of Business MNC Multinational Company OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation & Development MNEPL Mahindra Navistar Engines Private Limited OBD On Board Diagnostic MOU Memorandum of Understanding OCB Overseas Corporate Bodies MPD Magnetic Products Division ODS Ozone Depleting Substance MPS Mahindra Pride School OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer MPTS Mahindra People Transport Solutions OTM Oracle Transport Management MPUAT Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture & Technology OSS Operations Support Systems MQS Mahindra Quality System PAT Profit After Tax MReva Mahindra Reva Electric Vehicles Pvt. Ltd. PAU Punjab Agricultural University MRHFL Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Ltd. Pb Lead MRV Mahindra Research Valley PFOS Perflourooctane Sulfonates MSat Mahindra Satyam PLHA People Living with HIV/AIDS MSB Mahindra Spares Business POP Plaster of Paris MSOLAR Mahindra Solar One Pvt. Ltd. PRCI Public Relations Council of India MSSSPL Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Pvt. Ltd. PWD Persons with Disability MTWL Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited QCD Quality Cost and Delivery MUSCO Mahindra Ugine Steel Company Limited QCFI Quality Circle Forum of India MVML Mahindra Vehicle Manufacturers Limited RA Risk Assessment MWC Mahindra World City RCI Resort Condominium International 204 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates RBI Reserve Bank of India SYSTECH Systems & Technologies Sector RIICO Rajasthan State Industrial Development TCF Trim Chassis Final & Investment Corporation Limited TechM Tech Mahindra RMC Ready Mix Concrete TMF Tech Mahindra Foundation ROI Return On Investment TIDCO Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation ROHS Restriction on Hazardous substances TNAU Tamil Nadu Agricultural University RRR Rate and Reusability Rate TPM Total Productive Maintenance RSPM Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter TTP Tertiary Treatment Plant R&D Research & Development UAE United Arab Emirates SAP System Application Products and Data Base UK United Kingdom SAM Software Analysis and Management UNEP United Nations Environment Programme SCM Supply Chain Management UNGC United Nations Global Compact SEZ Special Economic Zone UNIDO United Nations Industrial SEBI Securities and Exchange Board of India Development Organization SIAM Society of Indian Automobiles Manufacturers US United States SIBM Symbiosis Institute of Business Management USA United States of America SLP Senior Leaders Program USD United States Dollars SLT Senior Leadership Team UV Utility Vehicle SOx Oxides of Sulphur UWC United World College SO2 Sulphur Dioxide VAVE Value Analysis and Value Engineering SPM Suspended Particulate Matter VC Vice-Chairman SRI Solar Reflectance Index VECV Volvo-Eicher Commercial Vehicles STAT Statistic VFD Variable Frequency Drives STAMP Structural Testing Analysis & Measurement VOC Volatile Organic Compound of Projects WBCSD World Business Council for STP Sewage Treatment Plant Sustainable Development SUV Sports Utility Vehicle WOW Wet On Wet SYMC Ssangyong Motor Company Limited WRI World Resources Institute 205 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Glossary Biodiesel Biodiesel refers to a non-petroleum based diesel management spans all movement and storage of raw fuel consisting of short chain alkyl esters, made by materials, work-in-process inventory, and finished goods from transesterification of vegetable oil. point of origin to point of consumption. Biofuels Solid, liquid or gas fuel derived from recently dead EURO IV or EURO V Standards reduction of pollutant emissions biological material. from light vehicles. The European Union is introducing stricter limits on pollutant emissions from light road vehicles, Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CDE) and Equivalent Carbon particularly for emissions of nitrogen particulates and oxides. Dioxide (CO2e) are two related but distinct measures for The Regulation also includes measures concerning access to describing how much global warming a given type and information on vehicles and their components and the amount of greenhouse gas may cause, using the functionally possibility of introducing tax incentives. equivalent amount or concentration of carbon dioxide (CO2) as the reference Equivalent CO2 (CO2e) is the concentration of G4 Guidelines are an update and completion of the third CO2 that would cause the same level of radiative forcing as a generation of GRI's process guidance on how to define the given type and concentration of greenhouse gas. content of a sustainability report. C2 CRDe Technology Two cylinder, common rail diesel engine GRIHA Certification GRIHA rating system consists of 34 technology stands for Common Rail Direct Fuel Injection engine. criteria categorised under various sections such as site It is the latest state-of-the-art technology for diesel engines selection and site planning, conservation and efficient and suits passenger cars as well as commercial vehicles. utilisation of resources, building operation and maintenance, and innovation points. Eight of these 34 criteria are mandatory, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an organisation that four are partly mandatory, while the rest are optional. Each works with shareholders and corporations to disclose the criterion has a number of points assigned to it. It means that a greenhouse gas emissions of major corporations. M&M project intending to meet the criterion would qualify for the Limited is a signatory for CDP. points. Different levels of certification (one star to five stars) are awarded based on the number of points earned. The Chlorodifluoromethane (Difluoromonochloromethane) is a minimum points required for certification is 50. Hydrochlorofluorocarbon (HCFC) commonly used in air conditioning applications. The Green Home Rating system by IGBC Indian Green Building Council The green home rating system by Indian Green CRISIL Level 1 rating that indicates the company's capability Building Council (IGBC) is India's first, and is exclusively with regard to corporate governance and value creation for all designed for the residential sector. Different levels of stakeholders is the highest. certifications such as Certified, Silver, Gold and Platinum are awarded to a project in recognition of its green commitment. COPC-2000® CSP Global Standard Certification The COPC2000® CSP Standard is a Performance Management ISO 27001 Global Certification ISO/IEC 27001 is the only Framework designed to deliver results in Customer Service auditable international standard which defines the Provider (CSP) contact centre environments including Call requirements for an Information Security Management System Centres, E-Commerce Centres and Transaction Processing (ISMS). The standard is designed to ensure the selection of Operations. adequate and proportionate security controls. Dichlorodifluoromethane (R-12) usually sold under the brand ISO-50001 ISO, Standard 50001 specifies requirements for name Freon-12, is a chlorofluorocarbon halomethane, establishing, implementing, maintaining and improving an commonly known as CFC, used as a refrigerant and aerosol energy management system, whose purpose is to enable an spray propellant. (R-22) is a colourless gas better known as organisation to follow a systematic approach in achieving HCFC-22, R-22. Earlier it was commonly used as a propellant continual improvement of energy performance, including and in air conditioning application. These applications are energy efficiency, energy use and consumption. being phased out its manufacturing was banned in the US and many countries in 1994 due to concerns about damage to ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management Systems directive that the ozone layer. provides a number of requirements which an organisation needs to fulfil if it is to achieve customer satisfaction through consistent ECOTEL® certification ECOTEL® is a prestigious products and services which meet customer expectations. environmental certification designed by HVS' Sustainability Services specifically for the hospitality sector. This certification ISO 14001:2004 international specification for an recognises outstanding achievement along the triple Environmental Management System (EMS). It specifies bottomline: environmental, social and fiscal parameters. requirements for establishing an environmental policy, determining environmental aspects and impacts of End-to-End Supply Chain Solutions End-to-End Supply Chain products/activities/services, planning environmental objectives Solutions is the management of a network of interconnected and measurable targets, implementation and operation of businesses involved in the ultimate provision of product and programmes to meet objectives and targets, checking and service packages required by end customers. Supply chain corrective action and management review. 206 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates ISO/TS 16949 quality management system requirements for Scope I Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions occur from the design and development, production and, when relevant, sources that are owned or controlled by a company, such as installation and service of automotive-related products. combustion facilities (e.g.: boilers, furnaces, burners, turbines, heaters, incinerators, engines, flares, etc.), combustion of fuels ISO/TS 16949:2002 quality management systems – Particular in transportation (e.g.: cars, buses, planes, ships, barges, requirements for the application of ISO 9001:2000 for trains, etc.) and physical or chemical processes (e.g.: in cement automotive production and relevant service part organisations. manufacturing, catalytic cracking in petrochemical processing, aluminium smelting, etc.). The kilowatt-hour (symbolised kWh) is a unit of energy equivalent to one kilowatt of power expended for one hour of Scope II Scope 2 GHG emissions are from the generation by time. kWh is not a standard unit in any formal system, but it is another party of electricity that is purchased and consumed commonly used in electrical applications. by the company. This is described as purchased electricity for the purposes of the GHG Protocol. OHSAS 18001:2004 an Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series for health and safety management Scope III Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, including systems. It is intended to help organisations to control those associated with employee travel, supply chain, leased occupational health and safety risks. It was developed in assets, outsourced activities, use of products and waste response to widespread demand for a recognised standard disposal. against which to be certified and assessed. SEI-CMMI level 5 A Level 5 CMMI rating provides the highest OHSAS 18001:2007 Managing health and safety (OH&S) issues recognition to an organisation's software and systems in the workplace represents an enormous challenge due to engineering processes. varying human nature, skills set, process complexity & local culture and have implications for everyone at the workplace. Solar Reflectance Index Solar Reflectance is the fraction of Effectively managing these issues means taking account not the incident solar energy which is reflected by the surface in only of legal requirements, but also the well-being of your question. The best standard technique for its determination personnel in the organisation. uses spectrophotometric measurements, with an integrating sphere to determine the reflectance at each different ODS Ozone depleting substances (ODSs) are those substances wavelength. The average reflectance is then determined by an which deplete the ozone layer and are widely used in averaging process, using a standard solar spectrum. This refrigerators, air conditioners, fire extinguishers, in dry cleaning, method is documented by ASTM (American Society for Testing as solvents for cleaning, electronic equipment and as and Materials). agricultural fumigants. Special Economic Zone (SEZ) SEZ is a geographical region Mahindra Quality Way an assessment by external national that has economic laws that are more liberal than a country's and international experts of Mahindra's quality policy, systems, typical economic laws. procedures and performance against world-class standards to identify: strengths, opportunities for improvement, scoring USGBC LEED Certification LEED Professional Accreditation profile for prioritising improvements. distinguishes building professionals with the knowledge and skills to successfully steward the LEED certification process. NAAQS the clean air act which was last amended requires EPA to set National Ambient Air Quality Standards for United Nations Global Compact is a framework for pollutants considered harmful to public health and the businesses that are committed to aligning their operations environment. http://epa.gov/air/criteria.html and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and antiNASSCOM a not-for-profit was set up in 1988 to facilitate corruption. M&M Limited is a signatory to UNGC. business and trade in software and services and to encourage advancement of research in software technology. 207 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates GRI-G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures Indicator Description Page Number/Explanation External Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 01-04 Externally assured organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation's strategy for addressing sustainability ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation 09, 10 Externally assured G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 13-16 Externally assured G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters 05 Externally assured G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates 09-10 Externally assured G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 09-10 Externally assured G4-8 Markets served 13 Externally assured G4-9 Scale of the organisation 09-10 Externally assured G4-10 Details on workforce broken down by gender, employment 63-65 & 169-177 Externally assured contract, employment type etc. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective 61-62 & 169 Externally assured bargaining agreements G4-12 Description of the organisation's supply chain 93, 98 & 187 Externally assured G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding No significant changes Externally assured the organisation's size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 How the precautionary approach or principle is addressed Carbon Emission being a key Externally assured by the organisation material issue, we have addressed the precautionary approach in Environmental performance chapter & Product performance chapter. 95, 73 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social 87, 95, 125 & 185, 188, 198 Externally assured charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations and national/international 26 Externally assured advocacy organisations in which the organisation holds a position on the governance body and participates in projects or committees IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the organisation's consolidated financial 05 Externally assured statements with indication of coverage in the report G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the 05 & 31-34 Externally assured aspect boundaries G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining 33-34 Externally assured report content G4-20 Description of aspect boundary within the organisation 31-34 Externally assured for each material aspect G4-21 Description of aspect boundary outside the organisation 31-34 Externally assured for each material aspect 208 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Indicator Description Page Number/Explanation External Assurance G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statement of No such explanations Externally assured information provided in the earlier Reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods No significant changes Externally assured in the Scope and aspect boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 32, 36-40, 163-166 Externally assured G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 32, 36-40, 163-166 Externally assured whom to engage G4-26 Organisation's approach to stakeholder engagement 32, 36-40, 163-166 Externally assured G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 32, 36-40, 163-166 Externally assured stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting Period 05, 156 Externally assured G4-29 Date of most recent previous Report 28th July 2015 Externally assured Sustainability Report FY 14-15 G4-30 Reporting cycle 9th Reporting cycle for Externally assured Sustainability report G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or 05 Externally assured its contents G4-32 GRI Content Index 208-210 Externally assured G4-33 Organisation's policy and current practice with regard to All our sustainability reports Externally assured seeking external assurance for the report; relationship with get assured externally; KPMG the assurance providers; the highest governance body's is our assurance provider from involvement in seeking assurance for the organisation's year FY 11-12. Sustainability Report 07-08 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation; committees 29-30 Externally assured responsible for decision making on economic, environmental and social impacts ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organisation's values, principles, standards and norms of 17-26 Externally assured behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Specific Standard Disclosures Material Aspects CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Material Aspect: Procurement Practices G4 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 87 Externally assured G4-EC 9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant 93 & 187 Externally assured locations of operations CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Water G4-EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source 115-116 & 194-195 Externally assured G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 115-116 & 194-195 Externally assured G4-EN 10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 115-116 & 194-195 Externally assured 209 Sustainability Performance | Subsidiaries & Associates Indicator Description Page Number/Explanation External Assurance Material Aspect: Carbon Emission G4 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 95 Externally assured G4-EN 15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 100-102 & 191-193 Externally assured G4-EN 16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 100-102 & 191-193 Externally assured G4-EN 17 Other indirect GHGemissions (Scope 3) 100-102 & 191-193 Externally assured G4-EN 18 GHG emissions intensity 100-102 & 191-193 Externally assured Material Aspect: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 95 Externally assured G4-EN 22 Total waste discharged by quality & destination 118-120 & 195-197 Externally assured G4-EN 23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 118-120 & 195-197 Externally assured G4-EN 24 Total number & volume of significant spills 124 Externally assured G4-EN 25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated We do not transport, import, Externally assured waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the export hazardous waste under based convention2 the terms of the based Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported convention2 waste shipped. G4-EN 26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of 103-105 & 193-194 Externally assured water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organisation's discharges of water and runoff CATEGORY: SOCIAL | SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspect Occupational Health and Safety G4 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 43 & 167 Externally assured G4-LA 5 Total number and rates of new employee hires and 63-65 & 169-177 Externally assured employee turnover by age group, gender, and region G4-LA 6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 66-72 & 177-180 Externally assured lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA 7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases 66-72 & 177-180 Externally assured related to their occupation G4-LA 8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 61-62 & 169 Externally assured with trade unions Material Aspect Local Communities G4 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 125, 198 Externally assured G4SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local 130-154 Externally assured community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes G4SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential impacts 130-154 Externally assured on local communities Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) 73 & 181 Externally assured G4PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories 79-81 Externally assured for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 85 Externally assured regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health & safety impacts of products & services during their lifecycle, by type of outcome 210 Please e-mail your GRI has conﬁrmed that the report is prepared in suggestions/views/opinions to accordance with GRI G4 Guidelines, Core Option. Gateway Building, It has also been externally assured by KPMG. Apollo Bunder, sustainability@mahindra.com Mumbai 400 001, India. All ﬁgures in the report are current as of st TEN SECTORS. MANY COMPANIES. ONE PURPOSE. 31 March, 2016.
