BTG Pactual Environmental, Social and Governance Report Contents MESSAGE FROM THE ESG EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2 1 INTRODUCTION 3 1.1 About BTG Pactual 4 1.2 Environmental, Social and Governance Approach 4 2. ESG GLOBAL POLICY 5 2.1 ESG Principles 6 3. ESG GOVERNANCE 7 3.1 Board of Directors and ESG Committee 8 3.2 ESG Department – The Four Main Pillars 9 4. ACHIEVEMENTS 10 4.1 Regulatory Compliance 11 4.2 Eco-Efficiency Programs 13 4.3 Business Opportunities 15 4.4 Commitments and Transparency 16 MOVING FORWARD 20 CONTACT US 22 Page 1 Message from the ESG Executive Officer A few years ago the idea of an ESG department in an investment bank was utopian for various reasons. Indeed, there was an implied understanding that social and environmental responsibility should be concentrated in companies whose activities were directly linked to potential environmental damages such as mining companies. Except for a few project finance and private equity deals, the reality of the financial markets was far from daily social and environmental challenges. In this sense, it was not clear in bankers’ minds that credit lines, corporate loans and other financing activities could have clear direct and indirect impacts on social and environmental issues. Fortunately, this scenario has changed dramatically over recent years and we have seen the majority of financial institutions closing this gap. At BTG Pactual, things were no different. The bank’s partners have always believed in the importance of aligning its banking activities with the idea of taking care of (and being as close as possible to) the communities affected by our activities. It is worth mentioning that even before the creation of the ESG department, a large number of partners had already taken ESG issues into consideration and adopted several initiatives including active membership of NGOs such as Conservation International. ESG issues are presently part of BTG’s methodology for forecasting the future based on the idea that a more sustainable world will benefit our community, our employees and our business in the long term. Our clients, shareholders, partners and employees are constantly demanding more initiatives that ensure the bank has taken a stand and is engaged with ESG matters. BTG Pactual intends to respond to this with a proactive approach, leading our industry, especially in Latin America, towards a clear commitment to ESG responsibility. While our main mission is to create value and serve our clients in an efficient, innovative and transparent manner, we can never forget that the gains obtained for our clients and for the bank should be measured not only in terms of financial returns but also in terms of their positive impact on social and environmental issues. In this sense, we are continuing to develop a mindset that takes into account all the aspects of a deal rather than only the financial ones. At the same time, while financing companies, we need to establish principles that identify, for instance, companies that disrespect minimum labor laws and environmental issues. Moreover, since our main goal is to place clients at the center of everything we do, investing their capital and interacting in a fair, professional and competent manner, it is time to take our practice to the next level when it comes to taking care of social and environmental matters. When assessing risks and making decisions, we always take into account shortand long-term factors in order to preserve the capital invested and generate consistent returns across a range of strategies and investment products. Now we need to combine this strategy with ESG issues in our financial approach. In line with the above considerations, on the following pages we will explain how we have designed the ESG Department, describe its main functions and activities, as well as make other valuable considerations. We also hope that all those initiatives will represent part of an ongoing action plan that will grow, become more important and gain space in the years ahead not only at BTG Pactual’s level but also in the financial market in general. Iuri Rapoport BTG Pactual Senior Partner Page 2 Section 1 Introduction 1.1 About BTG Pactual BTG Pactual is an investment bank, asset manager and wealth manager with a global presence and a dominant franchise in Latin America. BTG Pactual was founded in 1983 as a brokerage house in Rio de Janeiro and, since its beginning, it has been based on a meritocratic partnership that embodied a hard-working, hands-on and entrepreneurial culture. Our partners are fully dedicated to BTG Pactual’s business and also work as executives in the Group. The partnership model is the key to our success because it allows us to (i) foster a culture of teamwork, talent development, entrepreneurship, meritocracy and long-term commitment; (ii) substantially enhance the integration of our complementary business units; (iii) maintain a strong commitment to our clients, and identify and capitalize on opportunities in the Brazilian and international financial markets; (iv) substantially enhance our ability to attract the best available talent; and (v) greatly improve our ability to consistently maintain a lean and cost-efficient organizational structure. In our merit-based partnership, in which we take recognition extremely seriously, we value both individual contributions from our employees (regardless of their role and seniority level in the company) and a teamwork approach. Currently, the BTG Pactual Group has offices on four continents (South America, North America, Asia and Europe), and provides a comprehensive range of financial services to Brazilian and global clients that include corporations, institutional investors, governments and high-net-worth individuals. In 2015, BTG Pactual published an Annual Report providing transparent and accurate information about our business and performance. The report describes BTG Pactual’s trajectory so far, the value of our brand and how the partnership model works in line with our culture and values. This report is complementary to the Annual Report since it is focused on the ESG strategy and our achievements to date. 1.2 Environmental, Social and Governance Approach BTG Pactual’s approach to sustainability is based on an understanding of our responsibility towards our partners, society and the environment as a complete financial service provider. In order to guarantee this approach, since 2014 we published on our institutional website our Environmental, Social and Governance Global Policy which is fully aligned with our Business Principles. Before published our ESG Global Policy, BTG Pactual hired a well-known Brazilian consulting firm to carry out a full due diligence review of all business units in order to identify what kind of practices we have already established and what measures we should adopt to enhance our ESG performance. The outcome of this due diligence was a detailed action plan that has been guiding the main initiatives we have undertaken in order to fully integrate ESG aspects into our business units. The main action was the creation of a new Environmental, Social and Governance Risk Management Department (ESG Department), responsible for identifying, measuring, mitigating and monitoring BTG Pactual’s ESG risk exposure. The area is also committed to knowledge sharing and engagement with stakeholders. The main fundamentals behind the creation of the ESG Department were: (i) BTG Pactual’s requirement to adopt sustainable social and environmental practices, especially because management recognizes the importance of disseminating ESG practices; (ii) the Brazilian Central Bank’s new regulation on ESG risk management; (iii) the need for an area to provide technical advice on ESG matters, centralizing relevant information and data required by stakeholders as evidence of ESG risk controls; and (iv) the need to appoint ESG spokespersons who are aware of ESG controls, initiatives and activities and can adequately disseminate information to our clients, shareholders, staff members and regulators. Page 4 Section 2 ESG Global Policy ESG Global Policy Our ESG Global Policy reflects our long-term ambition and unconditional commitment to responsible and sustainable development. We consistently focus on the long-term implications and results of our actions, prioritizing these long-term benefits over short-term gains, always looking into ESG risks and opportunities. We believe that sound business practices and corporate responsibility are long-term drivers that must be applied daily to create shareholder value through sustainable growth, attractive recurring revenue streams and business perpetuity. The ESG Global Policy establishes our bases, principles and guidelines. It is available for all stakeholders on our institutional website. 2.1 ESG Principles BTG Pactual’s ESG Global Policy was established based on eight principles in order to guarantee consistency in our ESG approach in all business units. The eight principles that guide our ESG approach are described below: 1. Evaluate ESG risks in accordance with the principles of relevance and proportionality, always considering the applicable legislation and ESG best practices; 2. Manage and minimize adverse environmental and social impacts resulting from our operations and activities; 3. Incorporate ESG values in the analysis of products and services, also looking to innovate and create sustainable business opportunities; 4. Foster, protect and respect human rights in respect to business activities and in all stakeholder relationships, including our Staff Members, partners, clients, shareholders, counterparties, authorities and the society; 5. Stimulate an open dialogue with all stakeholders regarding ESG matters; 6. Encourage a diverse, equal and transparent working environment; 7. Promote ESG awareness amongst staff members in order to ensure that associated risks are properly identified, evaluated and mitigated; and 8. Communicate all relevant information in a clear and transparent manner. Page 6 Section 3 ESG Governance ESG Governance BTG Pactual believes in the importance of disseminating sustainability and social and environmental risk management practices throughout the company. For this reason, it has established an ESG Governance structure in order to guarantee that ESG aspects are being incorporated into and considered in all business units and activities. The ESG Governance structure ensures that ESG aspects are incorporated into all levels of our structure and establishes the roles and responsibilities of each instance that deals with ESG issues. 3.1 Board of Directors and ESG Committee The Board of Directors is the highest instance which deals with ESG issues. The Board is responsible for approval process of ESG Global Policy and for the strategic approach to ESG in the business, showing how the Company should treat these aspects in order to achieve sustainable development. The second instance of ESG Governance is the Environmental, Social and Governance Risk Management Committee (ESG Committee), which is responsible for overseeing and ensuring compliance with the Global ESG Policy, as well as defining the strategy for implementing new practices in BTG Pactual’s businesses. The Committee is chaired by a senior partner responsible for ESG risk management before the Brazilian Central Bank and is formed by the head of Compliance and the head of ESG Risk Management. The ESG Committee is part of BTG Pactual’s Risk Management and Control Framework and is at the same level as other risk committees, such as the Credit Risk Committee, the New Business Committee and the AML Compliance Committee. All Committees manage BTG Pactual’s risk profile and are responsible for the implementation of the Risk Management and Control Framework. The next instance in the ESG governance structure is the ESG Department. The department is formed by a specialized team and is responsible for supporting the development of specific policies, procedures and tools to fully implement the ESG strategy. The team is also responsible for the technical support, coordination, and independent oversight of the implementation of the ESG policy in all global business units. Finally, the last instance of the ESG governance structure is formed by all business units responsible for identifying ESG risks in their daily routines. The managers of all business units should ask the ESG Department for technical support so as to guarantee that all necessary measures are being taken in order to control and mitigate the ESG risk exposure. Page 8 3.2 ESG Department – The Four Main Pillars The ESG Department was created in response to BTG Pactual’s desire to improve its approach to ESG practices and to guarantee that the ESG Global Policy is being well implemented in all business units. The team is composed of environmental experts and is responsible for: (i) identifying, measuring, monitoring and mitigating BTG Pactual’s exposure to ESG risks; (ii) centralizing information and data in order to ensure that we adopt the best market practices and comply with the applicable legal and regulatory requirements; (iii) supporting internal areas formalize the necessary processes, procedures and controls; (iv) providing input for the institution’s spokespersons in order to ensure that they are all fully aware of what is being done in this area; and (v) reporting to investors and other stakeholders on ESG progress in a clear and transparent manner. In order to guide the ESG Department’s activities, four main performance pillars were established, each with a specific role, as described below: First Pillar: Second Pillar: Regulatory compliance Business opportunities This pillar was established in order to identify and This pillar was established to identify business communicate regulations and laws concerning opportunities that reflect our long-term vision ESG and responsible investment; structure and and unconditional commitment to responsible implement the necessary measures to comply investment as well as foster sustainable business with all laws and regulations; and interface with practices and enhance stakeholder value. and influence business verticals to assimilate ESG and RI policies. Third Pillar: Fourth Pillar: Eco-efficiency Programs Commitments and transparency This pillar was established to develop and This pillar was established to oversee the main support programs focused on reducing ESG initiatives and evaluate BTG Pactual’s the consumption of materials, as well as to adherence to them, as well as to measure disseminate these programs throughout all and disclose ESG progress, standardize BTG Pactual offices, educating all staff members communications and, finally, implement and in order to achieve better results. continuously enhance an ESG website. Page 9 Section 4 Achievements1 1 The text below refers to UN Global Compact principles as a means of showing how we have been implementing them in our activities. For further information on the content of each principle, please refer to page 17 – item 4.4. (Commitments and Transparency). Achievements 4.1 Regulatory Compliance In November 2014, the Brazilian Central Bank published a Resolution concerning the management of social and environmental risks (BACEN Resolution 4327/2014) applicable to all financial institutions. In order to fully guarantee BTG Pactual’s adherence to this Resolution, many measures have been implemented and the main achievements are listed below: • Nominating a statutory director responsible for ESG before the Brazilian Central Bank – a senior partner was nominated to formally assume this role. The director is a senior partner and member of the Management Committee of BTG Pactual. • Approval of the ESG Global Policy by the Board of Directors, as established by the ESG governance structure. • Formal introduction of a mandatory ESG analysis procedure for every new loan. The analysis encompasses several ESG criteria, for example: (i) environmental authorizations and permits; (ii) compliance with health and safety working conditions; (iii) entities mentioned in the slavery list published by the Brazilian Ministry of Labor and Employment, as well as negative media coverage related to this matter and irregular child labor; (iv) freedom of association; (v) certifications for the use of chemicals and disposal of waste (when applicable); (vi) impact on the land of indigenous peoples or quilombola communities (in Brazil); (vii) community engagement; protected areas and authorizations issued by the National Institute of Historical and Artistic Heritage; • Creation of an online platform to register all ESG assessments. The system allows us to periodically monitor loans and review them based on the ESG risk category, the license expiration date or any date that we fix as an important event. Since the launch of the platform, all loans granted have been registered. • Development of a Contaminated Land Questionnaire applicable to all properties constituted as a loan guarantee. The questionnaire helps us to identify any suspected contaminated site that could decrease the property value. When additional analysis is necessary, studies are carried out in order to ensure that there is no evidence of environmental liabilities. Page 11 • Mapping all ESG sources for the onboarding team and supporting the team when negative media coverage appears in the background check. The ESG Department is available to provide assistance in relevant legal social and environmental matters that can arise in all business conducted by our team, including respect for the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Also, the ESG department provides training programs for BTG Pactual teams in order to raise awareness of ESG issues. BTG Pactual is also committed to assisting in the fight against money laundering, including corruption andterrorist financing. In order to manage the regulatory and reputational risks associated with these activities, we adopt a risk-based approach to provide a framework for preventing, detecting and reporting suspicious transactions and activities. In order to accomplish this mission, BTGP Pactual established the following objectives, which are currently being conducted by the Anti-Money Laundering Department (AML): • To provide reasonable assurance that BTG Pactual does not: (i) accept assets which it knows or should be reasonably expected to know are the proceeds of crime; nor (ii) process funds to be used to finance illegal activities; • To provide reasonable assurance of compliance with applicable AML laws and regulations, including anti-bribery laws and regulations, sanctions and embargoes; • To co-operate with authorities in criminal investigations in accordance with the law; and • To protect our reputation by mitigating AML risks, recognizing that whilst reputational risk is unwanted it can never be fully eliminated or excluded. These objectives are incorporated by the AML procedures mentioned above: • To establish Client Acceptance Standards, including avoidance of Prohibited Business Relationships. • To establish appropriate monitoring, screening and reporting of unusual or suspicious activities. • To provide adequate training and education. Page 12 4.2 Eco-efficiency Programs Within the scope of this pillar, the ESG Department has established some programs, which are listed below with their respective results: Selective Waste Collection Program in the São Paulo Office: the ESG Department in partnership with the condominium team has begun to track the amount of waste generated and sent for recycling or final disposal in accordance with the applicable legislation. At BTG Pactual, we replaced all the office’s trash cans, so staff members can now separate paper, plastic and organic waste at their desks. Any other kind of waste should be disposed of in the correct can in the pantries. The table below shows the condominium’s total waste disposal, including that of BTG Pactual and another five companies. Waste Disposal April Recyclable material Amount Generated Nespresso capsules 20.000 units Cardboard 2,092 Kg Mixed paper 2,374.5 Kg Mixed plastic 3,539.50 kg PET bottles 226kg Metal (aluminum cans) 48.50 kg Scrap 278 units Bags (6m3) of Styrofoam 4 units Toilet paper; paper towel; white paper 3,670 kg We have also developed and distributed a folder with guidelines on the correct way to dispose of all the garbage produced. All staff members were trained about this Program and are periodically informed of the results we have achieved. Electronic Waste Disposal Program: in partnership with a well-known company, BTG Pactual correctly disposes of 3.43 tons of electronic waste. All electronic equipment is disassembled and separated. All plastic material is sent to a recycling company and the electronic plates are sent to a specific company that recovers the chemical elements. In order to guarantee compliance with this process, we receive a certificate describing the amount and type of material treated. Energy Efficiency Program: BTG Pactual created this program in order to study and pursue new technologies that will allow us to reduce energy consumption. BTG Pactual hired a consulting firm and conducted a study to check the feasibility of replacing all the light bulbs in its São Paulo office. We are now conducting the same study for the Rio de Janeiro office. Page 13 Supply Chain Assessment: the ESG Department has developed a specific procedure to analyze all suppliers hired by BTG Pactual. This analysis encompasses many ESG aspects, including (i) environmental permits; (ii) entities mentioned in the slavery list published by the Brazilian Ministry of Labor and Employment, as well as negative media coverage related to this matter, irregular child labor and environmental damages/penalties/crimes; (iii) and compliance with health and safety standards. In order to register these analyses, the ESG Department developed a system that allows us to monitor our suppliers. Since January 2016, all new suppliers have been analyzed by the ESG Department. All contracts with suppliers have ESG clauses that oblige suppliers to (i) comply with ESG and anti-corruption regulations; (ii) respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; (iii) make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses; (iv) uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Rainwater Harvesting System in the São Paulo Office: the condominium where BTG Pactual is based in São Paulo has Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Certification and many measures have been taken in order to guarantee better environmental practices. One of them is the rainwater harvesting system, which allows us to reduce water consumption by 30%. Reduction in Paper Consumption: in order to reduce paper consumption, BTG Pactual has established individual passwords for printers, so staff members can only print after typing the password. This prevents forgotten printouts on the printers. Page 14 Greenhouse Gases Inventory (GHG Inventory): BTG Pactual has hired a well-known consulting firm to help us collect data in order to produce our first GHG Inventory. BTG Pactual’s ESG Committee has decided to hire a third party to independently assure the data since our first inventory. The final report will be published on the ESG page on BTG Pactual’s institutional website. The table below shows our 2015 emissions. tCO2 equivalent Scope emissions Scope 1emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by 8.19 the organization Scope 2 emissions from the consumption of purchased electricity 2,559.24 Scope 3 emissions that are a consequence of the operations of an 6,531,28 organization, but are not directly owned or controlled by the organization 4.3 Business Opportunities Since the ESG Department was created, the team has been working to establish new procedures and tools that ensure the appropriate verification of ESG aspects in our business in order to reduce our ESG risk exposure. The new ESG process, structured to check ESG aspects in loans, allows BTG Pactual to access new deals, for example the sustainable funding of credit lines by multilateral agencies. BTG Pactual has also joined a group that is discussing the Green Bonds market in Brazil. The purpose of this group is to establish guidelines to foster the issue of green bonds in Brazil and to identify second opinion agents in this country, following the international experience. At the Commodities business unit, we have had some achievements in ESG aspects, including: The ESG Department helped the Energy Desk obtain a certification issued by an independent third party which guarantees that the energy sold originates from renewable sources. The Coffee team worked together with 4C, a leading multi-stakeholder sustainable coffee association, in order to improve the social, economic and environmental aspects of coffee production and processing. The main propose build a thriving sustainable sector and access new markets. The 4C Code of Conduct has 27 principles that are applied by the following indicators: (i) existence of grievance mechanisms to secure equal rights; (ii) workers and producers declare that they are free to form and join independent organizations for the purpose of protecting their interests; (iii) use of land maps measuring natural flora and fauna conservation or restoration initiatives, as well as the protection of sensitive areas. This code also establishes several unacceptable practices, such as: (i) forced and bonded labor; (ii) cutting of primary forest or destruction of natural resources that are designated as such either by national and/or international legislation; (iii) immoral transactions in business relations according to international covenants, national law and practices. All suppliers of the Commodities business unit are analyzed by the ESG Department. Page 15 In the current year, the ESG Department supported the Timber Investment Group in the development of a new Responsible Investment Policy, which formalizes the practices that are already in place. The Responsible Investment Policy provides the foundations of timberland investment and comprises the major principles that TIG looks for in its decision-making process. We strongly believe that formalizing our principles in a specific Policy and periodically reporting on our ESG performance can enhance our capacity to reach new clients, since this process increases stakeholder confidence. 4.4 Commitments and Transparency At BTG Pactual, our values are bonded by ethics – an approach summarized in our Code of Business Principles & Ethics (“Code of B&E”). We like to see this not as a rule, but as an opportunity to enjoy life and success, simply by doing the right thing. This is what we like to call “partnership”. This means that all employees are treated equally, independently of their race, color, gender, religion, political opinion, ethnic origin, social class, age, sexual orientation or trade union membership. Employees are truly recognized by their individual performance. Also, the Code of B&E provides guidelines on how to achieve our business goals while building and preserving BTG Pactual’s image and reputation. Following these principles and rules is essential to promoting the long-term success of our business globally. Together with our Corporate Governance Structure and our Policies and Standards, the Code of B&E will help us deliver sustainable value to our partners and Clients. The Code of B&E was designed to be used as a guide for our daily work. Please note that the Code of B&E cannot cover every legal or ethical situation which may arise at BTG Pactual. However, it does provide sound advice on a variety of issues while offering a practical insight into how to avoid work-related conflicts. In order to strengthen our ESG values we have decided to join some important market initiatives. Since the beginning of the ESG department, we have been studying which initiatives best represent our ESG approach and could enhance our values and performance. Page 16 With this purpose, in June 2015, BTG Pactual became a signatory of the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), an international network of institutional investors working together to develop a more sustainable global financial system by putting into practice six principles: 1. We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and decision-making processes. 2. We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and practices. 3. We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which we invest. 4. We will promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles within the investment industry. 5. We will work together to enhance our effectiveness in implementing the Principles. 6. We will each report on our activities and progress towards implementing the Principles. Page 17 Moving forward towards this purpose, in September 2015, BTG Pactual joined UN Global Compact, an important United Nations initiative focused on four main areas: human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. UN Global Compact supports companies to do business responsibly by aligning their strategies and operations to ten principles. 1. Business should support and respect 6. The elimination the protection of discrimination of internationally proclaimed in employment human rights and occupation 2. Make sure they 7. Businessesshould support are not complicit a precautionaryapproach to in human rights abuses environmental changes 3. Businesses should support 8. Undertake initiatives freedom of association and to promote greater the effective recognition environmental of the right to responsibility collective bargaining 4. The elimination 9. Encourage the development of all forms and diffusionof environmentally of forced and friendly technologies compulsory labor 5. The effective 10. Businesses should work against abolition corruption in all its forms, including of child labor extortion and bribery Page 18 Compliance with these principles is demonstrated in the text above through the figures of each principle. The ESG team has taken and will continue to take all the necessary measures to comply with the UN Global Compact. Finally, at the end of the year, BTG Pactual joined the Carbon Disclosure Program (CDP), an international initiative represented by institutional investors who jointly hold a substantial volume of assets and are engaged in transforming the way the world does business in order to prevent dangerous climate change and protect natural resources. Investors who decide to join the CDP are interested in the carbon emission and management practices adopted by the world’s biggest companies. Every year the CDP invites these companies to answer a questionnaire and disclose their practices concerning the actions they have been taking in order to fight against climate change. As a CDP signatory, BTG Pactual seeks companies’ disclosures on carbon management and the measures they have been taking to mitigate and adapt to climate change. BTG Pactual strongly believes that our public commitment to these initiatives gives us greater credibility and increases investors’ confidence in our decision-making process as we enhance our ESG practices and controls. Incorporating ESG aspects is fundamental to the long-term performance of our investment portfolio and confirms our long-term ambition and passion for creating value for our clients. Page 19 Moving Foward Moving Forward BTG Pactual ESG team has been working in an ESG agenda focused on enhancing our practice and strengthening our market presence. We are proud of our performance so far and we will continue to look for new ways to make our business more sustainable and environmentally efficient. Next year we expect to enhance our approach to ESG matters, establishing new practices and procedures in order to ensure that our sustainable development goals are being achieved and that our ESG risk exposure is being adequately treated. We recognize that, in our role as a financial institution, we can foster sustainable development and we continuously work to foster business opportunities in sustainable markets. BTG Pactual’s membership of relevant initiatives, such as the PRI, the UN Global Compact and the CDP, confirms our long-term ambition and passion for creating value for our clients, always in the pursuit of responsible and sustainable development. We remain committed to seeking the best market initiatives and keeping up-to-date with them, joining those that are aligned with our philosophy and with our desire to enhance our ESG approach. We are also committed to enhancing transparency by periodically sharing information about our ESG performance and achievements. Being transparent is part of our ongoing engagement with stakeholders and we expect to continuous reporting on our performance related to eco-efficiency programs and to include ESG reports and information on the ESG page on our institutional website, which will be launched this year. Page 21 Contact Us Contact Us Please send any questions and requests relating to this document to OL-ESG-RISK@btgpactual.com. We will be pleased to provide stakeholders with more information on what we have done so far and our goals to enhance ESG practices. Page 23 Rio de Janeiro +55-21-3262-9600 São Paulo +55-11-3383-2000 Ouvidoria 0800 722 00 48 SAC 0800 772 2827 btgpactual.com
