COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 Statement of continued support and business challenges It is my pleasure to present to you our fourth Communication on Progress, as a demonstration of application and commitment to the United Nations Global Compact principles, covering activities of Dukat Dairy Industry Inc. in the area of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption in 2015. Responsible business operation has always been the strategic focus of our company, whether it concerns the relationship with employees, consumers, business partners, social community or attitude towards the environment. Assuming the responsibility for the role and influence of our company on the local community, and wider, is an integral part of our business strategy and commitment to sustainable business operation. We systematically apply and promote the United Nations Global Compact principles in the area of human rights protection, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Nevertheless, we emphasize that the context of Dukat’s socially responsible operations is significantly wider. Incentives to primary and sustainable agricultural production, especially milk production, are of great significance for the company and for the community in which we operate. Furthermore, we invest our knowledge and experience in promotion of proper and balanced nutrition and healthy habits. Negative economic and sector trends continued in 2015: from further decline in purchasing power and optimism of Croatian citizens, changes in consumer habits to the ever weaker competitiveness of milk producers and dairy industry. The accumulated problems of the dairy sector have been further increased by the Croatian accession to the EU, whereby the CEFTA market was lost and import of cheaper dairy products from the EU significantly increased. Russian embargo in food imports from Europe further undermined the Croatian import-export balance, especially in the dairy sector as Croatia became one of the markets for placement of European surpluses of UHT milk and semi-hard cheese. With the above, 2015 was marked by the elimination of milk quotas in the European Union, leading to increased milk production in EU countries and creating additional downward pressure on the price of raw milk and finished dairy products. This deflation that is generated by local and global macroeconomic changes has been a great threat to the dairy sector for a few years now, and it will also mark the year 2016. Despite exceptionally difficult conditions in which it operates, in 2015 Dukat Dairy Industry Inc. continued to base its operations on the principles of sustainability, adjustment to the needs and possibilities of Croatian consumers, renovation and development of new products and investment in quality. At the same time, it continued to optimize business processes and costs, and to increase the efficiency on all levels of business operations. However, we are aware there is still room for further progress in responsible operations, and reporting to our stakeholders on implemented activities is an important part of the acknowledgement of our contribution and motivation to continue improving our practice in this field. This report, therefore, together with the overview of activities related to the application of UNGC principles, provides the answer to a number of G4 sustainability indicators in accordance with the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. This provides our stakeholders with a clear and relevant framework for the comparison of our activities with the previous and the future ones, which we will continue to report on. Despite numerous challenges we face, we remain committed to the improvement of our responsible business practices, presented to you in the text that follows. Alen Fontana Zagreb, May 2016 Director 2 Dukat leading dairy industry in Croatia with a century-old tradition With 8 production transport and distribution and B.P.A.C. Dukat bases its Auto for rental and leasing of cars. In plants in Croatia, 2015, Dukat has achieved revenue from operations on the Slovenia, Bosnia and sales in the amount of HRK 1,632.9 processing of top million, of which 88.9 percent on the Herzegovina, Serbia, domestic market. quality raw milk and Macedonia, Dukat produced by Croatian Group is currently the Since 2007, Dukat has been operating dairy farms. as part of Lactalis Group, the leading leading regional dairy global dairy group and the leading industry. global cheese manufacturer, which Dukat bases its operations on the makes it the center for development and processing of top quality raw milk produced Dukat Dairy Industry Inc. (hereinafter: expansion of dairy industry in Croatia by Croatian dairy farms. In 2015, Dukat Dukat), with registered office in Zagreb, is and South East Europe. cooperated with almost four thousand the leading dairy industry in Croatia with milkproducers, purchasing 203 million a century-old tradition in production of As the flagship brand for milk and kilograms of fresh raw milk, 39.5 percent milk and dairy products, which has grown dairy products, Dukat successfully of total milk collection in Croatia, thus into a regional company as a result of responds to demands and needs of confirming its status of the largest milk organic growth and acquisitions. With consumers. Innovativeness and insistance purchaser and processor in Croatia. Its 8 production plants in Croatia, Slovenia, on quality and implementation of the production range consists of milk, dairy Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, and latest advancements in food and dairy products and cheese, comprising almost Macedonia, Dukat Group is currently industry have ensured Dukat would hold 400 products, part of which is exported to the leading regional dairy industry. In the position of market leader and the over 92 world countries. Approximately addition to Dukat, Dukat Group comprises pioneer of trends in the dairy industry. 40 new products are introduced to the 13 associated companies with registered Croatian market annually. offices in Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Macedonia, Kosovo Since 2007, Dukat has It is exactly the local milk of the highest and Bulgaria. been operating as EU quality and investments into the development of new technologies that Dukat Group currently employs more part of Lactalis Group, contributed to Dukat’s entering the 73 than 1400 people in Croatia, in three the leading global markets in Africa, Asia, Middle East, production plants: in Zagreb, Bjelovar dairy group and the French Overseas Territories, Central and KIM Mljekara Karlovac, which is America and Europe, where it has been also its associated company, and in leading global cheese exporting its thermized dairy desserts two associated companies LA LOG for manufacturer. produced at the Zagreb Plant since 2013. Dukat has implemented international This report provides an overview of activities implemented in 2015 (01/01 31/12/2015) standards that ensure top quality, in Dukat Dairy Industry Inc. and does not cover the activities of associated companies safety and food safety: ISO 9001 Quality operating within the Dukat Group. Management Systems, ISO 22000 Food In addition to the overview of activities related to the implementation of UNGC Safety Management, IFS, HACCP, as principles, the report also provides the answer to a number of G4 sustainability well as Kosher and Halal certificates for indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative in the area of labor, human rights, environment and society as a whole. specific product groups, and ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. 3 DUKAT IN CROATIA IN NUMBERS (2015) No. 1 dairy industry 251 million kilograms of 1.463 processed milk HRK 2.172 million employees turnover 3.875 39,5% cooperators of total milk collection in Croatia 3 associated companies almost 3 400 KIM Mljekara Karlovac, La Log, production products B.P.A.C. Auto plants 42 4 new products umbrella introduced to the brands Croatian market 4 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Dukat fully respects human and labor rights based on the Constitution, laws and international conventions, as well as on internal documents 5 Dukat fully respects human and labor rights based PRINCIPLE 1 on the Constitution, laws and other regulations of Businesses should support and respect the the Republic of Croatia, as well as international protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within its area of influence conventions. Dukat guarantees and promotes human rights protection through good business practice and a number of internal documents PRINCIPLE 2 Work Regulations, Ordinance on the protection of make sure that they are not complicit in human confidentiality of data, Collective Agreement and rights abuses Code of Conduct. These documents are available to employees on the Intranet. Right to diversity and equal opportunities At Dukat, differences among people are entirely on performance and success and regulations that prohibit child labor, accepted in an open and tolerant manner, of each individual. forced or compulsory labor, and protect regardless of their age, nationality, ethnic dignity of employees by guaranteeing origin, religion and gender, language In the area of human resources equality and protection from sexual and socioeconomic status. All employees management, we pay special attention to harassment of employees and persons have equal opportunity for success, and adherence to the principle of diversity and undergoing the recruitment process. their position in the company depends equal opportunities. We respect all rights Protection of employees’ dignity Dukat consistently implements regulations complaint and a request for protection and directives of the European Union of dignity, the Management Board Identical protocol is also planned for and Croatia related to suppression appoints a Commission consisting of three all forms of discrimination and sexual of discrimination and protection of independent members: a trade union harassment. employees’ dignity, and procedure representative, an administrative service protocol in case of violation of dignity representative and a person appointed There were no reported cases of violation is embedded in Work Regulations and to receive and address employees’ of employees’ dignity in 2015 or in 2014. Code of Conduct. In the event of a complaints related to protection of dignity. Code of Conduct Dukat has had the Code of Conduct standards and generally accepted civil including the attitude towards other since 1998, integrating the principles values. The code was amended in 2003 stakeholders. of employees’ conduct in accordance and it serves as a framework for daily with ethical, moral and professional activities and conduct in the workplace, 6 2. LABOR Dukat respects and guarantees all labor rights and systematically works on improving the quality of work environment, education and development of employees 7 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory and the effective recognition of the right to collective labor; bargaining PRINCIPLE 6 PRINCIPLE 5 the elimination of discrimination in respect of the effective abolition of child labor employment and occupation Dukat respects and guarantees all labor rights prescribed by law and the Constitution, and systematically works on improving the quality of work environment, education and development of employees, care for health and safety at work, and contribution to the community in which it operates. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Dukat has an 18-year-long tradition of being trade union members, having Furthermore, employees are entitled to association and collective bargaining, permanent or temporary employment, the following bonuses on salary: bonus and 40 percent of its employees are working full-time or part-time. A new for years of service, bonus for work in members of the Trade Union of the addition to the Collective Agreement was shifts, bonus for work on Sundays and Employed in Agriculture, Food, Tobacco signed in 2015, ensuring the same level holidays, meal allowance. All Dukat and Water Industries of Croatia (PPDIV). of employees’ rights and confirming the employees are also insured against Partnership with the representatives of continuity of transparent organization accidents, regardless of them being workers is continuously improved through of rights arising from employment, in permanent or temporary, full-time or cooperation and communication with unaltered form. part-time employees. the local works councils and the Central Works Council. A set of employee benefits is available Dukat fosters regular and open to employees based on the Collective communication with the trade union and A decline in the number of trade union Agreement: the Central Works Council, and provides members was recorded in 2015 (from • Allowance for sick leave exceeding them with information about decisions 44 percent in 2014 to 40 percent in 120 days of importance for the economic and 2015) due to reduced subscriptions of • Allowance for annual vacation social status of employees. Management new members and gradual retirement • Christmas bonus Board informs the Works Council on the of senior members. • Reimbursement of transportation costs business results, plans, organizational • Jubilee award changes and other important issues Compared to similar companies in the • Assistance for days spent in the hospital annually and when necessary. region, the Collective Agreement ensures • Assistance in the event of an Act of God a higher level of rights arising from • Assistance to families in the event of employment. The Agreement applies employee’s death to all employees, regardless of them • Gift in-kind for Easter Health protection and safety at work Dukat supports employee initiatives for all employees at workplaces with in all forms of humanitarian work and special working conditions, including Number of injuries at provides incentives and additionally 38.7 percent of employees in 2015 and work rewards employees who are voluntary 31.1 percent the year before. 17 blood donors by granting them a day off 13 work and by organizing a joint excursion. Every three months, Health and Safety Preventive seasonal influenza vaccination at Work Committee holds meetings on is organized at the company premises the topic of safety and health protection every year. to discuss the proposals of employees 15 on improvement of work conditions and Preliminary and periodic medical health protection at work. Two committees examinations are regularly carried out (Zagreb Plant and Bjelovar Plant) have 7 2013 2014 2015 8 members, accounting for 0.6 percent of happened in the workplace, while 2 and logistic centers, and the “Safety the total number of employees. employees were injured coming to work and Health Protection Minute” program. and leaving work. A significant decrease Five minor injuries at work were registered on injuries at work has been recorded In 2015, the total number or work days lost in 2015, which is 61.5 percent less than the in the past three years, among other due to injuries has significantly decreased year before when there were 13 injuries things, due to systematic education of 133 lost work days compared to 369 at work. Four men and one woman were employees in production, warehouses lost work days due to injuries in 2014. injured, and majority of injuries (three) Number of sick days health, such as greater mobility of Dukat shows social sensitivity by covering employees between various production the cost of treatment and medical aids 25,489 24,015 lines, introduction of ventilation system that are not on the reimbursement to the pasteurization line at the Bjelovar list of the Croatian Institute for Health Plant, increased use of lifts instead of Insurance, when requested by lowerhand transfer of goods, etc. income employees. In 2015, parental leave was used by 17 Supporting the care for the health of its women and 1 man who returned to work employees, Dukat encourages them to after their parental leave had expired. participate in recreational and sports In 2015, the employees used 452 days activities, including coming to work by of paid leave (compared to the 411 days bicycle, co-financing such employee in 2014), based on their right to absence initiatives, especially those in which 2014 2015 from work in the event of marriage, birth employees account for the majority of of a child, death of a family member, members: In 2015, the number of sick days decreased serious illness or emergency treatment • Sports Club Sirela by 6 percent compared to the year of close family members, moving and • Sirela Volunteer Fire-fighting Society before, due to a number of implemented natural disasters. • Dukat Leisure Cycling Club measured for the protection of employees’ DUKAT LEISURE CYCLING CLUB 1100 competitors, successfully finishing a very challenging marathon and conquering the During its fourth year, Dukat Leisure Cycling Club mountainous terrain. actively worked on encouraging everyday use of bicycles and promoting the environmental, health and Club members also participated in the social benefits of recreational cycling, simultaneously organization and competition of Dukat’s fourth inspiring cooperation and team spirit among cycling race “A Healthy Habit” that took place on employees. The club records constant increase in the Jarun in September 2015. number of members, and at the end of 2015 it had 150 members employees of Dukat and its associated companies in Croatia. TRADITION OF BLOOD DONATIONS BY In 2015, Dukat organized its first internal cycling DUKAT EMPLOYEES championship “Fast & Safe”, which included seven races on different locations in Zagreb and its On 25 October, the World Blood Donor Day, 25 surroundings, in male and female categories. Twenty employees of Dukat volunteer blood donors Dukat employees competed in the races that took socialized during a one-day excursion for volunteer place from March to September 2015, and first place blood donors. The excursion organized by winners in male and female categories of all races Dukat is almost a 40-year-old tradition and sort were rewarded. of a reward for employees who selflessly help others by donating blood. In 2015, 64 employees Once again, the June-held cycling marathon in donated blood in two blood drives organized in the Plitvice posed a real challenge for the club where 12 workplace. employees and club members participated alongside 9 During its fourth year, Dukat Leisure Cycling Club actively worked on encouraging everyday use of bicycles... ...and promoting the environmental, health and social benefits of recreational cycling... ...simultaneously inspiring cooperation and team spirit among employees. 10 Education and development of employees In human resources management, Dukat past years. Legally required training accounts remains committed to its mission to recruit for 14 percent of total education, compared to and retain capable, professional and motivated 20 percent in 2014. employees, who act proactively in constantly changing conditions, create new values and In 2015, the average annual expenditure per achieve personal and professional fulfillment. employee for education increased to HRK That is why significant means and efforts 1,700 (compared to HRK 1,340 the year before), are invested into education and training of while 930 employees were included in some employees. form of education, which is an increase of 41 percent compared to the year before. The In 2015, specialized and development education total number of education hours increased in accounted for 86 percent of the total number of 2015 employees participated in 10,100 hours educations at Dukat, compared to 80 percent of education, compared to 8,200 hours of in 2014, recording constant growth over the education in 2014. Internal education was timely and proper disclosure of with these rules in their every business non-quality products, proper application operations. Thirty employees of Dukat As part of internal knowledge transfer of procedures regarding remarks and participated in the education. There were practice, the total of 9 internal educations complaints of customers and consumers, 13 educations held for 152 employees were held for 250 employees of Zagreb and the manner of monitoring objections in the region markets. and Bjelovar plants in 2014. The topics to products. Education was held by the covered food safety, product safety Director of Quality for Croatia on all protection, self-control on manufacturing locations in Croatia and it included 120 Induction of new lines, good manufacturing and hygiene Sales employees. employees to the practice. Educations were held by Dukat’s company and its activities in-house trainers for Production. Training related to hygiene and food and employee Application of the Following the already common practice, safety is also continuously carried out for competition rules 16 new employees of Dukat and from employees in Production and Logistics. the countries of Dukat Group underwent In 2015, Legal Affairs conducted a program induction training in 2015, to get acquainted of compliance with competition rules with the strategy, organization, main Internal education on in Southeast Europe. The first phase of business processes and activities. During the quality of products the program included the adoption and the individualized induction program, and services for Sales implementation of the Lactalis Group employees visited key departments employees Code of Conduct on the application of and were introduced to milk and dairy the rules governing competition. The goods processing and production in all Internal education on the quality of second phase included the training three Croatian plants. products and sales services was held for of management and key employees Sales employees. The purpose of education that come or could come into contact 11 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT PARTNERSHIP ON THE PROJECT “EXPERIENCE IS GOLD” PROJECTS In 2014 Dukat partnered up with Poslovni dnevnik on the project which The work on educational and proved to be the driver of inclusion of students with disabilities in the development projects continued labor market, and a project that will help tear down social prejudice in 2015: and barriers related to their employment. As part of the project, one student with disabilities completed her traineeship in Dukat during September and October, and she is the second to do so since the project was launched. Otherwise, Dukat employs 35 people with disabilities, who greatly contribute to the achievement of common business goals. Education and Educational program for Educational program for development program Sales managers Logistics “The path of leadership” In 2015, education in personal and At the end of 2015, Dukat began a Organized by the Croatian Human technical skills was held for Sales development program designed for Resources team, a new development managers as a continuation of the executives, warehouse managers, program “The path of leadership” started development program for Sales that was top warehouse workers and Logistics in the second half of 2015 for managers initiated in 2014. Education “Situational shift managers. The program included and managerial resources of various leadership” was held in November, for planned simulation modules for various organizational Dukat units in Croatia. 14 managers of Operational Sales and business situations, individual and As part of the program, which is divided Gastro Sales, with the accent on the group analysis and series of exercises into three modules, participants discover adoption of new methods and skills for participants to develop leadership and build their leadership potential, learn for optimal management of teams and skills, negotiation skills, to deepen their about leadership styles, goal setting individuals. knowledge about the quality and safety and leadership roles as motivator, and of work, so they could become more they master important communication competent managers. tools for successful management. The first module was held in late 2015 under the title “The power of persuasion in leadership and management”. Performance appraisal Performance is evaluated each year potential. Readiness for international performance appraisal system, compared within the People review project and mobility is also assessed and defined to 10 percent in 2014. individual development is created for with the employees. In 2015, 11 percent employees with recognized high work of employees were included in the Traineeship As in the previous years, we continued Students of the faculties of Agronomy, partnered up with Poslovni dnevnik successful cooperation with vocational Food Technology and Biotechnology, on the project „Experience is Gold“. As secondary schools in Zagreb, Bjelovar and Business and Economy and other part of that project one student with Križevci, and five students of Vocational faculties also do their internships in disablities completed her internship in School in Bjelovar completed traineeships Dukat. In 2015, 14 students completed Dukat in 2015. in the Bjelovar Plant in 2015. their internships in Dukat. Dukat also 12 Data about employees Type of employment Total number Permanent Temporary Year of employees Employment Employment 15% 2014 1,116 1,008 108 Permanent Employment 2015 1,152 978 174 Dukat has 1,152 employees, 85 percent of which have Temporary permanent employment contracts, compared to 90 percent in Employment 2014. Labor rights, rights arising from the Collective Agreement and benefits apply equally to all employees, regardless if 85% they have permanent or temporary employment, full-time or part-time employment, and if they are union members. The total of 156 people were employed in 2015 (which is 26.3 percent more compared to the year before), 34 of which women. Employee turnover rate was 10.7 percent, slightly higher than in 2014 when it was 9.5 percent. Age structure 2% Age of 2014 2015 employees < 30 < 30 139 155 13% 31 40 255 271 28% 31 40 41 50 383 380 24% 41 50 51 60 320 326 > 61 19 20 51 60 Total 1,116 1,152 33% > 61 The average age of employees at the end of 2015 was 44 same as at the end of 2014. 13 Gender Gender 2014 2015 35% Men Men 725 751 Women 391 401 Women Total 1,116 1,152 65% The majority of Dukat employees are men (65 percent), while women account for 35 percent, which is identical to the ratio of the year before. Education Education 2014 2015 Primary school 155 145 22% 13% Primary school Secondary school 720 752 College and university 241 255 Secondary school Total 1,116 1,152 College and university The majority of employees (65 percent) have secondary school qualifications, while 22 percent of employees have 65% college and university degrees. Composition of governance and management Year Gender Average age Number Men 44 49 2014 Women 43 41 Men 44 45 Men 2015 Women 44 46 51% 49% Women In 2015, the share of women in governance and management positions at Dukat was 51 percent, which is significantly higher than in 2014, when it was 46 percent. The past three years show significant increase of the share of women in governance and management positions (from 35 percent in 2012 to 51 percent in 2015). We pay special attention to hiring of domestic labor and local experts, including for management positions. The share of Croatian citizens in the top management is 33 percent and in senior management 80 percent. 14 The ratio of salaries and job, responsibility, knowledge and skills gross salary per employee increased benefits necessary to complete tasks and results, by 2 percent compared to 2014, or 7 excluding any form of discrimination percent compared to the average net The salary and benefits policy is based based on gender, nationality or any other salary in 2014. solely on the type and complexity of the personal characteristic. The average Internal communication Various channels are used for internal Notice boards are particularly important Moreover, Dukat fosters an open door communication: the Intranet, e-mail, for employees in production and logistics, policy, which implies direct communication VPN mobile system, in-house newsletter as they have no access to the Intranet. with department management. Except Contact, notice boards, meetings and Information about company events, directly, employees can contribute “face-to-face” communication. launch of new products, employee their remarks, comments and ideas benefits, etc. are regularly posted on anonymously, using boxes for comments Local version of the in-house magazine notice boards. Space for trade unions and and ideas placed at all production sites. Contact, published quarterly, is intended works council’s notices is also provided. for the employees of Dukat and the Dukat Group. Representatives of various departments and associated companies Various channels are used for internal communication: the Intranet, participate in creating it, and other e-mail, VPN mobile system, in-house newsletter Contact, notice employees may also participate with boards, meetings and “face-to-face” communication. their stories and photographs. 15 Contribution to the community Dukat launches and supports projects related to proper and balanced diet, In 2015, through donations of funds and that contribute to the improvement of moving, and participation in humanitarian own products, Dukat invested in: quality of life and well-being of the local campaigns. In 2015, the donations community and individuals. These projects program focused on providing dairy include health care, caring for healthy products to especially vulnerable groups habits, child care, encouraging education of adults and children. DONATIONS OF DUKAT PRODUCTS TO SOUP KITCHENS, SOCIAL SUPERMARKETS AND HUMANITARIAN INSTITUTIONS As traditional donor of dairy products to vulnerable social groups, in 2015 Dukat donated 219 tons of dairy products to soup kitchens, social supermarkets and humanitarian associations who care for disadvantaged citizens and children across Croatia, as part of 570 donations-deliveries. Since the first donations to the Zagreb Archdiocese Caritas in February and partnership with the newly opened social supermarket in Zagreb, the list of regular recipients of Dukat’s donations grew throughout the year to 37 soup kitchens, social supermarkets and humanitarian associations, providing dairy products to over 20,000 citizens and children in need, from Vukovar to Split and Knin. Financial donations Donations in own • Humanitarian organizations products and campaigns: Humanitarian • Health care and rehabilitation: Association “Rijeka ljubavi”, Center Zagreb Rehabilitation Center • Homes for children: Zagreb Home for for Missing and Exploited Children, • Sports: Sirela bowling club Children, St. Frances Vugrovec House, Humanitarian Association “Putevi St. Joseph Home for Children, Home milosti”, Humanitarian Association for Children “Maestral” Split “Put mira”, Humanitarian Association One of the regular donations of Dukat dairy products to Humanitarian Association “Rijeka ljubavi” in Osijek 16 “Duga” Vukovar, Association “Poljski • Red Cross: City Red Cross Županja, • Education: Iskustvo zlata vrijedi cvijet”, Association of Parents with Sisak, Karlovac, Krapina, Koprivnica (Experience is Gold) and Hrvatska Children Suffering from Malignant • Healthcare: Children’s Hospital Zagreb, pamet Hrvatskoj (Croatian Intelligence Ilnesses “Hrabro dijete” Nova Gradiška, Pustodol Rehabilitation Center, Varaždin for Croatia) Poslovni dnevnik projects, Humanitarian Association “Zagrebački Rehabilitation Center, Veli Lošinj Spa, 5th International Festival of Youth, 7th humanitarci”, Association of Single • Nursing homes: Nursing homes in Biology Night, Lecture of the Croatian Parents “Gogy”, Association for Adamovac, Beli Manastir, Čakovec, Medical Association in Bjelovar, Faculty Aiding Children with Disabilities Oklaj and Split of Food Technology and Biotechnology ADHD and I, Association of Blind • Education and Rehabilitation: Student sensory exercise, celebrating the Đakovo, Association of Persons with housing “Hrvatskog radiše” in Osijek, Dairy Day organized by the Croatian Disabilities Bjelovar, Association of Center for Education Tuškanac, Center Dairy Union, “Bistrički zvukolik” contest Persons with Disabilitites Križevci, for Education Velika Gorica, Association 2015, Golden Index Award Humanitarian Association Remar “Naša djeca” Novi Marof, Children’s • Sports: Đakovo Bowling Club, Children’s Croatia, Humanitarian Association summer in Rijeka, Therapeutic Riding soccer tournament Rijeka, EuroZagreb fra Mladen Hrkać, Association for the Disabled Equestrian Club 2015, Equestrian Club AS Klinča Sela MoST, Reto center Friends of Hope, Vodičajna, 11 elementry schools, four 4th round of Croatia Cup in endurance humanitarian campaign Dobro je činiti kindergartens riding, Ilovac Soccer Club, 8th Rondo dobro (It’s good to do good) in Đakovo, • Culture: 9th International Theatre Cup Osijek, Bjelovar Handball Club, humanitarian campaign Dođi, vidi, Festival of the Blind and Visually Jadran Rijeka Rowing Club, Princ Zagreb pomozi izbjegloj djeci (Come, see, Impaired, Christmas tram in Osijek Softball Club, Ratar Piškorevci Soccer help children refugees), humanitarian • Other: Convent of the Daughters of Club, St. Martin Spa, Cycling Union play for children’s homes in Zagreb the Sacred Heart, Parish of St. Luke • Symposia and conferences: Power • Soup kitchens at: Osijek Caritas, the Evangelist, Remete Parish Caritas of Croatian Food Đakovo-Osijek Archdiocese Caritas, • Fairs and gastro events: Gastronauts, Sisak Diocese Caritas, Parish of St. Croatian Culinary Association, John Nepomuk Vrbovsko, Zagreb Sponsorships International Art of Gastronomy in Archdiocese Caritas, St. Anthony of Istria, Wine Cellar 2015 3rd Fair of Padua Parish Caritas, St. Vincent de In 2015, through sponsorships, Dukat Wine and Delicacies in Split, Coffee Paul Association, Split Archdiocese helped organize a series of cultural, & Chocofest Zagreb Caritas, Šibenik Diocese Caritas, Zadar educational, professional, athletic and • Entertainment: Lions Club Novi Marof, Archdiocese Caritas, St. Ante Parish gastronomic events: Zagreb Zoo, 8th Mom and Baby Učka Caritas in Knin • Culture: Croatian Film Days, Youth Film Marathon • Social supermarkets: SS “Kruh sv. Festival, Photo days of young people, Elizabete” in Rijeka, SS “Ruka pomoći” Motovun Film Festival, celebration of in Bjelovar the French National Day Memberships in associations that promote sustainable development Dukat is one of the founders and a member, Community for environmental protection Since 2012, Dukat has been a member since 1998, of the Croatian Business Council in economy of the Croatian Chamber of the United Nations Global Compact, for Sustainable Development (HR BCSD), a of Commerce, EKO-Ozra and GIUPAK the world’s largest corporate social non-profit institution of the private sector (Economic interest grouping for packaging responsibility initiative, and of the Global encouraging sustainable development and environmental protection). Compact Network Croatia. in economy. Along with its long standing membership in HR BCSD, Dukat is also Dukat is one of the founders and a member, since 1998, of the Croatian an active member of other associations Business Council for Sustainable Development (HR BCSD) and member that promote sustainable development of the United Nations Global Compact and the Global Compact and environmental protection, such Network Croatia since 2012. as the Community for CSR and the 17 Focusing on product quality Dukat was the first dairy industry food safety management policy relies Facebook page, is open to opinions, and one of the first in the Croatian on Lactalis’ quality policy and confirms comments and inquiries by consumers food industry to introduce a free the focus on continuous improvement of about products, and as such present hotline for consumers. quality on all business levels, as well as valuable source of information and the use of appropriate energy sources incentive for continued improvement. The greatest attention is paid to the and raw materials, to achieve the It also represents one of the important quality and safety of products to fulfill the satisfaction of consumers, all employees, internal tools for tracking consumer demands and expectations of consumers. suppliers, business partners, generate satisfaction and product quality. Therefore, our products not only have positive effects on the community and to meet certain quality standards, such financial results of the company. In 2015, 31 percent of the total number as ISO 9001, ISO 22000, IFS, HACCP, of queries, comments and praises were and Kosher and Halal certificates for Having recognized the importance of complaints, which is 16.5 percent less than specific product groups, but they strive two-way communication with consumers, in 2014. There has also been a decline to exceed them in accordance with the ensuring timely and complete response, of 19% in the number of reclamations on internal quality standards. Dukat has had a free Consumer Phone one million products sold, compared to since 1998, and was the first dairy industry the year before. Of the total complaints Quality policy of the Lactalis Group specifies and one of the first in the Croatian food received, 48.9 percent of consumers guidelines for continuous improvement industry to introduce a free hotline for accepted a visit for a sales representative of product quality and strengthening of consumers. This communication channel, and product replacement, while the other customer and consumer satisfaction. which in addition to phone and e-mail appreciated just an apology. Dukat’s quality, environmental and also includes communication via Dukat’s 18 FOURTH CREATIVE DRAWING PROJECT “I LOVE MILK” Since 2012 Dukat has been holding the creative drawing competition “I love milk!”, to encourage the public to create proper dietary habits and draw attention to the importance of daily milk consumption, especially among children of school age. Almost 8,000 elementary school students and their teachers from all parts of Croatia participated in the competition over the course of four years. We had a record response to the 2015 competition 3,000 students from 196 elementary schools sent their literary works on the topic of “Common breakfast”. The four winning drawings were applied to the UHT milk packaging. Announcement of the winners and creative workshops for the grades of awarded students were held in the Museum of Contemporary Art, a partner in the project, and all participants were sent personalized thank-you-letters. DOORS OPEN DAYS FOR PRIMARY SCHOOL PUPILS As part of the “Dukat’s Doors Open Days” educational and fun project, implemented under the patronage of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, since 2012, Dukat has been a host to third and fourth graders from Croatian primary schools. During their visit to Dukat’s production plant, pupils have the opportunity to learn about the milk’s route “from the field to the table” and about the importance of everyday consumption of milk and dairy products for proper growth and development of children. In 2015, Dukat’s Zagreb plant was visited by 450 pupils from 10 primary schools, and since the project was launched, more than 1400 pupils participated (October 2012 December 2015). DUKAT’S 4TH CYCLING RACE “A HEALTHY HABIT” With the aim of promoting urban cycling as an ecologically acceptable manner of transport and an activity that positively influences health of individuals and families, in September Dukat organized its fourth cycling race “A Healthy Habit” and “Dukatino race for children” on Jarun in Zagreb. More than 400 cyclists of all ages participated in five categories, and half of them were children. “A Healthy Habit” race is held within the European Mobility Week and under the patronage of the Mayor of the City of Zagreb. More than 1300 adults and children participated in the race so far. 3. ENVIRONMENT Dukat has been building its own environmental management system, continuously reducing negative impact on the environment 21 Strategically focused on a PRINCIPLE 7 responsible attitude towards Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental the environment and operations challenges in accordance with sustainable development policy, over time, PRINCIPLE 8 Dukat has been building its own undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Responsibility environmental management system, continuously reducing negative impact on the PRINCIPLE 9 environment. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Materials Packaging As a large-scale producer, we take account of the environmental types and volumes of packaging put in circulation, and it acceptability of our products and strive to introduce economical prepares additional monthly reports. We bear the cost of and environmentally friendly packaging materials. In packaging waste disposal and management in accordance compliance with the Ordinance on packaging and packaging with the reports. waste, Dukat prepares quarterly and annual reports on the Data on packaging put in circulation Total weight of packaging put in (in kg) Dukat Inc. circulation in 2015 Dukat Inc.: Type of packaging material 2014 2015 Multi-layer paper packaging 1,800 t Metal (Al bottle for whipped Paper/carton 2,000 t 34,317 33,833 cream 250 ml) PET 600 t Paper/glue (carton) 2,076,112 2,112,599 HDPE 1,300 t Multi-layer packaging with predominant paper Other polymers (PS, PE) 1,300 t 1,771,695 1,801,111 component for milk Metals 33 t beverages PET 595,918 615,934 In 2014, 0.3 percent more packaging was put into circulation Polymers 1,298,339 1,316,550 compared to 2015. The percentage of used material as the recycled input material was less than 5 percent. PEHD 1,377,207 1,294,072 Total 7,153,588 7,174,099 22 Energy Electricity Energy consumption is approached with Electricity 2014 2015 great care and efforts are made towards savings in all stages of operations: in Zagreb Plant 22,660,752 kWh 22,330,586 kWh designing power plants and technological Bjelovar Plant 9,447,151 kWh 10,559,256 kWh processes, rational and efficient process management and regular and quality maintenance. The consumption of In 2015, the total power consumption in 2015, was 10,559,256 kWh, which is electricity is increased from June to the Zagreb Plant was 22,330,586 kWh, 10.5 percent more than in 2014, when September due to the increase in which is 1.5 percent less compared to it was 9,447,151 kWh. production during seasonal demand the consumption in 2014. Total power and intense usage of the cooling system. consumption in the Bjelovar Plant, in Steam In 2015, total steam consumption was Steam 2014 2015 43,929 tons, which is 0.2 percent less than the steam consumption in 2014. Zagreb Plant 43,997 t 43,929 t Gas Two combustion plants, each of 4.4 MW, Plin 2014 2015 are installed at the site of the Zagreb Plant, which are categorized as medium Zagreb Plant 3,394,554 m3 3,489,667 m3 combustion plants according to the Bjelovar Plant 2,404,670 m3 2,660,663 m3 Ordinance on limit values for pollutants emissions into the air. The plants are fueled by natural gas. emission limit values according to the The ratio of gas consumption per ton Ordinance on limit values of pollutants of processed milk was 32.92, while the In 2015, 3,489,667 m 3 of gas were in the Air. average in 2014 was 33.78 m3 gas/t consumed, which is 2.8 percent more of processed milk. Diminished ratio is compared to the gas consumption in In 2015, Bjelovar Plant consumed 2,660,663 the result of decreased quantities of 2014. m3 of gas, which is 9.62 percent more processed milk. than the consumption in 2014. Emissions of pollutants into the air from both plants were measured in December 2015, and the values met the prescribed 23 Water Dukat assigns great importance to In 2015, at the Zagreb Plant site, 99 public water supply (compared to 58 the economic water consumption and percent of water was used from own percent of well water and 42 percent constantly strives to find new ways for well, same as in 2014, and only 1 percent of public water supply the year before). reducing its consumption. Both plants was used from the public water supply. (Zagreb and Bjelovar) draw most of the At the Bjelovar plant site, 85 percent of water from their artesian wells, while the well water was used and 15 percent of rest is used from the public water supply. 2014 2015 Volume (m ) 3 Water Public Water Public Water Own well Total Own well Total Supply Supply Zagreb Plant 8,963 402,373 411,336 5,689 411,805 417,494 Bjelovar Plant 98,520 138,266 236,786 39,440 218,176 257,616 In 2015, total water consumption at the increased slightly to 3.83, from 3.68 in from own well was 218,176 m3, which Zagreb Plant was 417,494 m3, which is 2014. This increase in consumption of is 36.6 percent higher than in 2014 due 1.5 percent higher than the total water water per kilogram of product is the result to usage of water from the new well. consumption in 2014. Water consumption of technical changes in production and from the public water supply was 5,689 warehouse premises, the production The average ratio of water consumption m3, which is 36.5 percent less than in of own technological steam and the over processed milk was 3.2 l of water/ 2014. production trend. kg of processed milk in 2015, which is lower than the 2014 ratio when it was Water consumption from own well was Total water consumption at the Bjelovar 3.4 l of water/kg of processed milk, 411,805 m3 or 2.3 percent higher than Plant was 8.1 percent (257,616 m3) higher which is due to the higher quantity of the year before. than in 2014. Water consumption from processed milk. the public water supply was 39,440 m3, The index of production (IP per one which is 60 percent less compared to 2014 kilogram of a produced product) in 2015 (98,520 m3), while the water consumption 24 Air emissions Zagreb Plant As mentioned above in the section on The emissions of pollutants into the air the prescribed emission limit values Gas, there are two combustion plants from both plants were measured in under the Ordinance on limit values for running on natural gas at the site of the December 2015, and the values meet pollutants emissions into the air. Zagreb Plant. EMISSIONS INTO THE AIR FROM FUEL COMBUSTION PROCESS TO OBTAIN THERMAL ENERGY IN 2015 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlet 1 Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) HR EN 14792:2007 2,872 Carbon dioxide (CO2) 3,246,980 Carbon monoxide (CO) HR EN 15058:2008 197 Data on fuel type and consumption Fuel Fuel consumption Lower heating value Natural gas 1,744,834 m3/yr. 33,338 Data on emission measurement results Gas fuel: Natural gas Substance Measurement result (mg/m3) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 164.6 Carbon monoxide (CO) 11.3 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlet 2 Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) HR EN 14792:2007 3,455 Carbon dioxide (CO2) 3,246,980 Carbon monoxide (CO) HR EN 15058:2008 208 Data on fuel type and consumption Fuel Fuel consumption Lower heating value Natural gas 1,744,834 m3/yr 33,338 Data on emission measurement results Gas fuel: Natural fuel: Substance Measurement result (mg/m3) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 198 Carbon monoxide (CO) 11.9 25 Bjelovar Plant • one outlet from the thermoelectric The emissions of pollutants into the air generator for the production of hot air from plants were measured in December There are four sources of emissions of (dried milk drying plant) emissions 2015, and the values met the prescribed pollutants into the air at the site of the of combustion products, emission limit values under the Ordinance Bjelovar Plant: • one outlet of the dried milk drying on limit values for pollutants emissions • two outlets from boiler chimneys plant de-duster (non-energy) into the air. emissions of combustion products organic dust. EMISSIONS INTO THE AIR FROM PRODUCTION PROCESSES Type of outlet: Whey drying tower shaft Data on emission measurement results Substance Measurement result (mg/m3) Particles (PM 10) 71 Data on the type and quantity of emissions Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Particles (PM 10) HRN EN 14792:200 777 Type of outlet: Thermoelectric generator chimney Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN ISO 12039 76 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 990,251 Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide HRN ISO 10849 548 (NO2) Particles (PM 10) / 16 Type of outlet: Boiler chimney 1 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide HRN EN 14792 1,029 (NO2) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 106 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 1,980,501 Particles (PM 10) / 32 Type of outlet: Boiler chimney 2 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide HRN EN 14792 1,678 (NO2) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 106 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 1,980,502 Particles (PM 10) / 32 26 Waste water Zagreb Plant • Technological processes in the plant which is 4.8 percent less than the year have been optimized; milk processing before (323,060 m3). In 2015, there were no deviations of plants are regularly maintained to individual parameters (oxygen chemical prevent the discharge of organic The average value of chemical oxygen consumption, BPK5, pH, total oils and fats matter into the sewerage system. demand (COD) in water after the treatment value) from the set values of the water procedure was 249 mg/l, which is 26.5 management license for the discharge percent less than in 2014 when COD was into the public sewerage system of the Bjelovar Plant 339 mg/l. After investing in upgrade city of Zagreb recorded at the site of of the efficiency of water purification the Zagreb Plant. Bjelovar Plant has its own waste water devices in June 2015 we have seen a treatment plant with the capacity of 1100 decrease in outflow COD, which was m2/day, and the processed waste water 140 mg/l on average. Technologies for reducing outflows meet the limit values under the emissions into water water management license. Outflowing A decrease in the waste water treatment waste water is discharged into the public factor (Fx) is also noticed, as the average • Filters have been installed in the sewage of the City of Bjelovar after the value in 2015 was 1.22, while in 2014 the production plants sewers which treatment procedure. average Fx value was 1.44; which is the separate labels, caps and other result of investment in the upgrade of materials. In 2015, the total of 307,344 m 3 of efficiency of the water purification devices. • Chlorine-based chemicals have been technological waste water was processed replaced by peroxideand acetic by the waste water treatment plant, acid-based formulas. 27 Waste Waste generation and its waste management in accordance with the most collected, followed by waste processing economic principles. It is also the objective paper and cardboard and multilayer of the company to reduce communal packaging waste. In 2015, total volume Systematic waste management is one waste generation by increased selection of separated and received hazardous of the fundamental components of the of generated waste and to reduce the waste was 30 tons. environmental management system. Revolume of returns from the market. usable waste, with valuable characteristics At the Bjelovar Plant, sewage sludge that can be used, is collected and stored In 2015, the total volume of separated from the waste water cleaner was the separately. Dukat’s constant objective is waste received at the Zagreb plant was most collected, along with paper and to manage waste in an environmentally 1,045 tons, which is 8.9 percent less cardboard packaging. In 2015, total efficient way. Precisely for this reason, than in 2014. There were 1,015 tons of volume of 7,224 kg of hazardous waste continuous efforts are directed at the non-hazardous waste collected, or 9.3 was collected. prevention and constant reduction of percent less than the year before. In the generation of all types of waste and total balance, mixed packaging was Consumption of chemicals Zagreb Plant 2014 2015 Total volume of washing and disinfecting consumption of washing agents and disinfecting agents 970,082 kg 980,549 kg In 2015, Zagreb Plant consumed 1.1 most used, 587 tons of it, which is 102 of nitrogen peroxide used, the same as percent more washing and disinfecting tons more than in 2014. There were 315 the year before. agents than the year before. Sodium tons of nitric acid used, which is 33 tons base for washing equipment was the more than in 2014. There were 46 tons Bjelovar Plant 2014 2015 Total volume of chemicals utilized in waste consumption of chemicals water treatment plant 166,020 kg 139,695 kg in waste water treatment plant In 2015, at the Bjelovar Plant, the total of Aquaflok was 21 percent lower than 10.8 percent higher, while consumption volume of chemicals utilized in the in 2014. of acid HNO3 was 12.6 percent higher waste water treatment plant was 17.7 Consumption of chemicals in production and consumption of lye and acid per percent lower than in 2014. Aquaklar was higher in 2015 than in 2014 due processed milk was the same as the consumption was 29 percent lower than to higher quantities of processed milk. year before. the year before, while the consumption Consumption of alkaline NaOH was Noise Noise for the day and night work conditions noise zones on the southeast and the requirements, exceeding of permissible at the Zagreb Plant site ranges within southwest side, at the time when the level of noise was established. the legally permissible limits. noise level was measured for the purpose Since Bjelovar Plant borders with residential of preparing integrated environmental 28 Compliance In accordance with legal provisions, No deviation from the legal and other there was no need to undertake any of Dukat makes an annual assessment of regulations and requirements was the prescribed measures in the event adherence to (compliance with) the legal recorded in 2015. There were also no of incidents. and other environmental regulations. extraordinary situations recorded, and Supplier evaluation with regard to impact on environment As part of the annual supplier evaluation, adheres to prevention plans, security • Environmental awareness (supplier with regard to impact on the environment, protocols, rules for unloading the contacted us offering solutions related the following activities are assessed: remains of liquid cargo on the bottom to environmental protection waste • The frequency of environmental of the tank (stripping), waste separation recycling, reduction of waste at the disasters at the point of delivery rules, etc.) source, etc.) (activities of suppliers or carriers did • The offer to reimburse the costs • In 2015, all suppliers received the not cause any pollution at the plant incurred by damage (in cases when highest grade with regard to impact in the course of last year: accidental the delivered product generates waste on the environment. gas dispersion or emission, spilling or by-products, the supplier can offer of liquids, fire) a recycling path for such waste, e.g. • Adherence to environmental packaging) requirements (supplier or carrier 29 Objectives for 2016 • Education and information of employees on obligations of Dukat according to the new environmental legislation • Training of new internal auditors for internal audit of the environmental management system • Improving waste water quality Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant • Reduce water consumption to 3.25 m3/t of products • Reduce water consumption in proportion to processed • Reduce steam consumption by 9000 t milk volumes by 2 percent • Reduce gas consumption by 755 000 m3, reduce CO2 • Reduce gas consumption in proportion to processed milk emissions by 17 percent volumes by 2 percent • Noise reduction at the compressor drive facility • Reduce air emissions from the plant for dehydrated products 30 DUKAT EMPLOYEES VOLUNTEER IN CLEAN-UP CAMPAIGN FOR THE FOURTH TIME In 2015, Dukat employees once again joined the largest volunteer cleaning campaign “Green Clean-up one day for clean environment”, part of the global “Let’s do it!” movement. Seventy employees from all three of Dukat’s plants in Croatia participated in the action, and in spite of rain and poor weather conditions they cleaned up three illegal dumping sites in Zagreb, Bjelovar and Karlovac. Along with collected waste, employees donated the total of 120 working hours voluntarily joining the clean-up. In the past four years 270 Dukat and KIM employees participated in the action, freeing the environment from 130 cubic meters of waste. 31 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION Dukat applies strict anti-corruption standards in accordance with relevant internal documents and corporate policies 32 Dukat applies strict anti-corruption standards in its daily operations, in accordance with relevant internal documents and corporate policies of the PRINCIPLE 10 Lactalis Group, and operates in compliance with Businesses should work against corruption in all its the applicable laws and regulations. Aware of the forms, including extortion and bribery importance of responsible and ethically-based conduct, Dukat implemented and it applies the Corporate Governance Code. Dukat’s anti-corruption activities can be company’s website, in accordance There were no recorded reports on divided into several main areas: with relevant regulations. suspicion of corruption or incidences of corruption in 2015 or the previous years. • Systematic improvement of adherence • Implementation of practice concerning to laws, rules of operation, good competition It is Dukat’s strategic commitment not business practices and ethical business Dukat approaches competition as to provide any material or non-material practice one of its top priorities in operations, support to any political party or candidate, This objective is achieved through and invests great effort in everyday on national or local level. constant improvement of business business practices to asses each Dukat’s employees, as individuals, are processes and education of Dukat economic activity from this aspect as free to provide material support to any employees responsible for the legality well. Accordingly, in 2015, education political party or candidate of their choice, of operations and management was organized for 152 people in Dukat from their own funds and in their free of business processes related to and its associated companies in the time, which is the responsibility and business practice issues and constant region (Slovenia, Serbia, Bosnia and decision of each individual. legislative and business changes. Herzegovina and Macedonia) on the Business processes are also set and topic of competition rules and their monitored so that they are always implementation in everyday work. We in compliance with the principles are also actively working on continued mentioned in the introduction, by education of all key employees at adopting and enforcing internal byDukat and Dukat Group, in order to laws, procedures and work instructions minimize all possible risks. that are regularly communicated by In accordance with the practice e-mail and the Intranet. promoting respect for the rules of competition, Dukat cooperated with • Operations in accordance with the the Croatian Competition Agency Companies Act, Capital Market Act, on regular basis, submitting all data regular adoption and implementation required by the Agency and regularly of the Zagreb Stock Exchange participating in Agency’s research Corporate Governance Code on the milk and dairy goods, and In this way, the legality, transparency distribution trade markets. and publicity of operations is protected, and corporate governance of the highest • Internally regulated procedures and rank is ensured, posing systematic work instructions obstacle to corruption and abuses. Code of Conduct, available to employees Dukat is quoted on the Zagreb Stock on the Intranet, expressly states that Exchange, where it regularly publishes “the employee shall receive salary for relevant business information for his/her work at the company. Any shareholders, investors and the other receiving or giving of money, business community. In addition to the inappropriate gifts or services is not Zagreb Stock Exchange, all important in compliance with the company’s information is submitted to the Croatian by-laws and is therefore forbidden.” Financial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA), the Croatian News Agency (HINA), and is published on the 33 Annex overview of relevant sustainability indicators (GRI G4) In preparing this report, along with the ten UN Global Compact principles, the following sustainability indicators (GRI G4) of the Global Reporting Initiative were taken into consideration: Information Page Organization profile 3 Strategy and analysis 2 Report profile 3, 26 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 3-4 I. Human Rights G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 6 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor G4-HR6 Operation and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 6 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor II. Labor G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 8 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender 13 and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 8, 13 employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 9 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and 8 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total 8 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 11 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by 12 gender and by employee category G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant 15 locations of operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of 14 operation G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts 18 are assessed for improvement 34 III. Environment G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 22 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 22 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 23-24 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 24 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 25-26 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 25-26 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 25-26 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 27 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 28 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non29 compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions 29 taken IV. Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 33 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 33 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 33 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 33 and their outcomes 35 This report is available on the UN Global Compact and Dukat websites and on Dukat’s Intranet portal. Report Profile Reporting period: 2015 Date of last report: May 2015 Reporting cycle: annual Date of publishing: May 2016 Publisher: Dukat d.d., Marijana Čavića 9, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia Design: Hand Studio d.o.o. Contact for socially responsible business operations: Elena Wolsperger Dolezil, elena.wolsperger-dolezil@dukat.hr Kristina Klarić Rubčić, kristina.klaric-rubcic@dukat.hr www.dukat.hr
