COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Crédit Agricole Srbija 2015 TABLE OF CONTENTS Message from the CEO Credit Agricole Group Credit Agricole Srbija Economic responsibility Social responsibility Civic responsibility Environmental responsibility 1 In 2015 we continued to provide support to our clients and continued with our L’Esprit de Service project of new sales approach with the aim of long-term increase in customer satisfaction as well as increase in competency and personal satisfaction of our colleagues working in the branch network. In 2015 we have broadened the scope of training and shared our significant successess by naming our Champions! We have established our main goals in relation to the digital development of the Bank and our Digital Ambassadors will promote these ideas in the network as of 2016. The final phase of the project Danube Mission done in cooperation with International HR Projects CASA DRHI, CAS HR People Development Sector and Sales Network and Multichannel Division with the aim to strenghten cooperation and knowledge sharing between the regional banks in France and Crédit Agricole Srbija was a great success, generating yet again, fresh energy, drive and enthusiasm within the network. In order to address our environmental responsibility, we have joined forces with the French-Serbian Chamber of Commerce to award the best student works regarding solving the problem of how to fight climate change and its consequences. However, we are agian the most proud of our award winning employee We at Crédit Agricole Srbija believe that the loyalty and trust of our clients as engagement program “Good Fairy Dobrila’s Team” that has once again proved to well as our employees, drive our success. We place our utmost importance on be truly engaging and to the core aimed at advocating children’s rights and safeguarding the welfare of our clients and employees and thus we inclusive society for all. transparently engage with our communities in a way that is in line with our values. We are proud to be a responsible bank that embraces ambition in an ethical manner equally towards our clients, our employees, our society and our Committed to keep earning that loyalty and trust, we do it by leveraging our environment and we are determined to strengthen this direction in the future as expertise to find solutions that address the local challenges our cleints face, well. including climate change, poverty, financial safety, and ageing societies. We believe that our corporate commitment to sustainable development supports long-term economic growth by enhancing the reputation, brand, and community standing of the Credit Agricole Group. In each of these areas our intention is to demonstrate the same high professional standards and effectiveness as well as organic growth, that we demonstrate in our daily business. Crédit Agricole Srbija 2 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP 3 4 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE'S CSR IS BASED CREDIT AGRICOLE GROUP: PRINCIPLES ON POWERFUL CONVICTIONS: • The balance between economic, social and environmental development is vital for everyone's future. Based on powerful convictions, Crédit Agricole's CSR commitments are expressed every day • A bank only prospers in the long term through its across the Group's entities through joint actions customers, employees, the regions where it is and tangible signs of progress. established and the environment of which it is part. • CSR must apply to all business lines. • CSR represents an ongoing approach to progress. A DIFFERENT VERSION FOR EACH ENTITY IN THE GROUP THAT FACTORS IN THE FOLLOWING: • The diversity of its business lines. • Its sustainable development issues. • Its specific stakeholders. • Respect for each of its commitments. • Sharing initiatives and actions with other entities of the Group. Over the past few years, Crédit Agricole has generated an increasing number of CSR initiatives across its entities, notably by rolling out improvements suitable for its various business lines, and by further incorporating non-financial criteria in its procedures and offers. 5 CREDIT AGRICOLE GROUP: POLICY 3 AMBITIONS 10 PRIORITIES CSR AT THE HEART OF ALL BUSINESS LINES' Ambition No. 2 ACTIVITIES Striving for excellence in our operations and relations with customers and Ambition No. 1 employees Ambition No. 3 Supporting regions in addressing 4. Aiming for a lasting relationship Managing all risks, including nonsustainable development with our customers, protecting their financial interests and making our offering 1. Listening to our internal and accessible. 8. Ethical behavior in banking and external stakeholders, understanding finance operations and taking into account the economic, 5. Being a responsible employer, social and environmental issues that encouraging the personal development 9. Factoring in environmental, social affect them. and employability of staff, guaranteeing and governance criteria more effecfairness by promoting diversity, tively at the design stage of all our 2. Offering innovative products and promoting quality of life at work and products and services services across our business lines in social dialogue. order to meet the main sustainable 10. Continuing formalization and development challenges faced by our 6. Limiting and reducing our direct guaranteeing compliance with the seccustomers and partners environmental footprint, particularly in tor policies that guide our actions and terms of energy, paper and waste. behaviour and asserting our require3. Responding to the societal ments as a responsible financier and challenges identified in the Credit 7. Taking social and environmental investor in various complex or sensitive Agricole's four fields of excellence in factors into account in our purchasing business sectors agriculture and food, housing, health processes and relationships with our supand the ageing population, energy pliers and subcontractors savings and the environment 6 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA 7 CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA Crédit Agricole Srbija is a universal bank, a member of the Crédit Agricole, French banking group which owing to over 125 years of experience has positioned itself as one of the a leading full-service retail banks in Europe. As the market leader in Retail Banking in France, Crédit Agricole is the leading financial partner of the French economy and one of the largest banks in Retail Banking in Europe. The Group employs more than 140.000 people and successfully meets the needs of 50 million customers worldwide. Tailor-made offer of products adjusted to clients’ needs in line with the highest financial standards, is what each of 260.000 customers in 80 branches of Crédit Agricole bank receive in all parts in Serbia. Commitment to the development of long-term relationships with clients, their financial needs and requirements has had a direct impact on business of Crédit Agricole Srbija since it records better This trend reinforces a strong commitment of CA Almost 900 banking professionals whose main goal results every year. Srbija Bank for further growth and development is long-term protection of the interests of clients on Serbian market. Strategic orientation of Crédit and fulfilling of all their financial needs, work on Growth in the number of clients, as well as the Agricole bank Srbija is to support the local these tasks daily and that is why Crédit Agricole level of deposits entrusted to Crédit Agricole bank economy, businesses and citizens through bank Srbija is the Bank of Common sense. in Serbia, are the best indicators of the level of specialized products, participation in subsidized credibility and trust that customers have in CAS. loans and special credit lines. 8 OUR CSR VISION OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITIES Corporate social responsibility is taken quite Our economic responsibilities are equally relevant to seriously at Crédit Agricole Srbija (CAS) and all our all four business lines: responsibilities and commitments are enhanced by our corporate values: client in focus, responsibility  Retail and ethics.  SBE These commitments call for a stronger  Corporate engagement by all business lines to achieve the  Agro development goals set in 2015 and reflected in the increased levels of attention being given to sustaibability in our economic, social, civic and environmental gaols. Each business line is aware of the following: By committing to Global Compact we transparently Our primary vocation is to serve our clients acknowledge, support and promote the United and long-term financing for the economy is of Nations values and policies of all 10 principles. CAS utmost importance goes a step further in promoting and supporting Children’s rights as part of the sustainable development policy of Crédit Agricole Bank Srbija Listening to our clients is a prerequisite for for the seventh year now. understanding their true needs and designing responsible products accordingly Being responsible for Credit Agricole Srbija means addressing the issues and expectations of a society in flux while ensuring our company’s future. Ethics in our everyday business is the driver towards strengthened confidence in our products and services That’s why we need to understand the aspirations and expectations of our clients and our employees, Each business line accomplishes this through their as well as those of public authorities while specific range of products and services. However, treasuring our most preccios asset—the trust our clients, employees, partners and public authorities behind each product or service there is a committed place in us. employee who is motivated and engaged to fulfil this task in a responsible and ethical manner. 9 STRICT ETHICAL CODE IS FOLLOWED CA Srbija as part of the CA Group conducts Group Rules in the field of Compliance and Financial Security. Compliance with rules and following a strict ethical code are as important to Credit Agricole Srbija as rigorous risk control. The Bank refuses to work with any client or organisation that is involved in fraud, corruption or illicit dealings. This determination also of course includes obeying the law and complying with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. FIDES Group Policies are implemented in the procedures and instructions of the Bank and Compliance conducts training, supervision and control of their application. Important basic principles of FIDES rules include: protection of the brand reputation of Credit Agricole, fight against corruption, fraud, conflict of interest, protection of personal data of customers, handling clients complaints and their appropriate resolution. Compliance organizes trainings for employees where their knowledge level is checked, and also conducts control checks and preventive actions. Every month, all employees are informed about one FIDES Rule as a reminder of good business practice. Anti-corruption rules are clear, transparent and to the point. They among other things, define conflict of interest, gifts giving and receiving, clear procedures and measures how to combat fraud, what the right treatment of public officials are and many other, highly practical examples and pieces of advice. 10 OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES OUR CIVIC RESPONSIBILITIES OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES Credit Agricole Srbija is fully aware that being an Credit Agricole Srbija views civic responsibility in active participant in the economy also means that light of helping to combat social exclusion and the Bank is closely involved in the local community promoting an inclusive society, respecting diversity, Environmental responsibility for Credit Agricole in every region where it does business. education and culture. Srbija means paying particular attention to the impacts on the environment that arise from our Social responsibility means treating the Bank's 900 The Bank has a strong stake in society, through banking activities. employees in a fair, respectful and loyal manner. initiatives and projects which are directed towards inclusion of children with disabilities and socially In addition, the Bank has set clear targets for Employment policy includes fostering diversity, vulnerable children into the society. reducing the environmental impact of its own day-to prioritising internal promotions and internal job -day operations, including reducing paper mobility. Highly respecting and advocating children's rights, consumption by providing new printers which the Bank is concentrating its efforts towards automatically delete all unprinted jobs the following We recognise that we have a particular fighting poverty and hunger in these vulnerable day. responsibility in training all employees in the groups. relevant fields in order to stay abreast of the fast Also, the Bank supports, through the French-Serbian changing world around us, and especially the Credit Agricole is proud to announce that every Chamber of Commerce, student research newly promoted ones. year, its employees take a more active part in programmes that aim to expand understanding of projects within the employee engagement the causes of climate change and help deal with the programme “'Good Fairy Dobrila's Team“'. consequences. Our civic engagement is also manifested in the support of the work of the French Institute whose initiatives encompass arts and culture which Credit Agricole Srbija strongly supports. 11 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 12 Finally, without transparency of communication there is no trust. Therefore the communication is How is Sustainable Development and within it, CSR clear, the communicated aims as well as benefits viewed in Crédit Agricole Srbija? are true to the latter. This is part and parcel of Without responsibility there is no sustainability. We sustainability and the aforementioned responsibilare a financial institution and this fact alone, carries ity. large responsibility. On a business level, acting as a Which are the benefits for Crédit Agricole Srbija responsible bank means making sure that we have and its clients in being a member of wellthe means to fulfil our role in financing the real recognized international banking group Crédit economy. That is why we have put a lot of effort inAgricole Group? to strengthening the Bank’s responsibility culture. There are quite a lot benefits for both CA Srbija Promoting CSR in Retail means putting CSR considerand its clients of being a part of such a strong ations at the very heart of our approach: welcoming, banking group. listening to and providing meaningful advice to our clients, supporting them in their projects and helping The most important thing for every bank is fundthem achieve their goals. Our Spirit of Service is a ing and how it is organized. CA Srbija has access to new attitude in the network and we are very proud this funding through this membership which alto have cultivated it. lows us to have credit lines which are affordable and therefore puts us in a position to offer good Our promotions from within with the aim to further prices to our clients. develop and strengthen this responsibility culture proved to be the best way forward and we intend to The other important thing is non-material asset: continue with the good practice. methodology and knowledge that are transferred In an interview with Svetozar Šijačić, Head of into Credit Agricole Srbija from the Group are Retail Markets Division, we wanted to find out Our employee engagement programs are truly enpriceless. Now we can easily apply them with more about how Sustainable Development is gaging and they are aimed at advocating the chilviewed within Credit Agricole Srbija. slight modifications in order to make them suitadren’s rights while raising awareness about the imble for our market. “Without transparency of communication portance of an inclusive society. The management of there is no trust. Therefore the communicathe bank is no longer a spectator of these programs, The final result is that our clients can benefit from tion is clear, the communicated aims as well but active participant—that is our best way forward the modern and functional banking services and as benefits are true to the latter. This is part and we should stay the course. products. This membership also strengthens trust and parcel of sustainability and the aforeinto the subsidiary which is, I believe, of great immentioned responsibility. “ portance for every client. 13 THE FIRST TRAINING IN THE SPIRIT OF The practical part consisted of simulations based on For the first time in the CAS we have been using various queries while collegues gave answers to this platform in this way, and prepare materials SERVICES IN 2015 for the training which proved to be very useful. them and made constructions to proposals. Also, support from colleagues from Validation In the week between the 12th and 16th January 2015 and Risk was very significant. we found out from there was a training organized across the network on The groups were mixed in terms of the experience Bojan Vesić, Regional Sales Manager. the topic of car loans, and judging by the feedback, of colleagues in connection with the sale of car loans, the training was very successful. so there were some very experienced ones in the Training in the mentioned passed just over 100 approval of car loans and establishing cooperation colleagues from the network and in the first week Car loans at the CAS represent one of the most with dealers, but also those who are only familiar of February the training continues with other important generators of production, as well as new with this area.Before the training colleagues had colleagues, portfolio owners. clients, and for these reasons the Regional Sales done a test on an e-learning platform. The test was Managers and colleagues from Car Finance devised a designed by members of RSM team, and the one-day training encompassing a complete process questions were divided into several categories. The First impressions of colleagues from the network, in relation to car loans covered in one day. test results have helped us to look at the current judging by the comments collected anonymously, The training had all the essential elements: sales level of knowledge categories, which later we used as are excellent. approach, Long channel, working in the PDS, the a guideline for the preparation of training materials. iteration with Validation and Risk, product catalog, cooperation with dealers and specificity of certain products and structures. 14 SENIOR CASH LOANS WITH REPAYMENT PERIOD UP TO 75 YEARS OF AGE WITH FREE OVERDRAFT Crédit Agricole Srbija has prepared for pensioners cash loans with fixed interest rate and fixed monthly installment with special benefits: extended age limit repayments up to 75 years of age and free overdraft in the amount of pension during the year. Crédit Agricole has prepared for pensioners dinar cash loans with a fixed nominal interest rate of 16.95% per annum, effective interest rate of 20.65% per annum, repayment period of 72 months with the possibility of repayment of the loan from 70 to 75 years of age. All new clients who during the campaign opt for the cash loan and transfer their pension to Crédit Agricole, the Bank grants unique conditions for overdrafts. Specifically, the bank will approve the loan on the current account in the amount of pension, without interest and costs over the next 12 months, which means that both nominal and effective interest rates are 0%. In order to use this privilege it is necessary that the loan amount is at least twice the amount of the pension of the client. 15 INTEREST FREE LOANS FOR IN VITRO FERTILIZATION Infertility is one of the most pressing problems of not only If for example, someone decides to take Crédit the country, but also of modern society in general. For all Agricole’s interest-free financing costs of IVF in those for whom in vitro fertilization is the only way to reGenesis in the amount of 2,000 euros for two years, alize their dreams and become parents, Crédit Agricole it is necessary to ensure the participation of 600 has provided financial support for this important undereuros, and the rest of the loan will be repaid in 24 monthly installments in the amount of 58 euros. taking. In cooperation with the Special Gynecology Hospital Within the loan, the patients can use the diagnostic Genesis , the Bank has provided interest-free loans for methods a one-day diagnosis, diagnostic the the cost of IVF for all future parents in this renowned hysteroscopy and ERA test, the SAT test, CGT test institution. which significantly increases the success rate of in vitro fertilization, and which is exclusively, in the Crédit Agricole Bank and Special Gynecology Hospital Genterritory of Serbia, introduced by the Special esis have joined resources and offered a unique financial Gynecology Hospital Genesis. The success rate of and technical assistance to our citizens. Unique, interestIVF in the hospital for all age groups is 57.6% and it free consumer loans are developed for this purpose and is the level of the world's most successful IVF clinics they are indexed in euros with maturity period from 6 to and hospitals. 36 months. Apart from health, there are social, economic and It is necessary to provide the legally stipulated social factors that affect the dramatic increase in participation of 30% for the loan and the maximum loan infertility. For simple reproduction of the nation it is amount can be up to 10,000 euros. Loan processing fees necessary to have 2.14 children per woman, and in are 0%, and the bank does not charge either for full or our country this percentage is 1.36. According to partial early repayment of the loan, so it could be closed data, the population between the two censuses at any moment or the remaining debt reduced in this way. decreased in Serbia by 377,335 persons. Life always wins with Crédit Agricole and Special Gynecology Hospital Genesis Novi Sad. 16 HOUSING LOANS WITH FIXED INTEREST RATE Since the second half of June at the Crédit Agricole bank there is a unique product on the market: housing loan with a fixed interest rate. The interest rate is fixed for the first 60 months and for that period it is 3.85% per annum for loans with a total repayment period up to 120 months, or 3.95% per annum for loans with a total repayment period up to 360 months. After the expiry of 60 months for the first type of loans up to 120 months, the interest becomes variable and it’s 3.90% per annum + 6MEuribor. For housing loans with a total repayment period of more than 120 months fixed NIR in the first 60 months is 3.95% per annum and thereafter becomes variable and is 3.90% per annum + 6M Euribor. Processing costs amount to 1%, and the loan can at any time be fully or partially repaid prematurely with a commission of 0% to 1%, while loans are insured by the NMIC. With the above-mentioned requirements under HOME CARD campaign that lasts until the end of the year, CAS gives to each client with a housing loan three gift vouchers with discounts of 100, 200 or 300 euros, depending on the amount of the housing loan: one HOME CARD voucher the client can use to pay the administrative costs of the loan, and the other two can be given as gifts, as HOME CARD is issued to the bearer. 2 17 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION OF THE BANK BY 2018 The proposed initiatives, over 120 of them, featured In the future, either independently or with the help in 29 concrete projects that would help the Bank of colleagues from BPI or CA Group, there will be a establish new and also improve the existing digital number of projects initiated that will include business. colleagues from various organizational units of the Bank. Digital business, new functionalities, new user During the workshop, the GMC working group experience and application of technology in daily established guidelines and objectives within the work and contact with colleagues and clients is not a given dimensions that would lead towards the vague category with an unpredictable future. digital transformation of the CAS. Digital strategy will be incorporated into the overall strategy of the Bank and will become its integral part. The workshop organized on 19th June 2015 at Savograd for the GMC memebers was with an aim to create a vision of the digitalisation of the Bank. As a result of initiatives of Crédit Agricole Group and several months of preparation, the Bank's management intensively worked on establishing a digital strategy of the Bank until 2018 in June and July this year. With the help of McKinsey consultants, as well as colleagues from the BPI, the top management of the Bank has set strategic priorities and objectives, and based on them middle management,in a series of workshops, gave concrete initiatives for the short-, mediumand longIn the latest, third workshop, held on 7th July 2015, term projects of digital transformation. GMC has confirmed the validity of the 28 projects, assigning them by priority and determined the time frame for implementation of each of them. 2 18 RETAIL MARKETS TEAM BUILDING Retail Markets division organised a gathering of employees and team building at Ada Ciganlija on 5th June 2015. The sports day started at 10.00 by a working meeting and brainstorming activities with an aim for all employees to contribute by stating how they saw the PI and SBE segment in 2016 and the Bank in 2020. Special competition with two teams in the same boat that paddled in the opposite direction was a draw because the Dragon Boat remained in place. Both teams were energetically rowing completely equally and the boat did not move. After water sports, volleyball followed, while colleagues who have had enough adrenaline excitement for the day, remained in the shade socialising and relaxing. Each group presented their ideas and colleagues supported the team work by rounds of applause. An unforgettable day for all, with perfect weather and a relaxed atmosphere, the day is After the official part was over, the competition in likely to remain in every colleague’s memory as rowing a Dragon Boat could start. a day to remember. Both teams fought tooth and nail for each row but one had to win— and the rows in the air confirmed that. 2 19 PRAKTIK: DINAR LOANS FOR SBE There is a Praktik dinar loans campaign of Crédit Agricole bank for small businesses and entrepreneurs for financing liquidity and working capital. Praktik loans can be used for investing in stocks, raw materials, finished products and goods; to finance small investments and for refinancing loans and liabilities with other banks. For these loans, the bank has set a fixed interest rate ranging from 10.95% and the repayment period is 18 months. All companies can get an even lower interest rate by using recommendations, providing that one of the employees within the company becomes a client of the bank and transfers the salary to Crédit Agricole. In that case, the interest rate for Praktik loan is reduced by one percent. „This loan is aimed at improving the operating work cycle of entrepreneurs and small businesses since with the fixed monthly interest rate which is favourable for all business segments, the work process planing is made much clearer.“ said Vladimir Škrbić, Head of SBE Business Line at Crédit Agricole Srbija. 2 20 EVERYBODY WINS BY SBE RECOMMENDATIONS BRANCH OFFICE ZEMUN BRANCH OFFICE SREMSKA MITROVICA BRANCH OFFICE SOMBOR Colleague Meša Šantić, Senior SBE Micro RM handing in the Slobodanka Šorak, Branch Manager Sremska Mitrovica, Colleague Zorica Mraović, Sales Service Manager (on the gift to the client SBE client and Branislava Savić, RM SBE Micro right) handing in the gift to the client at Branch Office Sombor On 4th March 2015 a gift was given to the SBE client, as On 4th March 2015 at the Branch Office Sremska On 4th March 2015 at the Branch Office Sombor the part of the By SBE Recommendation Everybody Wins Mitrovica, a gift was handed in to the SBE client within the action By SBE Recommendation Everybody gift was handed in to the SBE client within the action action that started on 3rd December 2014. Wins. By SBE Recommendation Everybody Wins. The client's response to the USB mobile charger was The client who first received the gift, 8GB USB was very positive, because as every entrepreneur, he The client has received an MP4 and USB because he the accounting agency that has long been cooperating spends quite some time on the road and it happens recommend three clients who have opened an with the Bank and sending us customers. This is the that the battery on the mobile inconveniently runs out. account in our Bank in “Dobrodošlica” and they all do first time that we were able to thank the client in this Thanks to the gift, from now our client will not have payments. He will continue to refer his colleagues way for their loyalty. this concern because the gift is very practical and useful and acquaintances to our Bank because he is satisfied Each client positively reacts when they hear that they we learned from colleague Vladimir Vujanović, Branch with the cooperation and service. we learned from would get something from the Bank as a present. Our Manager in Zemun Branch Office. our colleague Branislava Savić. goal is to make our client happy with handing the gift, only after the client who was recommended became active. We make sure to emphasize that the gift is actually a sign of our appreciation for the trust that our clients has. we learned from Gordan Štork, Branch Manager Sombor. 2 21 L’ESPRIT DE SERVICE FOR SBE Continuation of training L’Esprit de Service for colleagues working with SBE clients is held in April and May for all Micro RM, Senior Micro RM, Small RM and new Branch Managers. Lecturers are Marija Vasiljević and Ognjen Martinović, Regional Sales Managers for SBE and Marko Stojanović and Milan Gavrić, Regional Sales Managers. The training consists of separate units which represent change management, portfolio management, preparation for the meeting by phone, calling clients, work environment, verbal and nonverbal communication, phases of the meeting, and role play. Igor Radat, Senior Micro RM shared with us his impressions from the L’Esprit de Service training. The new model is the concept of mutual interaction of employees in the branches and clients and their The training titled L’Esprit de Service has left a very communication, which puts the spotlight on the clipositive impression on me, mostly because of the reents and their needs. In a time of rapid change, cuslaxed atmosphere and interactive participation of all tomers expect more from banking adviser—they present, pointing out the aspects and moments in the expect special, personalized approach, respecting relationship with the clients. the client as a person. The approach which is motivated by a sample used from the mass customers Also, all of the topics that were discussed at the trainno longer meets the needs of today's customer. ing were supported by examples from practice, which is a very good approach. A new concept that stems from the spirit of service, is certainly a step further towards separation from This is also a good indicator that the communication other banks. Moreover, it is recognized as with clients should include examples, so that the clients different as evidenced by numerous examples get better understanding of something said in banking from practice, which for us, is a special satisfaction. terms, which may sound complicated and unfamiliar to said in an interview Nebojša Milićević, Head of them. Sales Development and Network Organization. 22 „MojAuto sedi i vozi“ is a dinar loan for the purchase CAS WINNER OF THE BEST CAR LOAN OF of used vehicles from private individuals who THE YEAR advertised their vehicle sale on the site MojAuto.rs. The laon is granted for amounts between 100.000 and 2.500.000 dinars, and the repayment period is from 6 to 60 months. Nominal fixed interest rate is 15.45% per annum (EKS 19.40% p.a.), one-time processing fee cost is 2.5%, while the maintenance fee, insurance of loan and partial or early repayment fee is 0%. For the most popular car in 2015 was named Opel Corsa which won the most votes among 44 candidates and other awards were given to six more models. At the contest for the golden car 2015 in the organisation of the magazine Auto Bild which was held on 24th September 2015 a the Falkensteiner, Crédit Agricole bank won the award for the „Best Car Loan 2015“ for the loan „MojAuto sedi i vozi“. (MyCar sit and ride) At the award ceremony for „Golden Car“ in the name of Crédit Agricole bank the award for the best car loan of 2015 was received by Vladan Stanisavljević, Head of Long Channel Banking at Crédit Agricole Srbija. 23 Crédit Agricole, for the fifth time in succession, The seminar was attended by representatives of the supported the Seminar of Farmers on Tara organized Ministry in the part relating to the management of AN INTERVIEW WITH AGRO EXPERT by the Club 100P plus from 25th to 31st January agricultural land owned by the state and on this oc2015. In addition to presenting the specialized offer casion was presented a draft law on agricultural land for farmers, CAS team organized a traditional walk transactions. Unfortunately, part of the Ministry dealing with planning subsidy programs for 2015 was on paths of Tara for this year’s 300 participants. unable to attend the seminar. By supporting this most important winter seminar for farmers on Tara mountain, which was held for the eleventh time, we wanted to meet the farmers’ needs as the Bank which is a true partner that recognizes trends in agriculture. This year the focus is on financing of bio-renewable energy sources and energy efficient machinery such as tractors, but also on a special short-term financing of spring sowing on the basis of future crops. Research and development in the field of efficient and responsible energy expenditure in agriculture is an effort that Crédit Agricole supports not only at global, but also at the local level. We wish to be a long term and active partner to the farmers who have a responsible approach to problem of sustainable agribusiness said Aleksandar Simić, Head of Agriculture. In an interview with Aleksandar Simić, Head of In addition to lectures given by the professors of the Agriculture, we wanted to find out more about Faculty of Agriculture and Institute, prevailing Credit Agricole's decision to continuously support commercial presentations were given by trading the Winter Seminar of Farmers on Tara. houses dealing with sales of machinery and other equipment intended for agriculture. Seeds and “We wish to be a long term and active pesticide manufacturers presented their programs partner to the farmers who have a and innovations for the next season. responsible approach to problem of sustainable agribusiness” 24 AGRO TEAM’S VIEW OF 2015 E-bank and M-bank IPARD programme 2015 was the year where a long-term digital strateE-bank and M-bank services popularization among gy was outlined for all client groups having in mind the agro clients was one of the more important proThis was a very interesting theme during the year that it’s a process that will not leave out anyone. jects in 2015. since there were few information about the programme. The role of the Bank is to familiarize the clients with After a comprehensive survey regarding the agro this process through various products and services. clients’ habits and digital literacy, modifications Credit Agricole team took an active part in all workwere made in line with the survey findings: shops and conferences where more information Meteo Service could be obtained, and was in constant communica Agro package account was modified tion with Ministries and relevant agencies. METEO Service introduction was the first ‘digital  Educational material was produced activity’ of the Agro team in 2015. It was introduced  RMs were made available to ease the process of at the 82nd Agro Fair in Novi Sad and its essence familiarization of clients with these services. The outcome was that the Agro team was able to was providing accurate and timely weather forekeep the clients informed about the programme and cast information accessible through the CA Bank’s the plan is, since there is still a lot of unknown about website. this programme to continue to inform the clients The test phase should be finished in December and Energy Efficiency about it in 2016. the full launch of the improved and modified service with a user friendly interface should be available to all interested clients next year. Energy efficiency and renewables were another important topic in 2015. In order to make their agro business sustainable, the aim was to increase awareness regarding this topic among agro clients. Activities related to this topic were:  New credit line for energy efficiency was introduced  Together with Guarantee Fund of Vojvodina, clients who were in cattle breeding business and were interested in energy efficiency project implementation, were visited 25 METEO SERVICE OF CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA PRESENTED Crédit Agricole Srbija presented at the 82nd International Agro Fair in Novi Sad the solution of the METEO service that provided timely information about the micro-meteorological conditions on the basis of which it was simpler and easier to choose the appropriate agrotechnolgical measures in order to achieve higher savings, higher yields and higher profits. All visitors of the 82nd International Agro Fair had the opportunity to try out the service on the Bank’s stand in Hall 1, or with the help of the QR code could access it via their mobile phones during the Fair. Presenting the METEO service this year, the solution that is used in France for years, Crédit Agricole Srbija has brought the innovation from the developed markets of the EU. In synergy with Crédit Agricole group, the CAS continuously aims to improve farmers’ business in the Serbian market. The METEO service, part of the METEO Agro package, was met with great interest by both— the visitors of the Fair and the journalists. As in previous years, Crédit Agricole Srbija prepared competitive financing terms and conditions of procurement of agricultural machinery while the preliminary approval of the loan was given to the interested customers in Press conference—presentation of the METEO service less than 24 hours. Special fair conditions of the Crédit Agricole bank for financing the purchase of agricultural machinery have been extended until 15th June. 26 PRESENTATIONS OF AGRO OFFER IN VOJVODINA Farmers’ Association—presentation of agro offer in Club of Farmers at Kisač Colleague Darko Ilić, Agro RM presenting the Kanjiža Bank offer at GAC Lucerka in Kula Crédit Agricole was presented by Igor Harhaji, Agro In February 2015 Agro team of Crédit Agricole began a Laon Manager and he introduced the products series of presentations in the towns and villages all over and services of the Bank especially created for Vojvodina. The aim of the presentations is to familiarize farmers during his presentation. the farmers with CAS agro offer and funding opportunities for the upcoming sowing season, as well Organized by the General Agricultural Cooperative as the funding of materials, machinery, buying land, Lucerka in Kula, there was a presentation for the equipment or storage spaces. subcontractors of the cooperative, on 16th February 2015. On 12th February 2015 colleague Miljan Žunić Agro RM gave a presentation in Kanjiža at an event attended by In the presence of about 30 subcontractors, about 40 farmers, organized by the Association of colleague Darko Ilić put the emphasis on the Farmers. financing of the upcoming sowing season while the On 13th February 2015 a presentation was held at the subcontractors were acquainted with CAS offer for Club of Farmers in Kisač within the club activities aimed loans in RSD for financing raw materials and other at the education of farmers, traditionally taking place in within the agribusiness offer. Farmers at GAC Lucerka in Kula while receiving January and February. promotional packages from Crédit Agricle Srbija This year, farmers were acquainted with the new products of manufacturers of seeds, fertilizers and machinery. 27 CAS AT ”DUŽIJANCA” IN STARI ŽEDNIK They all set together at a ‘table’ made of straw where the famous harvester’s breakfast was awaiting bacon, onion, sour milk, homemade bread and water from the local well. There were more than 400 visitors at the event, of which 70 are farmland owners. The best and quickest harvesters by hand, were this year again, a couple Stipan Kujundžić and Ruža Juhas (photo above). As an old custom dictates, the harvesters and their Crédit Agricole Srbija supported the contest of female partners gathered on the field at six o'clock in harvesters by hand that took place on Saturday, 11 July 2015 at taditional event Dužijanca (Harvest Day the morning, immediately rolled up their sleeves and Celebration) in Stari Žednik. started knitting ropes. At “Dužijanca” a traditional feast marking the end of An hour later, the guests started arriving in decorated harvest and bringing together hundreds of people from chariots and they were greeted by the hosts, Blaženka Vojvodina and neighboring countries, as the central and Stipan dressed up in festive folk costumes. event was the harvest by hand competition held on the estate of Stipan and Blaženka Šarčević. This year there were 30 couples of adult competitors and 5 children couples who harvested wheat in the traditional way using scythe and the Bank as the main sponsor of the event, prepared cash prizes for the top three competitors. 28 GOSPOJINA AGROFEST ALMEX CARAVAN Agro team of Crédit Agricole Srbija led by Aleksandar Simić, Head of Agriculture, was present at the Almex Caravan held on 5th September 2015 at the estate of Old Tamiš near Pančevo. Almex Caravan is a field show where the entire range of agricultural machinery in operation is displayed, under the auspices of the Almex company from Pančevo, while CAS is a key parter in the sale of agricultural machines. During the two-hour presentation of all the machines at work, in front of about 600 guests, CAS team has established significant contacts and strengthened existing good relationships with customers. Crédit Agricole Bank participated at the 3rd Gospojina Poljofest (Agro Fest of the Assumption Day) in Novi Bečej from 28th to 30th August by presenting its agro offer. Around 1000 visitors of Gospojina Days had an opportunity to get to know our Agro offer including METEO service, Package for young farmers and loans for agricultural production and investments. Participation in the agro manifestations is usually abundant in opportunities—both to strenghten contacts with existing clients as well as to obtain new ones. 29 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 30 Concerning the term human resources it refers to Employees in Compensation and Benefits are AN INTERVIEW WITH CAS HR EXPERT the people in the organization, their potential and all primarily engaged in salaries, incentives, bonuses, the skills and abilities they may provide to the benefits for employees, and it is within their company to fulfil its needs. Human resources are responsibility to do the budgeting for human becoming a key factor and an important potential for resources as well, which makes slightly over 50% achieving business goals, business performance, the of total operating expenses of the Bank. company's values and business reputation of the People Development Sector in addition to organcompany in the market. They include knowledge, izing trainings, deals with performance manageskills, experience, abilities, creative abilities, ment, talent management, coaching, etc. It motivation and loyalty at the disposal of a company. should be noted that since December 2014 a new Human Resources Division in the Bank (HR Division) E-Learning system is in function with the aim to has both operational as well as strategic role. The provide faster, real-time trainings and the desired operational role is realized through everyday data to all employees. activities of administrative and technical nature. Achieving a strategic role involves activities related Recruitment and Selection department is responto planning of human resources, trends assessment sible for finding candidates, doing the selection, in the movement of labor force, employment recruitment for all vacant positions, recruitment strategy design, people development management strategy, cooperation with state institutions and and also management of their potentials. authorities in terms of participation in various HR Division is divided into four functional parts: projects for the employment of young, educated Administration, Compensation & Benefits, People and talented people. We hope that in 2015 the Development and Recruitment and Selection. In Recruitment project of young talents in cooperaorder to easier connect with employees, each of tion with the Ministry of Youth and Sports will be these organizational units form a special business successfully implemented. partnership. Requests from the divisions are much faster and easier resolved in this way, and the If someone asked for an 'identity card' of HR, managers and employees in all divisions know who how would it look like? In an interview with Aleksandra Bubić, Head of to turn to in case of need. Human Resources Division, we wanted to find out When we look at organizational units within the HR As in most organizational units of the Bank, in the more about this division and its organization. division, we can say that the Administration, in HR division as well, one can see a colorful picture “Our aim is to constantly improve the work of the addition to the classic administrative tasks, also consisting of employees of different occupations HR Division, including task performance, to the deals with issues such as rights, obligations and and professions, which is logical given that a very satisfaction of our clients Bank employees, in orresponsibilities of employees, work organization and broad spectrum of work is covered. The most imsystematization, various employment-related issues, portant is that all members of the HR team are der to bring it to the higher level, improving the reporting, etc. professional, hardworking, responsible and trustorganizational efficiency, initiating greater involveworthy. ment of employees and better productivity.” 31 STRUCTURE WORK EXPERIENCE EDUCATIONAL STRUCTURE BREAKDOWN On 31st December 2015 there were 917 employees in Crédit Agricole Srbija. Out of that number 314 employees are male and 603 female. The level of education of our employees is Average work experience in the Bank for 2015 was high, with 57% of population with University 13,2 years. degree. For women average work experience was 13,5 years The rest of educational breakdown structure and for men 12,7 years. on 31/12/2015 is shown in the chart below: In 2015 average age of employees was 39 – for male employees the average was 40 and for female employees 39. Employee’s gender ratio in comparison to the type of Labor Contract is given in the following table on 31/12/2015: LABOR CONTRACT/ FeTotal Male GENDER male 31/12/2015 Temporary 15 56 71 Permanent 299 547 846 Total 31/12/2015 314 603 917 Female employees comprise 66% of total number of employees, and represent 38% in top 10% top earners in the Bank. 2 32 RECRUITMENT TRAINING PROGRAMS In 2015 female employees make up 68% in total reIn 2015 number of internal trainings in CAS was 137, cruitment. while we had 60 external trainings. with significant increase in number of internal trainings. Average age of recruited employees in 2015 was 31 with 2,5 years of experience in average. PROJECT ‘TAKE CARE’ In cooperation with the Ministry of Youth and Sports, A project initiated by international HR Benefit team, CAS launched a new recruitment project and enwith the main objective to define a unified system of gaged ten young graduates /apprentices to work in benefits (Life Benefits, AD&D, Disability, and CAS for a year. They started in May-June 2015. Healthcare) for the Group and identification of the main areas for improvement within all BPI subsidiaries. This program was very successful and majority of graduates is now incorporated into the Bank. General idea is to provide additional medical insurance to employees (for example for pregnant women, twoDANUBE MISSION three free medical examination in private clinics). Within the fourth phase of the Danube Mission, New global policy related to health, life and disability there was another visit to France organised for the insurance has been adopted. The final outcome is a CAS in the period from 20th to 24th January 2015 global policy agreement that will double the capital of and this time it was a visit to Crédit Agricole Nord de previous year. Adaptation of this agreement in DecemFrance in Lille ber was caused by changes in local regulations. Four topics were the focus of the visit: Branch organINTERNAL SATISFACTION SURVEY ization, Portfolio Management, Sales Methodology and Commercial Tools and Multichannel (mobile In December 2015 CAS organized Internal Satisfaction banking, e-banking, internet access). Survey for the second time. The goal of survey was to measure transversal team effectiveness and how satisIn Lille they visited one of 270 branches, Contact fied internal customers were with the service they received from supportive business functions. Center and E-branch and the Marketing Department. 2 33 The program of the visit was, for this group of Four topics were the focus of the visit: Branch DANUBE MISSION: colleagues as well, precisely defined, quite intense and organization, Portfolio Management, Sales Methodology and Commercial Tools and CAS VISIT TO FRENCH COLLEGUES AT rich. Multichannel (mobile banking, e-banking, CRÉDIT AGRICOLE NORD DE FRANCE Our team spent four days in Lille, a city in the north of internet access). France, located near the Belgian border. Together with the wider metropolitan area Lille has about 1.1 million In Lille they visited one of 270 branches, Contact inhabitants, it’s one of the largest student centers of Center and E-branch and the Marketing France with its 100,000 students and it’s only about Department. 300km away from Paris. The hosts prepared very detailed presentations Lille is the center of the textile industry and trade, and to our team in order to familiarize them with the if one takes the TGV (Train à Grande Vitesse, highwork of the Crédit Agricole Nord de France. speed-train ) it takes only some 50 minutes to reach Paris, about 30 to get to Brussels and around 80 to get Our team paid special attention to the to London. implementation of the spirit of service that has The most famous resident of Lille was Charles de Gaulle been fully implemented in all French branches, general and statesman, by which the airport in Paris is and for our colleagues it meant a lot to see in named. practice how it all worked, because that was exactly what was currently worked on in the CAS. Our CAS team with French colleagues Immediately upon arrival, our colleagues were The last day of the visit our CAS team spent in genuinely delighted with the warm welcome and that Paris. Within the fourth phase of the Danube Mission, there enthusiasm continued throughout the entire duration was another visit to France organised for the CAS team of the visit. in the period from 20th to 24th January and this time A warm welcome is in the minds of our team it was a visit to Crédit Agricole Nord de France in Lille. connected also with meeting with friends, Mr. Thierry Lebrun, Member of the Executive Board of Crédit Twelve of our colleagues: Raško Tomašević, Head of Agricole Nord de France, who worked at Crédit Agricole Marketing, Communications and PI Business Line, Srbija for few years, and Mr. Francois Mace, the CEO of Vladan Stanisavljević, Head of Long Channel, Nebojša the Crédit Agricole Nord de France. Mr. Mace visited Milićević, Head of Sales Development and Network Crédit Agricole Srbija several times as a member of the Organisation, Ana Bojović, Head of Recruitment and Board of Directors of CAS. Wholehearted welcome, Selection and Retail Business Partner and Regional exceptional hospitality and wonderful words about Sales Managers: Tatjana Stojačić, Silvana Milivojević, Serbia followed our CAS team during their stay in Lille, Sandra Simić, Bojan Pavlović, Bojan Vesić, Milan while the experience was additionally enriched by Gavrić, Miloš Vojvodić and Marko Stojanović paid a Team of French colleagues with Mr Le Masson getting to know the French colleagues from CA Nord de working visit to Crédit Agricole Nord de France. France. The coordinator of the visit was Mr. Sarrazin, to our team known best for his inexhaustible energy. 34 DANUBE MISSION: IMPRESSIONS Within cooperation with International HR Projects CASA DRHI, CAS HR People Development Sector and Sales Network and Multichannel Division developed the Danube project in 2013 as an answer to the changes that took place within the Retail Division. Within the fourth phase of the project there was a second group CAS visit to Crédit Agricole in Lille in the period from 20th to 24th January 2015. Impressions of our colleagues follow below. CAS team and the team of French colleagues Raško Tomašević, Head of Marketing, Bojan Pavlović, Regional Sales Manager, Kragujevac The appointment and sales process allow the client to Communication and PI Business Line come up with the best solution for him together with During our visit to colleagues in the Nord de France the sales adviser. This is accomplished using the proConceptually, this was an excellently regional bank we had a chance to see a very orgagram, which, through asking the right questions leads organized visit and very useful, because it was nized system of work and cordial colleagues who are to the fulfillment of the real needs of the client. a visit to the Credit Agricole Nord de France focused on the ultimate goal a satisfied customer. The size of the portfolio is optimized to provide the which is a Center of Competence. The most Full integration of the sales methodology and relabest service to all clients and if that number becomes useful thing was that we had a chance to talk tionship with the client through all of the structure of too large to affect the quality of client-advisor relationto the people who perform different jobs and their organization (the French version RC2.0 our ship, a new position of adviser is created. tasks and to ask specific questions, so that we L’Esprit de Serivce) left a particular impression on me. had a productive way of talking about the The mere branch is oriented toward adequate recepimplementation of specific solutions. tion of clients via the Welcome Desk, where each cliFor me, the strongest impression left the CRM ent is warmly greeted and directed to the part where team with its 40 employees, representing the he or she can satisfy their need in the easiest way Center of Competence at the Group level. The (photo 1-lower right corner). way they work, Call Center with clear The branch is branded with local motifs and distinccommercial objectives, e-agency, as colleagues tive character that also influence the customer to feel call an electronic branch, which aims to retain in a familiar environment (photo 2 mounted on the customers who phisically moved and thus keep upper part of the next page). them as clients because they stay with the bank. 2 35 Miloš Vojvodić, Regional Sales Manager, Niš In the business part, my strongest impression is the focus on the availability which is permeated through the work of colleagues at all levels. Whether it is reflected in the opening of the ebranch to make it available to clients who are not currently in the region, whether a strategic intent to provide a point of contact for 15 minutes, to the work of the organization and the individual colleagues through planning meetings, preparation, and constantly developing the spirit of service. Also, focus on the customer is further enhanced through the great practice of creating events and commercial activities by the marketing department Marko Stojanović, Regional Sales Manager, Niš but also through constant and systematic All in all, this was one of the most positive professional monitoring of customer satisfaction as one of the experiences that made me proud because we were part of the Group which had such standards, What left the strongest impression on me during a basic and most important parameters. visit to the Credit Agricole Nord de France, is that all Sales support in the form of joint meetings, regular approach, collegial spirit and willingness to invest in this kind of exchange of experiences—all this our French counterparts gave their best to give us anmonitoring but also great sales tools, primarily in swers to all our questions, to help us to better underthe form of excellent technical and application enhances people and results. stand their work with clients and tools used for that solutions (OAV, integrated application system) has purpose. We had a chance to see an exceptionally effi“Working space, completely adapted to the spirit of enabled a large number of clients with the best cient and effective organization that gave us an examservice and offers a part of it to face-to-face service while colleagues achieved impressive ple of how . communication with the client. It is visible at the results in sales. The sales approach and portfolio management is what photo above that there are no barriers during communication and the client and advisor can go we have in common and what we have dedicated ourHowever, the outstanding impression, without selves to, and our goal is that through this mode of through the offer together using tablet while: which we would not be able to get acquainted with operation, we satisfy the needs of clients and create  The client visualizes the offer all items and issues, which we persistently asked, long-term profitable relationship.  Chooses options him/herself was the exceptional hospitality and kindness of our Now I have experienced firsthand, and it fulfills me  There are always precise and accurate data hosts. The way we were welcomed in a business profesionally, that CAS as part of a huge and powerful available. sense and beyond, really left a very strong financial group, can count on full support to further its All this leads to a relaxed communication which impression, and I hope that we will soon have the path of development. I was delighted by the kindness, enables easier development of trust and closing the opportunity to reciprocate the hospitality to hospitality and pride of our colleagues. offer.” colleagues from the Nord de France. 2 36 Tatjana Stojačić, Regional Sales Manager, Novi Sad All the impressions that I have regarding the visit to colleagues from CA Nord de France are exceptionally positive. The strongest impression on me left a really perfect organization of the visit and the overwhelming hospitality of our hosts. Presentations were prepared in advance for us, translated, interpreters provided, transportation provided if we needed to visit some distant sector. Every colleague with whom we met showed a high level of professionalism, tremendous effort and willingness to answer all our questions, offer additional explanations to us and to go through the department with us, introduce every position Milan Gavrić, Regional Sales Manager, Novi Sad and all the colleagues. During our visit every sinAna Bojović, Head of Recruitment and Selection and Retail Business Partner, Belgrade gle moment I felt great as a guest. Because of this What has left the biggest impression on me was the approach, we saw and learned a lot. Our colMy biggest impression during the visit was sincere idea of the establishment and operation of an Eleagues have a great technological advantage hospitality and openness with which we were branch, and the electronic signature, which together over us, a lot of good applications as tools to help greeted by our colleagues in France, with a with the other multi channel tools significantly them in their daily work, no cashiers, they have ewillingness to share with us all that would be helpful contribute to the connecting of the bank and agencies and clients around the world .... Of to improve our business in Serbia. We really felt like customers and thus better results of the bank. course, we cannot apply it all in our bank at the part of a strong Group on which we can rely. Also, I cannot overlook a warm welcome by all moment, but certainly in the future. In the part of businesses and best practices, a great colleagues in France and friendly attitude during our I take this opportunity to once again heartily impression on me left the level of development of stay. This fact seems to me, was a surprise for all of us thank our French colleagues for their valuable multi channel and CRM and their contribution to because we thought that something like that occurs business experiences shared with us. improving productivity and good customer service. only in Serbia, and now our colleagues gave us homework assignment which is a challenge. We wish, given the chance, to welcome our French colleagues equally wholeheartedly as we were welcomed. 37 CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY 38 OUR VOLUNTEERS: 8th MAGIC BREAKFAST 4th APRIL 2015 On behalf of the team from the branch office Uzice I must say that we had a pleasure participating in this action. We really enjoyed spending time with the consumers, our customers and employees in Metro who made us feel welcome at their premises. It felt great to bring home the impression that there are still a lot of people with a big heart. 39 EASTER LUNCH AND FOOD PACKAGES FOR THE PUPILS OF “ANTON SKALA” SCHOOL On 8th April 2015 within the humanitarian action „Magic Breakfast“ the best young chefs of Serbia prepared at Horeca Centre at Vidikovac lunch for 95 pupils of special school “Anton Skala” from Belgrade. Besides the lunch, the children were sent food packages with snacks that will make their stay at school more pleasant. Also, at Horeca Centre there was a little work action The Easter lunch delivered to the school consisted of packing the food packages that would be of the menu children asked for: delivered together with the lunches as well. Media ‘pljeskavica’ (hamburger like meat), french fries representatives, chefs of Horerca Centre with and salad and since we all know how much MasterChef Uroš Urošević, Food Bank children like desserts, chocolate muffins were representatives, management of the “Anton Skala” prepared as well. school as well as Managers from Crédit Agricole Srbija and METRO Cash & Carry, together participated at the work action of pakcing food for the children. „Magic Breakfast“ encompasses over 4.600 pupils from 35 special schools around Serbia. Its aim is to provide snacks for children in special schools. The action „Magic Breakfast“ lasted until 15th April 2015 in eight towns in Serbia. 240 RUNNERS OF THE GOOD FAIRY DOBRILA TEAM AT 28th BELGRADE MARATHON Saturday, 18th April 2015 was a rainy, cool day. However, “Good Fairy Dobrila Team ” of the big Crédit Agricole team that applied for the 28th SuisseGas Belgrade Marathon in order to “Run for a child’s smile” of the pupils of our adopted school “Dušan Dugalić” did not pay attention to the weather. Knowing that for each finished kilometer in Credit Agricole Srbija colours, the Bank as our sponsor pays 5 euros for the schoolchildren of “Dušan Dugalić” was a motive enough for the colleagues to gather in Good Fairy Dobrila T-shirts. We convey part of the spirit and positive energy through a photo story that follows: Good Fairy Dobrila Team can accomplish anything when together 2 41 SCHOOL SLAVA—SAINT SAVA IN OUR ADOPTED SCHOOL “DUŠAN DUGALIĆ” On 27th January 2015 there was a Slava celebration Saint Sava in our adopted school “Dušan Dugalić” in Belgrade. There were their Royal Highnesses Crown Prince Aleksander II and Crown Princess Katherina Karađorđević present who are the patrons of children for years. With a warm welcome invitation to children to the White Palace (their residence), their highnesses Aleksandar and Katherina wished everyone a happy Slava and a great day among parents and teachers. The school Principal, Ms Dragica Nedeljković expressed special thanks to all Credit Agricole employees who provide breakfasts for children twice a week and highlighted that without their care and support the children would not be able to eat quality meals. 2 42 COMPUTER DONATION TO THE GENERAL On 5th March 2015 at the request of the General HOSPITAL IN ZRENJANIN hospital Đorđe Joanović for the donation of computers and printers, Crédit Agricole responded by donating written-off computers and printers. Colleague Milka Vuković, Branch Manager in Zrenjanin branch handed over the computer and printer to the Head of Accounting of the General hospital, Dušica Vidaković. The computer and printer will serve for performing administrative tasks at the hospital. As a socially responsible company, the Bank responds to the requests of institutions and organizations that are in need of basic equipment, which the Bank had written-off. Within the donation of computers, two organisations are in need as well: primary school Vuk Karadžić in Leskovac and Food Bank in Belgrade. THREE COMPUTERS FOR ELEMENTARY Left to right: Dušica Vidaković, Head of Accounting at the General hospital and Milka SCHOOL “VUK KARADŽIĆ” IN LESKOVAC Vuković, Branch Manager Zrenjanin branch while handing in the computer and printer to Crédit Agricole Srbija presented the depreciated the General hospital in Zrenjanin computers to the elementary school “Vuk Karadžić” in Leskovac on 23rd April 2015. CAS is the first donor company for the new Mathematics Department that would work under a special program of the Ministry of Education for young talents. The donation ceremony was attended by local media, and news of the socially responsible gesture of Ivana Micić, BM Leskovac, while addressing the the Crédit Agricole Bank in Leskovac was broadcast by several media outlets. pupils of “Vuk Karadžić” elementary school in Ivana Micić, BM Leskovac, on the occasion of the Leskovac official presentation of the three donated computers, received a Thank your letter from the School. 2 43 “BANK EMPLOYEE” AT HIGH SCHOOL OF “BANK EMPLOYEE” AT FIRST SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS IN SUBOTICA ECONOMICS IN BELGRADE Živorad Milanović, Housing Loans Manager, during Bojana Stević, Marketing Manager for PI and SBE lectures to the students of the profile Bank Business Lines and Research, during lectures to the Employee at School of Economics “Bosa Milićević” students of the profile Bank Employee at First School of Economics in Belgrade On 28th April 2015 at high School of Economics “Bosa Milićević” in Subotica, there was an On 30th April 2015 at First School of Economics in interactive lecture on Loans and a workshop on The Belgrade, there was a lecture on Marketing in bill of exchange. banking. Our colleague Bojana Stević held a great lecture Since the school teachers explicitly asked for our which covered issues like Marketing function of the colleague Živorad Milanović to teach these two bank, who the consumers of banking services are, interesting topics, the atmosphere among the leading bank strategy and how it looks in practice students and the teachers was very good. when there is a promotion of a product while using marketing tools. Students filled the bill and in a three-minute presentations practiced the interpretation of slides After a very well prepared lecture, the students before their class, which acted as a “Credit suggested a group photo as a reminder of an Committee”. Excellent lecture and workshop ended interesting and dynamic lecture. Congratulations to in the words of Professor With great anticipation, our colleague Stević for the excellent presentation until next year, goodbye. of Crédit Agricole bank Srbija. 44 7th BELHOSPICE CHARITY FOOTBALL BELHOSPICE OPEN AND GOOD FAIRY DOTOURNAMENT BRILA TEAM MEMBERS On Sunday 7th June 2015 for the first time on the courts of Sports center FSS in Stara Pazova, was held the It only took an invitation from BELhospice, the first seventh traditional BELhospice humanitarian football specialized charity organization that provides palliative tournament, sponsored by the municipality of Stara care of patients with malignant diseases in progressive Pazova. and advanced stage, and members of our large team of Good Fairy Dobrila immediately responded. Football team of Crédit Agricole Srbija, led by captain Miodrag Topalović, participated in the tournament which First BELhospice Open charity tennis tournament, was Crédit Agricole Srbija supported since 2008. held on September 26th 2015 at the Club Colonial Sun and two of our players participated: Oliver Jurlina, Oliver Jurlina, Head of Guarantees and Letters of Head of Guarantees and Letters of Credit Department Credit Department and Srđan Krunić, Branch Manager in Valjevo. This year the trophy went into the hands of TeleGroup Ltd., which in the finals won Apatin brewery with 2: 0. The third place went to the team Inpharm, whose player Aleksandar Popović was named the best goalgetter of the tournament with seven goals scored. Srđan Krunić, Branch Manager in Valjevo Thanks to the participating companies, there was collected 12,000 Euros to be used for the purpose of providing free palliative care for terminally ill cancer 45 CHRISTMAS SHOEBOX AT THE NOVI SAD FAIR This year as well the Congress Hall of the Novi Sad Fair was very festive on 8th December 2015. There were two decorated Christmas trees on the stage and on the side tables all the Christmas shoeboxes, wrapped with a lot of care and attention by the employees of four companies: Credit Agricole Srbija, METRO Cash & Carry, Novi Sad Fair and Lafarge, were carefully arranged and displayed. Colorful, sparkling and shiny they were waiting for the 200 students of the school for children with disabilities Milan Petrović . The show which this year was a mini musical “Magic Christmas Cake” has drawn attention of the youngest equally as a bit older ones, and the moment of giving out the wrapped Christmas shoeboxes was the highlight of the afternoon that 8th December since the children were eagerly expecting their present from the Santa’s helpers. 46 CHRISTMAS SHOEBOX AT SAVA CENTRE Christmas Shoebox and theatre play for over 1000 socially disadvantaged children was held at the Sava Center in Belgrade on 11th December 2015, after which the gifts for the children up to 7 were given out. More than 1000 children from socially disadvantaged families from 17 Belgrade municipalities were present at the Sava Center to watch the big New Year performance, and then received gift packages withinin the Christmas Shoebox project, organized by the Crédit Agricole Srbija and METRO Cash & Carry Serbia in cooperation with NGO Food Bank and with the support of the City of Belgrade. Children from kindergartens from all parts of the city accompanied by parents and teachers enjoyed the play Magic Christmas Cake , and afterwards received gift packages containing toys and sweets. The charity Christmas Shoebox was launched seven years ago at the initiative of employees in Crédit Agricole Srbija. The following year METRO Cash & Carry Serbia joined and the employees of both companies voluntarily begun to collect boxes filled with sweets and toys for the unknown child. The idea was that children from socially vulnerable families feel the joy of the New Year holidays and get their Christmas packages and with them the message that they were not forgotten or invisible. Charity Christmas Shoebox has been supported by Ms Aleksandra Bubić, Member of Executive Board of Officials and the audience at Sava Centre the City of Belgrade from the very start and espeCAS and Head of HR addresses the children at Sava cially the Secretariat for Education and Child ProtecCentre tion. 47 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 48 INTEREST FREE CONSUMER LOANS FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY Crédit Agricole Bank in cooperation with its partners prepared an interest free consumer loan for energy efficiency in euros for funding dedicated devices, equipment and works to allow achievement of significant primary energy savings in homes allowing for cutting edge technologies. Consumer loans can be used for the purchase and installation of energy-efficient PVC windows and doors, thermal insulation materials, the latest system of heating and cooling using heat pumps, boilers for heating of the latest generation and the like. The maximum amount of interest-free loan is € 10,000 and the repayment period ranges from 6 to 60 months. It is necessary to provide the legally required minimum participation of 30%, and the loan can be, at any time, fully or partially paid off, because the bank does not charge any administrative costs or costs of loan prepayment. If the total cost of the works amounts to, for example, 3,000 euros, provided by the participation of 1,000, the client will pay back 83.33 euros per month over the next two years. 49 STUDENT AWARD OF FRENCH-SERBIAN In light of climate changes that we have witnessed Every year, in order to promote sustainable in recent years, such as last year's floods in Serbia CHAMBER OF COMMERCE development, the French-Serbian Chamber of or drought in Western Europe, students were Commerce organizes the competition for the Student asked to propose and explain the ways in which Awards and invites students of all faculties in Serbia the local community, but also enterprises, could to write an essay on a given topic. This year's award prepare and contribute to the fight against climate was a sort of announcement on 21st consecutive changes. Five finalists had the opportunity to Climate Change Conference of the United Nations to defend their work before the expert jury. In be held in Paris from 30th November to 11th addition to representatives of the sponsorDecember this year, where the signing of important companies, among the members of the jury was international agreements related to climate change also the representative of the Ministry of are expected. Agriculture and Environment, as well as professors of Philosophy, Economics and the Faculty of Geography in Belgrade. Left to right the awarded students: Bogdan Urošević, Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade, Mihalj Bakator, Technical Faculty Mihajlo Pupin in Zrenjanin and Olja Milovanov, Faculty of Economics in Subotica The French-Serbian Chamber of Commerce (CCIFS) organized on 19th June 2015 the event of Student Award giving for the best student essays. This year the theme Left to right: HE Mrs Christine Moro, Ambassador of was How to fight climate change and its consequences. the Republic of France in Serbia and Ms Sanja Ivanić, Director General, FSCC Thanks to the member companies of the Chamber, the best students have won valuable prizes. The first prize of The award giving event was organised at the 1,500 euros, which was sponsored by Schneider Electric, premises of French Institute in Belgrade. On that went to Olja Milovanov, a student of the Faculty of occasion, the audience was addressed by HE Mrs Economics in Subotica. The second prize of 1,000 euros Christine Moro, Ambassador of the Republic of sponsored by Crédit Agricole Srbija was awarded to the France in Serbia and Ms Sanja Ivanić, Director Left to right: Mihalj Bakator, student given the student Mihalj Bakator with the Technical Faculty Mihajlo General, FSCC. second place and Raško Tomašević, Head of Pupin in Zrenjanin. The third prize of AXA Insurance in Marketing, Communications and PI Business the amount of 500 euros was awarded to Bogdan Photographs courtesy of Zoran Petrović Urošević, Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade. 2 50 www.creditagircole.rs 51
