Responsibility for sustainable success. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 At a Glance 75% CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 0.7 Up to CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 fewer CO2 emissions from remanufactured products 2013 0.9 CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 CO2 (compared with new production) 2014 1.0 2015 0.7 Number of work7,000 More than place accidents with days lost per 200,000 hours worked industrial property rights Company profile Knorr-Bremse is the world’s leading manufacturer of braking systems for rail and commercial vehicles. As a technology leader, the company has been driving the development, production, sale, and servicing of state-of-the-art braking systems for more than 110 years. With its products Knorr-Bremse makes a crucial contribution to improving safety by road and rail all over the globe. Every day, more than a billion people around the world put their trust in systems made by Knorr-Bremse. Contents 03 Foreword 27 Attractive working environment for employees. 05 Sustainable corporate 28 Leadership and personnel development governance. 28 International exchange 29 Diversity and equal opportunity 06 CR strategy and fields of action 30 Health and safety at work 07 CR organization 07 Materiality analysis 09 CR stakeholders 33 Involvement in local and 09 Compliance management and integrity global community projects. 33 Local Care: Involvement at local sites 11 Involving suppliers. 34 Global Care: Helping people worldwide 11 Purchasing management 35 Supporting culture and sports 11 Integrating sustainability 12 Efficient logistics 36 Implementation of the ten Global Compact principles. 15 Safe and resource-saving Imprint products. 15 Focus on innovation 15 Safety-critical products and systems 16 Environmental protection 17 Sustainability in the product life cycle 17 Remanufacturing 21 Precautionary approach to environmental and climate protection. 21 Environmental management 21 Climate protection targets 2020 22 Energy efficiency 23 Resource efficiency 2 3 Ladies and gentlemen, As a family-owned business, taking a responsible, forward-looking approach to our activities has always been an integral part of our business model. It enables us to meet our corporate responsibilities in the interests of our customers, employees, suppliers, the environment, and society as a whole. All over the world we are helping to protect the climate, designing resource-efficient approaches to mobility, and developing solutions for safe road and rail transportation. Our activities in these areas are based on the principles of the UN Global Compact, to which we have been signatories since 2010. Sustainability calls for a joint effort. For our customers we are reliable partners for the development of energyefficient, environmentally compatible solutions. The energy efficiency of our products, in particular, offers huge potential for helping our customers to reduce CO2 emissions, and enables us to make an effective joint contribution to climate protection. At the same time we are raising awareness of more efficient and environmentally compatible processes amongst our partners and suppliers. Constructive dialog is the key to trusting collaboration. It is our employees who breathe life into our sustainability strategy on a daily basis – which makes it all the more important for us to be a fair-minded and attractive employer. External experts confirm this: For the third year running we have been named as a top employer for engineers. In 2015 we not only marked the 110th anniversary of our Company – Knorr-Bremse Global Care also celebrated its first ten years. The fact that this charitable organization exists, and the work it is doing, are proof that Knorr-Bremse’s corporate responsibility is also expressed in the form of practical aid projects. Since it was first set up, the organization has spent some EUR 14 million on 190 projects that have helped more than 625,000 people in need. With the involvement of our colleagues we have also been supporting the work of social and charitable institutions in the neighborhood of our sites around the world as part of the Local Care initiative. Our commercial success provides the financial basis for our active commitment to sustainability. To ensure that Knorr-Bremse maintains its market and technological lead, we are constantly investing in expansion of our development and production facilities. Our new test and development center in Munich, which officially opens in 2016, creates globally unique conditions for the development and testing of new types of braking systems for the rail and truck sectors. The new building enables 350 engineers and technicians from both Company divisions to collaborate on an interdisciplinary basis in developing new products and systems that will bring lasting benefits to our customers – ensuring a safe and sustainable future. Klaus Deller Chairman of the Executive Board of Knorr-Bremse AG 4 Company For 110 years Knorr-Bremse has been driving the development, production, marketing, and servicing of state-of-the-art braking systems. 5 Sustainable corporate governance. ”We are committed to sustainable corporate governance that includes environmental and social aspects in strategic planning, management, and corporate processes.“ Excerpt from the Knorr-Bremse Corporate Responsibility guidelines Our approach to corporate responsibility (CR) is based on Three important elements specify how Knorr-Bremse the idea of sustainable development and covers prodviews its responsibilities. ucts and production processes, employees, environmen• Corporate values: tal and climate protection, and social commitment. Entrepreneurship, Technological Excellence, Reliability, Knorr-Bremse has integrated the principle of corporate Passion, and Responsibility are the Company’s five basic responsibility into its Group strategy and developed an values. More than 100 employees from over 20 different appropriate structure for its implementation. countries participated in the process of redefining and For us, sustainability is a strategic issue that has to be esshaping them under the motto of Growing with Values. tablished in all our operational processes. That is why we This was followed by global rollout, with Knorr-Bremse are determined to integrate environmental and social employees all over the world being familiarized with aspects into both our long-term business strategy and the newly reformulated values. our day-to-day activities. By doing so we can make an  ode of Conduct: • C important contribution towards ensuring the future of Based on our corporate values and the principles of the our Company – and at the same time help to develop an UN Global Compact, this formulates the basic principles economy and society based on the principle of sustainfor approaching our day-to-day activities. ability. • C  orporate Responsibility Guidelines: External documents of significance for Knorr-Bremse inOur CR guidelines sum up the overarching goals of corclude the UN Global Compact, which we signed up to in porate responsibility and provide guidance for the six 2010, the Guiding Principles on Business and Human fields of action in which the Group operates (see page 6). Rights of the UN Human Rights Council, and the Charter on Sustainable Development of the International AssociWe also have separate Group-level quality standards ation of Public Transport (UITP). for purchasing, principles for our Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) Policy, human resources management guidelines, and a guideline for social commitment. All these documents can be downloaded from our website at www.knorr-bremse.com. 6 CR strategy and fields of action Recognition as supplier With a view to meeting its responsibilities vis-à-vis the environment, its employees, and society in general, KnorrBremse sets priorities on the basis of a materiality analysis Our customers are increasingly scrutinizing our susthat identifies issues of particular relevance to the Comtainability management record – with gratifying repany (see pages 7 – 8). In 2014 the Group Executive Board, sults: In July 2015, CNH Industrial Group recognized together with selected top managers, used the results of Knorr-Bremse’s corporate responsibility performance the analysis as the basis for revising Knorr-Bremse’s CR by nominating the Company ‘Industrial Sustainability strategy. The overarching objective is this: By the year Supplier of the Year 2015’. The award panel was par2020 we aim to establish a reputation as an outstandingly ticularly impressed by two things: the degree of social sustainable company – both internally and externally. To involvement throughout the workforce and the ECCO2 achieve this we will ensure that our economic growth climate protection initiative. takes into account environmental resources and our responsibility for current and future generations. The main goals, measures, and key indicators on the way to achieving this are summarized in the CR Roadmap, which is revised annually. Knorr-Bremse has set itself the • to establish sustainability and corporate values, following goals: as well as health and safety awareness, even more strongly as part of its corporate culture. • to embed central aspects of sustainability in its operational business and supply chain to an even Operational implementation of our CR strategy takes greater extent than hitherto, place in six fields of action: Strategy and Management, • to put greater emphasis on sustainability aspects in Products and Partners, Employees and Governance, Enviits product portfolio, ronment and Climate, Commitment and Society, Com• to expand and strengthen compliance management, munication and Cooperation. CR fields of action Structuring and Development and organization Excellence implementation 2008 – 2010 2015 – 2020 2011 – 2014 Incorporate CR into CR strategy and guidelines Strategy & Management CR organization set up strategic planning and introduced operational processes First life cycle analyses Product portfolio evaluated Establish sustainability Products & Partners carried out for sustainability in supply chain Corporate and leadership Increase attractiveness Employees & Leadership Dialog initiated culture strengthened as an employer ECCO2 energy efficiency ECCO2 target achieved Implement climate Environment & Climate initiative launched and new targets set protection strategy Knorr-Bremse Global Care e.V.: implementation of worldwide aid projects Commitment & Society Worldwide Local Care Strengthen employee Local Care projects initiated projects systematized involvement Communication Group-wide communication External sustainability Implement systematic & Cooperation on sustainability communications expanded stakeholder dialog 7 Securing and strengthening future sustainability is Knorr-Bremse’s aim. CR organization presented at the Knorr-Bremse World Meeting and honor the commitment and success of colleagues and project At Knorr-Bremse the Corporate Responsibility departteams in breathing life into our five corporate values – inment coordinates sustainability issues, and reports dicluding the value Responsibility. rectly to the Executive Board. Goals and measures are discussed and approved by the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Council (CR Council), which includes a Knorr-Bremse Value Awards member of the Executive Board, two management representatives from the two corporate divisions, the chair of the charitable organization Knorr-Bremse Global Care, In 2015 the award for Responsibility went to the engineers and the head of Corporate Responsibility. The Council in our subsidiary IFE (Innovations for Entrance Systems) in meets twice a year. Kematen an der Ybbs, Austria, for developing an energyIn 2011, in order to stimulate an exchange of ideas at efficient rail vehicle door system that is smaller, lighter, and global level, we created the Corporate Responsibility easier to maintain. Round Table. The purpose of this network is for CR representatives to regularly discuss at supra-regional and supradivisional level the projects with which we implement the Group objectives determined by the CR Council. Materiality analysis In order to give recognition to successful internal projects In 2014 an internal materiality analysis was carried out and publicize best practice examples within the with a view to structuring and prioritizing the many issues Group, Corporate Responsibility Awards were presented and challenges related to sustainability. The review pinbetween 2011 in 2013 in two categories: Products/ pointed the issues of importance for the long-term Environment and Social Commitment. In 2014 these were success of Knorr-Bremse and the Company’s stakeholders replaced by Knorr-Bremse Value Awards, which are in view of current environmental and social challenges. 8 This prioritizing of issues helps us to make efficient use of evaluations of reports in the national and international the resources at our disposal. To this end the results of the media. The results were supplemented with investigamateriality analysis also feed into the validation and furtions of the main upcoming trends and challenges facing ther development of our sustainability strategy. And they the market and sector in which Knorr-Bremse operates. have provided the basis for determining the contents of our first CR report. Evaluation of the business relevance of these issues took the form of a survey carried out amongst representatives The first step involved identifying the most important arof the main corporate functions and the two divisions. eas on the basis of an evaluation of internal documents, They were asked to assess whether and how a particular as well as the Knorr-Bremse sustainability strategy, interaspect could ‘contribute towards financial success’ and national studies, reports by industry experts, and the ’retention of a license to operate‘. A workshop was held requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for to discuss the results prior to the CR Council, as the highCorporate Responsibility Reports. est decision-making body, examining the assessments. The process of prioritizing issues from the point of view of This process resulted in a matrix of the most important stakeholders was based on quantitative and qualitative sustainability issues for Knorr-Bremse being drawn up. Materiality matrix Product-related environmental protection and sustainable innovations Product and very high Health and system safety Diversity and equal safety at work opportunity Initial and Sustainability in-house training standards in Sustainable corporate supply chain Raw materials governance and value creation Compliance and fair competition Energy STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS and emissions Waste water Transparence and solid waste and credibility Social commitment Biodiversity Logistics Water Employment conditions low low IMPORTANCE FOR THE COMPANY very high Strategy & management Environment & climate Products & partners Commitment & society Employees & leadership Communication & cooperation 9 By the year 2020 Knorr-Bremse‘s membership in organizations We use our membership in regional and supra-regional organizations to maintain an exchange of information and opinions with other companies on environmental and social issues. These include: W E A I M T O E S TA B L I S H A R E P U TAT I O N A S A N O U T S TA N D I N G LY S U S TA I N A B L E C O M PA N Y – B O T H I N T E R N A L LY A N D E X T E R N A L LY. • Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) • Energieeffizienznetzwerk Oberbayern • IHK Umweltausschuss • Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA) • Münchner Corporate Volunteering Roundtable • Stifterverband der Deutschen Wissenschaft • Umweltpakt Bayern • UNIFE Sustainable Transport Committee • VDB Fachgruppe Umwelt • VDA Unterausschuss Nachhaltigkeit in der Lieferkette CR stakeholders from discrimination, and a ban on child labor and forced labor. These principles and rules are binding for all Group Knorr-Bremse conducts an ongoing dialog with its interemployees. nal and external stakeholders. Groups of particular importance for the Company are employees, new recruits, cusTwo key requirements for preventing corruption from the tomers and suppliers, the Company’s owners, business outset are transparent communications and staff trainpartners, public authorities, trade unions, industry associing. Every employee needs to be clear about what we ations, the media, policymakers, NGOs, residents in the mean by responsible conduct and should be familiar with vicinity of our sites, and local action groups. The views of the rules the Company has set itself. To achieve this, we our stakeholders are taken into account in our materiality provide staff training on the Code of Conduct at regionanalysis and CR strategy. al Company events, training sessions, and information events. New employees are given a copy of the Code of Compliance management Conduct when they first join the Company. We are currently also developing a systematic, Group-wide monitorand integrity ing and reporting system for compliance infringements. Integrity and responsible conduct in our dealings with The internal Group Audit Department supports the Exbusiness partners and employees are the principles unecutive Board in its monitoring function by carrying out derpinning our corporate activities. Knorr-Bremse comindependent and objective testing aimed at improving plies with laws, internal regulations, and voluntary underbusiness processes and identifying possible cases of cortakings as a matter of course. ruption. Regular audits also review awareness of the Code of Conduct and its active communication by managers. The Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct defines the basic principles for approaching our day-to-day activities – With effect from January 1, 2016 a Chief Compliance Ofon the basis of our corporate values and the principles ficer has been appointed with responsibility for compliof the UN Global Compact. This enables us to ensure a ance management. He reports to the General Counsel consistent understanding of responsible entrepreneurial and the Compliance Committee, which is chaired by the conduct across national borders. Amongst other things Chief Financial Officer. The Compliance Committee reguthe Code of Conduct includes a ban on corruption, inlarly meets to discuss the most important compliance iscluding bribery and blackmail, and also covers aspects sues such as achievement of targets, and sets the agenda of human rights such as freedom of expression, freedom for compliance management. 10 Supply chain Integrity and fairness are the basis for working with Knorr-Bremse. 11 Involving suppliers. ”We expect our business partners to act in accordance with the principles of this Code of Conduct and to observe all statutory requirements – in particular avoidance of corruption, respect for human rights, observance of the laws against child labor, responsibility for the health and safety of their workforce, and adherence to the relevant legislation and standards on environmental protection.“ Excerpt from the Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct We are constantly working on improving our Group-wide In its choice of suppliers Knorr-Bremse not only takes supplier management. For example, in recent years the into account commercial criteria such as quality, price, program has considerably improved the quality of the and availability but also aspects like trusting cooperation, products that the Rail Vehicle Systems division receives safety, and environmental protection. In addition our from its suppliers. We assess our suppliers according to Group-wide Group Code of Conduct includes a stipulatheir competitiveness and performance, which includes tion that suppliers should take a responsible approach to factors like flexibility, delivery reliability, product quality, their employees, the environment, and society at large. and sustainability. In recent years both divisions have worked to optimize Purchasing management processes across the entire supply chain, and to further Our purchasing management system establishes a prodimprove flexibility in response to the challenges posed by uct group strategy that is harmonized across all Group the growing importance of the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russites, develops a supplier base, and utilizes the synergies sia, India, and China), since supply chains in these econowithin our global network of sites. Knorr-Bremse distinmies are longer in terms of both physical distances and guishes between two types of materials: lead times. • Direct material – materials, articles, and components that are sold to customers either directly as part of our Integrating sustainability systems, or following further processing in-house. ExThe conduct of our suppliers affects our success and our amples include castings and forgings, electronic and reputation as a responsible company. Therefore we have electromechanical components, and machined parts made sustainability criteria an integral part of our pur(e.g. crankshafts and gearwheels). chasing policy. For example the cross-divisional purchas• Indirect material – the goods and services required ing guidelines for indirect material require sustainability to operate a site; these include construction services, criteria to be considered when selecting suppliers. In advehicles, hardware and software, process materials, dition there are guidelines on the purchase of renewable and machine tools. energy and of energy-efficient products and equipment. 12 Suppliers of direct material must comply with the releEfficient logistics vant quality management guidelines for the Rail Vehicle We are constantly working on improving the entire supSystems and Commercial Vehicle Systems divisions, which ply chain – from suppliers via site production processes cover aspects of responsible conduct. Both divisions expect to final delivery of the finished product to our customers. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact to be adThe aim is to standardize processes and methods and to hered to and (if possible certified) ISO 14001 compliant optimize them within our sites, as well as improving environmental management systems to be in place. If inter-site cooperation. The result will be better service in suppliers do not meet these requirements, we reserve the all distribution channels – particularly in relation to delivright to terminate the business relationship with them. ery reliability, quality, and lead times. Even the largest logistics providers to the Rail Vehicle SysWe are also continually improving product transportation tems division must show that they conform to the prinby increasing the efficiency of our route planning. In a bid ciples of the UN Global Compact. In transportation and to minimize the environmental impact of transport activwarehouse logistics, the companies that have done so ities we are working on achieving an optimum combinaaccount for 80% of the total volume of goods shipped by tion of road, rail, ship, and air transportation, and promotthe division. ing the use of inter-modal options. This has enabled us to At the start of 2015 the division launched the ‘Railsponsilargely avoid the use of air freight. ble’ initiative together with Alstom Transport, BombarIn order to improve the efficiency of our transport netdier Transportation, Deutsche Bahn, Nederlandse Spoorwork and reduce transport-related CO2 emissions, we wegen, and SNCF. The initiative is guided by the principles require our logistics partners to use modern vehicles with of the UN Global Compact and aims to encourage railas low a fuel consumption as possible. road industry customers and suppliers around the world to subscribe to ethically and socially responsible environSince July 2014 the Rail Vehicle Systems division has opermental and business practices. ated a new logistics center that handles shipping for four different production facilities. As a result we have been It does this primarily by promoting a common underable to cut the average transportation distance in this standing of sustainable purchasing processes, sharing market segment by 10% per tonne. Knorr-Bremse uses knowledge and experience, and pooling relevant recross-Company sales (CC sales) to sell products directly to sources for use by member companies. An important customers from its production sites, thus eliminating unelement is a uniform assessment of suppliers’ sustainabilnecessary journeys via internal Knorr-Bremse warehousity performance, and as part of this initiative we launched es. CC sales also have the advantage that the sales units an international pilot project during the year under reremain in direct contact with the customer at all times. view. During the course of the year some 160 strategic They enable us to cut overall distances traveled, streamsuppliers were invited to undergo such an assessment, line our supply chain, reduce lead times, and improve deand by the end of 2015 around 20% had done so. The livery performance. Since 2012 we have avoided around results will be incorporated into our supplier assessment 430,000 unnecessary shipments in this way. In Europe, and selection process. almost all of our sales organizations use CC sales, while elsewhere we continue to develop corresponding processes. In 2015 some 130,000 consignments were handled via CC sales – 16% more than the previous year. In the commercial vehicle division we are working on 50% In 2015, more than making the logistics network even more effective by fully integrating suppliers into the supply chain management system. By so doing we hope to make optimum use of our production network and reduce transportation requirements to a minimum. of suppliers For example we have adopted a platform strategy that continuously optimizes transport flows. For internal transTO THE COMMERCIAL VEHICLE SYSTEMS portation we have set up a hub structure that has enDIVISION SIGNED OUR QUALIT Y MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT (QMPP), WHICH INCLUDES A abled us to increase transport utilization rates by some BINDING COMMITMENT TO ADHERE TO THE 25%. In addition, we use several external platforms P R O V I S I O N S O F T H E U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T . provided by logistics companies to combine goods for 13 transportation. This helps us make better use of vehicle capacity and reduce the number of journeys required, as well as cutting transport costs and reducing the negative impact on the environment. We are currently developing an integrated central transport management system with Knorr-Bremse ensures supply chain a view to building on the improvements already achieved. sustainability. 14 Products Knorr-Bremse develops products that maximize customer benefits and at the same time contribute towards sustainability. 15 Safe and resource-saving products. ”Safety is Knorr-Bremse’s main focus – we do not compromise on this. Our products and services are subject to the highest safety requirements and call for excellent quality standards in all areas and processes.” Excerpt from the Knorr-Bremse corporate values As the world’s leading producer of rail and commercial We have adopted a systematic approach to the quality of vehicle braking systems, Knorr-Bremse has a reputation our products. For more than ten years Knorr-Bremse has for manufacturing products that offer outstanding safety, defined the measures required to ensure top quality for quality, reliability, customer benefits, and resource effievery component that we develop and produce. Regular ciency. Our product portfolio ranges from entrance sysprocess and project audits ensure that safety requiretems, HVAC systems, power supply systems, control comments are taken into account at the development stage ponents, control technology, and platform screen doors of each product. In the early stages we analyze the anticifor rail vehicles to braking systems, driver assistance syspated energy consumption and materials required for a tems, and powertrain-related solutions for commercial product’s usage or the noise emissions that this will genvehicles. Our divisions regularly launch new, innovative erate. The head of Corporate Responsibility is involved in products and solutions for enhancing safety and efficienthe approval process for innovations. Examples from both cy on road and rail. divisions illustrate how our products contribute towards meeting future mobility needs, improving safety and reducing environmental impact. You can find further inforFocus on innovation mation on the topics of innovation and sustainability at Our consistently high expenditure on research and develKnorr-Bremse by consulting the Knorr-Bremse AG 2015 opment (see graph) ensures our long-term innovative Annual Report (pages 53 et sqq.). capabilities. This is reflected in our extensive portfolio of patents, with a current total of over 7,000 industrial property rights worldwide. On December 31, 2015 we employed Safety-critical products and systems more than 3,500 people in research and development. Safety, cost-effectiveness, and reliability are priorities when we are developing our products. As demand for greater mobility grows all over the world, so, too, vehicle and road safety requirements are becoming stricter. As the world’s leading manufacturer of braking systems for 2013 253 rail and commercial vehicles we further develop tried2014 296 and-tested technologies, offering electronic systems for 2015 347 avoiding collisions and stabilizing vehicles as well as solutions for networking mechatronic systems. A particR & D expenditure in EUR millions ular feature of our brake and chassis components, includ16 ing ABS and EBS, driver assistance systems, air suspension, and pneumatic valves, is that they require virtually Product examples no maintenance. Commercial Vehicle Systems • Our electrically powered screw compressor for comEnvironmental protection mercial vehicles with hybrid or electric drive not only Knorr-Bremse puts great emphasis on environmental reduces operating noise when a vehicle’s combustion compatibility and resource efficiency when groundbreakengine is switched off, but also saves energy – reducing ing technologies are under development. For example we diesel consumption by up to 1,700 liters a year. do our utmost to reduce noise emissions and use environ• Rear-end collisions in traffic queues are one of the mentally acceptable materials wherever possible. We are commonest causes of truck accidents resulting in convinced that climate change will mean that energyinjury. Our Advanced Emergency Brake System auefficient products are going to become increasingly imtomatically applies the brakes if the truck fails to mainportant over the coming years – which is why we also give tain a certain set distance from the vehicle in front – and this issue high priority during the development process. does so in stages, ending with full emergency braking. This helps avoid accidents, or at least reduces the force of the collision. Product examples • Tire pressure and temperature monitoring systems warn Rail Vehicle Systems the driver if the pressure drops below a certain level or the temperature of the tire rises excessively. This enhances safety and prevents unnecessary fuel con• We were the first company in the rail vehicle industry sumption caused by underinflated tires. to market a compressor that operates completely • Our pneumatic disc brakes (SL7, SM7, ST7) are significantly without oil – increasing user comfort and making it lighter than their predecessors and increase the efficienmore economical and environmentally friendly than cy of commercial vehicles. And we have reduced their traditional compressors. environmental impact by avoiding the use of harmful ma• The BPLE (Brake Pipe Length Estimation) system enables terials for coatings and pads. locomotive engineers on freight trains to check the func• Our compressor with clutch disengages from the truck’s tioning of all the brakes without leaving the cab. engine when maximum torque is required, for example • The iCOM Assist (LEADER) driver assistance system for uphill driving or overtaking. On downhill gradients, helps locomotive engineers to drive their vehicles on the other hand, it re-engages and uses surplus enin a manner that minimizes environmental impact, gine energy to produce compressed air and help brake reduces wear, cuts fuel consumption, and still mainthe vehicle without wear and tear. The result is fuel tains punctuality. iCOM Assist reduces energy requiresavings of up to 1,300 liters per year. ments by an average of 10%. • The LL composite brake block is used for so-called ‘whisper brakes’. LL stands for ‘Low Friction, Low Noise‘ – the blocks smooth the surface of the wheel during braking, reducing noise emissions from freight trains by some 10 dB(A), which the human ear perceives as a halving of the noise. • The modular IFE Generation 4 entrance system is 20% lighter than its predecessor and requires 25% less energy. New materials for the door leaves have improved their noise and thermal insulation properties. 17 Sustainability in the product life cycle products to ensure that they do not contain any banned or restricted materials and also carrying out recycling Our aim is to continuously improve our products and reanalyses. As a basis we use our expanded ECO Design daduce their environmental footprint to a minimum. To do tabase, which includes information on REACH (EU system this we carry out life cycle assessments (LCA) to examine for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction the environmental impact of selected products during of Chemicals), materials use, and recyclability. This entheir entire life from production to final disposal. By anasures that banned or restricted materials do not find their lyzing the entire value chain we can gather valuable data way into our products at any stage. With the help of the on the use of materials and resources during production database we also aim to incorporate a new design stanand also on environmental compatibility during a proddard for sustainability into the management system of uct’s service life. the Rail Vehicle Systems division. We have piloted LCA analyses on various products and systems, including the pneumatic disc brake and one of our control valves. The analysis included ‘Product Carbon Remanufacturing Footprints’ (PCFs), which examine CO2 emissions across a In recent years Knorr-Bremse has massively expanded its product’s entire life cycle. As a result we were able to remanufacturing operations for products originating in the identify the use of materials and deployment of products rail and truck divisions. Remanufacturing saves resources as important levers for reducing CO2 emissions. and reduces environmental impact to an even greater deIn the Rail division we have incorporated further measures gree than material recycling alone. Aluminum components into our ‘ECO Design’ project. This involves examining our are a good example: Remanufacturing does not involve the Environmental impact during the product life cycle Materials Significant levers Use and use for reducing maintenance CO2 emissions Materials and Primary Site Product Use and Residual End of life primary product manufacture product maintenance materials Production steps throughout the value chain – from material procurement to final disposal 18 Up to 75 % energy-intensive process of melting down and pressuremolding a new aluminum casing. Compared with a newly created product, it can therefore save up to 98% of the materials required and significantly improve the overall eco-balance of the product compared with manufacturing a new casing. We regularly carry out life cycle analyses with a view to less CO2 emissions calculating the environmental advantages of product reF R O M R E M A N U FA C T U R E D P R O D U C T S manufacturing compared with producing new ones. An C O M PA R E D W I T H N E W O N E S . analysis of the CO2 footprint of our EAC 1 electronic air treatment system revealed that remanufacturing of the unit saved emissions of 13.6 kilograms of CO2 compared with the manufacture of a new product. The analysis included the input and logistics of all the suppliers concerned. In the Rail Vehicle Systems division, remanufacturing has always played a prominent role. For example, Knorr-Bremse overhauls control, load-proportional, and weighing valves for freight car brakes, only replacing those parts that are subject to actual wear. Well over 90% of the material is reused. During the year under review, the Service Center in Berlin alone overhauled some 45,000 products of different types. In the Commercial Vehicle Systems division, used products are returned by customers for remanufacturing. These are dismantled and the individual components are first cleaned and then inspected to see whether they can be reused. Reassembly and testing of the overhauled products involve the same processes and approval stages as for new products. The portfolio of remanufactured products in the commercial vehicle division already contains 300 individual article numbers. Remanufactured versions of our compressors, for example, offer aftermarket customers a viable alternative to buying a new product – and one that is not only appropriate to the age of the vehicle but also saves energy and resources. In terms of function, a remanufactured air compressor for the braking system is as good as a new product. Our declared aim is to offer remanufacturing for the majority of our entire product range for commercial vehicles by the year 2018. Over the next few years we intend to continue our global investment in remanufacturing. During the year under review, for example, we expanded a manufacturing facility at our site in Liberec, Czech Republic, with a view to bundling our remanufacturing activities in the European market. In addition to Europe, Knorr-Bremse also markets a portfolio of remanufactured products on the American continent: In Itupeva, Brazil, 250,000 parts have been remanufactured within the space of ten years, saving 700 tonnes of raw materials. And the Bendix Brake Shoe Remanufacturing Center in Huntington, Indiana/USA, remanufactured three million Over the next few years we intend to continue our brake shoes during the same period. global investment in remanufacturing: new from old. 19 20 Climate protection A Group-wide environmental policy and environmental management system provide the basis for Knorr-Bremse to meet its responsibilities. 21 Precautionary approach to environmental and climate protection. ”We have set ourselves the goal of handling resources in a responsible manner, consistently reducing CO2 emissions, minimizing and where possible avoiding undesirable impact on nature and the environment.” Excerpt from Knorr-Bremse’s Corporate Responsibility guidelines Knorr-Bremse is committed to integrated, precautionary data and events, drawing on information from all our maenvironmental protection – in its production processes jor production sites worldwide. Since 2001 we have been and through the development of resource-saving proddriving a step-by-step process of certification of our sites ucts and services. We are continually upgrading our meaunder the international environmental management sures, collecting and analyzing key performance data, standard ISO 14001. By the end of 2015, 47 production and setting environmental targets at Group and site level. sites had achieved certification. By regularly inspecting and servicing our plant and machinery and carrying out preventive maintenance and repairs on the entire infrastructure, we are minimizing the Climate protection targets 2020 negative impact of our operations on the environment. In order to reduce our CO2 emissions, we have developed At the same time, we are promoting environmental a climate protection strategy that has established Groupawareness and appropriate conduct amongst our wide targets for the year 2020. The main focus is on three em-ployees through a number of communication meaareas: energy (optimizing building design and processes), sures and train-ing courses. Every year we assess the need logistics, and products. for these on a site-by-site basis. Our measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Environmental management Protocol) are grouped together in Efficient Cut of CO2 Knorr-Bremse’s environmental principles are set out in the (ECCO2), an initiative that was launched in 2009. Our origHealth, Safety and Environmental Policy that was updated inal aim was to achieve a 20% reduction in our specific in 2015. As part of this we commit ourselves to preCO2 emissions by 2020 and to increase our specific energy vent-ing or minimizing the impact of our processes, serefficiency by the same amount. We had already achieved vices, and products on the environment and our fellow this target by the end of 2014; therefore, we are planning human beings. In order to achieve this aim, the Group has to decide on new targets in 2016. Knorr-Bremse also aims introduced an environmental management system at all to introduce an energy management system according its production sites. This is coordinated by central HSE deto the international ISO 50001 standard at all its producpartments for the Rail Vehicle Systems and Commercial tion sites. By the end of 2015, 21 production sites within Vehicle Systems divisions. During the year under review a Europe had a certified energy management system acGroup-wide HSE report was introduced in which we cording to ISO 50001 or had carried out energy audits acreg-ularly record the most important HSE performance cording to ESOS (Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme, UK). 22 2015 also saw the Company produce global guidelines Energy efficiency on the purchase of renewable energy with the aim of Through our ECCO2 initiative, we identify potential energy increasing Group-wide use of energy from such sources. savings in all areas of the Company and share local examples of best practice. In 2015 our focus was again on In the field of logistics we also aim to achieve further rebuildings, plants, and production processes. We installed ductions in transport-related CO2 emissions, for example, energy-saving lighting and waste heat recovery systems by optimizing warehouse structures and route planning at a number of sites, improved assembly lines and motiand by ensuring that logistics service providers use more vated staff to save energy. At some sites we also installed efficient vehicles (see page 12). sub-meters that give a detailed breakdown of our energy consumption, helping us to identify areas for potential We use life cycle assessments (LCAs) and impact analyses savings and to develop measures for reducing energy of substitute materials to assess the environmental and consumption. During the year under review we also furclimate impact of our products and systems with a view ther improved the generation of compressed air at some to expanding our portfolio of environmentally friendly of our German production sites: This resulted in our being products (see page 17). able to reduce the pressure of the air centrally produced for all our production processes by 1 bar, bringing energy Sponsoring Eco Performance Award savings of around 10% per standard cubic meter. In Asia we ran a pilot training project for employees at seveSince 2013 Knorr-Bremse has been a Premium Partral sites with a view to further embedding awareness of enner for the Eco Performance Award. The initiator of this ergy management issues at all levels within the Company. top award for sustainability in freight transportation in The energy requirements of our IT systems are having a Europe is DKV Euro Service, one of the leading service growing impact on our ecological balance sheet. As part providers for the logistics and transport industry. of its ‘Green IT’ project, Knorr-Bremse has modernized its Energy consumption Emissions  2013 279,923 106,881 2013 93,313 2014 225,177 304,581  13,568 2015 310,921 122,486 2014 108,199 Absolute energy consumption in MWh 14,287 130,454 2015 117,142 2013 65.1 2014 13,311 58.6 2015 53.3 Total CO2 emissions Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) Specific energy consumption in kWh per TEUR sales Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) Direct and indirect CO2 emissions Knorr-Bremse in tonnes 2013 24.9 2014 23.6 2015 22.4 Specific CO2 emissions in kg per TEUR sales 23 FOCUS ON ENERGY (Scope 1, Scope 2*) Climate protection at Knorr-Bremse Ecco2 Phase II (2014 – 2020) Focus on three areas Emissions reduction target: -10% of relative CO2 emissions (CO2 emissions/TEUR) Energy efficiency target: increase in energy efficiency FOCUS ON PRODUCTS (Scope 3**) Sustainable energy management target: introduction of an ISO 50001-compliant Assessment of environmentally friendly internal energy management system product portfolio Implementation of life cycle assessments Analysis of environmental FOCUS ON LOGISTICS impact of alternative materials (Scope 3**) O  ptimization of transport network, warehouse structure, and route planning U  se of fuel-efficient vehicles by logistics suppliers R  eduction of transport-related CO2 emissions *D irect and indirect emissions from the use of natural gas, heating oil (Scope 1) and electricity, district heating (Scope 2) ** Indirect emissions from fuel use and from product manufacture and use (Scope 3) biggest IT and server center at its headquarters in MuResource efficiency nich. By halving the cooling requirements in the server rooms, we achieved a reduction in energy consumption Knorr-Bremse endeavors to make sparing and efficient for this purpose of around 30%. In addition, central standuse of materials in its production processes. In particular ards for hardware and software and measures to change this applies to steel and iron materials, light metals, polyemployee behavior are reducing the environmental immers, fuels and lubricants, and packaging materials. We pact associated with the procurement, use, and disposal are working on increasing the proportion of non-hazardous of IT equipment. materials and on using more environmentally friendly alternatives wherever possible. Waste generated at Knorr-Bremse consists primarily of scrap metal, paper, packaging, and residual waste. In ad‘Train to Paris’ – special climate-friendly dition, surface treatment of our products results in electrain at the UN Climate Conference troplating sludge. Measures are being taken to steadily reduce waste and improve material cycles. On the occasion of the 21st UN Climate Conference in The water we consume is used primarily in the surface Paris at the end of 2015, Knorr-Bremse showcased its treatment and cleaning of our products, for test applicaenvironmentally friendly rail innovations in the form of a tions, and for drinking water and sanitary purposes. We special ‘Train to Paris’. obtain our water from local authority suppliers and disAmongst the technologies on display were the iCOM pose of our waste water via public sewage systems. Assist driver assistance system, which helps locomoIt is our aim to use water as efficiently as possible and to tive engineers save fuel, state-of-the-art HVAC systems recycle it wherever feasible. In 2015 we reduced our spefrom Merak and Sigma, which have a sophisticated concific fresh water consumption (in relation to sales revetrol system that saves energy, and Knorr-Bremse Power nues) by 9.6% compared with 2014. Tech power converters that efficiently distribute energy throughout the train. In order to save drinking water some of our sites use rainwater for cleaning, in their sanitary facilities, and for watering green spaces. 24 In St. Petersburg, Russia, on the other hand, we introWater consumption duced a new dry-ice process last year which replaces high-pressure water cleaning at our Service Center. This has proved highly effective and saves resources, as it 2013 122.2 replaces the use of high-pressure water and the need 2014 88.5 to dispose of contaminated water. Furthermore it does 2015 80.0 not gen-erate secondary waste – dry ice is a by-product of other industrial processes – and therefore avoids Specific fresh water use in l per TEUR sales additional production-related CO2 emissions. Ecological building design worldwide We want our new sites and buildings to be as environmentally drawn from the groundwater. The process heat is used directly friendly as possible. In 2014, Knorr-Bremse produced a construcas far as possible, but heat pumps are also available to raise the tion guideline for production facilities and buildings that includes temperature if required. The heat pump function of the cooling comprehensive environmental criteria related to the basic energy systems and the available ambient heat also enable the indoor concept, carbon-neutral energy production, life cycle cost calcuparking facility to be heated. lations, and energy monitoring. In addition, we take local conditions into account, e.g. by ensuring we select the best construcDuring the year under review our rail vehicle systems production tion materials for the particular climatic conditions. site in Palwal, India, achieved Silver certification from the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). Certification is awarded for spar2015 saw the completion of the new test and development cening use of resources, energy efficiency and maintenance of a ter in Munich, which is scheduled for opening in the summer of healthy working environment. The entire building in Palwal is 2016. It has been designed to the highest standards of energy well insulated and has prismatic skylights to direct daylight into efficiency and sustainability: The main source of heating is waste the rooms. It also has its own water recycling system that considheat from the test rigs, but this is backed up with ambient heat erably reduces fresh water requirements. 25 9% We achieved a The Knorr-Bremse construction manual lays down a range C ut in specific energy of environmental criteria for the planning of production consumption in 2 0 1 5 compared facilities and buildings. with the previous year . 26 Employees An important element of Knorr-Bremse’s HR work involves creating an attractive working environment that promotes top performance. 27 Attractive working environment for employees. ”We create an attractive working environment in which the principles of mutual trust, teamwork, diversity, and equality of opportunity as well as fair and respectful treatment of each other are recognized and practiced.” Excerpt from the Knorr-Bremse Corporate Responsibility guidelines At the end of 2015 the Knorr-Bremse Group had a global workforce of 24,275 – an increase of 1.5% over the prevRecognition as top employer ious year (23,916). Just how international our Company is can be seen from the fact that in 2015 around 80% of all employees were working at sites outside Germany. At our international sites we offer young people opportunities to undergo training in a variety of technical and commercial skills. Amongst the most popular are industrial technology, machining, electronics, mechatronics, and IT. Independently of the sites where they are employed, employees are also offered a range of voluntary extra benefits such as meal allowances, mobility allowances, and sport and health provisions. Within the framework of what is locally feasible, Knorr-Bremse also offers voluntary additional Our HR policy puts great emphasis on the Group‘s atcontributions to a Company pension in line with statutory tractiveness as an employer in the eyes of the public at requirements and tax and social security legislation. large and in particular in the perception of highly qualified potential recruits, who are crucial for our future. Several awards have confirmed this: In 2014, 2015, and 2016 we were named ‘Top Employer for Engineers in Germany’ by the International Top Employers Institute (Amsterdam). Knorr-Bremse was praised for providing “an out2013 standing employment environment and a wide range 20,833 2014 of attractive incentives, from secondary benefits and flex23,916 2015 ible working conditions to well-designed performance 24,275 management programs tailored to the corporate culture.” Size of workforce 28 A reliable indicator for levels of satisfaction within the workforce is provided by our regular employee surveys. The latPeople Excellence at Knorr-Bremse Asia est survey took place in 2014 and elicited responses from more than 80% of Knorr-Bremse’s total workforce. The results paint a similar picture to the previous survey in 2011: In Asia Knorr-Bremse offers a wide range of further training Many employees appreciate the good relations that they measures and programs. In 2015, employees in the region have with their managers and are proud to be part of the clocked up a total of over 300,000 training hours. Company. The scope for improvement identified was examined in subsequent workshops and appropriate measures were drawn up. with high potential are invited to attend internal assessKnorr-Bremse attaches importance to establishing an atment centers at which they are scrutinized by experimosphere of trust and cooperation across all levels of the enced managers and outside experts. These measures hierarchy. This includes a constructive exchange with estabenable Knorr-Bremse to prepare junior employees for lished employee representation bodies such as the Group future responsibilities, thus ensuring staff continuity. Works Council. We respect employees’ freedom of association and assembly and their right to collective bargaining, Other important personnel development programs and inasmuch as this is possible and legally permissible in the measures are as follows: country concerned. Members of employee organizations or • The Management Evolution Program (MEP) enables trade unions are neither disadvantaged nor given preferentrainees to familiarize themselves with three different tial treatment. departments over a period of 18 months, during which they gather experience in international projects and Leadership and personnel work at a foreign location for six months. The trainees development receive support from mentors chosen from the management ranks. Personnel development is an important task for leader• The International Management Potential Group (IMPG) ship, and Knorr-Bremse has formulated guidelines to is a special development program for young executives ensure that day-to-day leadership is aligned with our corthat gives participants from our sites around the world porate values. The guidelines cover the five core elements an opportunity to develop their talents further in train‘Reflect’, ‘Step ahead’, ‘Engage’, ‘Develop’ and ‘Execute’ ing courses and projects, to strengthen their leadership and describe the manner in which leadership should be skills, and to expand their personal networks internaexercised. The guidelines were developed in workshops tionally. attended by more than 100 managers at our locations in America, Asia, and Europe. • The Engineering Development Program (EDP) in America enables college graduates with degrees in technical One expression of our culture of open dialogue is the subjects to receive two years of further training in Leadership Feedback instrument, which enables managmechatronics – for example, through cross-divisional ers to receive feedback from their staff regarding their transfers to other departments or through work experistyle of leadership. The results are used as a basis for jointence abroad in Mexico. ly drawing up measures to optimize teamwork. Under the title of ‘Staff Dialogue’ we have standardized our annual manager-employee meetings throughout the Group International exchange and have further developed our appraisal criteria and For many years now, Knorr-Bremse’s commitment to inmanagement of leadership potential. This includes forternational exchange has resulted in improved interculmulating individual target agreements and assessing tural skills, particularly among its managers. The Compaperformance and potential. The result is greater clarity for ny‘s international locations provide ideal conditions for both sides regarding each employee’s performance and this to take place. Expatriates are posted abroad for peripotential, as well as tailored individual development ods of between six months and five years. All are supportplans. In 2014 we completed Group-wide introduction of ed centrally by a team of specialists from the International the software tool created for this purpose. Transfers department – from the initial preparations to The targeted search for future managers is also conducttheir return and reintegration into their former worked according to common standards within the Group. places. In addition to long-term international assignFollowing completion of the Staff Dialogues, employees ments, short-term exchanges related to specific issues are 29 When it comes to pay, no difference is made between 110 years of Knorr-Bremse men and women. In Germany, Knorr-Bremse’s equal pay policy has been acknowledged with the award of the Logib-D certificate by the Federal Ministry for Fam110 years ago, Knorr-Bremse was founded in Berlin by the ily Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth. Vacant inventor Georg Knorr. Inspired by a spirit of inventiveness posts and management positions are filled irrespective and technological competence, the Knorr-Bremse Group of gender – all that counts is qualifications, performance, developed into the world’s leading manufacturer of braking and the candidate’s personality. In 2015 the proportion systems for rail and commercial vehicles. of female employees in the workforce was 18.9%. The global figure for women in management positions within The Company’s success is based to no small degree on the the Group is 11%. hard work of its employees. In 2015 we celebrated employees’ commitment to the Company at anniversary events In March 2015 a law was passed in Germany to ensure held at our sites and declared the corporate value ‘Entrethat men and women have an equal share of top manpreneurship’ to be value of the year. On the annual Global agement positions in industry and administrations. It Knorr-Bremse Day, employees all over the world considered obliges employers to give greater consideration to the entrepreneurship as a value – in the sense of encourunder-represented gender – usually women. Stock exaging a more entrepreneurial approach to their daily work. change-listed companies, and enterprises subject to A variety of workshops, talks, discussions, and sporting co-determination regulations, have to establish their events were held at sites around the world: own flexible women’s quotas for their executive board, supervisory board, and upper and middle management Colleagues in Suzhou demonstrated their collective skills and report on progress made. in a boat-building competition, and in Faridabad team events Knorr-Bremse supports the intention of this legislation to were organized and prizes awarded for creative slogans, increase the proportion of women in top management pictures, and backstories illustrating corporate values. positions. Moreover, in view of current demographic developments and the potential shortage of skilled workers, particularly in technical occupations, it is also important for Knorr-Bremse to recruit more well-trained and highly qualified women. Appropriate initiatives and programs already exist – one example being a trainee another main area of focus at Knorr-Bremse. By frequently program specifically designed for young female recruits. giving employees project-specific assignments around At Knorr-Bremse the scope for balancing family and prothe world, we help ensure skills acquisition, sharing of fessional life has also been increased by the introduction specialist knowledge, and transfer of expertise. An interof flexible working time models and tele-working. national job market is available to all employees on the However, increasing the proportion of women in manIntranet. This makes intersite exchange more attractive agement positions takes time. As Knorr-Bremse is a techand simpler than ever and provides our employees with nological company operating in the B2B sector, it is early information about interesting positions and projects mainly male applicants who perceive it to be an attracacross the Group. tive place to work. Many management positions at Knorr-Bremse also call for technical training in which Diversity and equal opportunity women are still underrepresented. You can find further information on details of the targets we have set in the We consider the cultural diversity of our workforce to be Knorr-Bremse AG 2015 Annual Report (page 60). one of the key factors in our economic success. As a global group, we promote understanding and appreciaIn a joint initiative with the Technical University of Munich, tion of other cultures and lifestyles and actively promote we provide support for female students of scientific and the integration of employees from other countries. We technical subjects preparing to enter professional life. In a support this with intercultural training, language courses, program called mentorING, they are provided with mentors and periods spent working abroad. To maintain a close who help them to build up networks relevant to their studies relationship with our markets and customers and make and future professions. Seminars and training courses taiuse of country-specific language skills and cultural comlored to specific target groups round off the program. petence, we attach particular importance to employing local executives at our international sites. 30 In North America, our Bendix subsidiary offers female In 2013 for the first time, Knorr-Bremse was awarded the managers the opportunity to attend a training program prestigious ‘Audit Beruf und Familie’ certificate in acknowfocusing on women in management positions. Over a ledgement of the Company’s family-friendly personnel period of six months there are regular workshops, an impolicy. The award followed detailed assessments by the portant aspect of which is the opportunity to exchange auditing company berufundfamilie gGmbH. We are hopideas with women in management positions in other ing to undergo re-auditing in 2016. companies within the sector. Employees with disabilities or serious health conditions Health and safety at work receive special protection and assistance at KnorrOur Health, Safety and Environmental Policy, which Bremse. The disability officer helps to find the right workapplies to the entire Group, commits us to ensuring a safe place for them within the Company. The proportion of and healthy working environment by promoting the preemployees in this category at our German locations in vention of injuries and impairment to health. Important 2015 was 5.0% (2014: 4.9%). components in our preventive safety management One of the aims of our HR policy is to promote a better system include analysis of incidents and accidents and work-life balance – especially in countries which, like Group-wide safety reporting. Other key aspects are risk Germany, face major challenges as a result of demoassessments of machinery, workplaces and work processgraphic change. To help employees reconcile the dees, the promotion of safety consciousness in the workmands of work and family – from highly qualified women force through training courses and awareness campaigns, wishing to stay at work despite having children, or fathe analysis of accidents, and subsequent introduction of thers wanting to play a bigger part in their children’s upaccident-prevention measures. bringing, to those with dependents requiring care – Our occupational health and safety management system Knorr-Bremse offers the following assistance, as required: meets the requirements of the international standard OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assess• flexible working hours and working time accounts ment Series) and we conduct internal audits at regular • part-time employment intervals. Worldwide, 32 production and service sites in our Rail Vehicle Systems division are certified according to • leave lasting several months (sabbaticals) OHSAS 18001. Using standardized processes, we record • teleworking and analyze the key indicators on occupational safety and base appropriate measures on these. In order to maintain • care support for the family (e.g. assistance in finding and further improve our high standards of health and child care and nursing care for dependents) safety at work, we provide internal specialist training courses at regular intervals and offer those responsible the opportunity to take part in international congresses, Encouraging girls to explore technology conferences, and projects. The success of our occupational safety management system is also reflected in our key In order to encourage more girls to consider training in performance indicators. The injury rate per 200,000 hours a technological profession, Knorr-Bremse’s Munich headworked fell to 0.7 in the year under review. quarters is involved in the ‘Girls for Technology’ camp orAn extensive range of measures is available throughout ganized by the Bavarian Industrial Training Institute (bbw). the Group with a view to maintaining and promoting our www.tezba.de employees’ long-term health. These are tailored to the Knorr-Bremse has also been involved for several years in regional needs of our individual sites and include ergothe nation-wide ‘Girls’ Day’, which aims to introduce young nomic workplace design, stress management seminars, women to occupations such as engineering, industrial fitness programs, and medical examinations. In-house technology, and mechatronics, which are usually dominatmedical care is available to employees at all our sites. In ed by men. 2015 again saw schoolgirls given an opportuaddition to important preventive check-ups, vaccinations nity to gain practical experience of the training on offer at and pre-travel consultations are also offered. In the USA, Knorr-Bremse and to try their hand at assembling a comour Bendix subsidiary offers its employees an extensive pressor. www.girls-day.de range of activities and information on subjects such as breast cancer prevention, healthy nutrition, and physical fitness as part of its ‘Bendix Be Healthy’ program. 31 Occupational Health Award from Qingdao Accident rate City Administration of Work Safety 2013 0.9 2014 1.0 In 2014, our Chinese subsidiary IFE Victall in Qingdao 2015 0.7 installed an integrated dust extraction system for its grinding workplaces. The system prevents the grinding dust Number of accidents resulting in lost working days per 200,000 hours from entering the air breathed by the employees and worked significantly reduces the risk of dust explosions. In 2015, the system received the Occupational Health Award from Qingdao City Administration of Work Safety. 32 Commitment As part of society, Knorr-Bremse actively concerns itself with social issues. 33 Involvement in local and global community projects. ”We are involved, as a member of society, in social issues and are engaged worldwide as a good corporate citizen.” Excerpt from Knorr-Bremse’s Corporate Responsibility guidelines Knorr-Bremse is a socially responsible company. Taking Local Care: part in the life of the community, having a positive impact on the areas in which we operate, and playing a construcInvolvement at local sites tive role in shaping them are a key part of our Company’s ‘Local Care’ is the name we give to community involveidentity. With this in mind, the Knorr-Bremse Group has ment by our sites. This includes financial support for sofor many years been involved in community projects. cial initiatives and projects (donations, sponsoring) and voluntary support provided by our employees (corpoOur involvement covers social issues (both local and rate volunteering). In 2015 we supported more than 260 global), culture, and sports. In 2015, Knorr-Bremse inprojects in 13 countries. The Local Care guidelines set vested a total of around EUR 3.6 million for these out aims and standards and provide our site managepurposes (2014: EUR 2.9 million). ment teams with recommendations concerning support areas, criteria, and resources (both time and monExpenditure on donations and sponsoring ey). We keep central records on all local projects so that  we can share transferable best practice examples inter2,716 nally. Projects that enable us to contribute our own ex2013 1,216 pertise are considered particularly good examples of  best practice. 1,500 2,906 In addition, we encourage our employees to become 2014 1,394 involved in voluntary work. At our headquarters in Mu1,512 nich they can take part in one of three corporate volun3,578 teering projects, with the hours invested being counted 2015 2,078 as working time. In 2015 a total of more than 30 em1,500 ployees took up this option. They supported the Münchner Tafel food bank organization in processing food doKnorr-Bremse Group nations, organized the opening ceremony for the of which, for Local Care ‘Family House’ (a play and teaching facility for the chilof which, for Global Care dren of refugees organized by the ‘Bayernkaserne’), and helped the Innere Mission organization to sort through Donations and sponsoring by Knorr-Bremse Group in TEUR donated clothing for refugees. 34 tsunami in South-East Asia. It focuses both on mediumAward for Knorr-Bremse Asia Pacific and long-term education and infrastructure projects and on providing emergency relief following disasters. The majority of the donations it receives are provided in equal parts by the Rail Vehicle Systems and Commercial Vehicle Systems divisions of the Knorr-Bremse Group. Since it was first set up in 2005, Knorr-Bremse Global Care, together with its project partners, has succeeded in improving the living conditions of over 625,000 people Every year, the Hong Kong Council of Social Service in 52 countries through around 190 projects; a total of (HKCSS) awards the Caring Company logo to companies some EUR 14 million has been made available. In 2015 that support the community and their employees. At the organization supported around 60 projects in the awards ceremony in March 2015, Knorr-Bremse Asia 29 countries at a cost of some EUR 2 million. More than Pacific received the award for the first time, alongside 120,000 people benefited as a result. You can find around 3,000 other companies. The ‘Caring Company’ further information about the activities of Global Care title is awarded to companies for outstanding services at www.global-care.eu and in the Knorr-Bremse Global to employees, the environment, and the community. Care report for 2015. Through the awards, the Council supports socially reSince 2013, a key focus of Knorr-Bremse Global Care sponsible companies and hopes to promote strategic projects has been on water, sanitation, and hygiene partnerships between them and non-profit organiza(WASH). Through its work, the organization aims to bring tions. For example, employees at Knorr-Bremse Asia about long-term improvements to water supplies and Pacific volunteered to work with young offenders, openhygiene conditions, especially in developing countries ing their eyes to new prospects and opportunities. and emerging economies. www.caringcompany.org.hk/index.php During 2015 Knorr-Bremse Global Care helped the aid organization World Vision in the Krachi East region, Ghana, to fund the construction of 20 drinking water wells, five disabled-friendly sanitary facilities at primary schools, Many of our employees also do voluntary work in their and 20 clothes washing facilities. Following completion spare time. To mark the tenth anniversary of Knorrof the building work, villagers also received instruction in Bremse Global Care we supported a special initiative: carrying out basic repairs. By setting up a local water We asked employees at our sites all over the world to committee that charges a small fee for usage with a view submit suggestions for projects that support people in to covering the cost of maintenance and possible extenneed. Project teams at the sites then decided how the sion work, the village community has been enabled to infunds were to be distributed. As a result of the initiative, dependently operate its water supply in the long term. more than 220 projects worldwide were supported and Hygiene lessons for school children have also been funded. implemented – including help for children, the disadvantaged, and the elderly, food banks and voluntary In addition, Knorr-Bremse Global Care supports vocationfire brigades, renovation of schools and kindergartens, al training to give young people prospects and a chance language teaching, environmental campaigns, and into support themselves and play an active part in society. tegration projects for refugees. In 2015 a total of some The SKILL project run by the Stadtteilarbeit neighborEUR 500,000 was made available for these purposes. hood association in Milbertshofen (Munich) helps young people from low-income families, teaching them important social skills that facilitate their transition from school Global Care: to work, e.g. by enabling them to take school leaving Helping people worldwide exams or by finding them an apprenticeship. Knorr-Bremse Global Care funded the project from 2013 to 2015 and Global Care is the name given to our worldwide efforts to supported around 150 young people. help people in need. Global Care projects are officially managed by Knorr-Bremse Global Care, an organization Together with the Knorr-Bremse site in Itupeva, Brazil, set up in January 2005 in the wake of the devastating Knorr-Bremse Global Care is supporting young people 35 from low-income families who live in the vicinity of the Supporting culture and sports Company plant. While they are still at school they are being given technical training that improves their career As well as supporting social projects, the Group headprospects and their chances of gaining a place at univerquarters in particular also funds cultural organizations sity. During the training at the Knorr-Bremse site they not and sports clubs in Germany. An example of this kind of only gain practical knowledge in the fields of mechatronwork is the fact that the Company is a founding member ics, mechanical engineering or working with comof the initiative to modernize the Deutsches Museum in puter-controlled machine tools but also get to know Munich, the world’s biggest technology museum, and is the Company itself. donating a total of EUR 5 million for this purpose up to 2018. Many of the organization’s projects also involve our local sites. In Krakow, Poland, for example the Knorr-Bremse site supported an initiative launched by employees to renovate the pediatric department of Zeromski Hospital. 120,000 40 children and infants, together with their parents, now More than have access to better care during their stay in hospital. people BENEFITED FROM GLOBAL CARE PROJEC TS IN 2015. 36 Implementation of the ten Global Compact principles. Knorr-Bremse has supported the UN Global Compact systems that help us to incorporate the Global Compact since 2010, and every year we produce a progress report into our corporate processes. It also contains references on how we are implementing the ten principles. The folto the relevant parts of this report on the Global Compact lowing table provides an overview of the voluntary and its implementation during 2015. undertakings, guiding principles, and management PRINCIPLE KNORR-BREMSE PAGE/ PRINCIPLES, GUIDELINES, AND CHAPTER MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct 5 Sustainable corporate respect the protection of interna(pp. 5, 9) governance tionally proclaimed human rights; Corporate Responsibility 9 Compliance management and guidelines (p. 5) and integrity Health, Safety and Environmental 11 Involving suppliers, PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not Policy (pp. 5, 21, 30) Integrating sustainability complicit in human rights abuses. UITP-Charta for sustainable 27 Attractive working endevelopment (p. 5) vironment for employees 30 Health and safety at work LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct 5 S  ustainable corporate freedom of association and the (pp. 5,9) governance effective recognition of the right to Corporate Responsibility 9 Compliance management collective bargaining; guidelines (p. 5) and integrity Management guidelines 11 Involving suppliers, the elimination of all forms of (pp. 5, 28) Integrating sustainability PRINCIPLE 4 forced and compulsory labour; 27 Attractive working environment for employees 28 Leadership and personnel development PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child 29 Diversity and equal labour; and opportunity PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 37 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct 5 Sustainable corporate a precautionary approach to (p. 5) governance environmental challenges; Climate protection strategy with 11 Involving suppliers Group-wide goals up to 2020 11 Integrating sustainability undertake initiatives to (p. 21) 12 Efficient logistics PRINCIPLE 8 promote greater environmental Health, Safety and 15 Safe and resource-saving responsibility; and Environmental Policy products (pp. 5, 21, 30) 15 Focus on innovation Group-wide environmental 16 Environmental protection PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development management system at 17 Sustainability in the and diffusion of environmentally production and service sites product life cycle friendly technologies. (p. 21) 17 Remanufacturing Construction manual 21 Precautionary approach with wide range of to environmental and environmental criteria p. 24) climate protection 21 Environmental management 21 Climate protection targets 2020 22 Energy efficiency 23 Resource efficiency 30 Attractive working environment for employees, Health and safety at work 34 Involvement in local and global projects, Global Care CORRUPTION PREVENTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct 5 S ustainable corporate corruption in all its forms, includ(pp. 5, 9) governance ing extortion and bribery. 9 Compliance management and integrity 11 Involving suppliers 11 Integrating sustainability Imprint Publisher Knorr-Bremse AG Moosacher Str. 80 80809 Munich Germany cr@knorr-bremse.com knorr-bremse.com Responsible for contents Stefan Bräuherr, Knorr-Bremse AG Text and editing akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbH Evi Draxl, Knorr-Bremse AG Onno Budelmann, Hanover Layout, design and production KB Media GmbH Photo credits Jann Averwerser, Munich CARE/Zak Bennett, West Palm Beach, Florida/USA Tobi Bohn, Berlin Caroline Gräther, Munich Enno Kapitza, Gräfelfing Oli Keinath, Berlin Loredana La Rocca, Munich Daniel Schäfer, Munich Additional photo credit P. 10 matejmm/istockphoto.com English translation Hugh Keith, Edinburgh Printed by Weber Offset, Munich
