UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP – COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Sustainability Report MARCH 2016 “Our contribution is towards economic development while improving the quality of life of the workforce and their families as well as that of the local community and society at large.” -Contributing to the Development of UAE AFM (Advanced Facilities Management) COP Communication on Progress Sustainability Report 2016 25 March 2016 Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. supports the ‘Ten Principles’ of the UN Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C., will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a COP Communication on Progress that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ‘Ten Principles’. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP Policy. Sincerely yours, Mr. Samih Basaddiq Managing Director 2 Issue Area Policy Actions Measurable Outcomes Our AFM Human rights legislation is put (HR) Welfare Activities / Staff Regular & on-going staff in place to protect employees from Gathering welfare activities conducted Human discrimination. It seeks to guarantee from 2014 – 2015: Annual Staff Rights employees equal treatment regardless of Gathering, Sports fest, Birthday certain identified characteristics (called Celebrations, Socio-Cultural “prohibited grounds of discrimination”) Celebrations etc. that have attracted historical stereotyping or bias in relation to employment: UMRA (a pilgrimage to AFM had delegated 124 Mecca, Saudi Arabia, employees to join the Holy •Training & Development performed by Muslims that Pilgrimage – Hajj / Umra. •Staff/Social Welfare & Activities can be undertaken at any •Rewards & Recognition Program time of the year, in contrast •Grievance Procedure to the Hajj.) •Workplace harassment BLOOD DONATION: Give Voluntary participation with Blood, Give Life – UAE Ministry of Health (MOH) Program Regular / on-going once a year from September 2014 till date initiated by HR Team. GRIEVANCES /WORKPLACE Any potential Human rights HARRASMENT abuses detected by our employee welfare are directly reported to the Human Resources Department. In the past year, Advanced Facilities Management has not been subject to any legal cases or incidents involving Human rights violations. TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT Increased in training hours – ACTIVITIES average 15 hours per employee from 2014-2015 compared to 5 hours per employee from 20122013. 3 Human Rights Celebration Participated in the UN Global Human Right Celebration last December 2015 involving all AFM workers & labors initiated by Mojumaat Team. Issue Area Policy Actions Measurable Outcomes Our AFM – Employment Legislation is put Fair & Just recruitment Process of candidates’ accdng. in place to Practice equal opportunities to professional qualifications Labour for all employees regardless of race, and culture fit gender, age and religion. 100% following the Minimum •Recruitment / Hiring Salary Req’ments – standard •Performance Management Offer Letters as approved by •Promotion/Succession Plan the Ministry of Labor (MOL) •Rewards & Recognition Program •Compensation & Benefits •Wages Diversification Workforce Diversification increased to 35 nationalities as of December 2015 compared to 2014 with 22 nationalities. Staff Retention 90% staff retention increase as of November 2015 compared to 85% staff retention last 2014. AFM Performance Reviews Regular and on-going Performance Evaluation to merit recognition of good performance and drive ‘performance culture’ Employee Recognition & Monthly Employee Month per Rewards Projects (monetary & certification award) Succession Plan Program Establish a commitment to developing career paths for employees and retain topperforming employees 6% of the Top performers from 20142015 has been promoted 4 Staff Housing AFM is committedin providing &Accomodation Upgrade a safe, clean& conducive environment to all our employees – Addt’l 100 menus for our staff food is added last 2015 for our diversed workforce. Internship Program AFM had launched our Internship Program last year 2015 & established network with local and international schools and universities to host Internships and external trainees. In 2015, AFM had recruited 3 nos. of Interns as our regular employees. Issue Area Policy Actions Measurable Outcomes Our Corporate Social Responsibility: Clean-up UAE Drive AFM Participation in the UAE Clean-up campaign Drive last Environmental “We believe in a sense of responsibility December 2015 initiated by Stewardship and contribution to society that defines QHSE Team and participated our existence. Our business is conducted by AFM employees. in an ethical way meeting the economic, socio-cultural and environmental expectations of various stakeholders ADV-Laundry used water is composed of investors, suppliers, WATER-RECYCLING being utilized for landscaping. employees, customers, government and other associates.” NEW TECHNOLOGY New Technology equipment “Our contribution is towards economic EQUIPMENT IN ADV introduced for AFM Laundry development while improving the quality use which reduced water LAUNDRY of life of the workforce and their families consumption from 2015 as well as that of the local community onwards. and society at large.” 5 Reduction of Carbon foot Purchasing locally sourced prints against Kilometer products which are therefore travelled reducing kilometers travelled from source to suppliers e.g. fruit & vegetables and locally sourced meat such as lamb. AFM supports ADFSC – Abu Dhabi Farmers Service Center by patronizing farmers’ local crops and produce. INSTALLATION OF 40% of energy saved in 2015 ENERGY-SAVING LED compared to 2013-2014 LIGHT POST energy consumption. Installation of central hot INSTALLATION OF water in the Advanced CENTRAL HOT WATER Catering – SYSTEM IN THE commercial/Residential COMMERCIAL & Kitchen had reduced the LPG RESIDENTIAL KITCHEN consumption to 30%. REDUCTION OF Use of styro and disposables in DISPOSABLES FROM AFM all AFM has been reduced and PROJECTS continuously campaigning for “Reduce, Re-use & Recycle Program to all AFM Clients mostly in the government sectors; i.e. ENEC, ADFCA, ADFSC etc. EARTH HOUR 2016 AFM participated & contributed in the Global Campaign – ‘Earth Hour’19th March 2016 (8:30 pm – 9:30 pm initiated by QHSE Team and participated by all AFM employees. 6 Issue Area Policy Actions Measurable Outcomes “Our Business is involved in fair and open 0% Tolerance of Corruption 100% AFM participation on tendering process which plays an in all AFM Business tendering process in acquiring Antiimportant role in impacting development Transaction. projects in general and specifically combating Corruption transparency and corruption.” AFM launched the tendering “We believe that transparency improves process for suppliers and efficiency and reduces opportunities for stakeholders from 2014 to fraud and corruption in the public date. administration by reducing red tape and maximizing use of new technologies.” During 2015 AFM procurement AFM strictly adhere and comply with the tended 20% of all 3rd party U.A.E. Law and practices on tenders contracts through the which regulate all contracts of public tendering process. works, services and supplies. In 2015, AFM business grew by 65% which was generated from transparent bids. 7 8 9
