UN GLOBAL COMPACT FOREWORD 26 September 2016 Dear All, For our first update report I am pleased to confirm that Verisec AB continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we present some of our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles. We support public accountability and transparency. Therefore we commit to reporting our progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely, CEO Verisec AB 2 INTRODUCTION Sustainable and responsible business is important for Social sustainability is at the core of Verisec business. By providing Verisec to be able to create long-term value for the secure digital identities we provide a secure means for people company and our stakeholders. Sustainable business across the globe to interact across digital channels while according to our definition means integrating financial maintaining a high degree of privacy and personal integrity responsibility, social responsibility and environmental protection. Thereby we contribute to important social responsibility in all aspects of our business. structures and building new ecosystems. Using our technology we also enable increased welfare at reduced cost by allowing Verisec has been a member of the UN Global Compact for both local and central government to offer digital services many years and the ten principles of UN Global Compact (e.g. eHealth initiatives). and its underlying conventions and declarations are always present in the company’s business. The ten basic priciples of UN Global Compact are important elements in the daily work of Verisec. Verisecs mission is to make the digital world accessible in an easy and safe way by delivering innovative solutions for digital Verisec have policies regarding health and safety, business identities and information. An app on your mobile device for ethics, communications, bribery and rehabilitation for login, instead of a token you rarely have in your pocket, or a employees. The head office has, among other things, moved lot of passwords that are easily forgotten, are examples of to the central parts of Stockholm to facilitate for employees how we operate in the area we call digital identities. Information residing around Stockholm, to travel to work in the most security is about protecting information through encryption. environmentally friendly way possible. All employees have a special health insurance, despite the fact that Sweden has Verisec’s goal is to work to secure identity management for subsidized healthcare. All employees are also encouraged to businesses, organizations and individuals. In 2002, ten percent use the health care contributions the company is providing. of the world’s population were connected to the internet. Today, the same figure is close to 50 percent. During the same time, the number of hacking attacks has increased with 38 percent, according to a report from PwC. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Business should support and respect the Verisec operates globally. We are committed to ensure that protection of internationally proclaimed human rights we are not complicit in human rights abuses. If we were to within their sphere of influence. find ourselves implicated in abuses of human rights, we would take immediate steps to rectify the situation. PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. All employees shall be treated with respect and dignity and be entitled to fundamental human rights. The freedom of expression of employees, customers and other stakeholders shall always be respected. Verisec has offices in seven countries SWEDEN | GERMANY | UK | UAE SPAIN | MEXICO | SERBIA Established 2002 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Verisec complies with the relevant laws relating to employment association and the effective recognition of the right to and employment conditions in each country we operate in. collective bargaining. We recognise that labour standards and conditions may vary from country to country. We ensure that our employees have PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and satisfactory wages, working conditions and that there is no compulsory labour. exploitation of labour. PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour No person shall be employed who is below the minimum legal age for employment. PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Verisec offer equal employment opportunities to all. The persons recruited are selected on merits and are not discriminated because of gender, race, origin, religion, sexual orientation, disability or age. To us, diversity is positive. All employees shall have a written contract, be informed about and fully understand their employment conditions and rights. The contract shall as minimum contain: working hours, notice period, wages and frequency of payment. A normal working week is 40 hours, unless otherwise regulated in national legislation. Employees have the right to yearly holidays and parental leave. All employees shall be free to form and to join, or not to join, trade unions or similar employee representative organisations. Verisec has a policy regarding the working environment Verisec offer equal employment and is responsible for work not to endanger the health or safety of employees and that the workplace safety in general opportunities to all is good. Steps to correct and prevent physical accidents and injuries as well as psychosocial illnesses shall be taken to limit hazards in the working environment. 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Verisec strive to minimize environmental impact in all approach to environmental challenges; parts of the business. The move to a refurbished plant in Upplands Väsby was a part of our efforts to streamline our PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater processes and minimize the number of transports. environmental responsibility; and To manufacture a login box in China, transporting it several PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion thousand miles and then manage and distribute it here in of environmentally friendly technologies. Sweden, of course means an environmental impact. Verisecs effort to develop security solutions that use the mobile phone as the logon device, are to be part of a reduced climate impact. We believe that the mobile phone of the future will be Our business is to help other companies implement the entity that most people use to securely connect to various digitization. This means that our products and services, services on the Internet and in line with this, the number of reduce or eliminate paper-based processes, and physical physical devices is to be reduced. Our plant in Upplands Väsby transport. Letters and other documentation can, with our is an important link. We have begun to reduce energy use in technology, be replaced by digital communication. Physical our distribution facility. In 2015 we invested in a more energy communication can be replaced by digital contacts and our efficient heating / cooling system. technology makes it possible for people to work from home / remotely with less travel as a result. Recycling is also a natural part in all of our offices across the world. Sorting paper, plastics, metals and foods is part of this work. We only use printing shops that are environmentally certified, and always select paper that is FCS-marked We are also comitted to the EU WEEE initiative to minimize and Rainforest Alliance Certified. the impact of electronic waste. All electronic equipment is reused or destroyed in accordance with the EU regulation Verisec has invested in a system for remote meetings by approved suppliers. between our offices so that we can cut down on travel. We offer employees to work from home as a step to reduce travel and also the impact on the environment. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Business should work against corruption The company has a policy on business ethics. Corruption does in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. not only create problems for the individual company, but also prevents communities from developing, especially in poor parts of the world. All forms of corruption, including but not limited to extortion, bribery, facilitation payments, nepotism, fraud, terrorism financing and money laundering, are forbidden. No one shall offer, ask for, give or accept, directly or indirectly, a personal payment, gift or benefit in exchange for favourable treatment intended to influence a business transaction or to obtain a personal or business advantage. Verisec has a policy that states that the principles relevant to business ethics is an integrated part of the business 7 About Verisec Verisec is a company on the cutting edge of digital security, creating solutions that make systems secure and easily accessible. The company provides a wide range of products and services within its two areas of business: Digital Identity and Information Security. Verisec has global distribution and operations in Stockholm, London, Belgrade, Madrid, Frankfurt, Dubai and Mexico City. Verisec is listed on Nasdaq First North in Stockholm since 2014. www.verisec.com © 2016 Verisec AB. All rights reserved. 8
