Sustainability Report 2016 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact -1Contents Preface Contents ............................................................... 2 Optima’s way to corporate sustainability Preface ................................................................. 2 This is Optima’s second Sustainability Report, 1 Human Rights ............................................. 3 and it marks a further decisive step towards a 2 Labour .......................................................... 4 sustainability management that is truly rooted within the company. For Optima, our 3 Environment ................................................ 6 responsibility as a company always extended 4 Anti-Corruption & Fair Business Practice 9 beyond our factory gates – the ecological, 5 Community Engagement ......................... 11 economic and social dimensions of sustainability have been guidelines of our 6 Outlook ...................................................... 12 entrepreneurial activity from the very beginning: Since 1984, Optima Pharmazeutische GmbH provides high-quality pharmaceutical products. This report also represents our annual Communication on Progress report to the UN Global Compact, and will be published on the UN Global Compact Website. With the signing of the UN Global Compact in 2014, we have officially committed ourselves to core values in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption compliance, and promised to spread and support them in our business and social environment. We invite all business partners and other interested parties to provide feedback and get in contact with us in case of any questions or suggestions. Moosburg/Wang, Mai 2016 Michael Kroll Stefan Kroll -21 Human Rights Statement by the CEO of continued support for the UN Global Compact  Principle 1: We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed I am pleased to confirm that Optima Pharmahuman rights zeutische GmbH reaffirms its support of the  Principle 2: We make sure that we are Ten Principles of the United Nations Global not complicit in human rights abuses Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Human Rights in our own operations In this Sustainability Report, which represents Optima declares its full support for the United our annual Communication on Progress, we Nations Universal Declaration of Human describe our actions to continually improve the Rights. integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture Optima’s operations are based in Germany and daily operations. We also commit to share and Switzerland. According to the Maplecroft this information with our stakeholders using Human Rights Risk Index 2014, these countries our primary channels of communication. have a low prevalence of human rights-related risks (see “Further information”). Therefore, Sincerely yours, direct implications are considered minimal. Mr. Michael Kroll Our research and development activities are CEO Optima Pharmazeutische GmbH carried out exclusively in Germany, in cooperation with renowned research institutions. All quality standards and sector commitments are fully adhered to. Our main research Further information: partner is also a signee to the UN Global Optima: Corporate Sustainability website Compact. http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/index.php/e n/sustainability/sustainability.html Human rights in our supply chain United Nations Global Compact In its supply chain, Optima collaborates with a www.unglobalcompact.org number of tier 1 suppliers and contract manufacturers, of which the vast majority is located in Germany. Therefore, the exposure to human rights-related risks in case of tier 1 suppliers is also considered minimal. Our detailed sustainability standards for our suppliers require them to adhere to the UN Global Compact Principles (see “Further information”). -3Also, tier 1 suppliers are requested to report two thirds of our key customers were any human rights-related incidents in their signatories to the UN Global compact or own operations or supply chains to Optima. As similar voluntary codices (e.g. German a measurement of outcome, we monitor the Sustainability Codex), and/or have an own number of complaints, incidents or other policy for the protection of human rights. issues related to human right abuses, both in Although this share was not increased in 2015, our own operations and our supply chain. In it is planned to keep engaging with value chain the last year, as in the year before, no such partners on this topic. incidents were brought to the knowledge of Optima.  2/3 of key customers are publicly committed to fighting human rights abuses  0 human rights-related incidents Further information In 2015, we have entered a dialogue with our Optima: Standards for Sustainable Procurement main tier 1 suppliers to screen their supply (German) chains and promote Optima’s standards for http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/images/micr sustainable procurement. In this dialogue, we osites/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/standards_for_sustainable also have raised awareness regarding the _procurement.pdf possibilities and requirements of an external Maplecroft: Human Rights Risk Index 2014. ethical trade program membership. https://maplecroft.com/portfolio/newanalysis/2013/12/04/70-increase-countries Active dialogue initiated with over 50% identified-extreme-risk-human-rights-2008of our main suppliers bhuman-rights-risk-atlas-2014b/ Human rights in the downstream value chain 2 Labour Concerning downstream value chain partners  Principle 3: We uphold the freedom of (e.g. in logistics and distribution), Optima has association and the effective recognition limited insight into human rights conditions. of the right to collective bargaining; However, approx. 85% of Optima’s sales  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of volume is directed to EU countries and 15% to forced and compulsory labour; Australia and New Zealand, therefore a broad  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child compliance of value chain partners with the labour; and existing legal requirements can be assumed.  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Regarding our downstream value chain and occupation partners, we encourage partners to participate in voluntary sustainability and human rights codices, like the UN Global Compact or the German Sustainability Codex. In 2015, about Working conditions -4We strive to ensure optimal working conditions for all employees, meeting and where possible No child or forced labour exceeding all legal requirements. Optima Our employment policy is in accordance to enables and encourages part-time legal requirements and we have no employees employment of employees of both genders. under the age of 18. The same applies to any Equal opportunities and employee rights kind of forced or compulsory labour. Labour standards in our supply chain The vast majority of our tier 1 suppliers are located in Germany and other neighboring countries that have:  a low level of child labour risk according to the Child Labour Index 2014  a low level of working conditions risk according to the Working Conditions Index Optima guarantees its employees the freedom 2014 (see “Further information”) of association and the right to collective Our supplier standards for sustainable bargaining as regulated by national and procurement explicitly include the compliance European laws and standards. with all legal requirements and the labourOptima is an equal opportunities employer. related Principles of the UN Global Compact. We strive actively against discrimination of In 2015, we have entered a dialogue with our employees. We fully comply with national and main tier 1 suppliers to screen their supply European employee protection and antichains and promote Optima’s standards for discrimination legislation. sustainable pro-curement. In this dialogue, we We provide ongoing training and qualification also have raised awareness regarding the initiatives to our employees, and focus on a possibilities and requirements of an external long-term, cooperative HR development ethical trade program membership. strategy. Further information We monitor the number of incidents regarding Optima: Standards for Sustainable Procurement employee rights or discrimination (e.g. formal http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/images/micr complaints, legal conflicts etc.), of which there osites/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/standards_for_sustainable were none in the last year. For 2015, we aim to _procurement.pdf keep this number at zero. Maplecroft: Child Labour Index 2014.  0 labour rights-related incidents http://maplecroft.com/portfolio/newanalysis/2013/10/15/child-labour-risks-increasechina-and-russia-most-progress-shown-southamerica-maplecroft-index/ -5Maplecroft: Working Conditions Index 2014. Contract manufacturers are also instructed to https://maplecroft.com/portfolio/newoptimize energy efficiency. Optima requests analysis/2014/01/29/world-cup-host-qatar-amongyearly energy consumption figures from all 11-countries-downgraded-lsquoextreme-riskrsquocontract manufacturers, related to the work working-conditions-maplecroft-index/ carried out for Optima.  100% of contract manufacturers report 3 Environment on energy consumption Principle 7: We support a precautionary Transportation & Mobility approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Regarding energy use for transportation and greater environmental responsibility; and packaging, Optima is working continuously on Principle 9: encourage the development and optimizing production structure and prodiffusion of environmentally friendly cesses. One example is the restructuring of technologies production for one of our main products. Since 2015, production and final packaging are done Environmental sustainability is a key concern at the same location. In the course of 2016, of the management and the employees alike. also storage and distribution will be realized at Although Optima’s products do not require the same location, thus reducing the number large amounts of energy or natural resources of transports even further. in production or use, we accomplish the responsibility for minimizing negative impacts. Regarding sustainable employee mobility, While Optima is not directly exposed to Optima has invested in a battery-electric significant environmental risks, energy and vehicle and a charging station at the company resource availability play an important role. headquarter. The charging station provides power from renewable sources, and therefore Energy use allows emission-free business travels. By Energy production and use is a main source of providing a positive experience to employees, greenhouse gas emissions. The use of they should be encouraged to consider shifting renewable energies is a way to reduce energytowards electric mobility. related emissions. For heat supply in our own  Introduction of electric vehicle & office facilities, we use renewable energies in charging infrastructure the form of pellet / woodchip heating. Efficient energy and resource use is a topic that needs to be integrated broadly into business process. Optima has therefore extended its internal Quality Management Guidelines to cover these topics in relevant processes, for example in the training of new and existing staff members. -6other indirect emissions that occur along the value chains. Greenhouse gas emissions balance Starting with the year 2012, we are assessing our annual Corporate Carbon Footprint, meaning the greenhouse gas emissions Besides the absolute emission amounts, we balance of all company operations, including calculate our “emission intensity”, i.e. the upand downstream processes of the value relative emissions per piece of production chain. The advantage of the Carbon Footprint output. This provides a clearer view of is that it includes emissions from energy and improvements in efficiency, even if the fuels, material-related emissions of the absolute carbon footprint is increasing due to upstream and downstream value chains as growth in business activity. From 2013 to 2014, well as other indirect emission sources like relative emissions could be further reduced by business travel and commuting of employees. 4%, continuing the trend towards emissions Thus, it gives valuable insights into the ecologic reduction in the year before. hotspots of a company’s environmental balance and provides a single indicator that is easy to monitor. The calculation itself is carried out by our environmental consulting partner DFGE – Institute for Energy, Ecology, Economy, in accordance with the GHG Protocol standard. On the basis of the Carbon Footprint and the insights gained in the carbon footprint The total emissions for Optima amount to 381 calculation, Optima has already targeted t CO2e for calendar year 2014. Of these, 5% several areas for emission reduction. The goal are caused by consumption of fuels for for 2016 is to continue the trend in reducing vehicles and heating (Scope 1). Emissions from our emission intensity. purchased energy (Scope 2) only amount to 4%. The majority of emissions, with 90%, are  Relative emissions reduced by 4% -7Optima a climate-neutral company Energy and resource consumption and related emissions can be reduced by efficiency measures – but only to a certain point. However, Optima also takes responsibility for Optima has committed itself to continue the all non-avoidable emissions. Therefore, we compensation of 100% of non-avoidable compensate all our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions emissions over the coming years. In 2016, this as calculated in the Carbon Footprint, by ongoing compensation has been re-audited financing certified emission reduction projects. successfully by TÜV Hessen.  100% of Scope 1+2+3 emissions compensated Natural resources / raw materials An important focus area regarding environmental impacts is the provenience of natural raw materials used. Depending on the method and region of production, these may have Supported Reforestation/Community support larger or smaller environmental impacts. In the project in Zimbabwe ©South Pole Carbon southpolecarbon.com case of Optima’s products, paper is the most relevant material by quantity, as it is used in In 2014, Optima has supported a reforestation the individual product package, as well as for and community support project in Zimbabwe shipping boxes, leaflets etc. through the purchase of Verified Carbon Standard emission reduction certificates. This Optima’s goal is to use as much recycled paper project not only contributes to reducing as possible. For the remaining amount of nonGreenhouse gas emissions, but also provides recycled paper, we are increasingly using FSC sustainable livelihood options for local (or alternatively PEFC) certified paper, communities, by funding healthcare centers, wherever available. In 2015, we have managed community gardens, school fee subsidies etc. to use 100% FSC-certified paper in our office The Carbon Footprint as well as the operations. For product packaging, it is compensation have been certified by TÜV targeted to switch completely to recycled or Hessen, and Optima has been awarded as FSC certified materials in 2016. “climate neutral company” according to the TÜV ProfiCert Standard Climate Neutrality.  Increasing share of recycled paper, 100% certified paper for office use -8Equally, Optima’s tier 1 suppliers and contract containers and plastic caps can and should be manufacturers are requested to use recycled recycled. paper wherever possible, and FSC (or PEFC) Through their innovative formulation and certified paper in all other cases. If no certified application method, our liposomal eye sprays products are available, materials from known have a much longer usage time compared to and legal sources must be used, which do not alternative products. This means that the cause avoidable negative ecological and social amount of waste is reduced drastically impacts like deforestation, land use conflicts compared to other products, especially those etc. with one-dose packaging. Regarding product ingredients, two important Further information: naturally sourced materials are ethanol and soy lecithin, which may be related to increased DFGE/Optima: Carbon Footprint Balance Year 2014 ecological impacts. However, the absolute Management Summary amount of material used is limited. Optima’s http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/index.php/e tier 1 suppliers are requested to comply with n/sustainability/climate-protection.html all applicable environmental, health, labour TÜV Hessen: Certificate– Climate Neutrality and social standards when sourcing natural http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/images/micr materials, and ensure that they do not cause osites/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/optima_tuevhessen_klima avoidable negative ecological and social neutralitaet.pdf impacts like deforestation, land use conflicts Southpole Carbon: Reforestation Project Description etc. http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/images/micr Waste and recycling osites/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/project_forestprotection.p df 4 Anti-Corruption & Fair Business Practice Principle 10: We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Regarding our products, the central focus lies Clear stance against corruption on supreme quality and safety, but we also care about their end-of-life phase: Our Optima condemns all forms of corruption. We products are not harmful to the environment believe in fair and open competition and are and can be safely disposed of by regular convinced that quality, innovation and means. Paper boxes, leaflets, empty glass efficiency are the key to long term business success. -9The commitment to prevent all forms of are signatures to the UN Global Compact or corruption has been integrated in our internal similar codices. In the last year, about two Quality Management Handbook. thirds of our key customers have made such a public commitment. Anti-corruption action in our value chain  2/3 of key customers are publicly Optima has issued clear standards for its committed to fight corruption suppliers that include the compliance with all legal requirements and requests them to adhere to the UN Global Compact Principles Further information: on fighting corruption. Maplecroft: Corruption Risk Index 2014. http://maplecroft.com/portfolio/newanalysis/2013/09/24/corruption-risk-index-revealslong-term-lack-will-tackle-corruption-brics/ The 2014 Corruption Risk Index by Maplecroft shows that the countries in which Optima operates and where the majority of suppliers are located have a “low” risk of corruption, with the exception of Austria with “medium” risk (see “Further Information”). Optima monitors the amount of incidents related to corruption of any form, both within the company and the supply chain. In the last year, there were none such incidents brought to the knowledge of Optima. We aim to keep up this performance in the coming year.  0 corruption-related incidents Furthermore, we monitor the share of key customers that have published an own code of conduct or policy regarding corruption and/or 10 5 Community Engagement new forests in Germany and all over the world. With Optima’s contribution, trees were planted that each year sequestrate CO2 in the order of Optima compensates all its Greenhouse Gas magnitude of Optima’s total Carbon Footprint. emissions by funding certified projects around In 2015, the contribution by Optima was the world. However, as a locally rooted extended in order to compensate for our company, Optima would like to contribute to Greenhouse Gas emissions. an intact and valuable environment in our Bavarian home region. Therefore, Optima Further information: Bergwaldprojekt & Plant for the Planet: Information and Certificates http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/index.php/n achhaltigkeit/klimaschutz/weitergehendesengagement-fuer-den-klimaschutz Plant for the Planet: Supporter List. http://www.plant-for-theplanet.org/de/unterstuetzen/partnerschaft Plantation of white fir trees by Bergwaldprojekt e.V. © Bergwaldprojekt e.V., www.bergwaldprojekt.de decided to support the regional initiative “Bergwald-Projekt e.V.”, which is working to renaturalize and stabilize endangered forest areas in the Bavarian mountain regions, which were affected by climate change-related developments like storms, temperature changes and vermin damages. Since 2015, Optima has enabled the plantation of a total of 5000 trees in several steps, thus contributing to the stabilization of 3.5 hectares of valuable mountain forests. Beginning in 2014, Optima is also supporting the Plant for the Planet Foundation. It is a nonprofit organization based in Bavaria that has the mission to combat climate change by promoting reforestation and the planting of 11 6 Outlook In the two years since signing the UN Global Compact, Optima has made considerable progress in implementing the Ten Principles in many fields. Still, there are many issues and topics on our agenda, which we will try to implement over the coming year. The dialogue with our key suppliers on sustainability and ethical trade standards will be formalized further, potentially leading to participation in an external compliance and audit program. Regarding our own operations, Optima’s ongoing commercial success requires us to extend our facilities. In this process, ecological optimization has a high priority – for example, we plan on leasing additional office space in already existing buildings, instead of planning resource-intensive new constructions. The process of concentrating process steps at single locations will be continued, in order to reduce transport emissions and increase the use of existing facilities. We invite all partners, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders to communicate openly with Optima regarding all sustainability topics. All new information and reports will be published in the sustainability section of our homepage: http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/index.p hp/en/sustainability/sustainability.html 12 © 2016 Optima Pharmazeutische GmbH Wittibsmühle 5, 85361 Moosburg/Wang, Germany Tel.: +49 (0) 8761 / 7 21 84 -0 E-Mail: info@optimapharma.de Internet: www.optimapharma.de Produced with assistance by DFGE – Institute for Energy, Ecology, Economy Kreitstr.5, 86926 Greifenberg, Germany Tel.: +49 (0) 8192 / 99733-20 E-Mail: info@dfge.de Internet: www.dfge.de 13 -
