CSR REPORT 2015 PDF Version KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Commitment of Top Management Materializing the Spirit of Change and Growth to Contribute to Society through R&D and Global Development, while Safety and Security Remaining Top Management’s Priorities Operating Climate Changes were the negative impact of a consumption sustainability by resolving energy issues and and Opportunities tax increase and surging energy prices. In providing technologies and materials that an increasingly unpredictable world, it is reduce environmental impact. Demand for The operating climate changed dramatically vital for management to identify prospective health, medical, and nursing care is rising during the year ended March 31, 2015. Key changes in the business environment. significantly as societies age, particularly in developments included plunging crude oil Energy, resources, and food probdeveloped nations. prices, a dramatic depreciation of yen, and lems are worsening amid a growing global It is also worth noting that rapid geopolitical turmoil. Key factors in Japan population. We must help materialize social advances in science and technology are 2 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Commitment of Top Management transforming societies and lifestyles. The fruit. and operations. We are also continuing with start of moves to deploy iPS cells in cliniGlobal development also exemCSR Safety and Quality Inspections. cal treatments is ushering in potential for plifies Kaneka’s approach. We were early To fundamentally ensure safety regenerative medicine and cell therapy. Such among Japanese chemicals manufacturers to and achieve an accident free record, it will progress is showing yet again that Japanese produce and sell overseas. In April 2012, we be essential for us to make processes safer by science and technology can play a key role in established regional umbrella hubs in Asia drawing on the expertise of those overseeing transforming industries. and America to begin global operations. Alproduction sites on a daily basis and on our Kaneka views such changes as opthough we generate around 40% of net sales process technologies. We will continue pushportunities to contribute to society by mobioverseas, we aim to raise this percentage to ing forward with CSR activities on the basis lizing its vast groupwide technological and 70% by 2020. that producing safe and secure products is a human resources. To this end we must cultivate local central objective for our corporate vision and activities by building networks with comall employees. Driving R&D and Global munities and solid ties with local users. Last Development year, we began constructing a manufacturing In March 2015, the Kaneka Group became facility for acrylic fibers in Malaysia. We a signatory of the United Nations Global Since establishing the Declaration of Kaneka launched a food products facility in IndoneCompact (UNGC), a global initiative to United in 2009, we have drawn on this longsia to begin creating products that match lomaterialize sustainable growth for the interterm vision to embark on various reforms in cal tastes. In the current fiscal year, we have national community. We will help resolve the keeping with the spirit of change and growth. decided to build an additional production planet’s environmental issues and enhance R&D reforms have exemplified facility for modifiers and construct a plant for people’s quality of life by undertaking corpothat approach. Since its creation in 1949, silyl-terminated polymers, both in Malaysia. rate initiatives in keeping with the 10 UNGC Kaneka has employed R&D to drive its We have leveraged R&D to create principles in the four areas of human rights, growth. Several R&D projects today are technologies and products that can contriblabor, the environment, and anti-corruption. near commercialization. They include work ute to social progress, and better living for We established the CSR Division in April in optical-electrochemicals and protein A people around the world. 2015 to bolster our CSR efforts. We will furchromatography resins. As well as perfecting ther enhance the Kaneka brand by engaging quality, it is important to prepare for business Safety as the Number One Priority more closely with stakeholders and building launches by identifying market trends and trust in Kaneka’s people and technologies. value chains and to create frameworks for Safety is the foundation of a manufacturer’s selling new offerings. competitiveness. Although management has Kaneka collaborates with universimade safety the top priority for the Kaneka ties and public organizations and establishes Group, there were 22 occupational accidents research organizations in the United States in fiscal 2014. Naturally, we need to make and Europe to cultivate R&D globally. We improvements. As part of that effort, we are will continue to establish research centers in maintaining a program that we started three Mamoru Kadokura countries and regions with advanced research years ago in which top management patrols President and human resources so we can bear new facilities to eliminate dangerous locations Kaneka Corporation 3 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 How do we generate corporate value for our stakeholders? How? CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Stepping up from “What?” and “Why?” to “How?” For the Kaneka Group to become a truly CSR-driven entity, all employees must ask themselves what they can do for society, and act accordingly based on the knowledge that both the Company and its employees are members of society. In 2013, we renamed the digest version of the CSR Report the Communication Book to step up dialogue with our stakeholders. In the “What’s CSR?” section of CSR Report 2013, we provided an outline of CSR. In the equivalent section in the 2014 version, we explained the significance of engaging in CSR activities. To step up communication with stakeholders, we yet again report on the Kaneka Group's CSR activities through its core businesses. We look forward to your feedback. Through its CSR activities, the Kaneka Group will continue generating new value for society by communicating closely with employees. We make sure that we fulfill our environmental responsibilities in all aspects of our operations, including raw materials procurement, manufacturing, and transportation. We focus on protecting the environment in our business activities. For example, we have developed products for tomorrow’s lighting devices to help lower environmental impact The Environment (see page 17 for details). We provide high-quality products and services while ensuring product safety. We prioritize customer satisfaction. For example, we are currently focusing on food defense in view of the heightened consumer focus on safety (see page 49 for details). Customers We build mutually beneficial relationships with vendors by ensuring fair transactions. We are committed to appropriate procurement and distribution safety (see page 54 for details). Vendors We promptly disclose accurate information and deliver suitable returns to shareholders and investors. We disclose accurate information to shareholders and investors in a timely manner. For example, Shareholders we conduct orientations and visits for shareholders and other investors to deepen their and understanding of the Kaneka Group (see page 56 for details). Investors From community engagement, we consider safety and other factors related to plant operations. Alongside reinforcing process safety and preventing disasters, we are striving to improve communication with society. For example, we have held stakeholder dialogues with local Society communities around plants, and in fiscal 2014, we held a discussion with the Otsu municipal office (see page 62 for details). We treat and remunerate our employees appropriately, providing them with opportunities for self-fulfillment and maintaining safe working environments. While focusing on employee diversity, we endeavor to enhance occupational safety and health. For example, we provided training for future leaders as part of our efforts to foster the personal Employees growth of employees and the ability of perspective managers to execute regional business strategies (see page 73 for details). *Previous reports, including the 2013 and 2014 CSR reports, are available on the Kaneka website. Please take some time to read them. 4 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Kaneka Group CSR Report 2015 PDF Version Contents ● Commitment of Top Management 2 ● Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities 58 Highlight — Fostering Youth 59 The Kaneka Group’s Corporate Philosophy and Highlight — On Track to Recovery Four Years after CSR Positioning 6 the Great East Japan Earthquake 60 Contributing to Society through Business Activities in Key Highlight — Reinforcing Crisis Management Encompassing Strategic Fields 8 Support for Wide-Area Disaster and Business Continuity 61 Kaneka Group Profile 10 Highlight— Stakeholder Dialogues 62 Editorial Policy 11 Process Safety and Disaster Prevention Initiatives 65 Initiatives to Fulfill the Group’s Social Responsibilities 67 ● Special Features Special Feature Article I ● Caring for Our Employees 72 Important Strategic Domains “Health Care” Highlight — Developing Future Leaders Overseas as Part of Toward a Future in which Human Cells Save Lives 12 Group Reforms 73 Special Feature Article II Highlight — Cultivating a Corporate Culture of Individual Important Strategic Domains “Environment and Energy” Responsibility for Safety 74 Changing Lighting to Transform Living 17 Cultivating Human Resources and Creating Comfortable Work Important Strategic Domains “Information Environments 75 and Communications” “Food Production Support” 21 Occupational Safety and Health Efforts 80 ● CSR Promotion ● Kaneka Group CSR Targets, Results, and Evaluations 22 Overseas Group Company Initiatives 82 Corporate Governance and Compliance 26 Domestic Group Company Initiatives 83 CSR Implementation 28 Responsible Care and Management 31 Third-Party Verification 84 Report Coverage 33 Third-Party Opinion 85 Stakeholder Feedback 86 ● Safeguarding the Environment 34 Editorial Afterword (Response to Third-Party Opinion) 87 Highlight — Expanding Environmentally Friendly Products Group Product Registered Trademarks and Other Trademarks 88 and Plant Initiatives 35 Materials Balance in Production Activities 36 Environmental Accounting 37 Measures to Prevent Global Warming 39 Environmental Management Systems and Environmental Efficiency Indices 41 Reducing Waste and Preventing Pollution 43 Cutting Chemical Emissions 45 Initiatives in Biodiversity 47 ● Benefiting Customers 48 Highlight — Introducing the Food Defense Program to Improve Customer Satisfaction 49 Quality Management Initiatives (Product Safety and Quality Assurance) 50 ● Working with Business Partners 53 Ensuring that Suppliers Fulfill Their Environmental and Social Responsibilities 54 About the Front Covers A childlike curiosity is fundamental to realizing Kaneka’s long-term ● Serving Shareholders and Investors 55 vision of building a more impressive and productive future. Highlight — Building Trusting Relationships with Shareholders The multicolored motif on the cover underscores Kaneka’s comand Investors and Sharing Kaneka’s Brand Direction 56 mitment to a better future for our children. Each of the colors in the Dividend Policy and Disclosure 57 motif represents one of Kaneka’s strategic domains. 5 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 The Kaneka Group’s Approach to CSR The Kaneka Group’s Corporate Philosophy and CSR Positioning Under its management philosophy structure, the Declaration of Kaneka United, the Kaneka Group positions its Basic CSR Policy as an employee action guideline and a foundation for implementing its management philosophy. Based on this policy, the key stakeholders in the Group’s CSR activities are employees, society, customers, the environment, shareholders and investors, and vendors. We endeavor to improve enterprise value to enhance stakeholder satisfaction through our business activities. ■ Management Philosophy Structure “Declaration of Kaneka United” With people and technology growing together into creative fusion, we will break fresh ground for the future and tie in to explore New Values. We are also committed to challenge the environmental issues of our planet and contribute to upgrade the ① quality of life. Corporate Philosophy Expresses our raison d’être and our social mission Toward an Even More Impressive and Productive Future Hold in your hands the future you have always dreamed of. We are a highly perceptive and collaborative value-creating group or, as we like to say, a “Dreamology Company. (see note)” ② Note: Dreamology is an expression coined from 'dream' and 'logy' (science). Corporate Ideals Our Dreamology Company is a highly perceptive and collaborative Describes our key values value-creating group. Basic CSR Policy ③ The Kaneka Group will fulfill our corporate social responsibility through the materialization of our corporate philosophy with Basic CSR Policy the earnest and forward-looking efforts of each employee. Provides an action agenda for each employee for materialization of our Corporate Philosophy 1. We will strive to fully understand the cultural backgrounds, manners and customs of the countries and regions where we do business as a means of actively contributing to local societies and communities. 2. We will abide by all relevant laws and regulations and, in undertaking Kaneka Group’s CSR Activities our business activities, conduct ourselves in a fair manner based on free competition. Group CSR activities aim to increase stakeholder 3. We will place high priority on communicating with all our satisfaction through business activities, thereby boosting stockholders and stakeholders, and will disclose all pertinent enterprise value. information. 4. We will respect the personalities and individuality of all our employees to support and encourage the development and utilization of their abilities. 5. We will uphold safety as the top-priority concern of management as we dedicate our best efforts to securing a sound and safe workplace environment, offering safe products, and working to protect the global environment. Page 7 Kaneka Group’s Stakeholders 6 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 The Kaneka Group’s Approach to CSR The Kaneka Group’s Corporate Philosophy and CSR Positioning Page 6 Kaneka’s Management Philosophy Structure ■ Kaneka Group’s Stakeholders Employees Society Our employees include the people who Including citizens and consumers. work for the Kaneka Group, as well as We can increase enterprise value by their families. fulfilling our social responsibilities. We offer employees appropriate We consider such factors as plant treatment, remuneration, self-fulfillment, operational safety from the perspectives and safe working environments. of social contributions, welfare, and community engagement. Employees Customers Customers Society The Environment Our customers are the people who By this we mean the global environment. purchase Kaneka Group products. We fulfill our social responsibilities by We provide them with quality products considering the environment in our and services, ensure product safety, and Kaneka Group business activities, including raw disclose information. materials procurement, manufacturing, and transportation. Shareholders The and Environment Investors Shareholders and Investors Vendors They recognize the value of our Vendors Raw materials suppliers and corporate brand and own our shares. contractors. We offer appropriate returns and We build mutually beneficial disclose timely information so we can relationships with vendors, ensuring that increase overall trust in the Group. transactions are fair and that we offer equal opportunities to do business. 7 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 The Kaneka Group’s Approach to CSR Contributing to Society through Business Activities in Key Strategic Fields The Kaneka Group listed four strategic domains in the Declaration of Kaneka United, a long-term vision formulated in 2009. While these domains form the centers of growth for shaping Kaneka’s corporate philosophy, they are also areas in which the Kaneka Group can contribute to society. The world is becoming increasingly borderless, with a surging population and the emergence of aging societies. As industries integrate, technological innovations are making everything smarter. The Kaneka Group continues to evolve to tackle social issues through its products and technologies. By 2020, the final year of our long-term vision, we aim to leverage growth and reform to generate value in our five target business areas of the Environment and Energy, Health Care, Quality of Life, Information and Communications, ■ Existing Business Units and Food Production Support. PVC & High-performance Plastic foam chemicals plastics products Electronic Food products Kanekalon materials Medical devices Quality of life Solar energy ■ Important Strategic Domains Global warming (climate change) Environment and Smarter, integrated industries Energy issues Energy Digital divide Information Health Care and Communications Emergence of aging Surging global societies Intractable diseases Food Production population spreading worldwide Support Food shortages 8 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 The Kaneka Group’s Approach to CSR Contributing to Society through Business Activities in Key Strategic Fields Health Care Environment and Energy Food Production Support Information We create materials and products We produce innovative materials that We aim to resolve food issues by and Communications that contribute to health, medical reduce environmental impact by providing materials that support We provide high-performance treatment, and nursing care mitigating society’s carbon footprint breeding and farming materials that underpin while creating products and markets the information society that can help resolve environmental problems around the world In Special Feature I, which starts on page In Special Feature II, which starts on page In the special column on page 21, we In the special column on page 21, we 12, we introduce the Kaneka Group's health 17, we introduce the Kaneka Group's introduce the Kaneka Group’s food introduce the Kaneka Group’s information care activities. environmental and energy activities. production support activities. and communications activities. Kaneka Hip Protector reduces impact Form meets function: Roof-integrated 100%-plant derived biopolymer High thermal-conductive Kaneka graphite force from falls photovoltaic modules naturally degrades into carbon dioxide sheet used to diffuse and release heat from mobile and other devices gas and water Reduced form coenzyme Q10 Toughness-enhancing master batch Anti-freeze protein to maintain the Bonded magnets for laser printers and (Ubiquinol) that contributes to a healthy for epoxy resin contributes to more robust, quality of frozen foods copiers lighter automobiles and airplane lifestyle Extruded polystyrene foam board for Polystyrene foam made with bead Polypropylene and polyethylene foams housing insulation method for fish or vegetable containers made with the bead method as shock-absorbing packaging materials for precision equipment and other applications Kaneka Nucleic Acid Chromatography chip accelerate genetic testing ■ Business Clusters in 2020 Global environment solution Health care Food and food Better quality of production support life Information and communications 9 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Kaneka Group Profile ■ Corporate Profile ■ Net Sales (Consolidated) Name KANEKA CORPORATION (Millions of yen) 600,000 552,189 Head Office 524,785 Osaka Head Office 2-3-18, Nakanoshima, Kita-ku, 453,826 469,289 476,462 Osaka 530-8288, Japan 500,000 Tel: +81-6-6226-5050 Fax: +81-6-6226-5037 400,000 Tokyo Head Office 1-12-32, Akasaka, Minato-ku, 300,000 Tokyo 107-6025, Japan Tel: +81-3-5574-8000 Fax: +81-3-5574-8121 200,000 Date of Establishment September 1, 1949 100,000 Paid-in Capital 33,046 million yen (as of March 31, 2015) 0 Domestic Facilities Sales Office Nagoya 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Plants Takasago (Hyogo Prefecture) (Fiscal years) Osaka (Osaka Prefecture) Shiga (Shiga Prefecture) ■ Net Income (Consolidated) Kashima (Ibaraki Prefecture) (Millions of yen) Research Institutes Frontier Materials Development Labo20,000 ratories, Medical Device Development 18,033 Laboratories, Biotechnology Development Laboratories, Photovoltaic & Thin Film Device Research Laboratories, Molding & 15,000 13,650 Processing Development Center, Thin-Film 11,625 Process Technology Development Center, 9,325 and Process Technology Laboratories 10,000 Overseas Facilities U.S.A., Belgium, Singapore, Malaysia, China, India, Taiwan, Korea, Australia, 5,402 Brazil, and others 5,000 Kaneka Group 92 subsidiaries (including 36 domestic and 26 overseas consolidated subsidiar0 ies) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) ■ Number of Employees (Consolidated) ■ Consolidated Sales by Business Segment (Fiscal 2014) 8,907 9,000 8,489 8,600 8,529* 8,400 Synthetic fibers and others 8,000 8.0% 7,000 Electronic products Chemicals 6,000 7.8% 20.0% Life science products 5,000 9.7% Net Sales 4,000 ¥552.2 Functional plastics 3,000 17.3% billion 2,000 Foodstuffs products Expandable plastics and products 1,000 25.3% 11.9% 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) ■ Consolidated Overseas Sales by Area (Fiscal 2014) *From fiscal 2014, we changed the basis on which we calculate the number of employees at Group companies (excluding temporary employees). Others 11.9% Asia Overseas 41.6% Europe Sales 25.9% ¥211.0 billion North America 20.6% 10 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 • Editorial Policy • Organizations Covered in This Report The Kaneka Group issued its Responsible Care Report from This report covers Kaneka Corporation and its domestic and 1999, renaming it the CSR Report from the 2010 version to overseas consolidated subsidiaries. include more socially responsible content. The data on Responsible Care activities encompass the parBeginning with the 2011 version, we separated the report into ent and all 40 Group production subsidiaries. digest and PDF versions. From the 2013 version, we renamed The following icons indicate the scope of activities. A section the digest version the Communication Book to position this displaying all icons indicates that activities encompass the publication as a key communication tool for all stakeholders. entire Group. The Communication Book presents simplified content for those learning about Kaneka for the first time or those wishing Kaneka to gain an overview of our CSR activities. Domestic Overseas In this report, “the Company” or “Kaneka” refers specifically to Kaneka Corporation. The “Group” or “Kaneka Group” encompasses Kaneka and its consolidated subsidiaries. References to “Group company/companies” do not include Kaneka Corporation. Communication book PDF version • Language Versions This report is available in Japanese and English. Communication book is also available in both languages. More detailed report • Third-Party Verification and Opinions The Japan Chemical Industry Association verified the Responsible Care data in this report. Professor Chieko Minami of the Report for a wider audience Graduate School of Administration of Kobe University provided a third-party opinion of the overall content. The special features in this report highlight the Group’s endeavors in Health Care and the Environment and Energy from • Report Period the perspectives of business activities and stakeholders. This issue covers fiscal 2014 (April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015) with some additional information outside this period. Important Strategic Domains • Date of Publication Environment and Energy September 2015 • Publication of the Previous Report Information and September 2014 Health Care Communications • Next Report September 2016 Food Production Support • Reference Guidelines The Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting The PDF version discloses all of our CSR information. There Guidelines 2006 and The Environmental Reporting Guidelines are sections specifically for stakeholders including the provi(2012 version) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of sion of Check & Act columns, an overview of activities for the Japan. year under review, and our Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) goals for highlighted issues in the coming term. • Inquiries Kaneka Corporation Administration Office CSR Committee 2-3-18, Nakanoshima, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8288, Japan Tel: +81-6-6226-5091 Fax: +81-6-6226-5127 http://www.kaneka.co.jp/kaneka-e/ Note: We have included a questionnaire form with this report and invite you to record your opinions and impressions to help us improve our initiatives and disclosure in the years ahead. 11 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Special Feature Article I Important Strategic Domains “Health Care” We create materials and products that contribute to health, medical treatment, and nursing care Toward a Future in which Human Cells Save Lives Leveraging Our Science to Contribute to Regenerative Medicine and Cell Therapy Medical Device Development Laboratories is driving the spread of regenerative medicine and cell therapy Professor Shinya Yamanaka of Kyoto University thrust regenerative medicine and cell therapy into the spotlight in Japan when he won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2012. A framework for swiftly applying regenerative medicine and cell therapy emerged on November 25, 2014, when the New Act for Ensuring Regenerative Medicine Safety and other legislation went into effect. Japan is thus well positioned to become a global leader in practicing regenerative medicine and cell therapy. The Kaneka Group has been researching and developing such devices as a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) separation device and a programmable closed circuit cell culture system since 2004. We are promoting the adoption of devices and apparatuses around the globe while drawing on collaborative endeavors with academia to develop cell preparations and products that support the discovery of drugs harnessing iPS cells. 12 Special Feature Article I KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Important Strategic Domains “Health Care” Social Needs and Kaneka’s Plan ■ The Kaneka Group’s Business Developments in Regenerative Medicine Kaneka Group Meeting New Challenges and Cell Therapy to Help Japan Lead the Way in Regenerative Medicine and Cell Therapy MSC separation device Fixed temperature transportation Regenerative medicine and cell therapy has its roots in blood transfusions. The use of this tool to create cultures of patient cells for their own use arose from therapies such as activated lymphocytes for cancer treatment and more recently, iPS cell clinical trials for agedrelated macular degeneration. While effective in some applications, their scope is quite limited. Thus, there is demand Mesenchymal (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) for broader applications in regenerative stem cells Separation Culture Recovery TransImplant medicine and cell therapy. (MSC) portation Drug discovery Recent years have seen considerable progress in R&D for the broad use of cells from other individuals and not Programmable cell culture system Cell recovery device Tissue engineering just the patients themselves. Of these, MSCs are considered the safest. Group company Biomaster, Inc. It was against this backdrop that operates Cellport the New Act for Ensuring RegeneraClinic Yokohama tive Medicine Safety went into effect in Japan in November 2014 to promote regenerative medicine and cell therapy. This opened the door for private enterprises to engage in cell preparation, In 2004, we developed a device to separate MSC from bone marrow fluid (1). We developed a series of treatment devices necessary for treatment, from cell separation through administration, including a programmable cell culture which had been the exclusive domain system (2), cell recovery device (3), fixed temperature transportation system (4), and micro-catheter (5). of medical institutions. The revised In 2011, Biomaster, Inc. became a subsidiary of Kaneka, beginning treatment for (5) on breast reconstruction after Pharmaceutical Affairs Act made it posbreast cancer operation and facial dystrophic disease at Cellport Clinic Yokohama and new product R&D. sible to lower the development costs It currently engages in drug discovery R&D in areas (1) through (3). of regenerative medical products and Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) accelerate their commercialization. Yasuyoshi Ueda, an executive The cells closest to commercialization among all those used in regenerative medicine, officer and head of the Medical Device MSCs have the following features: Development Laboratories, says that, “I • Immunosuppression believe that the Japanese government • Differentiable from cells that create bone, cartilage, and fat, etc. formulated various legislation, including • Proliferation as undifferentiated cells the New Act for Ensuring Regenerative Medicine Safety, to promote tissue engineering as a strategic field for Japan in the world market. These changes in Kaneka Group’s Approach mable closed circuit cell culture system the rules will drive Japan’s efforts to Developing the MSC Separation Device and a cell recovery device. build the regenerative medicine and cell and Cell Culture System to Drive ReAkira Kobayashi, a senior retherapy industry. The Kaneka Group generative Medicine and Cell Therapy searcher at the Medical Device Develaims to contribute to progress in these opment Laboratories, says that, “With fields by leveraging its networks with The Kaneka Group’s involvement in the the focus on MSC increasing, we began universities, public institutions and other medical field began in 1986 with R&D exploring technologies to select and organizations to realize cell preparation into Liposorber, which selectively abseparate MSC from bone marrow fluid. manufacturing and sales.” sorbs and removes causative agents Centrifugation was the conventional from plasma, a component of blood. We method for this process, but separation transformed our approach to absorption took more than 90 minutes because of technology through this work, shifting the complexities involved. Another issue Yasuyoshi Ueda, Ph.D. away from the elimination of unneceswas that separation efficiency differed Executive Officer, sary agents to harvesting the agents greatly among operators. Customers Head of Medical Device needed. In 2004, we developed a dehave told us that the process involving Development Laboratories vice (see note 1) to separate MSC from the separation device that Kaneka debone marrow fluid. We thereafter acveloped takes less than 20 minutes and celerated R&D in regenerative medicine delivers the same results no matter who and cell therapy by releasing important is operating the device.” treatment devices such as a programMr. Kobayashi notes that, “In adNote 1: As separation methods differ by bone marrow, adipose, and amniotic membrane MSC, the Kaneka Group has developed devices and other essential items for each of these three types of MSC. 13 Special Feature Article I KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Important Strategic Domains “Health Care” Laboratory activities at Biobanka. Researchers can confirm microscopically enlarged stem cells on monitors dition, Kaneka’s programmable closed circuit cell culture system ensures that operations are safe, reliable, and convenient as it automatically cultures in a closed environment and operators can observe and check cells cultured in real time with the attached microscope.” Akira Kobayashi Senior Researcher, (Research), Medical Device Development Laboratories ma Europe N.V. has been involved in Used in More Clinical Practices medical devices for two decades. Mediwhile Driving Development of Better cal institutions have started deploying Products Kaneka Pharma Europe N.V. PopularKaneka’s separation devices. Comizing Devices and Apparatuses pared with conventional centrifugation Kaneka Pharma Europe currently hansetups, our devices are safer, faster, dles two products. The first is CellEfKaneka obtained the European CE mark and simpler to operate, and offer high fic BM, which separates and recovers (see note 2) of approval for regenerative recovery rates. MSCs from bone marrow fluid. The medicine and cell therapy devices and Cornelia Fricke, product manager second is CellEffic CB, which is used is working toward their commercializa(CPD) at Kaneka Pharma Europe N.V., for umbilical cord blood. tion. Turkey already allows insurance says that, “Our devices have solid repuBiobanka in Slovenia uses a coverage for regenerative medicine and tations, as they separate cells without Kaneka product for clinical cartilage cell therapy. The United Kingdom, Gerstressing them, making it possible to regenerative medicine and cell therapy many, and France are clinically testing recover large numbers of cells in good and umbilical cord blood storage (see the efficacy of such therapies for intraccondition.” note 3). Biobanka has pioneered such table diseases. Commercial therapies umbilical cord blood banking and other should become available in Europe in a aspects of regenerative medicine and few years. cell therapy together with Educell since Hiroshi Sakurai, deputy general its establishment in 1997. manager of Kaneka Pharma Europe The University Medical Centre N.V., says that, “We secured a CE Ljubljana in Slovenia has used Kaneka mark in a more progressive European products since 2014 in cartilage regenmarket to commercialize regenerative erative medicine and cell therapy for pamedicine and cell therapy and treattients with knee injuries from accidents ment using MSCs, which remains fairly and other causes. Associate Professor Hiroshi Sakurai, Ph.D. Cornelia Fricke, Ph.D. Matej Drobnic of the institution says, unusual elsewhere. This was because Deputy General Manager, Product Manager we deemed it crucial to amass a clinical German Branch, (CPD), “We have set up 17 clinical cases to practice track record as soon as posKaneka Pharma Europe German Branch, date. The treatments have been far sible.” N.V. Kaneka Pharma Europe easier than with conventional methods. The German unit of Kaneka PharN.V. No patients suffered any side effects User Comment Finding the Device Biobanka Sought for So Long Since our establishment in 1997, our Many patients require regenerative group have provided cells that medical medicine and cell therapy. We plan to institutions around Slovenia have used for utilize Kaneka’s device to expand our busitherapy. The cultured cells have been used ness in this field in the European Union in more than 300 patients. We had long and then worldwide. awaited a cell separation and recovery To make regenerative medicine and device that did not employ centrifugation, cell therapy available to numerous people, because a new technique enabling us we must ensure safe and reliable treatment Dr. Marko Strbad (right), Ph.D., CEO of Biobanka, to recover cells of higher quality is more at reasonable prices. We expect Kaneka to and Assistant Professor Miomir Knezevic (left), useful to patients. The Kaneka’s CellEffic continue making improvements and offerPh.D., Scientific Director of Biobanka series we first encountered two years ago ing suggestions that are useful for medical was a dream come true for us. practice in the years ahead. Note 2: The CE mark is proof of conformity with European Union directives, and is awarded by private a third-party certification body authorized by the European Union member states. Note 3: Umbilical cord blood is rich with hematopoietic stem cells and nucleated cells, making it a key cell supply source. Umbilical cord bloods are stored in state or private blood banks and used in treating such illnesses as leukemia and for research purposes. The number of umbilical cord blood banks has increased in recent years. 14 Special Feature Article I KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Important Strategic Domains “Health Care” and all have done well since treatment. The German Red Cross Hospital Further improvements in usability would in Frankfurt values Kaneka devices highly be a blessing to many more patients because we believe that we can use the device for treating other ailments such as rheumatism and osteoarthritis of the knee.” The people at Kaneka Pharma Europe reflected requests from clinical practices in improving products in collaboration with Japanese researchers. Dr. Fricke notes that, “We are pursuing improvements based on the needs of clinical practices, and we hope to drive commercialization by strengthening our relationships with our customers.” She adds that, “We are in the process of building name recognition. While it is a huge challenge to enter the market for regenerative medicine and cell therapy, it does offer considerable growth opportunities. We will therefore build a presence through such activities The University of Ljubljana hosted a gathering so people come to rely most on Kaneof members of the Cell and Tissue Engineering ka’s offerings.” Society of Slovenia on April 17, 2015. Personnel from Biobanka, a user of Kaneka devices, were on the organizing and scientific committee and Dr. Matej Drobnic, M.D., announced many research results Ph.D. Orthopedic Surgeon, and Associate Professor at University Medical Centre Ljubljana Promoting Initiatives in Amniotic Membrane-Derived MSC and iPS Cell Fields for Cell Preparation and Drug Developmatory diseases since AMSC is highly clinical trials that use cultured cell ment immunosuppressive. AMSC offers the preparation for acute graft-versus-host huge benefit of safe harvesting without disease (GVHD) (see note 5), which Amniotic Membrane-Derived MSC stress on donors during childbirth.” is a side effect of leukemia and other Preparation Project He added that, “The National treatments, at the Hyogo College of Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center Medicine and Hokkaido University, and While pursuing commercialization and Kaneka established a protocol (see for Crohn’s disease (see note 6) at Hokoverseas, the Kaneka Group has undernote 4) to separate MSCs from amnikaido University. We intend to confirm taken various R&D initiatives in Japan otic membranes and culture them. We its safety and efficacy through these through collaborative efforts with acawill deploy stable amniotic membraneclinical trials and obtain manufacturing demia. One such initiative is an amniotic derived MSC production technologies and sales approvals for cell preparation membrane-derived MSC preparation at our unit within the Kobe International to treat these diseases.” project that it is conducting with the Business Center. We have arranged National Cerebral and Cardiovascular R&D into Devices to Support Drug Center and other partners for the Japan Development Research Using iPS Science and Technology Agency. Cells Masaru Nakatani Masaru Nakatani, a senior reSenior Researcher, searcher at Medical Device Develop(Research), The Kaneka Group engages in R&D for ment Laboratories, says that, “We Medical Device Development screening devices, facilitating preparaanticipate that applications of amniotic Laboratories tion of iPS cell-derived cells, for new membrane-derived MSC(AMSC) in drug development, including for Altreating immune-mediated and inflamzheimer’s disease and other ailments, Note 4: Plan for clinical trials and treatment. Note 5: Graft-versus-host disease. A grave side effect from hematopoietic stem cell transplants, notably for bone marrow. A refractory immune-mediated illness. In Japan, the probability of acute GVHD exceeds 50% in more than 3,000 transplants annually. Note 6: Inflammatory bowel disease of unknown origin that is common among young people, mainly causing inflammation or ulcers in the small and large intestines. The number of patients in Japan is increasing every year, with more than 30,000 cases identified. 15 Special Feature Article I KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Important Strategic Domains “Health Care” working with the Center for iPS Cell Prospects devices to simplify such preparations, Research and Application at Kyoto UniBuilding a Value Chain with Cell Prepawe can help cut the costs of regeneraversity. rations and Devices and Apparatuses tive medicine and cell therapy and make Tomohisa Kato, a senior researchto Accelerate the Popularity of Regenit more widespread.” er at Medical Device Development erative Medicine and Cell Therapy Dr. Kato says that, “Dementia and Laboratories, says that, “Kyoto Universiother neurological diseases will become ty developed a revolutionary technique The Kaneka Group is focusing on creating greater issues as society ages. Society to create iPS cell-derived neurons. a value chain for regenerative medicine demands drug discovery screening usResearchers need cells for screening and cell therapy over the next decade or ing iPS cells to accelerate drug developa huge number of compounds in drug two. ment.” discovery. Manually preparing these Dr. Ueda says that, “We anticipate Mr. Nakatani says that, “The Kanecells is a huge burden on researchers.” that the cell preparation business will ka Group has extensive life sciences and He adds that, “Kaneka’s R&D into outgrow that of devices and apparatuses quality management expertise in other a programmable closed circuit cell culby 2030. The Kaneka Group aims to maareas as well as medical equipment and ture system led to the joint development terialize the entire operational process, devices, having cultivated these capaof a device to automate the process. from separating amniotic membranes bilities in the coenzyme Q10 and pharDiscovering abnormalities that cause offered by medical institutions to culturmaceutical intermediate businesses. We disease by using the device to differening and recovery and then providing cell are drawing on our human resources as tiate iPS cells into neuron cells derived preparations.” part of our commitment to success in from patients can lead to the develMr. Kobayashi says that, “First, we the new cell preparation field.” opment of efficacious medications. will conduct clinical trials of amniotic Dr. Sakurai says that, “The rapidly Kaneka plans to commercialize devices membrane-derived MSC preparations evolving regenerative medicine and to support drug discovery screening on acute GVHD and Crohn’s disease cell therapy fields will soon be well esduring fiscal 2016.” cases. While the caseloads are small, tablished in society. Our goal is to offer the mortality rates are high. Thus our medicine that is accessible even in regugoal is to market effective cell preparalar municipal hospitals. We will leverage Tomohisa Kato, Ph.D. tions as swiftly as possible and deliver our early advantages in driving device Senior Researcher, them promptly to patients. We look to development to maintain our swift ad(Research Theme Planning), expand applications to contribute to vances in medicine.” Medical Device Development treatments for many other sufferers of Laboratories intractable diseases. Regenerative medicine and cell therapy are not cheap. This was particularly true last year for the treatment of age-related macular degeneration using iPS cells. By promoting the standardization of our own closed-circuit m es sa g e ▶ Stakeholder Message ▶ Response to Message Kaneka’s Manufacturing Capabilities are Essential Aiming to become the Top Runner in Commercializin Commercializing the World’s First Amniotic Meming World-Standard Devices, Apparatuses and Cells brane-Derived MSC Preparation for Our Future and for Patients Promoting commercialization by Dr. Kenichi Yamahara, M.D., Ph.D. establishing a cell National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center, preparation facility Chief, Laboratory of Cell and Tissue Engineering, inside the Kobe InDepartment of Regenerative Medicine and Tissue ternational Business Engineering Center The Department of Regenerative Medicine and Tissue Engineering at the National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center has focused on the potential of amniotic membrane-derived MSC in studying stem cells such as iPS, ES cells, and MSC, and decided to apply this approach in cell therapy. Amniotic membrane-derived MSC was the world’s first such preparation, so safety is an absolute necessity. To drive the application To become a top runner in the commercialization of cell related apparaof amniotic membrane-derived MSC preparations in more treatments, tuses and devices, the Kaneka Group is developing and providing devices we are creating Japan’s safest protocols through extensive safety delibencompassing everything from cell separation to culture, recovery, transerations with the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency. portation, and administration. We aim to become the leader in commerKaneka cooperates in cell separation and culturing. The separacializing cell preparations. Although this is a new field for both the Kaneka tion and culture of MSC in closed circuits is essential for developing Group and Japan, we will cultivate this area with various professors, safe products. We are also collaborating with Kaneka Pharma Europe particularly Professor Kenichi Yamahara, to more swiftly commercialize N.V. with a view to developing products in the European Union. We look preparations. This would contribute to better futures for medicine, Japan, forward to timely decision making to accelerate commercialization. and most importantly, the patients awaiting a breakthrough. 16 Special Feature Article II Important Strategic Domains “Environment and Energy” We produce innovative materials that reduce environmental impact by mitigating society’s carbon footprint while creating products and markets that can help resolve environmental problems around the world Changing Lighting to Transform Living Expanding the Potential of Next-Generation Lighting through Science From torches, lanterns, candles, gas lamps, and incandescent lights to fluorescent lights, lighting has evolved together with mankind to enhance convenience. Changing times have yet again prompted the emergence of new lighting. The Kaneka Group helps enhance lifestyles while reducing environmental impact by offering energy-saving LED and organic electroluminescent (EL) lighting that redefines light fittings. ■ Mechanism of the LED lighting reflector Helping to Save More Energy with LED Lighting around 100 LEDs. Doubling the lumiA reflector efficiently reflects emissions. Kaneka’s Social Needs and Kaneka’s Plan nance would halve the number of LEDs ILLUMIKA W thermo-resistant and non-discoloring Helping to Enhance Luminance and material enables LED lighting to save energy needed to maintain the same brightthe Energy-Saving Performance of ness and halve the power consumption. LED Lighting through Highly ThermoTadashi Kokubo, of the Opto-electronic Resistant Reflector Materials chemicals business promotion Group in Japanese people have increased their the New Business Development Diviuse of energy-saving LED lighting in sion, says that, “Although the light emitReflector response to electricity shortages since ting elements of LEDs consume less the Great East Japan Earthquake. power than incandescent light bulbs or (Cross-sectional view) Worldwide, the focus of demand for LED fluorescent lights, LEDs are exposed to lighting has seen a shift from Europe internal temperatures exceeding 100°C, and the United States toward China and as 70% of the power is released as heat. Encapsulant The development of peripheral materi＋ other Asian markets. Light-emitting Phosphor als that withstand high temperatures is elements Light-emitting diodes are semiconductor devices that convert electhus crucial to support energy-saving, tricity to light. LEDs consume just onelong life-time LED lighting. The reflectenth of the electricity of incandescent tion capacity of such materials is parlight bulbs. LEDs are also long life-time, ticularly important to direct the output as they do not use filaments, unlike their of light. The brightness of LED lighting incandescent counterparts. depends greatly on the performance of Lead frame Each LED light bulb incorporates the reflectors. It is important to have a 17 Special Feature Article II Important Strategic Domains “Environment and Energy” material that delivers greater reflectivity effort.” Prospects and heat resistance from more powerful Mr. Kokubo says that, “We ship Producing Energy-Saving LEDs while light emitting elements to create LED ILLUMIKA W in tablet form, and cusHelping Customers to Reduce Energy lighting that conserves more energy tomers use it to mold reflectors. Many Consumption in Production Processes and lasts longer. That is why we focustomers were enthusiastic from the cused on such a material.” outset about the potential of ILLUMIKA Mr. Ide notes that, “Silicon-based resins W. Still, the shapes of reflectors vary have among the best thermo-resistance among customers, as do the perforof all plastics. As long as we ensure Tadashi Kokubo mances of molding machines. So, it easy processability, I believe that our Opto-electronic chemicals was not immediately possible for cusmaterial has a good chance of becombusiness promotion Group, tomers to manufacture thermo-resistant ing the de facto standard for reflectors. New Business Developreflectors as soon as they started using LEDs are becoming more and more ment Division ILLUMIKA W. To complete the commerpowerful, so we need to pursue perforcialization process, we had to check mance advances, including the abilcustomers’ manufacturing lines. We ity to reflect light more effectively and sent engineers to the lines for several enhance thermo-resistance. We believe Kaneka Group’s Approach weeks to suggest process conditions that LED lighting will also become more Developing a Reflector with Thermothat matched customers’ molding macompact so it will be important for us to Resistant Silicon-Based Resin, Overchines.” develop materials that are stronger and coming the Challenges of Improved easier to mold.” Reflectivity and Curing for Moldings Masahito Ide Mr. Kokubo says that, “The evoluSenior Researcher, tion of materials will benefit customers The types of reflective materials used Frontier Materials Developin society in various ways. For example, have changed as LEDs have become ment Laboratories, if we can develop a material that shortmore powerful. Nylon reflectors were Information & Communicaens curing time via heat, we will help commonly used in earlier LEDs, but tion Materials Research customers to reduce the energy conGroup lighting applications became limited sumption of their production processes. as nylon lacked heat resistance with Lower manufacturing costs will also more advanced LEDs. The reflectors drive the popularity of LEDs. By supplyquickly discolored, causing the brighting such materials, we can help reduce ness of LEDs to deteriorate. This led to society’s carbon footprint. the use of ceramic reflectors in some cases. However, while ceramics have excellent heat resistance, they have low reflectivity and are hard to process, making them expensive. It was imperative to avoid increasing costs because of the need to expand the usage of LED lighting. Epoxy resin was adopted as a ■ Heat Resistance Comparison between Kaneka ILLUMIKA W and Nylon reflector material, offering superior proILLUMIKA W cess performance and heat resistance. reflector Nylon reflector Still, epoxy resin reflectors continued Results of 1,000-hour thermo-resistance test at 150°C. to fall behind as LEDs swiftly became Unlike a reflector made of Kaneka’s ILLUMIKA W, more powerful. the nylon reflector became discolored Masahito Ide, a Senior Researcher at the Frontier Materials Development Laboratories of the Information and Communication Materials Research Group, says that, “We responded to requests from customers seeking better reflective materials for more powerful ■ ILLUMIKA W Thermo-Resistant, Light-Resistant Resin LEDs. This led to the development of ILLUMIKA W, which used a silicon-based resin that we were working on as an LED encapsulant.” Mr. Ide adds that, “While taking advantage of the better thermo-resistance, we needed to enhance reflectivity by using a white pigment that we mixed to make the resin suitable enough for use as an LED reflector. We also had to develop technology to enhance ease in handling by solidifying the resin in the shape of a tablet. Several thousand ILLUMIKA W thermo-resistant, light-resistant resin in easy-to-handle tablet form recipes later, we succeeded with our (left), molded to create reflectors suitable for high output LEDs (right) 18 Special Feature Article II Important Strategic Domains “Environment and Energy” A natural treasure, the Choju Giga, Frolicking Animals scrolls were exhibited using Kaneka’s organic EL panels. The organic EL panels won accolades for revealing the original lantern and candle light look when the works were created Heiseikan at the Tokyo National tovoltaic module’s thin-film formation Museum hosted “Masterpieces of technology enabled us to attain a thickKosan-ji Temple: the complete scrolls ness of just 1 mm. Based on our experof Choju Giga, Frolicking Animals” special exhibition in 2015 tise in manufacturing processes for thinfilm photovoltaic modules, we jointly developed organic EL lighting with an organic EL manufacturing equipment maker, starting from the equipment design stage.” Takayuki Suzuki of the Device Development Team OLED Aomori Co., Ltd. says, “One factor in prolonging orPursuing the Potential of Surface-Emitting ganic EL lighting durability is to prevent deterioration from technical problems Organic EL Lighting and heat. Conventional organic ELs sandwiched between glass posed the problem of deterioration from heating Social Needs and Kaneka’s Plan thin and light. inside the glass because the air served Decline of Incandescent and FluoresHirokazu Ohbuchi of the OLED as insulation. Regular LEDs last around cent Lamps Paving the Way to NextBusiness Development Project says 40,000 hours. Kaneka attained more Generation Lighting that, “The Kaneka Group began develthan 50,000 hours by eliminating the oping organic EL lighting in 2008. At the air space and changing the structure to From April 28 to June 7, 2015, the Tokyo time, the number of incandescent light efficiently release heat from the organic National Museum held a special exhibibulb manufacturers had plunged, and EL back. Furthermore, Kaneka’s organic tion, “Masterpieces of Kosan-ji Temple: they were moves to stop producing fluoEL lighting is less likely to experience the complete scrolls of Choju Giga, Frolrescent lights in Europe because they issues than regular organic EL countericking Animals.” The museum employed contained mercury. Manufacturers thus parts, which sometimes suddenly stop Kaneka’s organic electroluminescent started to develop LEDs and organic working when the glass loosens as a lighting for the exhibition. ELs.” result of impact or glass coming into Organic EL lighting emits light in contact with vapor-deposited electrodes response to an electric current on a Kaneka Group’s Approach owing to the space between glass.” lighting panel that sandwiches an orAttaining Slimness and Long Life-time ganic material between the electrodes. Organic Electroluminescence Based on Unlike LEDs, which emit a spot of light, the Thin-film Formation Technology of organic EL functions as a surface light Photovoltaic Modules Takayuki Suzuki, Ph.D. Head of the Device Develsource. Its advantages include surfaceopment Team, emitting lights generating fewer shadThe Kaneka Group’s organic EL lightOLED Aomori Co., Ltd. ows, providing soft light that is free of ing is just 1 mm thick and operates for ultraviolet or infrared rays, and installa50,000 hours. tion flexibility because the devices are Mr. Ohbuchi says that, “The pho19 Special Feature Article II Important Strategic Domains “Environment and Energy” ■ Kaneka’s Organic EL Lighting Prospects light is about 20%, we would like to atPopularizing Lighting that People tain more than 30% to make organic EL Scarcely Notice, Lowering Costs, and lighting marketable as an energy-saving Improving Luminance lighting.” Mr. Ohbuchi adds that, “InitiaLEDs initially lacked luminance, but tives to fully launch the device are also technological breakthroughs popularneeded. As organic EL lights require ized them by making them cheaper and less installation space, we can install more powerful. them in unusual locations like shadowy Dr. Suzuki says that, “Although areas under condominium beams or in one organic EL panel lacks luminance the lower dark areas of closets. Even as a base light when installed in ceilings when installed on dining tables, lightand other locations, it has sufficient ing devices as thin as these probably luminance as task lighting on desks and would not bother diners even at eyeother locations. EL panels are particulevel. While improving luminance and Kaneka organic EL lighting is just 1 mm thick and larly useful for work desks because power efficiency, we want to convey the is more long life-time than counterpart organic EL they don’t cast shadows and therefore benefits of organic EL lights by creating devices reduce stress. We believe that we have and promoting new applications that achieved some success in prolonging are impossible with conventional lightlifetime.” ing. We believe that lighting that melts Mr. Ohbuchi says that, “In future, into the background could transform further breakthroughs to achieve brightpeoples’ lifestyles.” er and cheaper organic EL lighting will be necessary. Our goal is to achieve a luminance level of 6,000 to 8,000 cd/m² (see note 1), up from the current 3,000 Hirokazu Ohbuchi Kaneka released its organic EL lighting lineup, cd/m², and a 60 lm/W luminous effiOLED Business Developwhich was the first in the world to comprise white ciency (see note 2), which is the energyment Project (warm color), red, orange, blue, and green saving standard for housing, from the current 40 lm/W. Although the current conversion efficiency from electricity to m es sag e ▶ Stakeholder Message ▶ Response to Message Wishing to Reproduce the Original Looks of Screen Reinforcing Organic EL Lighting Proposals Targeting and Scroll Paintings with Organic EL Lights. Looking Architectural and Spatial Designers Forward to More Unique Proposals from Kaneka Masato Matsushima Senior Manager, Special Exhibition Planning, Curatorial Planning Dept., Tokyo National Museum The Tokyo National Museum was the first facility to use Kaneka’s organic EL lights to show folding-screen paintings in “Admired from Afar: Masterworks of Japanese Painting from the Cleveland Museum of Art”, an exhibition held in January 2014. Although the lighting at museums is mainly fluorescent, we wanted to showcase the original images of Kaneka’s booth at Lighting Fair 2015 the exhibits, such as the God of Thunder under organic EL lights, as the works were painted by lantern and candlelight. As the key museum for the nation, we must always try to optimize our exhibits, which is why we are grateful for corporations like Organic EL lighting is finally at the commercialization stage. We consider Kaneka for helping us with our experiments. Kaneka also rose to the it important to propose applications to architectural and spatial designers challenge of quickly improving the color rendering index (see note 3) of and other direct customers to drive the popularity of such lighting. At the organic EL lights for “Masterpieces of Kosan-ji Temple: the complete Lighting Fair in March 2015 held at Tokyo Big Sight, we created boutique scrolls of Chouju Giga, Frolicking Animals”. and restaurant interiors in our booth to highlight ways to display shirts, We look forward to more unique proposals from Kaneka-they footwear, and other items, and to create tasteful bar counters, receiving a could not come from a regular manufacturer of lighting fixtures-to range of feedback. We will continue to value engagement with customers stimulate more ideas for museums and lighting designers. to create more effective proposals to popularize organic EL lighting. Note 1: Luminance is a measure of the luminous intensity per unit area. The unit for luminance is candela per square meter. Note 2: Luminous efficiency is a measure of how well a lighting device produces visible light per unit of electricity. The unit is lumen per watt. Note 3: A color rendering index is a quantitative measure of a light source to reveal the colors of objects. As the average color rendering index (Ra) gets closer to 100, the more naturally the light source reveals colors. 20 Special Feature Article Important Strategic Domains “Information and Communications” “Food Production Support” In addition to Health Care and the Environment and Energy, the Kaneka Group resolves social issues through its products and technologies in its other strategic domains of Information and Communications and Food Production Support. Below are some examples. Important Strategic Domains “Information and Communications” We provide high-performance materials that underpin the information society Pixeo BP (Two-layer copper-clad laminate (CCL) sheet material) Kaneka polyimide film is popular for its ultra-heat resistance and dimensional stability. It is used in such mobile devices as smartphones and Ultra-heat-resistant polyimide film used tablets. Printed circuit boards are substrates for mounting electronic for heat-resistant insulation in mobile devices devices. As mobile devices become more advanced, there is demand for smaller, lighter, and thinner flexible printed circuit boards. As Pixeo BP boosts cost performance, it has become popular in It is against this backdrop that Kaneka drew on its accumulated the market, underpinning the evolutions of smartphones and tablets. technologies to develop Pixeo BP, a highly functional film. In fiscal 2014, Pixeo BP received the Grand Prize in the 46th Annual Pixeo BP comprises three main technologies. The first is layer Technology Award by the Japan Chemical Industry Association, the 47th design simulation technology. The second is a fusion bonded layer Ichimura Prize in Industry from the New Technology Development Founmacromolecular design technology. The third is an ultrahigh temperature dation, and the 61st Award of the Society of Polymer Science. laminating technology. These technologies addressed market demand for As mobile devices become thinner and more compact, we will high soldering temperatures and thinner, higher-density copper wiring on continue to provide highly functional materials that assist an informationcircuit boards. intensive society. Important Strategic Domains “Food Production Support” Resolving food issues by providing materials that support agricultural production Kaneka Peptide (Oxidized glutathione for fertilizer and agriculture) Kaneka is launching fertilizer business by developing Kaneka peptide containing oxidized glutathione (GSSG). A breakthrough fertilizer poised GSSG assimilates carbon dioxide and accumulates sugar. It can to open new horizons for agriculture increase agricultural production yields and enhance sugar concentrations by spreading GSSG in the soil and on plant leaves. Field studies with GSSG fertilizer in North America, Asia, and elsewhere around the world found that yields of potatoes and other crops Okayama Prefectural Technology Center for Agriculture, Forestry, and increased consistently by 10% to 40%. Another benefit of GSSG is that it Fisheries, Research Institute for Biological Sciences (RIBS), leveraging is safe, existing in the cells of plants and all other organisms. In Japan, years of expertise in such areas as fermentation technology. we have already registered six GSSG fertilizers. We will cultivate this business to help resolve global food shortage Since 2010, we have been developing Kaneka peptide with the issues. 21 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 CSR Promotion CSR Targets, Results, and Evaluations Kaneka’s Fiscal 2014 and 2015 CSR Targets, Results, and Evaluations, and Mediumto Long-Term Targets are as follows. ■ Kaneka’s CSR Targets, Results, and Evaluations (Fiscal 2014 Targets) Key Item Fiscal 2014 Targets Stakeholders All CSR Management Bolster Governance and Compliance •Ensure compliance awareness. Continue companywide CSR suitability audits. Stakeholders •Maintain the internal reporting system. •Continue to improve internal control levels for financial reporting. CSR Implementation •The CSR Committee will meet at least twice annually during its term. The four subcommittees will convene as scheduled. •Foster employee understanding of CSR by regularly disseminating information. •Conduct job-specific and other training and hold briefings at domestic Group companies. Management CSR Safety and Quality •Management will continue making CSR Safety and Quality Inspections (of all parent plants, one research center, 17 plants of 15 domestic Group Inspection companies, and seven overseas Group companies). Reinforce Risk Management •Strengthen crisis management to prevent problems from escalating after accidents. The Environmental Protection Prevention of Global Warming •Reduce energy intensity (see note 1) by at least 1% annually. Environment Improvement (reducing •Attain a carbon dioxide emissions intensity target for fiscal 2020 that is 26 below (fixed coefficient) the fiscal 1990 level (21.4 below the level in fiscal environmental impact) 2014). •Plan and implement efficient initiatives to reduce energy intensity by at least 1% annually. Reduction of Industrial Waste •Target domestic Group companies that produce a lot of waste and final landfill, suppress such waste and check progress in measures to reduce final landfill, keeping the final landfill rate for all parent plants at below 0.2%. •Constrain waste and continue to manage output levels at all parent plants. •Continue to confirm compliance among waste disposal companies. Reduction of Volatile Organic Com•Push forward with VOC emissions reduction measures, cutting the target to below 1,830 metric tons. pound (VOC) Emissions Preservation of Biodiversity •Continue activities that prioritize biodiversity guidelines that focus on efforts as part of social contribution initiatives. Customers Customer Satisfaction Quality Management •Build awareness of the Quality Management Rules and Change Management Standards. (ensuring quality and •Prepare other guidelines and standards (including design reviews). product safety) Chemical Substance Management •Comply with and properly accommodate domestic and overseas chemical substance management laws and regulations in Japan and abroad and collect and share information on legislative revisions (including in the United States and Asia). •Look into creating a chemical substances database. Vendors Proper Procurement Green Procurement •Enhance and thoroughly undertake activities based on the Green Procurement Standards and expand efforts among Group companies. •Start looking into stepping up CSR procurement. Bolstering Distribution Safety •Newly create and revise Yellow Cards and check that people carry them when required. •Continue to implement legal compliance and voluntary inspections of mobile tanks. •Continue holding emergency response drills for transportation. Shareholders Timely and Appropriate Disclosure •Issue business reports, financial results, interim reports for shareholders and other investors, and other investor relations materials. and Investors Society Improving Communication with Society •Issue a CSR report and post it on our website. •Continue to engage in stakeholder dialogue. •Continue to stage youth events. •Issue site reports for all parent plants and post them on our website. Reinforcing Process Safety and Disaster Prevention •Clarify strengths and weaknesses through process safety assessments. •Deploy chemical substance safety assessments and safety measures. •Conduct a safety drive that covers such areas as powder dust explosions and heat-triggered fires. Employees Emphasis on Diversity Employing, Training, and Recruiting •Create a corporate culture that expands work opportunities for female employees, supports the activities of foreign and bilingual employees, and Diverse People otherwise embraces diversity. Work-life Balance •Step up management of working hours while looking into deploying the necessary work-life support programs. Labor and Management Relationships •Continue to support the cultivation of union leaders to help maintain positive labor and management relationships. Respect for Human Rights •Continue to educate new employees and executives about human rights and conduct inter-cultural communication and other training through the KG System (see note 2). Reinforcing Occupational Occupational Safety •Explore measures to prevent recurrences by leveraging risk assessments from different perspectives. Safety and Health •Draw on case studies to ensure that accidents are not forgotten and enhance safety awareness. •Use mobile hands-on learning equipment to improve danger sensitivities at domestic Group companies. Occupational Health •Improve work environments by undertaking measures to reduce solvent exposure. •Draw on swift identification and treatment and the use of mental health information to reduce the number of people with new or ongoing mental health issues and identify issues at Group companies. Management Systems •Revise CSR Safety & Quality Inspection to strengthen PDCA functions. •Test-deploy specialized internal environmental safety audits. Note 1: Energy intensity is a numeral value calculated by dividing the energy used in manufacturing by the active mass and indexing it against the baseline year of fiscal 1990 as 100. Note 2: Kaneka Global Employee Registration System. 22 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 CSR Promotion CSR Targets, Results, and Evaluations Significantly outperformed Achieved/nearly achieved Underperformed ■ Kaneka’s CSR Targets, Results, and Evaluations (Fiscal 2014 Results and Results Evaluations) Significantly underperformed Key Results Page Item Fiscal 2014 Results Stakeholders Evaluations Numbers All Stakeholders CSR Management Bolster Governance and Compliance •Conducted CSR suitability audits at Kaneka and Group companies in Japan, the United States and Europe. •Launched a compliance e-learning program for all Kaneka employees. P.26 •Responded to seven cases reported to the Kaneka consultation desk. P.27 •Reinforced supervision by increasing the frequency of internal audits to improve internal controls. CSR Implementation •Held CSR Committee meetings three times and four subcommittee meetings as scheduled. •Disseminated information regularly through the intranet and fostered employee understanding of CSR through the CSR P.28 Handbook (Practical Guide). P.29 •Conducted job-specific and other training 23 times. Management CSR Safety and Quality •Continued to implement management-level CSR Safety and Quality Inspections at all parent plants and one research center, Inspection 17 plants of 15 domestic Group companies, and seven overseas Group companies as scheduled. P.28 Reinforce Risk Management •Implemented companywide preparation drills. At plants, implemented drills in the holidays and evenings without prearranged scenarios. Conducted earthquake and tsunami risk seminars. P.61 The Environmental Protection Prevention of Global Warming •Energy intensity (see note 1) was 86.0, down 3.2% from a year earlier, for an annual target reduction of 1%, which was Environment Improvement (reducing slightly below the 0.7% average decrease over five years. P.39 environmental impact) •The carbon dioxide emissions intensity was 78.0, exceeding the target of 78.6. •Reduced the energy intensity for logistics by 1.5% from a year earlier and reached the annual goal. Also achieved a five-year average reduction goal of 3.5%. P.40 Reduction of Industrial Waste •Achieved a final landfill rate of 0.006% for all parent plants for the ninth consecutive year. Also improved domestic Group companies’ landfill to 0.07%, down from 0.08% a year earlier. P.43 •Checked compliance among waste contractors and confirmed the absence of problems. P.43 Reduction of Volatile Organic Com•Achieved the annual target of 1,830 metric tons, with emissions of 1,669 metric tons. pound (VOC) Emissions P.45 Preservation of Biodiversity •Implemented a number of activities as a part of our social contribution efforts, mainly at the Takasago, Osaka and Shiga plants. P.47 Customers Customer Satisfaction Quality Management •Provided information about Quality Management Rules and Change Management Standards. (ensuring quality and •Laid down technological transfer and design review guidelines. P.50 product safety) Chemical Substance Management •Notified inventories of existing chemical substances in Taiwan and collected information on chemical substance management laws in Taiwan and South Korea for sharing in-house. P.50 •Operated a database that centralizes the management of chemical substances used. Vendors Proper Procurement Green Procurement •Investigated 18 types of imported raw materials and confirmed non-contamination with prohibited substances. P.54 •Reviewed the substance list of Green Procurement Standards four times in line with revised laws. Bolstering Distribution Safety •The Takasago Plant collaborated with transportation companies to patrol sites to check that people were carrying their Yellow Cards, while the Osaka Plant identified unsafe locations during cargo handling and examined improvements. P.54 •Together with transportation companies conducted legal compliance checks and voluntary inspections on mobile tanks. •In collaboration with transportation companies, the Kashima Plant checked and reconfirmed emergency contact networks. P.54 The Takasago Plant held transportation danger detection training. Shareholders Timely and Appropriate Disclosure •Issued business reports, financial results, interim reports for shareholders and other investors, and other investor relations P.56 and Investors materials. P.57 P.59 Society Improving Communication with Society •Issued a CSR report and posted it on our website. P.62 •Continued to engage in shareholder dialogue. Held youth events. -P.64 •Issued site reports for all parent plants and posted them on our website. P.-Reinforcing Process Safety and Disaster Prevention •The Kashima Plant implemented process safety assessments to identify strengths and weaknesses. •Commenced risk assessments of self-degradability and incompatibility when handling chemical substances. P.65 •Conducted safety checks for powder dust explosions, static ignition, and other risks. -P.66 •There were two fires at the Osaka Plant. Employees Emphasis on Diversity Employing, Training, and Recruiting •Positioned the participation of women as a first step toward diversity, launching support programs in the areas of promoting Diverse People equal opportunities, work-life support, and corporate culture reforms. Prior to reviewing the systems, we held 33 orientaP.76 tions for a total of 461 employees. Work-life Balance •As well as initiating a system for working from home, provided day-care cost subsidies and started a temporary leave system for spouses who are transferred overseas, and continued discussions between labor and management to reduce the P.77 total number of actual working hours. Labor and Management Relationships •Continued discussions to realize joint goals for labor and management through central labor and management meetings, P.79 management conferences, meetings of representatives, and workplace labor and management gatherings and other groups. Respect for Human Rights •Educated 98 new employees in April 2014 and 38 newly promoted executives about human rights. Held eight inter-cultural P.79 communication classes during the year. Reinforcing Occupational Occupational Safety •The Takasago Plant implemented risk assessments for targeted accidents tracked through fault tree analysis Safety and Health (FTA, see note 2). •E-mailed a Disaster Calendar to employees to highlight previous accidents at Kaneka. P.80 •Implemented risk awareness training at 22 sites of 11 domestic Group companies with mobile hands-on learning equipment. •The number of occupational accidents soared from the previous fiscal year to 22. Occupational Health •Reviewed solvent handling operations and improved work environments by enhancing ventilation. •Implemented mental health training for new executives, plant managers, and people in charge of mental healthcare. P.81 Management Systems •Continuing from fiscal 2013, switched to quantitative assessments to reinforce checks. •Test-deployed specialized internal environmental safety audits at departments at four parent plants. P.80 Note 1: Energy intensity is a numeral value calculated by dividing the energy used in manufacturing by the active mass and indexing it against the baseline year of fiscal 1990 as 100. Note 2: Fault tree analysis is a technique for analyzing product breakdowns and resulting accidents. 23 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 CSR Promotion CSR Targets, Results, and Evaluations ■ Kaneka’s CSR Targets, Results, and Evaluations (Fiscal 2015 Targets) Key Item Fiscal 2015 Targets Stakeholders All Stakeholders CSR Management Bolster Governance and Compliance •Ensure compliance awareness. •Continue companywide CSR suitability audits. •Gradually expand the scope of the compliance e-learning program to encompass Group companies in Japan. •Maintain the internal reporting system. •Continue to improve internal control levels, especially to ensure the credibility of financial reporting. CSR Implementation •The CSR Committee will meet at least three times annually during its term. The four subcommittees will convene as scheduled. •Foster employee understanding of CSR by regularly disseminating information. •Establish the CSR Training Program. Augment job-specific and other training by continuing to hold orientations at Group companies in Japan. Management CSR Safety and Quality •Management will continue making CSR Safety and Quality Inspections (of all parent plants, one research center, 16 plants of 16 domestic Group Inspection companies, and six overseas Group companies). Reinforce Risk Management •Reinforce understanding of risk management rules via the handbook. •Strengthen crisis management to prevent problems from escalating after accidents. The Environmental Protection Prevention of Global Warming •Reduce energy intensity (see note 1) by at least 1% annually. Environment Improvement (reducing •Attain a carbon dioxide emissions intensity target for fiscal 2020 that is 26 below (fixed coefficient) the fiscal 1990 level (22.2 below the level in fiscal environmental impact) 2015). •Plan and implement efficient initiatives to reduce energy intensity by at least 1% annually. Reduction of Industrial Waste •Keep the final landfill rate to below 0.2% for all parent plants. Achieve zero emissions by promoting the reduction of waste and final landfill volumes at domestic Group companies. •Continue monitoring output levels at all parent plants. •Regularly confirm compliance at waste disposal companies. Reduction of Volatile Organic Com•Continue with VOC emission reduction measurements and maintain emissions below 1,800 metric tons. pound (VOC) Emissions Preservation of Biodiversity •Continue activities that prioritize biodiversity guidelines that focus on efforts as part of social contribution initiatives. Customers Customer Satisfaction Quality Management •Enhance daily management standards to accommodate expanding operations and diversifying businesses. (ensuring quality and product safety) Chemical Substance Management •Comply with and properly accommodate domestic and overseas chemical substance management laws and regulations in Japan and abroad and collect and share information on legislative revisions (including in the United States and Asia). •Reinforce the chemical substance database and expand the number of substances. Vendors Proper Procurement Green Procurement •Extend the program to cover all existing raw materials. Prioritize audits of raw materials contamination with prohibited substances. •Start looking into stepping up CSR procurement. Bolstering Distribution Safety •Newly create and revise Yellow Cards and check that people carry them when required. •Continue to implement legal compliance and voluntary inspections of mobile tanks. •Continue holding emergency response drills for transportation. Shareholders Timely and Appropriate Disclosure •Issue business reports, financial results, interim reports for shareholders and other investors, and other investor relations materials. and Investors Society Improving Communication with Society •Issue a CSR report and post it on our website. •Issue a booklet on the Kaneka Group’s social contribution activities. •Continue to engage in stakeholder dialogues and youth events. •Issue site reports for all parent plants and post them on our website. Reinforcing Process Safety and Disaster Prevention •Review the rules for risk assessment and re-train employees to ensure more reliable risk assessment. •Implement reactive risk assessment on handling substances at our four parent plants. •Continue safety checks from the perspectives of powder dust explosions, static ignition, and other risks. Employees Emphasis on Diversity Employing, Training, and Recruiting •Disseminate measures established in fiscal 2014 to ensure the active participation of women. At the same time, continue to educate employees to Diverse People foster the participation of diverse human resources. Work-life Balance •Consider introducing specific measures to maintain a balance between work and nursing care commitments. Again ensure management of work hours. Labor and Management Relationships •Continue to cultivate future union leaders to maintain good labor and management relationships. Respect for Human Rights •Continue to educate new employees and executives about human rights and conduct inter-cultural communication and other training through the KG System (see note 2). Reinforcing Occupational Occupational Safety •Produce good practice case studies from Kaneka’s environmental, health, and safety activities to improve the standards of efforts. Safety and Health •Improve safety awareness through safety training focused on hands-on learning in the workplace and group discussions. Occupational Health •Construct a stress check mechanism for Kaneka and Group companies and reinforce support for employees returning to the workplace by producing manuals. Management Systems •Reinforce the Check and Action aspects of the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle by continuing to implement CSR Safety and Quality Inspections through quantitative assessments. •Test-deploy specialized internal environmental safety audits through process auditing. Note 1: Energy intensity is a numeral value calculated by dividing the energy used in manufacturing by the active mass and indexing it against the baseline year of fiscal 1990 as 100. Note 2: Kaneka Global Employee Registration System. 24 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 CSR Promotion CSR Targets, Results, and Evaluations ■ Kaneka’s CSR Targets, Results, and Evaluations (Mediumto Long-Term Targets) Key Item Mediumto Long-Term Targets Stakeholders All Stakeholders CSR Management Bolster Governance and Compliance Step up corporate governance and compliance to improve enterprise value for the entire organization. CSR Implementation In line with the Declaration of Kaneka United, share basic CSR policies for the Group to implement all corporate activities. Management CSR Safety and Quality Continue to implement management inspections and audits. Inspection Reinforce Risk Management Ensure the use of business continuity plans and pursue ongoing improvements to enhance risk management. The Environmental Protection Prevention of Global Warming Reduce energy intensity by at least 1% annually (see note 1). Environment Improvement (reducing Reduce the carbon dioxide emissions intensity target for fiscal 2020 to 26 below the fiscal 1990 level. environmental impact) Reduce the average energy intensity for logistics by at least 1% annually by planning and promoting energy efficiency measures. Reduction of Industrial Waste Keep the final landfill rate to below 0.2% for all parent plants. Maintain zero emissions at domestic Kaneka Group companies. We will confirm compliance among waste disposal companies. Reduction of Volatile Organic ComContinue to cut VOC emissions in line with domestic trends. pound (VOC) Emissions Preservation of Biodiversity In line with our biodiversity activity policy, we will continue to focus on this area. Customers Customer Satisfaction Quality Management Practice quality management that accommodates an expanding business scope. (ensuring quality and product safety) Chemical Substance Management Identify trends in regulatory revisions in Japan and abroad to improve chemical substance management. Vendors Proper Procurement Green Procurement Based on the Basic Procurement Policy, step up CSR procurement from the perspective of green procurement throughout the entire Kaneka Group to consider global environmental perspectives. Bolstering Distribution Safety Newly create and revise Yellow Cards and check that people carry them when required. Continue to implement legal compliance and voluntary inspections of mobile tanks, thereby enhancing safety. Continue holding emergency response drills for transportation. Shareholders Timely and Appropriate Disclosure Make disclosure speedy, timely, and appropriate to foster understanding of the Kaneka Group and build trust and meet the expectations of investors. and Investors Society Improving Communication with Society Extensively disclose information on our CSR activities to stakeholders and engage them in dialogue. Continue to issue site reports for all parent plants. Reinforcing Process Safety and Disaster Prevention Reduce risks, primarily through risk assessments, undertaking ongoing efforts to minimize risks. Employees Emphasis on Diversity Employing, Training, and Recruiting Based on the Kaneka Spirit of fostering personnel reforms and growth, we will overhaul mechanisms for employment, education, and rotation. Diverse People Work-life Balance Consider introducing and running systems that enhance the work environment and enable people to fulfill their professional and personal commitments. Labor and Management Relationships Based on joint labor and management targets, both parties will work together to ensure employee growth and enhance lifestyles. Respect for Human Rights We will position human rights as a fundamental commitment that the Kaneka Group and employees must respect. We will educate employees through training and other tools to accept diverse values, respect personalities and individuality, and reject discrimination. Reinforcing Occupational Occupational Safety Continue to reinforce the safety activities of Group companies. Safety and Health Occupational Health Continuously improve the mental health of employees and the workplace environment. Management Systems Continue to improve occupational health and safety based on occupational safety and health management systems (OSHMS). Note 1: Energy intensity is a numeral value calculated by dividing the energy used in manufacturing by the active mass and indexing it against the baseline year of fiscal 1990 as 100. 25 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 CSR Promotion Corporate Governance and Compliance Our corporate governance stance aims to boost enterprise value based on a corporate philosophy that draws on people and technology growing together into creative fusion, we will break fresh ground for the future and tie in to explore new values. We are also committed to challenge the environmental issues of our planet and contribute to upgrade the quality of life. Corporate Governance Structure The Board of Auditors comprises directly on their progress to the Board four members, two of whom are exterof Directors and the Board of Auditors. nal. It coordinates with the Accounts The Internal Control Department of the We maintain a Board of Directors and a Auditor and the Internal Control DepartCSR Division independently monitors Board of Auditors. Following deliberament of CSR Division. Auditors regularly the operations of each division. tions on important operational matters exchange opinions with directors and We established the CSR Commitfor the Group via the Management attend meetings of the Board of Directee, which is chaired by the president, Conference, of which the president is a tors, the Management Conference, to ensure that we adhere to laws and member, the Board of Directors makes which decides on the implementation of ordinances, fulfill our explanatory obliresolutions on implementation. important matters, and divisional mangations to stakeholders, and engage in The Board of Directors meets agers, to ensure that implementation is activities that contribute to sustainable at least once a month to discuss and progressing properly. social progress. In April 2015, we estabdetermine the implementation of imporWe segregate the implementalished the CSR Division, which reports tant matters relating to compliance with tion and overseeing of operations to directly to the president, to reinforce laws, regulations, and corporate statstrengthen these roles and ensure that CSR activities. utes. Also at these gatherings, directors we can respond swiftly and flexibly to We also segregate the implemenreport on their progress in fulfilling their changes in the business climate. tation and overseeing of operations to duties to ensure that their actions are Executive officers appointed by ensure business mobility and flexibility. legal and appropriate. We have limited the Board of Directors and division We adopted the structure shown bethe number of directors to 13, two of managers have extensive authority over low to ensure transparent and rational whom are external, to strengthen board daily operations. Directors are respondecision making that employs external oversight. Directors serve for a period of sible for multiple divisions to ensure perspectives while improving the obone year to ensure clarification of their overall coordination. Divisional managjectivity and neutrality of management management responsibilities. ers meet monthly and each one reports oversight. ■ Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Appointments Appointments Audits Board of Directors Board of Auditors 12 Members, 4 Members, Appointments Including 2 External Members Including 2 External Members President Liaison Liaison Management Conference CSR Committee Accounting Auditor Internal Control Accounts audits Department, CSR Division Internal audits Operating, Production, R&D, General and Administration, and Other Divisions 26 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 CSR Promotion Corporate Governance and Compliance Compliance Structure for Ensuring that Directors and Employees Comply with Laws, Regulations, and Corporate Statutes when Conducting Business We have made compliance a top management priority for all Group directors (1) We established the CSR Committee, which the president chairs, to reinforce and employees, and to this end undercorporate social responsibility initiatives. The committee will reorganize our Retake the following initiatives. sponsible Care activities structure and coordinate our compliance and other CSR endeavors. The first was to put a guide book on our intranet that explains our Ethical (2) The corporate ethics and legal compliance responsibilities of the Compliance Code of Conduct, laws and ordinances, Subcommittee, which falls under the CSR Committee, include overseeing and and regulations, to which all Group tracking companywide plans, verifying compliance, and setting up and running executives employees must also adhere. consulting and reporting contact desks. We additionally ensure understanding of compliance by conducting training and (3) Administrative departments (see note 1) prepare compliance-based rules, demeetings within the Group and through velop and implement training programs, plan and promote self-assessments and other activities, and audit compliance. the activities of compliance committees at Group companies. (4) Several other organizations formulate plans to address companywide challengIn 2014, we launched a complies. They are the Plant Management Committee and the CSR Committee’s Earth ance e-learning program for all Kaneka Environment Subcommittee, Safety & Human Health, and the Product Safety employees. We plan to expand this Subcommittee. program to encompass all Group companies. (5) We never associate with criminals. We resolutely reject any illegal or improper deWe regularly train sales, purchasmands, with internal sections coordinating our actions. We accordingly reinforce in-house systems, regularly gather and manage information, and coordinate with ing, and business development managthe police and other relevant external agencies and organizations. ers on the requirements of the Antimonopoly Act and require each of them to (6) We ensure the reliability of our financial reports by maintaining and enhancing submit a written oath of compliance. We internal controls, and by having the Internal Control Department of the CSR Divihave instituted CSR suitability audits for sion monitor the relevant processes. Kaneka and Group companies in Japan, the United States, and Europe. (7) We have external directors to reinforce board oversight. We maintain internal compliance consultation desks and also offer consulting through external law firms to answer questions and to swiftly address and resolve issues. Compliance training Note 1: Administrative departments supervise specific parent and Group business functions, and include Human Resource, General Affairs, Accounting Departments, Corporate Technology Administration Department, and Responsible Care Department. 27 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 CSR Promotion CSR Implementation We established the CSR Committee, which the president chairs. This body liaises with Safety & Human Health Subcommittee, Earth Environment Subcommittee, Product Safety Subcommittee, and Compliance Subcommittee. CSR Structure CSR Inspections companies. CSR suitability audits covered labor laws at 40 domestic Group comWe established the CSR Committee in Members of the CSR Inspection Companies, as well as compliance with the March 2009 to enable more systematic mittee inspect our four parent plants Antimonopoly Act and other competiresolution of CSR issues. every year and all domestic and overtion laws in all divisions, 21 domestic The Committee formulates and upseas Group companies every two Group companies, and four overseas dates our Basic CSR Policy to fulfill our years to confirm compliance practices Group companies. We will continue to social responsibilities while producing and improve occupational safety and carry out inspections to enhance CSR. comprehensive strategies for our CSR health. In fiscal 2014, we conducted initiatives and assessing the progress of CSR Safety and Quality Inspections that our efforts. focused on compliance with applicable In fiscal 2014, the CSR Commitlaws and regulations, measures to adtee convened three times. The four dress major risks, change management subcommittees also met (once for the frameworks and implementation, and Safety and Human Health subcommitother areas. These inspections covered tees, and twice each for Earth Environthe four parent plants, one research ment, Product Safety, and the Complicenter, 17 plants at 15 domestic Group ance Subcommittee). companies, and seven overseas Group ■ CSR Structure Management Organizations in Action CSR Division President Public Relations Department Policy, Measures, Implementation Bodies Internal Control Department and Inspection Committees Conferences Investor Relations Department CSR Committee CSR Inspection Committee Production Technology Division Chairperson: President Corporate Technology Administration Department Administration Office CSR Committee Production Technology Department Promotes and supports CSR initiatives Responsible Care Department Safety & Human Health Subcommittee Safety & Technology Promoting Focuses on occupational and process safety Experts Conference Manufacturing Sites Takasago Plant Osaka Plant Earth Environment Subcommittee Shiga Plant Kashima Plant Energy Officers Conference Concentrates on global environmental issues Responsible Care Leaders Environment, Health & Safety Departments Product Safety Subcommittee Quality Assurance Promoters Conference Quality Management Departments Oversees product safety and quality assurance Product Safety Review Conference Divisions Compliance Subcommittee Responsible Care Leaders Focuses on corporate ethics and compliance Quality Managers Group Companies Environment and Safety Chiefs Staff Divisions Responsible Care Leaders 28 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 CSR Promotion CSR Implementation CSR Education CSR Orientations (expanding to domestic Group companies) We continued to train people in different professional areas based on our CSR One new initiative was CSR orientations Handbook. In fiscal 2014, we held two for domestic Group companies using courses for new employees and one the CSR Report 2014 and the CSR each for new executives, new assisHandbook that we produced in March tant managers, employees completing 2014. In fiscal 2014, we held orientations courses, and mid-career recruits. at eight sites of five companies. We We held 23 orientations and other covered such topics as top managecourses to explain our CSR activities to ment’s commitment, our long-term vithe presidents and new employees of sion, the Declaration of Kaneka United, Kaneka Group companies. By ensuring the results of safety and environmental that each employee remains aware of activities, CSR activities, and our brand CSR initiatives in the course of busistrategy. We plan to schedule such ness, we aim to contribute to communiorientations in fiscal 2015 and beyond. ties and otherwise fulfill our corporate social responsibilities. ■ Fiscal 2014 CSR Orientations at Domestic Group Companies Publish the Practical Edition of the CSR Date Company Name Participants Handbook October 21, 2014 Kyushu Subsidiary, Kaneka Foods Corporation 25 employees, including the subsidiary president October 22, 2014 West Japan Subsidiary, Kaneka Foods Corporation 21 employees, including the subsidiary president November 19, 2014 Head Office, Kaneka Foods Corporation 23 employees Following the basic Kaneka Group CSR December 18, 2014 Tokai Subsidiary, Kaneka Foods Corporation 23 employees October 28, 2014 Tochigi Kaneka Corporation 40 employees, including the president Handbook, which is a CSR guide for October 23, 2014 Head Office, Kaneka Sun Spice Corporation 15 executives and managers, including the president Kaneka Group employees, we pubNovember 7, 2014 Kaneka Solartech Corporation 67 employees, including the president lished a practical edition of the Kaneka November 17, 2014 Koga Plant, Tatsuta Chemical Co., Ltd. 88 employees, including the president Group CSR Handbook, distributing it to all Group employees as a guide for daily operations. The Kaneka Group CSR Handbook (Practical Guide) Head office, Kaneka Sun Spice Corporation Koga plant, Tatsuta Chemical Co., Ltd. 29 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 CSR Promotion CSR Implementation The Kaneka Group Signs the United United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles in Four Areas Nations Global Compact Area Principle In March 2015, the Kaneka Group be1 Businesses should support and respect came a signatory of the United Nations the protection of internationally proHuman Rights claimed human rights; and Global Compact. The then UN Secre2 make sure that they are not complicit in tary-General Kofi Annan announced human rights abuses. these voluntary corporate principles in his address to the World Economic 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Forum in Davos, Switzerland in 1999. A of the right to collective bargaining; signatory company’s top management 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and commits to the ten principles in the four Labour compulsory labour; areas of human rights, labour, the envi5 the effective abolition of child labour; and ronment, and anti-corruption, and must 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect continue ongoing efforts in these arof employment and occupation. eas. Through this initiative, companies 7 Businesses should support a precautionand organizations lead efforts to drive ary approach to environmental challengsustainable global growth in operating es; as good corporate citizens. The Kaneka Environment 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater Group, which pursues global CSR, environmental responsibility; and will continue contributing to globally 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. sustainable growth while conveying its corporate stance to stakeholders and 10 Businesses should work against corrupthe international community. tion in all its forms, including extortion Anti-Corruption and bribery. 30 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 CSR Promotion Responsible Care and Management We created basic policies for Responsible Care and safety and formulated Responsible Care rules. Group Management Basic Policies for Responsible Care Kaneka shares and acts on Responsible In keeping with our Corporate PhilosoCare (see note 1) concepts and stratephy, we strive to contribute to sustaingies with Group companies. able development and otherwise benefit In fiscal 2010, we upgraded safety society by protecting resources and inspections conducted since fiscal 2005 reducing our environmental impact. into CSR inspections, naming them the CSR Safety and Quality Inspections. ■ Basic Policies for Responsible Care They encompass environmental protection, occupational safety, product 1 Protect the natural ecosystem and reduce environmental impact safety, quality assurance, and comFocusing on the impact of corporate activities on the global environment and the ecosystem, we endeavor to reduce environmental impact and promote resource conservation and energy saving pliance, and confirm progress in the throughout the lifecycle of products. above activities at all Group companies in Japan and overseas. 2 Offer safe products and information Our Environmental Safety and We endeavor to offer products that are safe to distribute and use, and to provide adequate information Health Management Rules and Quality on the products such as instructions on how to use and handle products correctly. Assurance Rules detail Group company obligations and encourage employee 3 Develop products and technologies in consideration of the environment and safety vigilance in these areas. The rules aim Upon the development of new products, we give consideration to the environment and safety throughto reduce our environmental impact out the lifecycle of the products to the greatest extent possible, and endeavor to develop products and and occupational accident risks while technologies with low environmental impact. increasing our responsiveness to natural disasters, product-related accidents, 4 Reduce waste and promote the recycling of plastics We reduce waste associated with manufacturing and its processes. We actively develop technologies and other crises. for the adequate disposal or recycling of plastic waste concerning our products in cooperation with relevant industries, and endeavor to dispose of and recycle waste in a proper manner. 5 Enhance process safety, disaster-prevention, and occupational safety and health Safety and disaster prevention constitute the foundations of the local community’s trust, and occupational health and safety are issues that need to be fulfilled by chemical companies. We persistently strive to make improvements in these areas. 6 Win public confidence From the management to every employee, all our members shall act in compliance with laws, regulations, standards, etc. relating to environment and safety both at home and abroad. Our approach to Responsible Care as such shall be publicized accurately to the public, in hope of rightfully gaining public recognition and confidence. Note 1: Responsible Care is a voluntary chemical industry initiative to improve social confidence by protecting the environment, safety, and health at every stage from development through to production, use, and disposal of chemical substances. Kaneka has acted under this principle as a member of the Japan Responsible Care Council since the body’s inception in 1995 (the council was completely integrated within the Japan Chemical Industry Association in 2012). 31 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 CSR Promotion Responsible Care and Management Responsible Care Organization Responsible Care Education Signing the Responsible Care Global Charter Kaneka undertakes Responsible Care Kaneka regularly educates all employinitiatives to broadly promote the activiees about Responsible Care by holding Kaneka has undertaken Responsible ties of the chemical industry to protect courses that are specific to each emCare initiatives since 1995. In Septemhealth, safety, and the environment. We ployee’s workplace, rank, and position. ber 2008, we declared our commitment act in keeping with a system to promote A good example is our training proto undertake Responsible Care initiaResponsible Care that covers the six grams for employees in their third year tives worldwide by signing the Responareas of environmental protection; proof work or for new executives. Particisible Care Global Charter. In response cess safety and disaster prevention; ocpants draw on educational materials in to the revisions of global charter apcupational safety and health; chemical relation to our initiatives in areas such proved by the board of the International and product safety; distribution safety; as environmental protection, process Council of Chemical Associations, we and communication with society. safety and disaster prevention, occupadecided to more actively promote ReKaneka’s president chairs the CSR tional safety and health, and chemical sponsible Care initiatives, again signing Committee, which directly oversees four and product safety, and endeavor to apthe revised Responsible Care Global subcommittees. These bodies deliberply this knowledge. Charter in October 2014. ate and determine Group policies and Kaneka positions safety as a top measures, and examine related activimanagement priority and endeavors ties. The Production Technology Divito create healthy and safe work envision’s Responsible Care Department, ronments, ensure product safety, and the Corporate Technology Administraprotect the environment. By signing tion Department, and the Production the revised Responsible Care Global Technology Department disseminate Charter, we reconfirmed our ongoing conference-based policies and meacontributions to society through daily sures throughout the Group. The EnviResponsible Care activities. ronment, Health & Safety Leaders Conference, the Quality Assurance Leaders Conference, and Group Companies Presidents’ Council share information and discuss issues. Signature on revised Responsible Care Global Charter 32 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 CSR Promotion Report Coverage (Scope of Responsible Care Activities Data as of March 31, 2015) This report covers Kaneka and 40 Group manufacturing companies. KANEKA KANEKA Group (Domestic) (27) KANEKA Group (Overseas) (13) ● ● ● Takasago Plant Kaneka Hokkaido Styrol Co., Ltd. Kaneka Belgium N.V. Osaka Plant Kaneka Tohoku Styrol Co., Ltd. Kaneka North America LLC Shiga Plant Kaneka Kanto Styrol Co., Ltd. Kaneka Singapore Co. (Pte) Ltd. Kashima Plant Kaneka Chubu Styrol Co., Ltd. Kaneka (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Kaneka Nishinippon Styrol Co., Ltd. Kaneka Eperan Sdn. Bhd. Kanto Styrene Co., Ltd. Kaneka Paste Polymers Sdn. Bhd. Kochi Styrol Co., Ltd. Kaneka Innovative Fibers Sdn. Bhd. Kaneka Foam Plastics Co., Ltd. Kaneka Pharma Vietnam Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Kanelite Co., Ltd. Kaneka Apical Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Kyushu Kanelite Co., Ltd. Kaneka Eperan (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Kaneka Sun Spice Corporation HiHua Fiber Co., Ltd. Kaneka Foods Manufacturing Corporation Eurogentec S.A. Tokyo Kaneka Foods Manufacturing Kaneka (Foshan) High Performance Corporation Materials Co., Ltd. Taiyo Yushi Corporation Nagashima Shokuhin Co., Ltd. Tamai Kasei Co., Ltd. Shinka Shokuhin Co., Ltd. Tatsuta Chemical Co., Ltd. Showa Kaseikogyo Co., Ltd. Tochigi Kaneka Corporation Vienex Corporation Osaka Synthetic Chemical Laboratories, Inc. Kaneka Solartech Corporation Sanvic Inc. Kaneka Medix Corporation OLED Aomori Co., Ltd. RIVER Co., Ltd. 33 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Safeguarding the Environment We strive to fulfill our social responsibilities by limiting environmental impact in everything we do, from procuring raw materials, manufacturing, 0.006 and transporting goods to running our offices. ％ (Final landfill rate at all parent plants) In fiscal 2014, we generated 3.9 metric tons of final landfill, representing 0.006% of the 66,340 metric tons in waste generated. We thereby achieved zero emissions for the ninth consecutive year. ■ Fiscal 2014 Targets, Results and Results Evaluations Results Item Fiscal 2014 Targets Fiscal 2014 Results Evaluations Prevention of •Reduce energy intensity (see note 1) by at least 1% annually. •Energy intensity (see note 1) was 86.0, down 3.2% from a year earEnvironmental Protection Improvement Global Warming •Attain a carbon dioxide emissions intensity target for fiscal 2020 that lier, for an annual target reduction of 1%, which was slightly below is 26 below (fixed coefficient) the fiscal 1990 level (21.4 below the the 0.7% average decrease over five years. level in fiscal 2014). •The carbon dioxide emissions intensity was 78.0, exceeding the target of 78.6. •Plan and implement efficient initiatives to reduce energy intensity by •Reduced the energy intensity for logistics by 1.5% from a year ear(reducing environmental impact) at least 1% annually. lier and reached the annual goal. Also achieved a five-year average reduction goal of 3.5%. Reduction of •Target domestic Group companies that produce a lot of waste and •Achieved a final landfill rate of 0.006% for all parent plants for the Industrial Waste final landfill, suppress such waste and check progress in measures ninth consecutive year. Also improved domestic Group companies’ to reduce final landfill, keeping the final landfill rate for all parent landfill to 0.07%, down from 0.08% a year earlier. plants at below 0.2%. •Constrain waste and continue to manage output levels at all parent plants. •Continue to confirm compliance among waste disposal companies. •Checked compliance among waste contractors and confirmed the absence of problems. Reduction of •Push forward with VOC emissions reduction measures, cutting the •Achieved the annual target of 1,830 metric tons, with emissions of Volatile Organic target to below 1,830 metric tons. 1,669 metric tons. Compound (VOC) Emissions Preservation of •Continue activities that prioritize biodiversity guidelines that focus •Implemented a number of activities as a part of our social contribuBiodiversity on efforts as part of social contribution initiatives. tion efforts, mainly at the Takasago, Osaka and Shiga plants. Note 1: Energy intensity is a numeral value calculated by dividing the energy used in manufacturing by the active mass and indexing it against the baseline year of fiscal 1990 as 100. 34 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Highlight Expanding Environmentally Friendly Products and Plant Initiatives As a part of its global warming measures, the Kaneka Group is expanding its environmentally compatible products, and has installed megasolar systems at its business sites. We will continue to reinforce environmental initiatives in the years ahead. Kaneka Kashima Plant Open Plant with Megasolar Facility Environmentally Compatible Products Quantitatively Assessing Products that Help Reduce Carbon Dioxide Emissions A megasolar facility in the west of the Kashima Plant started operations in October 2013. It is one of the largest solar power generation plants in Japan to employ thin-film photovoltaic We have defined a number of products that can help lower cells. We installed 115,920 solar panels on a 239,000 squarethe environmental impact of usage through the disposal and meter property. This facility generates enough electricity to recycling stages as environmentally compatible. We endeavor supply 3,000 households. to drive social sustainability through our business activities. The industrial complex where the Kashima Plant is situWe are conducting quantitative assessments of environated is a model site for visits to wind and biomass power facilimentally compatible products that help lower carbon dioxide ties as well as Kaneka’s megasolar facility. We welcome many emissions. We use Carbon Life Cycle Analysis for these asvisitors, including local government officials. sessments, calculating reduction volumes through quantitaKoichi Motohiro of the General Affairs Team of Kashima tive and comparative assessments throughout product lifePlant says, “Our plant coexists with the community and we styles, which are benchmarked against counterpart products wish to encourage visits from them.” based on guidelines issued by the Japan Chemical Industry The team at the Kashima Plant hopes to use such visits Association. as opportunities for children to learn about environmental isCarbon dioxide emission reduction volumes based on sues, and is preparing educational materials for them. fiscal 2014 sales were approximately 4.8 million metric tons. Keiko Osaki, also of the plant’s General Affairs Team, We will continue to expand the range of products used in our says that, “We want to teach children how to generate elecassessments. tricity and convey the importance of the environment. We will also showcase our solar facility model in visits to schools. ■ Products assessed quantitatively for their contribution to reducing carbon dioxide emissions •Plastic foam insulation materials •Plastic sash parts (polyvinyl chloride and polyvinyl chloride impactmodifying functional resins) •Solar power system Koichi Motohiro (left) Visiting the megasolar facility •Pipes and fittings (polyvinyl chloride, heat-resistant polyvinyl chloride, Keiko Osaki (right) and polyvinyl chloride impact-modifying functional resins) General Affairs Team, Kashima Plant •Automobile parts (functional resin products) and others Megasolar facility in the west of Kashima Plant 35 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Materials Balance in Production Activities The Kaneka Group’s fiscal 2014 energy and resource inputs, substance emissions and product commercialization are listed below. ●●● INPUT ●●● OUTPUT Energy and Resources Discharges, Recycling, and Products ● Products ● Into the ● Into water ● As waste (see note 2) atmosphere systems Legend (from top) 1,494,000 metric tons/year 1,148,000 metric tons-CO 2 /year Kaneka four plants 164,000 metric tons-CO2 /year Products 207,000 metric tons/year CO² Domestic Group companies 272,000 metric tons/year 235,000 metric tons-CO2 /year Overseas Group companies 67.1 metric tons/year 805.4 metric tons/year SOx 20.3 metric tons/year NOx 25.5 metric tons/year Main 2.3 metric tons/year 48.5 metric tons/year raw materials (see note 1) 1,155,000 metric tons/year 35.6 metric tons/year PRTR 61.9 metric tons/year 229,000 metric tons/year Kaneka Soot and Law1.2 metric tons/year 65.6 metric tons/year 292,000 metric tons/year Takasago Plant dust 10.6 metric tons/year designated — Osaka Plant substances Shiga Plant Kashima Plant Energy (Crude oil equivalents) Chemical 284.6 metric tons/year 171.0 metric tons/year Domestic Group oxygen 6.2 metric tons/year Suspended 5.7 metric tons/year Companies demand 83.6 metric tons/year solids 17.8 metric tons/year 447,000 kiloliters/year 27 74,000 kiloliters/year 129,000 kiloliters/year Overseas Group PRTR Companies 15.4 metric tons/year 171.2 metric tons/year Law0.1 metric tons/year 1.2 metric tons/year 13 Nitrogen designated — 0.0 metric tons/year Water substances 21.5 million m 3/year 3.8 million m 3/year 3.9 metric tons/year 3.9 metric tons/year 0.1 metric tons/year Final 52.0 metric tons/year 6.1 million m 3/year Phosphorous landfill 0.0 metric tons/year 2,135 metric tons/year Note 1: Includes only raw materials that can be 40,900 metric tons/year 680 metric tons/year External 6,891 metric tons/year External 5,084 metric tons/year calculated in or converted to metric tons. Note 2: Includes only those products that can be recycling reduction 3,685 metric tons/year 5,810 metric tons/year calculated in or converted to metric tons. 36 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Environmental Accounting We calculate the costs (investments and expenditure) and impacts (quantitative and financial) of environmental measures for parent and domestic Group companies on a consolidated basis. Results of Environmental Accounting ■ Environmental Accounting Costs Millions of yen for Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2014 Cost Classifications Main Efforts Investments Expenditure Business Area 1,129 5,490 In comparison with the previous fiscal 1. Pollution Prevention Air and water pollution prevention 981 3,504 2. Environmental Conservation Global warming prevention and energy saving year’s environmental conservation 3. Resource Circulation Waste processing, recycling, and reduction 148 1,986 investments, pollution prevention costs Upstream and Downstream Product recycling, collection, and processing 1 13 and resource recirculation costs rose Management Activities Environmental education for employees and 1 368 approximately 130 million yen and 150 environmental impact monitoring and measurement million yen, respectively. Research and Development Research and development of products contributing to 0 6,366 environmental conservation For environmental conservation Social Activities Greening, beautification, and disclosure of 8 99 expenditure, resource recirculation environmental information costs and research and development Environmental Damage Payment of sulfur oxide emission charges 0 10 costs increased around 180 million yen Total 1,139 12,346 and 1.0 billion yen, respectively. Figures do not include research and development and global environment conservation costs. Compared with the previous fiscal year’s net benefits from conservation, ■ Quantitative Impact of Environmental Conservation Efforts energy savings and reduced waste disposal costs from recycling were down Changes between previous Category Initiatives Items Units year and fiscal 2014 about 500 million yen and 300 million Pollution Reduce atmospheric and water SOx emissions Metric tons -35.0 yen, respectively. Prevention discharges of hazardous substances NOx emissions Metric tons -22.3 We base these calculations on the Environmental Chemical oxygen Metric tons -4.5 Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the Ministry demand of the Environment of Japan and on other referPRTR Metric tons -13.3 ence materials (partly modifying them to reflect our Law-designated environmental accounting policies). chemical emissions Environment Lower greenhouse gas emissions CO 2 emissions Thousands of -1.0 metric tons Use less energy Crude oil Thousands of 1.0 equivalents kiloliters Resource Reduce final landfill Final landfill Metric tons -3.5 Recycling Increase external recycling Amounts Metric tons 1,484 recycled ■ Economic Impacts of Environmental Measures Millions of yen Measures Fiscal 2014 Revenue from Recycling 181 Cost Reductions by Resource Conservation and Energy Index Units 41 Waste Disposal Cost Reductions by Recycling 246 Cost Reductions by Energy Conservation 309 Total 777 37 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Environmental Accounting Environmental Investments ■ Environmental Investments in Fiscal 2014 Vibration 0% Industrial waste 0.1% We are constantly investing in safeDust 0.2% guarding the environment. EnvironmenOdor 2.8% Noise 6.5% tal investments totaled around 830 million yen in fiscal 2014. Of this amount, Environmental Air quality 45.9% Water quality 22.1% Investments 45.9% was for air quality, 22.4% was for the working environment, 22.1% was for ¥ 833 water quality, 6.5% was for noise, and million 2.8% was for odors. Environmental investments have Working environment 22.4% totaled around 12.1 billion yen since fiscal 2000. The greatest spending has been on air quality, at 44% of the total, followed by 22% on water quality, and 16% on the working environment. We will continue to invest extensively to maintain and improve the environment. ■ Cumulative Environmental Investments 12,056 12,000 11,223 10,403 Environmental Investments (Millions of yen) 9,951 10,000 9,365 8,846 8,145 8,000 7,488 6,094 6,000 5,505 5,146 4,424 3,845 4,000 3,092 1,836 2,000 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) 38 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Measures to Prevent Global Warming To help prevent global warming, we set up the Earth Environment Subcommittee under the CSR Committee. We established the Energy Officers Conference to work on behalf of the subcommittee to undertake initiatives to conserve energy and cut carbon dioxide emissions intensities. Such initiatives include our proprietary energy-conserving facilities investment promotion scheme. We employ carbon life-cycle analysis to calculate carbon dioxide emission reduction benefits by quantifiably identifying and assessing carbon dioxide emissions with equivalent products in product life cycles. We also calculate indirect carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 3) through the supply chain. Energy Conservation Efforts ■ Energy Consumption (Crude Oil Equivalents) and Energy Intensity Non-consolidated Domestic Group companies Overseas Group companies Energy intensity for all parent plants (right scale) The Kaneka Group strives to conserve energy and otherwise prevent global 60 100 Energy consumption (10,000 kiloliters) warming to reduce its energy intensity 48.3 48.8 46.8 50 95 (see note 1). 44.9 45.1 The energy intensity of all parent 40 88.4 88.6 88.8 90 Energy intensity 87.3 plants in fiscal 2014 was on target, at 86.0 86.0, down 3.2% from a year earlier, 30 85 due to energy-saving activities and increased production volume. However, 20 80 11.2 11.7 11.8 11.7 12.9 the five-year average was down 0.7%, 10 75 which was slightly below target. 7.4 7.3 7.2 7.6 7.4 Non-consolidated energy con0 70 sumption (see note 2) increased 0.5% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) from a year earlier to 451,000 kiloliters. Initiatives to Cut Carbon Dioxide Emis■ Carbon Dioxide Emissions from Energy Consumption and Emissions Intensity sions Intensities Non-consolidated Other greenhouse gases on a non-consolidated basis Domestic Group companies Overseas Group companies Carbon dioxide emissions intensity for all parent plants (right scale) The Kaneka Group strives to reduce 120 111.9 115.4 115.6 100 Carbon dioxide emissions carbon dioxide emissions intensities by Carbon dioxide emissions intensity 101.7 99.6 100 90 using the intensity index (see note 3) 81.9 as a management indicator based on 77.2 76.6 78.0 80 74.8 80 energy consumed during production. 60 70 The fiscal 2014 carbon dioxide (10,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide) emissions intensity index target of all 40 60 20.4 21.4 21.7 21.4 23.4 parent plants was 78.6, based on a fis13.1 12.9 14.8 16.8 16.4 20 50 cal 2020 target of 74, and we exceeded 2.4 2.6 2.3 2.4 2.5 the target of 78.0. 0 40 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Non-consolidated carbon dioxide (Fiscal years) emissions (see note 4) rose 0.2% from a Other greenhouse gases on a non-consolidated basis include carbon dioxide, methane, and dinitrogen monoxide from non-energy sources. Emission volumes are calculated in keeping with the Act on Promotion year earlier to 1,156,000 metric tons. of Global Warming Countermeasures. The main factor in the increases was expanded production volume. Note 1: Energy intensity is a numerical value calculated by dividing the energy consumption at all parent plants for manufacturing by the active mass, and indexing this figure against the baseline year of fiscal 1990 as 100. Active mass is a benchmark of production volume at all parent plants. We have changed the calculation of energy consumption volume to a method based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Note 2: We have unified the energy consumption volume to the boundary of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and an action plan formulated by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. We also included facilities other than all parent plants and have switched to total figures for parent Kaneka consumption. Note 3: The carbon dioxide emissions intensity index is a measure against a fiscal 1990 baseline of 100 divided by the activity amount (which Kaneka calculated as the fiscal 1990 coefficient on a fixed usage basis) by carbon dioxide emissions from energy consumption in production activities. This makes it easier to visualize the impact of the Company’s activities. We have set our fiscal 2020 target using this index. Note 4: Carbon dioxide emissions are calculated in keeping with the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. In this report, we have used real coefficients for the carbon dioxide emissions intensity of purchased electricity and changed to a total figure for individual energy consumption at parent companies. 39 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Measures to Prevent Global Warming Investments in Energy-Conserving ■ Results of our Internal Capital Investment Program to Promote Safeguarding Facilities of the Environment Fiscal Years Investments Number Carbon Dioxide Reductions The deployment of ongoing initiatives 2010 ¥200 million 30 4,109 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually to reduce energy and carbon dioxide 2011 ¥200 million 30 2,027 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually emission intensities by investing in 2012 ¥200 million 19 1,929 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually energy conservation facilities under a 2013 ¥200 million 29 1,993 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually government promotion system in fis2014 ¥200 million 37 1,644 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually cal 2009 allocated annual budgets of 200 million yen for small and mediumsized initiatives with relatively long-term returns on investment. From fiscal 2014, we have expanded the scope of our approach to activities that prevent global warming, use resources effectively, and reduce environmental impact. These initiatives represent the priorities of Kaneka’s environmental management program, which we term an environmental capital investment program. As all three activities help reduce energy and carbon dioxide emissions, we will continue to promote initiatives to reduce energy and carbon dioxide emission intensities by expanding our efforts. Energy-Saving Logistics Initiatives ■ Carbon Dioxide Emissions and Energy Intensity from Logistics Carbon dioxide emissions Energy emissions intensity (right scale) We endeavor to cut our energy intensity by 1% annually as mandated under the 50 100 Carbon dioxide emissions (Thousands of metric tons) 100.0 84.7 86.4 84.1 revised Law Concerning the Rational 94.6 82.9 39.2 Use of Energy for specified shippers. In 40 80 fiscal 2014, we employed modal shifts Energy emissions intensity 31.5 33.2 32.7 31.1 and increased cargo load ratios as 30 26.4 60 central to identifying prospective new reductions at each plant. In fiscal 2014, 20 40 we made a special effort to improve cargo load ratios and used domestic 10 20 vessels and Japan Railways freight extensively. As a result, our energy in0 0 2006 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 tensity declined 1.5% from the previous (Baseline year) (Fiscal years) year. Carbon dioxide emissions also fell 4,700 metric tons to 26,400 metric tons. Fiscal 2006 is the baseline year for indexing the logistics energy intensity as 100. 40 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Environmental Management Systems and Environmental Efficiency Indices The Kaneka Group maintains environmental systems based on ISO 14001 and Eco-Action 21 standards. We use the Japan Environmental Policy Index to rate the environmental impact of our business in terms of Environmental Impact Points. Environmental Management Systems ■ Parent and Group Company Certification under ISO 14001 Business Sites and Group Companies Registration Date Registration No. Shiga Plant March 23, 1998 JCQA-E-0015 The Kaneka Group maintains environOsaka Plant April 5, 1999 JCQA-E-0053 mental systems based on ISO 14001 Kashima Plant April 5, 1999 JCQA-E-0054 Takasago Plant January 11, 2000 JCQA-E-0105 and the Eco-Action 21 standards to Tochigi Kaneka Co., Ltd. April 23, 2001 JCQA-E-0256 reduce environmental impact, and preOsaka Synthetic Chemical Laboratories, Inc. January 28, 2002 JCQA-E-0343 vents or swiftly addresses environmenTatsuta Chemical Co., Ltd. April 19, 2004 JCQA-E-0553 tal problems. Showa Kaseikogyo Co., Ltd. January 10, 2008 E0062 Vienex Corporation December 8, 2010 JSA-E1511 Kaneka Solartech Corporation June 24, 2011 JQA-EM6704 Sanvic Inc. September 15, 2011 JMAQA-E841 Kaneka Belgium N.V. October 15, 2012 97 EMS 002e Kaneka (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. January 12, 2007 K021300001 Kaneka Paste Polymers Sdn. Bhd. February 15, 2008 ER0523 Kaneka Eperan Sdn. Bhd. February 15, 2008 ER0571 Kaneka Innovative Fibers Sdn. Bhd. March 23, 2012 ER0810 Environmental Compliance ■ Eco-Action 21 Certification Group Company Certification and Registration Date Registration No. Kyushu Kanelite Co., Ltd. June 15, 2007 0001637 The Kaneka Group checks that it comKaneka Hokkaido Styrol Co., Ltd. September 3, 2007 0001805 plies with environmental laws and reguKaneka Medix Corporation September 28, 2007 0001893 lations, such as the Air Pollution Control Hokkaido Kanelite Co., Ltd. October 2, 2007 0001905 Kaneka Tohoku Styrol Co., Ltd. Aomori Plant February 2, 2009 0003274 Act and the Water Pollution Control Nagashima Shokuhin Co., Ltd. November 18, 2008 0003093 Act, as well as agreed values with local Sanwa Kaseikogyo Co., Ltd. January 16, 2009 0003247 governments and other bodies, by con(currently Kaneka Foam Plastics Co., Ltd.) Kaneka Chubu Styrol Co., Ltd. February 9, 2011 0006600 ducting internal ISO 14001 audits and Tokyo Kaneka Foods Manufacturing Corporation March 31, 2009 0003473 CSR Safety and Quality Inspections and Taiyo Yushi Corporation March 31, 2009 0003575 endeavoring to lower environmental Kaneka Foods Manufacturing Corporation April 2, 2009 0003491 risks. In 2014, there were no incidents Kaneka Sun Spice Corporation April 22, 2009 0003556 violating laws and regulations or agreeKaneka Nishinippon Styrol Co., Ltd. Headquarters, Saga Plant, July 31, 2009 0003949 Kagoshima Plant, and Nagasaki Plant ments. Kanto Styrene Co., Ltd. August 11, 2009 0004035 Kaneka Kanto Styrol Co., Ltd. October 15, 2009 0004259 OLED Aomori Co., Ltd. December 8, 2014 0010329 41 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Environmental Management Systems and Environmental Efficiency Indices Environmental Efficiency ■ Environmental Efficiency 70 59.3 60.9 57.0 Environmental Efficiency We use the Japan Environmental Policy 60 54.5 52.0 52.7 53.2 50.7 50.2 49.1 Index (see note 1) to rate the impact 50 of our production activities in terms of 38.5 Environmental Impact Point (EIP). We 40 (Yen/total environmental impact point) also use the point to assess environ25.5 30 mental efficiency (see note 2). Our total 19.6 environmental impact in fiscal 2014 was 20 11.7 down 4.3% from a year earlier, to 4.9 bil10 lion EIPs. Our environmental efficiency improved 6.8%. 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) ■ Environmental Impact Point 250 Landfill Phosphorous discharges in coastal waters Nitrogen discharges in coastal waters Chemical oxygen demand discharges in coastal waters 201.4 Environmental Impact Point 200 Biological oxygen demand discharges in rivers Suspended particulate matter up to 10 microns in diameter Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Photochemical oxidants 150 Hazardous air pollutants Ozone-depleting substances 124.2 Greenhouse gases (Hundred million total environmental impact point) 100.9 100 73.4 58.0 59.0 60.4 45.9 44.2 52.5 50.7 50.5 51.2 49.0 50 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) The total environmental impact declined owing to lower EIPs from hazardous air pollutants and nitrogen discharges in coastal waters. We will cut environmental impact and improve environmental efficiency by improving facilities to reduce emissions of hazardous air pollutants. Note 1: The Japan Environmental Policy Index calculates the eco-factor coefficient for each environmentally hazardous substance. The coefficient is based on the ratio of targeted annual emissions under Japan’s national environmental policy to actual results. The eco-factor is then multiplied by each environmental impact to score Environmental Impact Point. The Japan Environmental Policy Index Project calculates and publicly discloses these ecofactors. The Japanese-language website is www.jepix.org Note 2: Environmental efficiency measures initiatives to minimize environmental impact while maximizing the value for sustainable growth. Kaneka calculates the efficiency by dividing net sales (in yen) by the number of EIPs. 42 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Reducing Waste and Preventing Pollution As part of our 3R (see note 1) initiatives, we cut industrial waste disposal generation and recycled resources, achieving zero emissions at all of our parent plants for the ninth consecutive year. We are endeavoring to achieve zero emissions (see note 2) among domestic Group companies, and adhere rigorously to legal requirements and compacts with local governments and other bodies to prevent pollution. Cutting Industrial Waste and Landfill ■ Final Disposal Amounts and Landfill Rates Disposal amounts of all parent plants Disposal amounts of domestic Group companies Disposal amounts of overseas Group companies In fiscal 2014, we generated 3.9 metric Landfill rates at all parent plants (right scale) Landfill rates at domestic Group companies (right scale) tons of final landfill or a 0.006% final 100,000 25 Final Disposal Amounts (Metric tons) landfill rate and achieved zero emissions 11,549.0 10,000 20 Final Disposal Rates (%) for the ninth consecutive year. During the 2,135 16.3% 1,812 1,195 2,102 1,859 term, domestic Group companies contin1,000 789 732 15 ued to reduce final landfill by rigorously 168.5 100 10 separating waste, recycling resources, 6.5% 6.3% 16.7 52.7 52.0 and reviewing waste contractors. As a 10 5.7 6.3 6.7 3.9 5 1.5% 0.5% result, we achieved zero emissions at 0.4% 1 0.02% 0.008% 0.009% 0.011% 0.006% 0 all consolidated domestic Kaneka com1996 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 panies, including 27 domestic Group (Fiscal years) companies, for the third consecutive year since fiscal 2012. We will continue ■ Waste Generated and Recycled striving to cut final disposal amounts. Waste from all parent plants Recycling by all parent plants Waste from domestic Group companies Recycling by domestic Group companies Properly Disposing of Industrial Waste 80 80 71 68 70 69 66 Waste Generated and Recycled 70 63 70 60 60 We regularly inspect contractors based 50 45 50 on checklists to ensure that they prop35 39 43 40 41 40 40 erly process the waste we consign to (Thousands of metric tons) 30 30 them. 20 20 12 12 11 10 12 10 6 6 6 7 7 10 3R Initiatives 0 0 1996 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) We endeavor companywide to reduce waste in recognition that such endeav■ Industrial Waste and Disposal Methods at All Parent Plants in Fiscal 2014 ors help maintain and improve the global environment by conserving resources, Waste Reduction (through incineration) Waste Recycled Waste Reduction 24,756 metric tons (37.3%) 40,900 metric tons (61.7%) 680 metric tons (1.0%) lowering costs, and cutting carbon dioxide emissions. We reduce and recycle Waste Generated Waste Outsourced waste generated at parent and Group 66,340 metric tons (100.0%) 41,584 metric tons (62.7%) companies mainly by leveraging the 3R Internal Landfill None Final Landfill 3.9 metric tons (0.006%) activities developed at each production Internal External site. We started improvement initiatives involving all employees, including manufacturing and research using material flow cost accounting, from fiscal 2013. Note 1: 3R stands for reduce, reuse, and recycle. Note 2: Kaneka defines zero emissions as a final landfill disposal rate of less than 0.5% of waste generation. 43 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Reducing Waste and Preventing Pollution Preventing Air and Water Pollution ■ Soot and Dust Emissions ■ Nitrogen in Wastewater 40 200 183.6 188.3 183.1 35.6 173.1 171.2 Kaneka complies with environmental 32.6 33.9 laws and regulations, such as the Air 30 26.6 150 (Metric tons) (Metric tons) Pollution Control Act and Water Pollu23.0 tion Control Act, using values agreed 20 15.4 100 14.5 upon by local governments and other 10.8 10.0 10.6 10 50 bodies. All of our parents plants re3.5 0.9 1.4 1.3 1.8 1.2 duced sulfur oxide and nitrogen oxide 1.3 2.3 1.8 1.2 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 0 0 emissions from the previous fiscal year. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) (Fiscal years) However, soot and dust emissions increased slightly. Environmental impacts on water declined for all items checked. ■ Water Consumption ■ Phosphorous in Wastewater 25 23.8 23.2 22.8 6 21.5 21.5 5.2 20 5 4.3 4.1 4.0 3.9 4 (Million m3) (Metric tons) 15 3 10 2 5.4 5.3 5.4 5.7 6.1 5 1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 4.0 4.4 4.6 4.4 3.8 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 All parent plants 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Domestic Group companies (Fiscal years) (Fiscal years) Overseas Group companies ■ Sulfur Oxide Emissions ■ Wastewater Discharges ■ Suspended Solids in Wastewater 120 25 250 102.6 21.9 21.3 21.5 21.1 21.7 94.1 199.8 20 200 186.3 90 86.0 175.2 171.0 167.3 (Metric tons) 74.7 (Metric tons) 69.0 (Million m3) 65.7 67.1 15 150 60 47.7 100 10 36.3 30 4.9 4.9 5.3 5.8 20.3 5 4.0 50 7.2 19.0 16.9 17.5 17.8 1.4 4.5 3.6 2.1 2.3 4.3 4.0 4.1 3.9 3.4 3.1 9.0 7.6 12.5 5.7 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) (Fiscal years) (Fiscal years) ■ Nitrogen Oxide Emissions ■ Chemical Oxygen Demand in Wastewater 900 350 816.7 805.4 800 746.0 304.5 293.4 289.7 284.6 707.3 709.9 300 282.5 700 In fiscal 2014, all parent plants recycled 250 600 61.7% of waste generated, down 0.7 per(Metric tons) (Metric tons) 500 200 centage points from 62.4% in the previous 400 150 fiscal year. We will continue to recycle waste 300 92.3 83.6 internally and through our contractors in 100 200 fiscal 2015. We are endeavoring to promote 160.6 63.7 54.4 43.0 48.5 46.6 39.9 100 50 14.0 48.5 47.8 40.8 36.5 25.5 4.5 8.2 7.2 5.6 6.2 environmental impact reduction measures 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 for air and water and to reinforce monitoring (Fiscal years) (Fiscal years) to ensure swift contingency responses. 44 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Cutting Chemical Emissions We strive constantly to reduce the amount of discharge of volatile organic compounds and voluntarily cut emissions of six harmful atmospheric pollutants that are subject to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law. Voluntary Plan to Cut Volatile Organic ■ Voluntary Plan to Cut Volatile Organic Compound Discharges Compound Discharges 6,000 5,436 5,000 Volatile organic compounds (see note 4,000 (Metric tons) Fiscal 2010 target 2,912 2,829 1) are known causes of photochemi3,000 1,994 1,977 2,282 2,263 2,160 1,853 1,669 cal smog. Kaneka endeavors to reduce 2,000 these emissions. In fiscal 2014, we re1,000 duced discharges by 9.9% from a year 0 earlier to 1,669 metric tons. We will con2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Baseline year) (Fiscal years) tinue striving to cut discharges, notably by preventing leaks from facilities. ■ Chloroethylene ■ Kashima ■ 1,2-Dichloroethane ■ Takasago ■ Osaka Harmful Atmospheric Pollutants 15 ■ Takasago 5 12 4 5.9 5.5 5.6 5.6 5.5 (Metric tons) (Metric tons) 9 3 Fiscal 2014 emissions under a plan to 0.1 3.6 4.3 2.9 3.5 3.5 0.1 voluntarily reduce the discharge of the 6 0.2 0.1 0.2 2 six substances shown in the graphs de3 7.7 8.5 6.5 7.4 7.4 1 creased by a total of 5.5% from a year 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 earlier, to 24.2 metric tons. We will keep (Fiscal years) (Fiscal years) pushing ahead with reduction measures to lower our environmental impact. ■ Dichloromethane ■ Shiga ■ Acrylonitrile ■ Takasago ■ Takasago 15.0 15 1.5 12.0 (Metric tons) (Metric tons) 10 8.7 1.0 4.4 4.3 0.5 1.1 0.9 0.9 0.7 0.7 5 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) (Fiscal years) ■ 1,3-Butadiene ■ Takasago ■ Chloroform ■ Takasago 4 1.0 3 (Metric tons) (Metric tons) 3.3 3.2 2.8 2.9 0.9 0.9 1.0 0.7 2 0.5 2.0 0.4 1 0 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) (Fiscal years) Note 1: Volatile organic compounds readily disperse into the atmosphere and end up as suspended particulate matter or create photochemical oxidants. 45 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Cutting Chemical Emissions Substances Subject to the Pollutant chemical substances that are subject to We will continue efforts to cut emissions Release and Transfer Register Law the Pollutant Release and Transfer Regof chemical substances by implementister Law. In fiscal 2014, total discharges ing emission control measures focused increased approximately 3.8 metric tons on substances with large emission Kaneka strives to reduce emissions of from a year earlier, to 77.2 metric tons. volumes. ■ Fiscal 2014 Parent Company Emissions Subject to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law (Kilograms) Emissions Transfers Designated Number under Chemical Substances Atmospheric Discharges into Waste Taken to Ordinance Discharges into Soil Total Fiscal 2013 Total Emissions Public Waterways Landfill Sites 94 Chloroethylene (PVC) 13,060 110 0 0 13,170 13,198 940 Large Discharges of 10 Substances 392 Normal hexane 10,400 0 0 0 10,400 6,980 99,821 275 Sodium dodecyl sulfate 0 8,700 0 0 8,700 8,500 0 240 Styrene 6,779 38 0 0 6,817 5,943 2,800 420 Methyl methacrylate 5,100 3 0 0 5,103 4,927 8 232 N,N-dimethylformamide 3,700 970 0 0 4,670 5,430 330,000 186 Dichloromethane (methylene chloride) 4,617 0 0 0 4,617 4,688 77,370 7 Acrylic acid Butyl 3,870 0 0 0 3,870 3,004 2,966 157 1,2-dichloroethane 3,500 0 0 0 3,500 3,500 0 134 Vinyl acetate 2,960 0 0 0 2,960 2,570 920 Total Apart from the 10 Substances Above 7,869 5,546 0 0 13,415 14,721 75,719 Grand Total for All Substances 61,855 15,367 0 0 77,222 73,461 590,545 Kaneka handles 63 of the 462 substances subject to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law. ■ Fiscal 2014 Domestic Group Company Discharges and Transfers of Chemical Substances Subject to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law (Kilograms) Emissions Transfers Designated Number under Chemical Substances Atmospheric Discharges into Waste Taken to Ordinance Discharges into Soil Total Fiscal 2013 Total Emissions Public Waterways Landfill Sites 300 Toluene 21,898 0 0 0 21,898 29,356 428,350 Large Discharges of 10 Substances 232 N,N-dimethylformamide 21,040 0 0 0 21,040 32,640 2,000 186 Dichloromethane (methylene chloride) 12,386 0 0 0 12,386 10,995 222,000 80 Xylene 4,800 0 0 0 4,800 5,840 10,640 392 Normal hexane 2,300 0 0 0 2,300 1,600 3,900 53 Ethylbenzene 1,700 0 0 0 1,700 1,740 3,440 127 Chloroform 640 0 0 0 640 500 7,350 56 Ethylene oxide 630 0 0 0 630 630 213 N,N-dimethylacetamide 160 0 0 0 160 160 355 Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate 61 59 0 0 120 127 580 Total Apart from the 10 Substances Above 0 1 0 0 1 2 28,497 Grand Total for All Substances 65,615 60 0 0 65,675 82,800 739,577 Kaneka’s domestic Group companies handle 25 of the 462 substances subject to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law. Kaneka’s total discharges in fiscal 2014 were approximately 77.2 metric tons, which was up around 3.8 metric tons from a year earlier. The key factor in this rise was an increase in normal hexane discharges. Domestic Group company discharges were approximately 65.7 metric tons, which was 17.1 metric tons down from a year earlier, partly because of reduced production volume. 46 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Safeguarding the Environment Initiatives in Biodiversity Kaneka closely monitors the impact of its corporate activities on ecosystems. While providing technologies, materials, and products that reduce environmental impact, we also endeavor to reduce impacts from production. As a part of our social contribution efforts, we collaborate and support diverse external biodiversity initiatives. Here, we introduce some of these initiatives. Participation in and Support for Biodiversity Initiatives Kaneka participates in the following activities. •Declaration of Biodiversity by Keidanren Promotion Partners •Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation •Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund •Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership Enabling the Public to Watch Fireflies at New Employee Training at Kaneka ForWalnut School Participation Settsu-no-mori Kaneka Biotope (see note 1) estry for the Future for Lake Biwa Since 2013, we have operated the Since 2012, the Takasago Plant has parThe Shiga Plant participates in the manSettsu-no-mori Kaneka Biotope on the ticipated in Hyogo Prefecture’s private agement committee of Walnut School, premises of the Osaka Plant. It is posforest preservation project, undertaking established to preserve the Konooka sible to watch fireflies and other natural maintenance and preservation at KaneBiotope adjacent to the plant. life at this watery biotope. The biotope ka Forestry for the Future in the town of To preserve this valuable natural is located in a natural area on the Osaka Taka. area for generations to come, Shiga Plant premises. It is leased by Settsu We held a sixth training session Prefecture, Otsu City, and the local City and managed in collaboration with in November 2014. A total of 50 people community, including Shiga Plant, the Settsu Firefly Research Society. gathered to engage in afforestation. launched the Walnut School to conOn May 31, 2014, we held a fireflyBefore these activities, representatives duct regular preservation activities watching event to view the larva that we of the town of Taka municipal office and seasonal nature walks four times a released in fall 2013 emerge. lectured participants and granted a year. The walk is an important vehicle About 150 people, mainly from carbon sink certificate for contributions for teaching children about the value of neighborhood families, gathered for the to protecting the village forest. biotopes through observation of rare event. They celebrated the first fireflies Since 2013, we have used afplants, wild birds, insects, and other livemerging and cheered at the glowing forestation activities as a part of joint ing things. scene. new employee training for high school, We will continue to help preservWe opened the biotope to the vocational high school, and university ing the natural environment of beautiful public during the evenings of June 1 to graduates. Their teams trim and transLake Biwa. 8 for firefly watching. We hope that the port trees in mountainous areas where biotope remains an attraction for the the footing is poor, enhance solidarity public in the years ahead. and deepen interpersonal ties. We plan to undertake around 15 Unveiling the afforestation activities covering apwooden entrance to proximately 15 hectares from June 2012 Walnut School the biotope through to May 2017. A glowing firefly Team thinning Putting in a Many children participating the forest tremendous effort in activities Note 1: Biotope is a compound of the Greek words bio and topos , which mean living thing and place . The concept was introduced to Japan from Germany to recreate natural habitats. 47 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Benefiting Customers Benefiting Customers We could not exist without customers. We serve them by not only providing quality products and services but also ensuring that our offerings are safe and disclosing information. 38 Group divisions and companies obtain certification under ISO 9001, an international standard for quality management, to improve customer satisfaction with their products and services. Divisions and Group Companies (The number of ISO 9001-certified Kaneka divisions and Group companies) ■ Fiscal 2014 Targets, Results and Results Evaluations Item Fiscal 2014 Targets Fiscal 2014 Results Results Evaluations Customer Satisfaction Quality •Build awareness of the Quality Management Rules and Change •Provided information about Quality Management Rules and Management Management Standards. Change Management Standards. •Prepare other guidelines and standards (including design •Laid down technological transfer and design review guidelines. reviews). Chemical Substance •Comply with and properly accommodate domestic and over•Notified inventories of existing chemical substances in Taiwan (ensuring quality and product safety) Management seas chemical substance management laws and regulations in and collected information on chemical substance management Japan and abroad and collect and share information on legislalaws in Taiwan and South Korea for sharing in-house. tive revisions (including in the United States and Asia). •Operated a database that centralizes the management of •Look into creating a chemical substances database. chemical substances used. 48 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Benefiting Customers Highlight Introducing the Food Defense Program to Improve Customer Satisfaction Customer interest in food safety and security has grown in response to food tampering incidents. In January 2014, the Kaneka Foods group accordingly introduced its Food Defense Program. Strengthening Food Quality Management Systems keeping with programs prepared by the U.S. Food and Drug with the Food Defense Program Administration. In April 2015, we started deployment and operational preparations that include vulnerability assessments and the installation of quality assurance cameras (see note 2). Companies in the Kaneka Foods group produce and sell such We endeavor to enhance customer satisfaction with the offerings as margarine, bakery yeasts, cocoa butter substitutes, reliability of our products by running our programs and impleand spices, accounting for about 25% of consolidated net menting a series of quality management systems. sales. The Foods Division bases its quality policy on the notion that foodstuff quality assurance is not just an issue for plants and quality management departments, but also one for all team ■ Quality Management Systems of Kaneka Foods members, including those in sales, storage, and transportation. Group Companies We accordingly undertake a Plan-Do-Check-Act cycle for quality management systems (shown in the illustration). Undertaking process procedures Quality management system initiatives by Kaneka Foods related to the quality of all Kaneka Quality Management Systems Act Foods group companies through group companies started with deploying the AIB International ISO 9001 quality management (ISO 9001) systems Consolidated Standards for Inspection to ensure healthy and Plan Food safety management sector standards safe foodstuffs, encompassing the Hazard Analysis and Critical (FSSC 22000) Undertaking process procedures Control Point (HACCP; see note 1) program initiated in 2002. related to food safety for all Kaneka Foods group companies Since then efforts have expanded to include AIB under the ISO/TS 22002-1 through FSSC 22000 (including ISO 22000 Prerequisite food safety HACCP), the sector standard for ISO 9001 quality management system and Food Safety System Check Food Safety food safety management programs Certification (FSSC) 22000, the sector standard for food safety Management System Food Defense Deploying process procedures for management. In 2014, we embarked on efforts to deploy food Programs food defense at all Kaneka Foods group companies with internal Additional (guidelines for defense programs. requirements food defense programs based on guidelines for Do food defense measures This concept emerged in the food industry after the 9/11 measures) terrorist attacks in the United States raised concerns about the potential for food chain attacks that could greatly harm people’s Kozo Yamashita health. Another factor was that in Japan, more companies have Head of Quality Assurance Group, deployed defense plans in response to food tampering inciFoods Division (left) Shinichi Matsumoto dents. Kaneka Foods group companies formulated their own Manager, Quality Assurance Group, food defense programs under guidance from Professor Emiko Foods Division (right) Araki (currently a visiting professor) at Tokai University and in Stakeholder Feedback Anticipating Positive Results through Introduction of Food Defense Programs Professor Emiko Araki (visiting professor) tion. The company has swiftly responded to my advice and suggesDepartment of Fisheries, tions by improving its programs and other initiatives. School of Marine Science and Technology, Tokai University, I believe that food defense ought to incorporate the concept and Academic Advisor for the Japan Food Hygiene Association of risk management. Properly controlling such risks would be beneficial. For example, installing quality assurance cameras would enJapan lags behind the world in food defense initiatives. Thus, I think hance employee awareness and reduce the potential for customer that Kaneka has quickly risen to the challenge in light of the situacomplaints, thereby enhancing trust in the Kaneka brand. Note 1: The Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) is a hygiene control method to secure the safety of products. Step-by-step procedures under this method encompass a prospective analysis of risk factors, such as microbial contamination that could happen at any stage of the food manufacturing and processing processes, drawing on the results of analysis to determine management priorities to ensure product safety through certain countermeasures at identified stages throughout the manufacturing process, followed by constant monitoring. Note 2: Kaneka installs quality assurance cameras at production sites to monitor and protect employees and the organization itself by ensuring that it maintains quality. 49 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Benefiting Customers Quality Management Initiatives (Product Safety and Quality Assurance) We established the Product Safety Subcommittee under the CSR Committee and the Product Safety Review Conference and the Quality Assurance Promoters Conference as support bodies in coordinating companywide product safety and quality assurance. Quality Management Activities Product Safety Review Conference Chemical Substance Management The Kaneka Group satisfies its cusProduct and service reviews have inWith international chemical substance tomers and contributes to society by creased in line with the recent expansion management legislation becoming consistently supplying safe and secure and diversification of our businesses. stricter, we comply fully with domesproducts. The Kaneka Group thus In fiscal 2014, the Product Safety tic and overseas regulations. We also undertakes quality management efforts Review Conference Secretariat conengage in efforts to provide information that encompass safety at every stage, ducted extensive consultations to on chemical substances. These include from product development and design ensure timely and speedy responses to labeling based on the Globally Harthrough to manufacture and sales. such reviews. monized System of Classification and We also sought support from outLabeling of Chemicals and using Safety In fiscal 2014, we: side product experts in everything from Data Sheet to encourage the proper •Ensured that the Quality Management reviews through to the early develophandling of our products. Rules and formulated Change Manment stages. We built and inaugurated a chemiagement Standards became widely cal substances management database known. Audits and Inspections to centralize companywide oversight. •Formulated technological transfer and We will continue to undertake acdesign review guidelines, incorporattivities and disclose information under ing the perspectives of safety, the The Kaneka Group undergoes reguthe Japan Initiative of Product Stewardenvironment, and quality. lar audits from external organizations ship promoted by the Japan Chemical •Constructed quality management sysbased on specifications and standards Industry Association, a voluntary industems to accommodate new business such as ISO 9001. try initiative to minimize chemical proddomains. We conduct CSR Quality and uct risks. •Used external expert guidance and Safety Inspections and internal audits training and constructed food defense to check progress with quality-related systems. activities and enhance the standards. •Endeavored to improve the capaIn fiscal 2014, we reinforced our bilities of each employee by creating CSR Quality and Safety Inspections quality educational tools and dataframework by: bases, sending employees to external •Including external experts in functional seminars, and having external experts food inspections. lecture at in-house seminars. •Expanding quantitative assessments to clarify strengths and weaknesses of CSR activities started in fiscal 2013, encompassing all plants, including those of Group companies. Based on Product Safety Subcommittee reviews, we engage in daily management improvements, which underpin the expansion of our operations and business categories. We secure the human resources and systems necessary for these activities as part of our efforts to prevent significant quality complaints and quality problems. 50 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Benefiting Customers Quality Management Initiatives (Product Safety and Quality Assurance) ■ ISO 9001 Certification of Kaneka and Group Companies Division or Group Company Major Products Registry Organization and Number High Performance Polymers Division Modifier resins (Kane Ace and Kaneka Telalloy), modified silicone polymer (Kaneka MS Polymer), and LRQA / YKA0927477 polymer-based adhesive (Silyl) Weather-resistant methyl methacrylate film (Sunduren) LRQA / YKA4004220 Electrical & Electronic Materials Division Ultra-heat-resistant polyimide films (Apical, Pixeo), optical film (Elmech), bonded magnets (Kaneka LRQA / YKA0935762 Flux), multi-layered insulation materials, PVC pipes for underground electric cables, and high thermalconductive graphite sheet (Graphinity) Foam Plastics & Plastic Products Division Bead technique-based polyolefin resins and molded products (Eperan, Eperan PP), bead techniqueJCQA / JCQA-0673 Hokkaido Kanelite Co., Ltd. based expandable polystyrene (Kanepearl), and extruded polystyrene foam board (Kanelite) Kyushu Kanelite Co., Ltd. PVC & Chemicals Division Caustic soda, hydrochloric acid, sodium hypochlorite, chlorine, vinyl chloride monomers, polyvinyl JCQA / JCQA-1263 chloride, polyvinyl chloride paste, heat-resistant polyvinyl chloride, and OXY chlorination catalyst Foods Division Margarine, shortening, edible oils and fats, edible refined oils and fats, whipped cream, concentrated JQA / JQA-QMA10274 Takasago Plant Foods Manufacturing milk products, fermented milk products, flour paste, butter cream, chocolate, frozen dough, cheese, Department cooking fillings, prepared foods, yeast, and yeast cultures Kaneka Foods Manufacturing Corporation Tokyo Kaneka Foods Manufacturing Corporation Nagashima Shokuhin Co., Ltd. Kaneka Foods Corporation Purchase, design, sales, technological services, and quality assurance for processed foods and raw materials NJF Co., Ltd. Production instruction of processing contractors New Business Development Division Highly heat-resistant and light-resistant resins and molded products DNV / 01635-2006-AQ-KOB-RvA/JAB New Business Development Division Organic electroluminescent lighting JMAQA / JMAQA-2532 OLED Business Development Project OLED Aomori Co., Ltd. Solar Energy Division Photovoltaic modules JQA / JQA-QMA13200 Kaneka Solartech Corporation Tochigi Kaneka Corporation Bonded magnets (Kaneka Flux), multilayer insulation materials, PVC pipes for underground electric LRQA / YKA0958035 cables, and high thermal-conductive graphite sheet (Graphinity) Vienex Corporation Electronic products JSA / JSAQ2593 Showa Kaseikogyo Co., Ltd. Plastic compounds ASR / Q0556 Sanwa Kaseikogyo Co., Ltd. Bead technique-based polyolefin molded products (Eperan, Eperan PP) ASR / Q1919 Kanto Styrene Co., Ltd. Polystyrene foam molded products JACO / QC03J0233 Tatsuta Chemical Co., Ltd. Plastic film, plastic sheet BVJ / 3167872 Kaneka Hokkaido Styrol Co., Ltd. Polystyrene foam molded products for engineering and construction LRQA / YKA 4002793/J Kaneka Sun Spice Corporation Spices, secondary processed foods JQA / JQA-QMA11351 Osaka Synthetic Chemical Laboratories, Inc. Active pharmaceutical ingredients, pharmaceutical intermediates, and industrial organic chemicals JCQA / JCQA-0444 Taiyo Yushi Corporation Margarine, shortening, edible refined oils and fats, edible vegetable oils and fats, refined lard, other JQA / JQA-QMA14671 edible oils and fats, processed fats, dairy products, and food additives Sanvic Inc. Synthetic resin sheets and films JMAQA / JMAQA-1824 Kaneka Belgium N.V. Polyvinyl chloride modifier (Kane Ace), bead technique-based polyolefins (Eperan, Eperan PP), modified AIB-VINCOTTE / BE-91 028g silicone polymer (Kaneka MS Polymer), and acrylic sol Kaneka North America LLC Ultra-heat-resistant polyimide films (Apical), Performance modifiers (Kane Ace and Kaneka Telalloy), BSI / FM72722 heat-resistant vinyl chloride resins, and modified silicone polymers (Kaneka MS Polymer) Kaneka (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Performance modifiers (Kane Ace) SIRIM QAS / AR2321 Kaneka Apical Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Ultra-heat-resistant polyimide films (Apical) SIRIM QAS / AR6269 High thermal-conductive graphite sheet (Graphinity) SIRIM QAS / AR6270 Kaneka Eperan Sdn. Bhd. Bead technique-based polyolefins (Eperan, Eperan PP) SIRIM QAS / AR2598 Kaneka Paste Polymers Sdn. Bhd. Vinyl chloride paste resin SIRIM QAS / AR2321 Kaneka Eperan (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Bead technique-based polypropylene (Eperan, Eperan PP) UL DQS Inc. / 439438 QM08 Kaneka Innovative Fibers Sdn. Bhd. Synthetic fibers SIRIM QAS / AR5612 KSS Vietnam Co., Ltd. Processed spices, herbs, and dried vegetables BSI / FM541299 Eurogentec S.A. Products and services for research and development in Life Sciences LNE/G-MED / 17586 AnaSpec Inc. Peptides, antibodies, synthetic resins, amino acids, and reagents for research SQA / 09.357.1 51 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Benefiting Customers Quality Management Initiatives (Product Safety and Quality Assurance) ■ ISO 13485 (see note 1) Certification of Kaneka and Group Companies Division or Group Company Main products Registry Organization and Number Medical Devices Division Lixelle, Liposorber, catheters, Silascon, and ED coil TÜV SÜD / Q1N 14 05 24736 040 Kaneka Medix Corporation Kaneka Pharma Vietnam Co., Ltd. Catheters (parts) RIVER Co., Ltd. Endoscopic instruments TÜV SÜD / Q1N 14 06 84323 004 Eurogentec S.A. In vitro diagnostic oligonucleotides LNE / G-MED / 15217 Note 1: ISO 13485 is an international standard covering the comprehensive management system requirements for the design and manufacture of medical equipment. ■ ISO 22000 (see note 2) Certification of Kaneka and Group Companies Production Unit or Group Company Main Products Registry Organization and Number Takasago Plant Pharmaceutical Coenzyme Q10 (Kaneka Q10, Kaneka QH) SGS / GB10 / 81403 Manufacturing Department Kaneka Sun Spice Corporation Spices and secondary processed products incorporating spices JQA / JQA-FS0123 KSS Vietnam Co., Ltd. Processed spices, herbs, and dried vegetables Intertek(UK) / 38191405003 Note 2: ISO 22000 is an international standard for food safety management systems. ■ Food Safety System Certification 22000 (FSSC 22000) (see note 3) Certification of Kaneka and Group Companies Production Unit or Group Company Main Products Registry Organization and Number Takasago Plant Foods Manufacturing Margarine, shortening, edible oils and fats, edible refined oils and fats, whipped cream, JQA / JQA-FC0047-1 Department concentrated milk products, and yeast Kaneka Foods Manufacturing Corporation Margarine, flour paste, buttercream, cheese, and fermented milk products JQA / JQA-FC0047-2 Tokyo Kaneka Foods Manufacturing Margarine, shortening, flour paste, buttercream, chocolate, and whipped cream JQA / JQA-FC0047-3 Corporation Taiyo Yushi Corporation Margarine, shortening, edible refined oils and fats, edible vegetable oils and fats, refined lard, JQA / JQA-FC0044 other edible oils and fats, processed fats, and dairy products (butter) Note 3: FSSC22000: Based on ISO 22000 and ISO/TS 22002-1. An international standard for food safety management that includes additional requirements. Registry Organization and Number ■ ISO 22716 (see note 4) Certification of Group Companies BVJ / 3209543 Group Company Main Products Taiyo Yushi Corporation Shampoos, conditioners, body soaps, and hand creams Note 4: ISO 22716 is the Good Manufacturing Practices standard for cosmetics. 52 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Working with Business Partners Working with Business Partners These raw materials suppliers and contractors are equal partners in a common quest for growth. We strive for mutual prosperity by dealing fairly with vendors 80 and offering them fair business opportunities. % (Improvements made for locations deemed unsafe at the Osaka Plant) As a part of efforts to bolster distribution safety, the Osaka Plant identifies unsafe locations during load handling and explores improvements. In fiscal 2014, the plant improved safety at 45 of 56 locations deemed unsafe, for an improvement rate of 80%. ■ Fiscal 2014 Targets, Results and Results Evaluations Item Fiscal 2014 Targets Fiscal 2014 Results Results Evaluations Proper Green Procurement •Enhance and thoroughly undertake activities based on the •Investigated 18 types of imported raw materials and confirmed Green Procurement Standards and expand efforts among non-contamination with prohibited substances. Procurement Group companies. •Reviewed the substance list of Green Procurement Standards •Start looking into stepping up CSR procurement. four times in line with revised laws. Bolstering Distribution •Newly create and revise Yellow Cards and check that people •The Takasago Plant collaborated with transportation compaSafety carry them when required. nies to patrol sites to check that people were carrying their •Continue to implement legal compliance and voluntary inspecYellow Cards, while the Osaka Plant identified unsafe locations tions of mobile tanks. during cargo handling and examined improvements. •Together with transportation companies conducted legal compliance checks and voluntary inspections on mobile tanks. •Continue holding emergency response drills for transportation. •In collaboration with transportation companies, the Kashima Plant checked and reconfirmed emergency contact networks. The Takasago Plant held transportation danger detection training. 53 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Working with Business Partners Ensuring that Suppliers Fulfill Their Environmental and Social Responsibilities We draw on our Basic Procurement Policy to engage in rational procurement activities that are fair, equitable, and environmentally friendly to mutually improve corporate value with business partners. Undertaking Green Procurement Based ■ Policy on Basic Procurement Policy Basic Procurement Policy 1. We will engage in procurement activities that enhance the corporate value of Under the Basic Procurement Policy both Kaneka and our business partners. deployed in fiscal 2011, we declared our commitment to reducing environmental 2. We will endeavor to reduce environmental damage by engaging in green proimpact through green procurement. curement. Based on the Green Procurement 3. We will provide opportunities for business partners to make fair and rational Standards formulated in fiscal 2013, transactions in consideration of quality, price, supply stability, technical develwe inform related business units of opment capabilities, environmental protection, and safety. our green procurement practices. We 4. We will abide strictly by the relevant domestic and foreign laws and regulations. also set up systems while checking the progress of business partners in obtaining environmental management systems certification, and endeavor to prevent Initiatives to Prevent Transportation raw materials contamination from proDisasters hibited substances. Procurement Initiatives In fiscal 2014, Kaneka formulated annual plans and collaborated with transportation companies to patrol sites to The Procurement Department coordicheck that workers carry their Yellow nates closely with business partners to Cards, identifying and addressing danA major field drill reinforce ties with them. gerous transportation points at work The goal is to create value from the sites, and providing education on safe perspectives of both Kaneka and such driving awareness by presenting occupartners in a fast-changing market clipational and other accident case studmate and mutually improve each other’s ies. We took steps to prevent accidents businesses. from escalating by maintaining proper In keeping with our Green Procureemergency response procedures and ment Standards, we endeavor to keep ensuring prompt reporting. Measures intrack of the environmental activities of cluded checking compliance with legally Employees from the Takasago Plant took part in our business partners. We are looking to required inspections of mobile tanks, a drill in a scenario where chlorine leaked from a tanker use our website to disseminate informaemergency-reporting drills based on tion to these partners on our activities transportation problem scenarios, and and our stance on green procurement to emergency response drills for products drive such procurement forward. incorporating hazardous substances. Based on the Green Procurement Standards formulated in fiscal 2013, the Kaneka Group commenced efforts in fiscal 2014 to check for contamination of any new raw materials and some existing imported materials by prohibited substances. From fiscal 2015, we will prioritize and expand this process to all existing materials. 54 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Serving Shareholders and Investors Serving Shareholders and Investors They recognize the value of our corporate brand and own our shares. We must offer suitable returns while ensuring timely disclosure to build trust. 29.9 Our basic policy on profit sharing is to consistently target a 30% consolidated payout ratio that comprehensively factors in annual operating results, % (Consolidated payout ratio for the period ended March 31, 2015) mediumand long-term trends in earnings, investment plans, our financial position, and stock repurchases. ■ Fiscal 2014 Targets, Results and Results Evaluations Item Fiscal 2014 Targets Fiscal 2014 Results Results Evaluations Timely and Appropriate •Issue business reports, financial results, interim reports for •Issued business reports, financial results, interim reports for Disclosure shareholders and other investors, and other investor relations shareholders and other investors, and other investor relations materials. materials. 55 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Serving Shareholders and Investors Highlight Building Trusting Relationships with Shareholders and Investors and Sharing Kaneka’s Brand Direction From fiscal 2015, Kaneka will step up its investor relations efforts as part of its CSR program. We will endeavor to optimize disclosure of both financial and non-financial information. Turning a Changing Investment Environment into an Opportuof the Kaneka Group. We will continue to share our brand direcnity to Foster Understanding of the Kaneka Group tion with institutional investors and analysts. We responded to changing perspectives among institutional investors and analysts with whom we have engaged in investor relationship activities in recent years by transferring the IR Department from the Accounting Department to the new established CSR Division on April 1, 2015. We concluded that it would be difficult to position Kaneka We exhibited and profiled our products at an investor as an investment target based solely on prevailing results, as relations briefing in May 2015 we engage in various fields. These include chemicals, functional plastics, expandable plastics and products, foodstuffs products, life science products, electronic products, and synOur investor relations website thetic fibers. While gaining understanding of our focus on the provides timely and appropriate strategic domains of health care, the environment & energy, corporate information food production support, and information & communications, we would sometimes also face questions about how long we would retain unprofitable operations. Some understood that we would not immediately discard operations solely on the basis of Semiannual business reports losses and that we have underlying resources. to Japanese shareholders and the English language annual report Kaneka has deepened communications with institutional investors and analysts through financial result announcements, press conferences, individual meetings, and other vehicles. In recent years, we have encountered more questions about the potential and risks of new businesses and our business strategy, in addition to questions relating to prevailing financial figures, such as year-on-year growth and major products and markets. This indicates that more people are considering investments from mediumand long-term perspectives. We have accordingly responded to such a change in perspectives by having general managers conduct business orientations and holding plant tours to increase understanding Employee Feedback Building Relationships of Trust with Investors Takeji Kobuki tutional investors consider the value of holding or increasing their Head, holdings of shares over the long-term, analysts seek information Investor Relations Department, CSR Division so they can appropriately evaluate the stock. Regardless of such different stances, these stakeholders all seek corporate honesty. As representatives of Kaneka’s investor relations program, we must disclose information honestly from the perspectives of investors and Kaneka’s investor relations program targets engage in transactions based upon trust to be able to ask investors institutional investors, analysts, and other stakeholders. While instito purchase and retain our shares. 56 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Serving Shareholders and Investors Dividend Policy and Disclosure Kaneka is committed to providing timely and proper disclosure to shareholders and investors to help them gain an accurate understanding of the Group while building a relationship of trust and meeting their expectations. Shareholder Composition and Dividend ■ Shareholder Composition Policy Other companies Financial instruments firms 27,849,000 shares 3,351,000 shares 265 shareholders 41 shareholders As of March 31, 2015, Kaneka had 350 1.0% 8.0% million shares issued and outstanding 18,197 and 18,197 shareholders. Domestic fiIndividuals and others nancial institutions accounted for 48.8% 58,726,000 shares Financial institutions 17,410 shareholders 170,669,000 shares of the total, with foreign companies 16.8% shareholders 91 shareholders owning 25.5%, individuals representing 48.8% 16.8%, and other companies and financial instruments firms constituting the Foreign companies balance. 89,403,000 shares One of our top management priori390 shareholders ties is to return profits to shareholders 25.5% and boost earnings while strengthening our corporate foundations. Our basic policy on profit sharing is to consistently Shareholder Reporting Disclosure and Investor Relations target a 30% consolidated payout ratio that comprehensively factors in annual operating results, mediumand longWe issue semiannual business reports We are dedicated to providing the term trends in earnings, investment to our shareholders, making this infortimely and proper disclosure of corpoplans, and our financial position. We are mation publicly available through our rate information that our investors need. also committed to stock repurchases. website. We redesigned the covers in We conduct briefings after anThe payout ratio for the year ended 2010 and increased page sizes in 2013, nouncing annual and quarterly results, March 31, 2015 was 29.9%. included top management interviews, with the president or relevant director We harness retained earnings to and incorporated explanations to make providing explanations. maintain financial stability and address it easier to understand our financial poOur website presents our financial dramatic changes in the operating clisition. We print investor relations publiresults, annual report, and other invesmate to generate sustainable growth. cations using environmentally friendly tor information. ink made from vegetable oil, and use Universal Design fonts. Annual Report 2014 In fiscal 2015, we will continue to build on our fiscal 2014 efforts to ensure proper disclosure to shareholders and investors. 57 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities We can boost enterprise value by fulfilling our responsibilities to citizens and consumers. Our efforts extend from contributions to society and welfare and community engagement to ensuring that our plants operate safely. We also address social demands. 5,200 While continuing to implement evacuation, reporting, and firefighting drills, Group companies conducted night-time business continuity drills during fiscal 2014. (The number of participants in night-time emergency drills) ■ Fiscal 2014 Targets, Results and Results Evaluations Item Fiscal 2014 Targets Fiscal 2014 Results Results Evaluations Improving Communication •Issue a CSR report and post it on our website. •Issued a CSR report and posted it on our website. with Society •Continue to engage in stakeholder dialogue. •Continued to engage in shareholder dialogue. Held youth •Continue to stage youth events. events. •Issue site reports for all parent plants and post them on our •Issued site reports for all parent plants and posted them on our website. website. Reinforcing Process Safety •Clarify strengths and weaknesses through process safety as•The Kashima Plant implemented process safety assessments and Disaster Prevention sessments. to identify strengths and weaknesses. •Deploy chemical substance safety assessments and safety •Commenced risk assessments of self-degradability and incommeasures. patibility when handling chemical substances. •Conduct a safety drive that covers such areas as powder dust •Conducted safety checks for powder dust explosions, static explosions and heat-triggered fires. ignition, and other risks. •There were two fires at the Osaka Plant. 58 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Highlight Fostering Youth Kaneka does much to foster youth in the communities in which it operates and throughout society. In fiscal 2014, we took part in the second Children’s Chemistry Show in western Japan. Core-Net, a non-profit organization of retired executives, whose members include Kaneka retirees, provided educational assistance at elementary and junior high schools. Participating in a Children’s Chemistry Show in Osaka Kaneka Manufacturing Class The Dream Chemistry 21 Committee sponsored the Children’s Pro bono activities leveraging professional expertise are beChemistry Show in Osaka at the Kyocera Dome Osaka on coming more popular in Japan. NPO Core-Net is part of the October 18 and 19, 2014. The event celebrated the new Chempro bono movement, passing down manufacturing knowhow to istry Day, held on October 23 to commemorate the Avogadro support elementary and junior high school education. constant (see note 1), and the Chemistry Week, during which Following on from 2013, we again conducted Kaneka includes this day falls. This was the second time for the show to Manufacturing Class activities. We held two classes in which be held in the Kansai region in 2014, with the first show held in elementary school students assembled scroller kits. One was Kobe in January. in October 2014 for about 70 students in the sixth grade at Approximately 5,700 people visited the venue during the Takasago Elementary School, near the Takasago Plant. The two-day event. About 330 children visited the Kaneka booth to other was in December of the same year for around 80 students learn how to make erasers. in the sixth grade at Torikai Nishi Elementary School near the The children were given 25 minutes each to experiment Osaka Plant. with creating their own erasers in three different colors. They Kaneka participants on both days were mainly new plant and their parents greatly enjoyed the experiment, drawing on employees. They instructed and assisted the students, impartsome assistance from staff. ing an interest in manufacturing and a sense of achievement We are keen for children to understand the power of scifrom taking part. The students greatly enjoyed the experience. ence by experiencing the joy of chemistry. In fiscal 2015, we look forward to holding these classes at We look forward to contributing further to communities by other schools near our facilities as part of our commitment to participating in another Children’s Chemistry Show in western contributing to society by fostering youth. Japan in fiscal 2015. Children crafted their very own erasers Children experiencing the marvels Unveiling scroller assembly kits in the gym of Kaneka’s materials Kaneka employee instructing students Note 1: The Avogadro constant is the number of constituent particles (molecules, atoms, ions, etc.), or moles in a substance. It is named after Italian chemist Amedeo Avogadro. 59 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Highlight On Track to Recovery Four Years after the Great East Japan Earthquake Four years after the Great East Japan Earthquake, people in the devastated areas are leveraging various initiatives in the recovery effort. The Kaneka Group rebuilt the tsunami-damaged plant of Kanae Co., Ltd., and donated money to Kesennuma City in Miyagi Prefecture, where the plant is located, as part of ongoing support for local employment and a recovery of the local fisheries industry. Rebuilding the Only Local Plant Making Foam Contributing to Industry and Employment Fish Containers in Kesennuma City Group company Kanae Co., Ltd. manufactures polystyrene In April 2014, the Kaneka Group donated 12,700,000 yen to Kefoam molded products in Kesennuma, Miyagi Prefecture. This sennuma City, where Kanae is based, one of the areas devasis the only plant that makes polystyrene foam fish containers in tated by the Great East Japan Earthquake. The city is using the the Kesennuma, Ofunato, and Shizugawa areas. The plant’s addonations to run the Kesennuma Marine Resource Application vantage is that it is located near its markets. A tsunami washed Study Group. away the plant following the Great East Japan Earthquake, The group was established in November 2013 to help shutting down its operations. drive the recovery of the city through its creative industry. The Fish containers are essential in the area, where fishing organization believes that the area will recover only when it is the main industry. While Kanae was shut down, Hane Co., resolves the issues that it faced before the disaster, including Ltd., another Group company, arranged to deliver products a declining population and outflow of young people. The orgafrom far away. The Kaneka Group spent 600 million yen, which nization therefore aims to create advanced, highly profitable included a public subsidy, to rebuild the plant to stabilize fish industries that attract young people by incorporating knowlcontainer production and ensure speedy distribution. The faciledge through collaboration between government, industry, and ity reopened in June 2013. It has boosted its production volume academia. while increasing the number of employees as the area has Hisashi Ishiwata, vice chairman of the Kesennuma Marine recovered. Resource Application Study Group says that, “As well as the Hiroshi Konno, the plant manager at Kanae, says that, enthusiasm of participants, we need funds to rollout activities “Local fisheries companies have been very grateful that we resmoothly. The donations we received from many companies constructed our plant locally. Our shipments are less than half have enabled us to move swiftly to the next level. We aim to asthe levels of before the earthquake, and we only have around sist people awaiting the city’s recovery by creating brand new half the number of employees. Although our business scale has businesses by efficiently leveraging the resources of Kesendiminished, we are sensing that the local economy is recovernuma.” ing, because our shipments are increasing with the reconstrucThe Kaneka Group will continue to support disastertion of the fish processing plant and other local businesses. We affected areas. are looking to hire more employees, and aim to supply highquality products at low costs.” Hiroshi Konno Hisashi Ishiwata Plant Manager, Vice Chairman, Kanae Co., Ltd. Kesennuma Marine Resource Effective use of resources from KesenApplication Study numa City includes sea squirt seasonGroup ing and cosmetics incorporating shark collagen (see note 1). The kesemo Kanae’s shipments are growing as brand name means “more from Kesmore local fish processing plants are ennuma,” reflecting the commitment rebuilt to providing highly functional, valueadded products Kanae offers extensive safety measures and human resource training, as it has Presale of products at Maru-Cube in hired many employees since the earththe Marunouchi Building, Tokyo, on quake March 5 and 6 Note 1: If you are interested in products from the Kesennuma Marine Resource Application Study Group, please visit the following site: http://kesemo.com/ 60 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Highlight Reinforcing Crisis Management Encompassing Support for Wide-Area Disaster and Business Continuity In light of its experience following the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Kaneka Group has increased its ability to tackle disasters by regularly conducting disaster drills and educational activities. At the same time, we are providing disaster recovery support, and will continue to engage in diverse support initiatives. Reinforcing Crisis Management to Maintain Support following Landslide in Hiroshima Business Continuity We provided the following aid through Japan Platform, a certiBased on its experience from the Great East Japan Earthquake, fied non-profit organization, to aid recovery from a massive the Kaneka Group prepares standards and manuals for initial landslide in August 2014 in Hiroshima’s Asaminami and Asakita responses and business continuity. wards: In 2014, we held night-time disaster drills at six Kaneka •50 pairs of long steel-capped boots from the PVC & Chemisites and one sales office, at 13 Group companies for a total cals Division of 5,200 participants. The drills covered providing informa•100 tarpaulins (3.6 x 5.4 square meters) from Kaneka Kentec tion about the extent of and responses to damage and using a Co., Ltd. safety confirmation system to ensure the welfare of employees. The Hiroshima City Council of Social Welfare presented We held a crisis management seminar for more than 100 us with a letter of appreciation for our support. parent company employees that covered basic knowledge We will continue providing support to disaster-stricken about earthquakes and tsunamis and reviewed regional earthareas. quake risks and projected damage. In keeping with activities in fiscal 2014, we will continue to conduct regular business continuity drills and educational activities. Letter of appreciation from the Hiroshima City Council of Social Welfare A key speaker at the seminar Six parent company sites used teleconferencing systems to allow many employees to participate in the seminar 61 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Highlight Stakeholder Dialogues Business Sites Engaging with Municipal Governments Kaneka conducts stakeholder dialogues to share differing opinions on common issues and to deepen mutual understanding in the process. Since 2011, the company’s business sites have continued to engage in dialogue, focusing on local government officials. Our fifth stakeholder dialogues were with officials from Otsu, Shiga Prefecture, which is home to the Shiga Plant. Fifth Stakeholder Dialogue In February 2015, we conducted our fifth dialogues with external stakeholders to learn more about their evaluation and opinions, and to seek direct feedback about our CSR activities and confirm the direction of our efforts. Stakeholder dialogues are about sharing differing opinions on common issues, deepening mutual understanding in the process. We conducted a broad discussion with local government officials about the CSR Communication Book 2014, which we issued in July 2014. Dates and Locations February 6, 2015 at Kaneka Shiga Plant Topics Participants exchanging different opinions 1. The Kaneka’s corporate approach, including CSR activities based on ■ Kaneka’s stance on building trust through stakeholder dialogues core business activities and TV commercials to raise awareness Model for building trust (through a type of PDCA cycle) 2. Disclosure and environmental initiatives to enhance community trust Perform Disclose The Kaneka Group will continue conducting stakeholder dialogues about Appreciate Communicate CSR issues. We aim to reinforce trust through this PDCA cycle. 62 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Highlight Stakeholder Dialogues Fifth Stakeholder Dialogue February 6, 2015 at Kaneka Shiga Plant Participating Otsu Municipal Government officials Satoshi Inoue Ryuhei Ueno Hiroyuki Nakano Hitoshi Hibi Masahiko Tanaka Industry and Tourism Environment Director Policy Coordination Citizen Director Education Deputy Director Director Director Kaneka Participants Shuji Nozawa Hisashi Okuno Yasuharu Horiuchi Kiyotaka Kondo Group Leader, Team Leader, Director, Officer, Management Group, Management Group, Administration Office Administration Office Shiga Plant Shiga Plant CSR Committee CSR Committee (at that time) Topic 1 The Kaneka’s corporate approach, including CSR activities based on core business activities and TV commercials to raise awareness Opinions of Otsu Municipal Government Officials Kaneka’s Responses ○ Reading the CSR report reacquainted me with how extensive Kaneka’s businesses ● We will continue CSR activities that contribute to society through business so we are. I think that CSR activities are an effective tool for business-to-business can realize our vision of leveraging science to make wishes come true. companies. Incidentally some local governments use CSR as an acronym for “City Social Responsibility.” I think that Kaneka’s tag line of “Leveraging science to make wishes come true” is very easy to understand. ○ The report made me aware of Kaneka’s global contributions, such as to the United ● The local governments with which we have engaged in dialogue elsewhere are Nations program, as well as its domestic community contributions. All communialso very distinctive. One such example is Kamisu City in Ibaraki Prefecture, which ties have distinctive characteristics and unique underlying problems and histories. hosts our Kashima Plant as part of a large industrial complex. We would like to We hope that corporations can fully understand this, and welcome the technologiexchange views extensively with Otsu City, too, to develop community contribution cal and manpower support of Kaneka. initiatives. ○ Kaneka claims that it fulfills its corporate social responsibilities by contributing to ● Although a B2B enterprise, we have an increasing range of consumer products. society through its core businesses. I understand that such a concept also applies Examples include reduced form coenzyme Q10 and photovoltaic modules. To be to governments. As the company operates in Otsu City, I think it would be great for open to consumers, we run television commercials and operate more open plants. Kaneka to participate strategically in CSR activities in the city, including concurWe will continue such efforts, including initiatives at each plant, as it would be rently incorporating its publicity activities. difficult to convey everything only through advertising. The consumer recognition In that regard, I’d like to know: rate for Kaneka has risen to more than 80%. We will also look into launching some 1. How do you assess the social contributions of core businesses? new initiatives as well. 2. More about Kaneka’s initiatives for diversity ● We issue a booklet called DIVERSITY, but only around 1% of our managers are (especially for women’s participation). women. We recognize that we need to deal with the diversity issue, not just regarding women but also foreign nationals and people with disabilities. ● The Shiga Plant has just over 10 female employees. Although we have not hired as many full-time female employees as we would have liked, we do have 25 temporary staff and 50 contract workers who are female. Because this is an electronicsrelated plant, inspection processes are very important, and we have many female employees active in this area of business. 63 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Highlight Stakeholder Dialogues Topic 2 Disclosure and environmental initiatives to enhance community trust Opinions of Otsu Municipal Government Officials Kaneka’s Responses ○ The Environment Department deals with corporations in areas such as air ● We explained the anticipated roles and responsibilities of corporations that the pollution, water management, and vibration. For the three priority corporate general public deems important. There is also a lot of overlap in topics beyond responsibility areas that have been described-the focus on core businesses, the three priority CSR areas. We aim to continue undertaking CSR initiatives to contingency planning, and ethical compliance-Kaneka is doing a great job. As build community trust and more broadly enhance corporate trust. illustrated by the company signing a firefighting operations agreement with Otsu City in December last year, and through environmental education and other activities, Kaneka is a top runner in practicing community-focused CSR. ○ We are grateful for Kaneka’s participation in an annual mass cleanup of Lake ● While financial support is important, the Shiga Plant also likes to consider huBiwa. Related to this event, about 700 citizens participated in cutting reeds at man resources and other support. Lake Biwa to prepare the lake for its tourist season in 2014. We would like some funds to purchase reed-cutting sickles and other tools for this effort. ○ We are much obliged to Kaneka for education board-related initiatives such ● In 2014, we donated security cameras to a junior high school and helped rebuild as installing security cameras at the junior high school. We would appreciate a mound for a kindergarten. We have expertise in visiting schools to conduct Kaneka people visiting to teach students chemistry lessons, as children today classes, but it is hard for us to independently gather information on demand do not seem interested in the subject. levels. We would like to assist in any way we can, with the local government coordinating in supplying information. Our response to stakeholder Group acceptable or inadequate, and enhance enterprise value and fulfill our opinions and requests highlighted the areas requiring improvecorporate responsibilities. We will disment. cuss the valuable points and opinions Our fifth stakeholder dialogue revealed We believe that pursuing CSR we received with related departments to the extent to which stakeholders conthrough core businesses and enhancing bolster sustainable CSR activities. sider the CSR activities of the Kaneka stakeholder satisfaction will help us to Outline of Past Stakeholder Dialogues The stakeholder dialogue marked the complePurpose tion of all dialogues with representatives of the Solicit external stakeholder opinions, requests and other interests regarding the Kaneka local governments where Kaneka’s four parent Group’s CSR activities by engaging in direct dialogue and verifying social demands with plants are located. regard to the direction of Kaneka’s initiatives. We would like to engage in dialogue with various other bodies, including non-government Date of Dialogues and Participants and non-profit organizations. To mark the Six director-class officials from Takasago City, Hyogo Prefecture on November 11, 2011 completion of the process of dialogue with local Seven deputy-director-class officials from Settsu City, Osaka Prefecture on November 29, governments, we have summarized these initia2011 tives below. Seven researchers from Kobe University on November 27, 2012 Seven director-class officials from Kamisu City, Ibaraki Prefecture on February 19, 2014 Topics The Kaneka Group’s corporate approach Enhancing community trust Third dialogue: Professor Toshihiro Kanai and CSR report feature articles researchers from Kobe University Overall composition and contents of report 64 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Process Safety and Disaster Prevention Initiatives Our plant operates based on close ties with communities. Kaneka builds community trust through safety measures and a solid commitment to security. Targeting Zero Process Accidents ■ Basic Safety Policies ◇ Safety forms our management foundation, and is the basis of all corporate activities. The Kaneka Group has positioned safety ◇ Safety is the foundation of local and worldwide communities’ confidence in Kaneka. as a top management priority and under◇ Safety is based on our belief that “All accidents can be prevented.” takes initiatives to pursue zero process accidents. In fiscal 2014, there were 16 ◇ Safety is the responsibility of every employee in accordance with his/her duties. process accidents. For each incident, we ◇ Safety must be maintained continuously. analyzed the causes and implemented measures to prevent recurrences, sharing this information within the Group. We have referred to explosions at other companies and inspected our plants to identify and eliminate similar risks. We will continue such activities to eliminate process accidents. Disaster Prevention Drills ■ Comprehensive Disaster Drills Approximate Number Plant Date Program Details of Participants In fiscal 2014, we held comprehensive Takasago December 11, 1,782 The plant held a joint firefighting drill with Takasago Fire Headquarters disaster drills at all parent plants, as Plant 2014 based on a scenario of oil leaking from an oil tank outlet following an earthquake, resulting in a fire. shown in the table on the right. Group companies also regularly conduct drills, Osaka March 16, 947 The plant held a joint firefighting drill with the Settsu Fire Department based Plant 2015 on a scenario in which a waste oil drum fell over following an earthquake including evacuation, reporting, and fire and liquid caught fire. extinguisher drills. For example, Tochigi Shiga November 19, 94 The plant held a firefighting drill based on a scenario in which a fire broke Kaneka Corporation conducts emerPlant 2014 out at a packaging materials storage site owing to an earthquake. gency drills that include using a fire truck Kashima November 14, 218 The plant held a joint firefighting drill with a team from Kashima Oil Co., of the in-house firefighting team. Plant 2014 Ltd. based on a scenario in which a fire resulted from a leak from the pipe flange of a hazardous storage tank outlet after an earthquake. Drills are part of regular safety activities (scenes at Tochigi Kaneka) 65 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Process Safety and Disaster Prevention Initiatives Plant Safety Initiatives Introducing a Safety Assessment System As a part of efforts to prevent fires and explosions, we are striving to reduce In fiscal 2014, the Kashima Plant implerisks by inspecting each worksite, priorimented a safety culture evaluation to tizing areas at risk for static electricity identify strengths and weaknesses discharges, and protecting against hazbased on the Safety Assessment Sysards caused by reactions by conducting tem prepared by the Safety Enhancequantitative assessments of chemical ment Center of the Japan Society for substance reactivity. We will maintain Safety Engineering. We assess progplant safety by enhancing our safety ress with ongoing improvements by techniques. regularly accepting third-party assessments. There were 16 process accidents in fiscal 2014, compared with 15 a year earlier. We concluded that our activities to detect risks and reduce accident numbers were still inadequate, and decided to enhance safety techniques and reinforce risk assessments when acquiring or replacing equipment, focusing on reducing fire and explosion risks and equipment issues. Fire at the Osaka Plant Research Facility Incident Outline Cause of Accident Safety Measures to Prevent At approximately 7:30 p.m. on August 26, During the shutdown of an extruder, foam a Recurrence 2014, foam spouted out from an extruder gradually thinned out and combined with We collaborated with external experts to at the research facility and caught fire. flammable gas, ballooning inside the jointly investigate the causes and assess Kaneka employees immediately extinextruder. We believe that static electricity countermeasures. To prevent fires occurguished the fire using carbon dioxide fire ignited the gas. ring inside the extruder, we stepped up extinguishers. There was no human or efforts to diffuse flammable gases and material damage. After quelling the fire, prevent static charges. we reported the incident to the public fire To avoid a recurrence, we impledepartment. mented risk assessments to avoid fires We are deeply sorry for this incident and explosions, experimenting with and the concern that we caused to local flammable gas, especially at the research residents and other stakeholders. department. Nitrogen Leak from a Cold Evaporator at the Osaka Plant Incident Outline Cause of Accident Safety Measures to Prevent At approximately 3:30 p.m. on September An investigation report prepared by the a Recurrence 12, 2014, Kaneka employees inspected a owner of the equipment and the evaporanitrogen cold evaporator and discovered tor maker found that ice from the evapoAs a temporary measure, we constantly leaks from two places on a welded secrator distorted the fin, causing metallic spray water on the evaporator to prevent tion of piping under the evaporator. They fatigue on weaker welded parts exposed a buildup. Over the longer term, we plan thereafter shut down the evaporator and to heat. This resulted in cracks after 30 to replace the leaking evaporator as repaired the leaking parts by re-welding. years of thermal contractions since instalfatigue has undeniably accumulated over The leaks were minimal and nobody was lation. three decades. At that point we will install hurt. two evaporators side-by-side and switch We apologize deeply for this incifrom using machine constantly by using dent and the concern we caused to stakethe evaporators alternatively. holders, especially residents. We will prevent recurrence of this problem by rolling out similar changes for other cold evaporators in other departments. 66 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Initiatives to Fulfill the Group’s Social Responsibilities The Kaneka Group engages in highly transparent corporate activities to deepen stakeholder understanding of its operations as a good corporate citizen and build strong ties with society. Awards ① Awards Kaneka • Received the 61st Society of Polymer Science of Japan’s Award (2014) for developing polyimide insulation coating adhesive tape with combined resistance against ultralow-temperatures and radiation. Kaneka and Kaneka High-Tech Materials, Inc. (then Kaneka North America LLC) developed this product after receiving an order for the tape from the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) in 2000. • Received the 47th Ichimura Prize (2014) in Industry for Excellent Achievement from Self-defense firefighting team award (Shiga the New Technology Development Foundation for the development of two-layer flexPlant) ible copper clad laminate. ② • The Japan Chemical Industry Association awarded Kaneka the 8th Responsible Care Award for Effort for the “Establishment of a Framework to Decrease Production Losses by Utilizing Integration Power through the Introduction of Material Flow Cost Accounting.” • The Hiroshima City Council of Social Welfare presented a letter of appreciation to Kaneka for support following a landslide in Hiroshima. Governor’s award and an excellent hazardous Shiga Plant • Received an award from Shiga Prefecture for being an excellent self-defense firematerial handler award at a Hyogo Prefecture fighting team at a firefighting event. ① hazardous materials safety and security event (Kaneka Solartech Corporation) Kaneka Foods Manufacturing • Received an excellent facility award from a public health center in Kobe. ③ Corporation Tokyo Kaneka Foods • Recognized by the Tokorozawa Labour Standards Association for 1,430,000 hours Manufacturing Corporation of accident-free operations. Tochigi Kaneka Corporation • Received an award for being an excellent company from an employment association in Mooka. • Given an award by Mooka for promoting gender equality by promoting the participaRecognized for efforts to cut carbon dioxide tion of women in the workplace. emissions in Europe (Eurogentec S.A.) Kaneka Solartech Corpora• Received a governor’s award and recognized as an excellent hazardous material ④ tion handler at a safety and security event for hazardous materials held by Hyogo Prefecture. ② Eurogentec S.A. • Recognized for its plan as part of efforts to cut carbon dioxide emissions in Europe in an activity called Mobi Seraing, sponsored by Seraing City. ③ Kaneka North America LLC • Awarded for ongoing support for the Armand Bayou Nature Center and a wildlife sanctuary. ④ Awarded for ongoing support of a wildlife sanc• Participated in the Bay Area Heart Walk to raise funds for the American Heart Astuary (Kaneka North America LLC) sociation, winning first and third places for the team category, third place in the corporation category, and third place in the individual category. Fostering Youth ⑤ Fostering Youth All parent plants and • We conducted regular plant and facility visits, on-site learning, after-school classes, domestic and overseas lectures, and other events for neighboring students, local community associations, Kaneka Group companies and other groups. We accepted student interns and held summer camps. We also participated in programs to provide work experience opportunities to junior high Conducted plant visits for neighboring students school students. ⑤ (Kaneka Belgium N.V.) 67 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Initiatives to Fulfill the Group’s Social Responsibilities ⑥ Fostering Youth Takasago Plant, Shiga Plant, • We demonstrated rubber eraser making at the Children’s Chemistry Show in Osaka, and Kaneka Takasago Sersponsored by the Dream Chemistry 21 Committee. Around 330 people visited the vice Center Co., Ltd. Kaneka booth over the two days. • We invited 60 third grade students from a neighboring elementary school for a plant Environment class (Hokkaido Kanelite Co., Ltd.) visit and cake making. ⑦ • We held a series of events in May, ranging from planting potatoes to harvesting, for children from a neighborhood kindergarten and from elementary and schools for students with disabilities. Takasago Plant and Osaka • We held a visiting class with NPO Core-Net to teach elementary school children how Plant to make things. Shiga Plant • Participated three times in fiscal 2014 in the Walnut School, which highlights the Children during a workplace visit importance of the Konooka Biotope to children, as a member of the school manage(Tamai Kasei Co., Ltd.) ment committee. ⑧ Taiyo Yushi Corporation • Held outside classes for neighborhood elementary schools on making soap, part of the social studies curriculum for students in the third grade. Also held soap making classes for the Japanese Consumers’ Co-operative Union and other organizations. Hokkaido Kanelite Co., Ltd. • Held an environmental class for fourth grade students of a local elementary school on the topic of global warming (fiscal 2014 was the sixth time the company has held such a class). ⑥ Junior high school students during work experience (Nagashima Shokuhin Co., Ltd.) Kaneka Hokkaido Styrol Co., • For vocational training, accepted students from neighborhood schools, including a Ltd., Tamai Kasei Co., Ltd., school for students with disabilities. Showed students around the facilities, involved Shinka Shokuhin Co., Ltd., them in packing and lining boxes, and explained recycled products. and Nagashima Shokuhin ⑦ ⑧ Co., Ltd. Kaneka Techno Research • Conducted tours, round-table talks, and activities to share specialized analytical Corporation techniques for educational training for high school teachers in Hyogo Prefecture. Kaneka North America LLC • Participated in a volunteer effort to help wrap Christmas presents for needy children at La Porte Community Center. Sent volunteers to science and history fairs. Regional Contributions Kaneka • Special sponsorship of the 2014 Hokkaido Marathon. All parent plants, Kaneka • Held summer festivals and other events for neighborhood residents, employees, Tohoku Styrol Co., Ltd., and employees of partner companies. Also donated money, foam styrol materials, Kaneka Hokkaido Styrol Co., soaps, and other items. Ltd., Taiyo Yushi Corporation, Tokyo Kaneka Foods Manufacturing Corporation, Tatsuta Chemical Co., Ltd., Kaneka Takasago Service Center Co., Ltd., Kaneka Hoken Center Co., Ltd., Kanto Styrene Co., Ltd., Shiga Denshi Co., Ltd., and Tochigi Kaneka Corporation 68 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Initiatives to Fulfill the Group’s Social Responsibilities Regional Contributions ⑨ Regional Contributions Takasago Plant, Kaneka • Cooperated and participated in the Hokkaido Marathon as a special sponsor and in Foods Manufacturing sports events sponsored by neighborhood companies, factory complex associaCorporation, Kaneka Sun tions, and other entities (including marathon relay races, softball games, baseball Spice Corporation, Hokkaido games, bowling, cycling, jogging, futsal, and table tennis, etc.), as well as an enviKanelite Co., Ltd., Kaneka ronmental fair. Also raised funds as part of various activities. Takasago Service Center ⑨ ⑩ Local softball game for teams whose members’ ages total 300 years Co., Ltd., Kaneka Osaka (Kaneka Hokkaido Styrol Co., Ltd.) Service Center Co., Ltd., ⑩ Sanwa Kaseikyogyo Co., Ltd. (now Kaneka Foam Plastics Co., Ltd.), Eurogentec S.A., Kaneka (Foshan) High Performance Materials Co., Ltd., Tochigi Kaneka Corporation, Tatsuta Chemical Co., Ltd., Booth at the health festival Kaneka Hokkaido Styrol Co., (Kaneka Solartech Corporation) Ltd., and Kaneka Solartech ⑪ Corporation Kaneka Medix Corporation • Participated in safety activities, including regional disaster drills, regional promotional events for health and safety week, and an occupational health and safety event in Kanagawa Prefecture. ⑪ Kaneka North America LLC • Participated in monthly meetings of a social contribution activity group called the Bay Cap Meeting to engage effectively with the community. Regular discussion topParticipating in a local disaster drill ics are environmental protection and process and plant safety. (Kaneka Medix Corporation) • Participated in various local community events, including the Pasadena strawberry festival and the Pasadena rodeo. Donated proceeds from these events for college scholarship grants. • Involved in the Dollar Patrol, an educational fund in La Porte. Made grants to local teachers in a special project. Kaneka Belgium N.V. • Supported Belgium staff participating in the 23rd World Scout Jamboree. Kaneka (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. • Provided support for flood damage in Bera. Osaka, Shiga, and Kashima • Participated in the Fukushima Sunflower Foster Parent Project to support FukushiPlants ma’s reconstruction efforts (decontamination and providing employment opportunities). Kaneka Takasago Service • Opened a store selling Kaneka-related products and engaged with the community. Center Co., Ltd. Environmental Initiatives Takasago, Osaka, and Shiga • Takasago Plant employees and their families trimmed trees and cut underbrush in Plants the Kaneka Forestry for the Future initiative as part of biodiversity efforts. Osaka Plant employees and their families took part in similar activities for the Settsu-nomori Kaneka Biotope. Shiga Plant employees and their families did the same for Shiga Prefecture’s project to preserve the Konooka Biotope. All parent plants • In collaboration with local governments and chambers of commerce and by themselves, cleaned up roads around the premises of plants, industrial complexes, and areas around company dorms. 69 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Initiatives to Fulfill the Group’s Social Responsibilities Environmental Initiatives ⑫ Environmental Initiatives Kaneka Foods Manufactur• Regularly picked up waste around industrial complexes and in the vicinity of sites, ing Corporation, Kaneka Sun collected empty cans, mowed grass, and performed other cleanup, greenery, and Spice Corporation, Kaneka recycling activities. Engaged in volunteer initiatives, including collective group cleanTohoku Styrol Co., Ltd., ups of neighborhood roads and rivers. ⑫ Kaneka Hokkaido Styrol Co., Ltd., Tamai Kasei Co., Cleaning up around the plant (Kaneka Sun Spice Corporation) Ltd., Taiyo Yushi Corporation, Tokyo Kaneka Foods ⑬ Manufacturing Corporation, Hokkaido Kanelite Co., Ltd., Kaneka Takasago Service Center Co., Ltd., Kaneka Medix Corporation, Sanwa Kaseikyogyo Co., Ltd. (now Kaneka Foam Plastics Co., Volunteering to clean a public facility after a Ltd.), Shiga Denshi Co., flood (Kaneka (Malaysia) Sdn.Bhd.) Ltd., Shinka Shokuhin Co., Ltd., Nagashima Shokuhin Co., Ltd., Eurogentec S.A., Kaneka Belgium N.V., Kaneka North America LLC, and Kaneka (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. AnaSpec, Inc./Eurogentec • Seraing was chosen as an experimental city as part of efforts to cut carbon dioxide S.A. emissions in Europe, and Eurogentec is taking part in initiatives. Kaneka Belgium N.V. • Built a cogeneration system to supply energy using waste heat as part of environmental preservation initiatives. Kaneka (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. • Jointly conducted post-flood clean-up activities with a construction firm at public facilities, including a school and mosque and residential areas. ⑬ International Contributions ⑭ International Contributions Takasago Plant, Osaka Plant, • Continuing to take part in Table for Two, donating ¥20 for designated menu items at Shiga Plant, and Tokyo Head cafeterias at four business sites to provide school lunches in Africa. ⑭ Office Kaneka North America LLC • Provided a $1,000 scholarship to the La Porte High School Alumni Association (fiscal 2014 represented the 20th such time). Others Osaka Plant, Shiga Plant, and • The labor unions and other groups held a year-end fundraiser and organized parties Kaneka Takasago Service (including a magic show) for social welfare facilities, including those for people with Center Co., Ltd. disabilities. Kashima Plant • Provided facility tours on demand for the public of the megasolar system installed in Table for Two framework the west of the facility and the visitors’ center. 70 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities Initiatives to Fulfill the Group’s Social Responsibilities Others ⑮ Others Takasago Plant and Kaneka • Cooperated with the Japan International Cooperation Agency in a project in Serbia to Techno Research Corporareinforce the country’s systems to analyze, eliminate, and reduce persistent organic tion pollutants, demonstrating the technologies to visiting Serbian delegates. Kaneka Medix Corporation • Participated in a plastic bottle cap collection campaign to deliver vaccines to children around the world. Local TV program highlighting business activities (Kochi Styrol Co., Ltd.) Kochi Styrol Co., Ltd. • A local TV station aired an information program about the company’s business activities. ⑮ ⑯ Sanwa Kaseikyogyo Co., Ltd. • Participated four times annually in the prefecture’s traffic safety events and donated (now Kaneka Foam Plastics blood from employee volunteers. Co., Ltd.), Eurogentec S.A., and Kaneka North America LLC We established Kaneka Foundation to plan and Tochigi Kaneka Corporation • Donated funds raised in-house for the Great East Japan Earthquake to Mooka City, implement social contribution initiatives also added donations from the company. (Kaneka North America LLC) Kaneka Belgium N.V. • Supported engineering students at a local university in the creation of a racing car with the company’s products (MS Polymar and Eperan). Kaneka North America LLC • Participated in the Bay Area Heart Walk event to collect nearly $30,000 for the American Heart Association. • Participated in a charity event to buy poinsettias, donating $1,000. • Established Kaneka Foundation to plan and implement social contribution initiatives as a milestone for the growing global CSR commitments of the Kaneka Group. ⑯ Kaneka’s Ongoing Support for WFP’s School Feeding Program Kaneka is a corporate partner of the United Nations World Food Donating to the United Nations WFP as Emergency SupProgramme (WFP) for three years from 2013 through 2015. We port to Combat Ebola Hemorrhagic Fever donate part of our African sales of Kanekalon, a synthetic fiber product, to the WFP’s school feeding program. In 2014, we The United Nations WFP responded to the UN Mission for Ebola helped provide 248,447 elementary school meals to 117,290 boys Emergency Response, established in 2014 in response to an and 131,157 girls. We took part in an initiative to supply 25 kilooutbreak of Ebola hemorrhagic fever. The mission provides food grams of rice and five liters of vegetable oil every three months to support to people living in Western African nations stricken by the girls whose families lack food. We provided supplies to 1,450 girls outbreak. Kaneka donated 600,000 yen to this cause. in grades four to six in areas where dropout rates at elementary schools are especially high. Fundraising for the UN WFP at Kaneka’s 65th Anniversary Events We raised funds for the United Nations WFP at our 65th anniversary events in the Kansai and Kanto areas in November and December 2014. A special guest in a talk segment at the events was Kurara Chibana, a Kaneka character who is also an ambassador for the UN WFP in Japan. Kurara Chibana spoke about progress with aid status to developing countries. Many employees and their families donated at both events, © WFP © WFP raising a total of 169,295 yen. 71 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Caring for Our Employees Caring for Our Employees Both employees and their families are stakeholders. Employees are our greatest resource, enabling us to grow. We serve them by providing workplaces that treat them fairly, 461 offer attractive compensation and career development opportunities, and are safe. (The number of attendees at a briefing on revising our systems to support women in the workplace) We aim to revise our systems as part of efforts to create a corporate culture that embraces diversity. In fiscal 2014, we conducted 33 briefings for 461 attendees on such revisions to support women in the workplace. ■ Fiscal 2014 Targets, Results and Results Evaluations Results Item Fiscal 2014 Targets Fiscal 2014 Results Evaluations Employing, •Create a corporate culture that expands work opportunities for female •Positioned the participation of women as a first step toward diverTraining, and employees, supports the activities of foreign and bilingual employees, sity, launching support programs in the areas of promoting equal Recruiting and otherwise embraces diversity. opportunities, work-life support, and corporate culture reforms. Prior Diverse People to reviewing the systems, we held 33 orientations for a total of 461 employees. Work-life •Step up management of working hours while looking into deploying •As well as initiating a system for working from home, provided dayEmphasis on Diversity Balance the necessary work-life support programs. care cost subsidies and started a temporary leave system for spouses who are transferred overseas, and continued discussions between labor and management to reduce the total number of actual working hours. Labor and •Continue to support the cultivation of union leaders to help maintain •Continued discussions to realize joint goals for labor and manageManagement positive labor and management relationships. ment through central labor and management meetings, management Relationships conferences, meetings of representatives, and workplace labor and management gatherings and other groups. Respect for •Continue to educate new employees and executives about human •Educated 98 new employees in April 2014 and 38 newly promoted Human Rights rights and conduct inter-cultural communication and other training executives about human rights. Held eight inter-cultural communicathrough the KG System (see note 1). tion classes during the year. Occupational •Explore measures to prevent recurrences by leveraging risk assess•The Takasago Plant implemented risk assessments for targeted acSafety ments from different perspectives. cidents tracked through fault tree analysis (FTA, see note 2). •Draw on case studies to ensure that accidents are not forgotten and • E-mailed a Disaster Calendar to employees to highlight previous acenhance safety awareness. cidents at Kaneka. Reinforcing Occupational Safety and Health •Use mobile hands-on learning equipment to improve danger sensitivi• Implemented risk awareness training at 22 sites of 11 domestic Group ties at domestic Group companies. companies with mobile hands-on learning equipment. • The number of occupational accidents soared from the previous fiscal year to 22. Occupational •Improve work environments by undertaking measures to reduce •Reviewed solvent handling operations and improved work environHealth solvent exposure. ments by enhancing ventilation. •Draw on swift identification and treatment and the use of mental •Implemented mental health training for new executives, plant managhealth information to reduce the number of people with new or ongoers, and people in charge of mental healthcare. ing mental health issues and identify issues at Group companies. Management •Revise CSR Safety & Quality Inspection to strengthen PDCA func•Continuing from fiscal 2013, switched to quantitative assessments to Systems tions. reinforce checks. •Test-deploy specialized internal environmental safety audits. •Test-deployed specialized internal environmental safety audits at departments at four parent plants. Note 1: Kaneka Global Employee Registration System. Note 2: Fault tree analysis is a technique for analyzing product breakdowns and resulting accidents. 72 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Caring for Our Employees Highlight Developing Future Leaders Overseas as Part of Group Reforms We are pushing ahead with efforts to cultivate global human resources to drive the Declaration of Kaneka United, which we deployed in 2009. Training prospective leaders among mulate globalization activity themes that they deploy on returnKaneka Overseas Group company employees ing to their countries. In Phase 2 of the program, which is six months later and held in Belgium, candidates make a presentation of progress and results for the activity themes in leveraging In fiscal 2013, we instituted the Multinational Leader Developnetworks of Group companies and fellow candidates. ment Program for overseas Group company employees who Feedback from participants has been positive. The expericould eventually drive our regional business strategies. ence of one was that the program underscored the links within Management candidates from Europe, the United States, the Group and the breadth of operations. Another came away Southeast Asia, China, and other areas participate in the prokeen to transform Kaneka from outside Japan, while another gram. The four-day Phase 1 of this initiative is held in Texas and noted that the interaction with other candidates stimulated new covers business case studies on global enterprises. Particiideas. pants then consider and discuss the significance of these exThere were 12 participants in the fiscal 2013 program and amples for the Kaneka Group. While candidates are specialists 11 a year later. The projected number of candidates for the fisin fields such as marketing, manufacturing, and logistics in their cal 2015 program, including those from Japan, is 14. home countries, the program enables them to broaden their Another training offering is the Leadership Challenge perspectives to encompass different industries and techniques Workshop, which Kaneka runs for managers to share leaderin other nations. On the final day of Phase 1, candidates forship thinking throughout the Group. ■ Global Employee Development System (Fiscal 2014) Number of Program Content Employees Development Training Global Employee Development Program Mastering practical foreign-language communication skills 1,942 Multinational Leader DevelopOverseas learning Overseas Trainee System One-year work experience at a Kaneka overseas affiliate 10 ment Program session Short-Term Overseas Trainee System Pursuing personal objectives at a Kaneka overseas affiliate (around three 5 months) Program for Acquiring Language Skills Overseas experience through activities such as short-term study at a 10 Abroad language school and homestay program Language Courses English and Chinese Language studies essential for business management 92 Personnel Exchanges Global Employee Exchange Program Accepting trainees from overseas Group companies at Kaneka (Japan) 1 Overseas Training Multinational Leader Development Case study on leading global corporations and applying action learning 11 Program On the final day, candidates present progress in their activThe Leadership Challenge Workshop Acquiring and applying leadership skills 103 ity themes and are critiqued Employee Feedback Vital to harness training as a stepping stone toward developing leaders for overseas Group companies Yoshiaki Takemasa, a global human retunities for tomorrow’s executives to be active worldwide as part of sources manager in the Global Planning Kaneka after embracing the great value of collaboration through the Department (on the left in the photo), Group.” says that, “Kaneka must urgently groom Keisuke Araki, who works in global human resources for the Japanese nationals for international Global Planning Department (on the right in the photo), says that, leadership roles. It is similarly important “We’ve begun sending a manager from Belgium to Japan and are to foster the growth of foreign Group company managers with a also sharing best practices from Europe and the United States with broad knowledge of its operations.” Japanese and other operations. Our program is gradually beginning Mr. Takemasa adds that, “Our challenge is to provide opporto bear fruit.” 73 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Caring for Our Employees Highlight Cultivating a Corporate Culture of Individual Responsibility for Safety Nurturing a corporate culture in which accidents are one’s own responsibility and not someone else’s issue is vital to attaining zero occupational accidents. Kaneka cultivates awareness among all Group companies by broadening opportunities for safe danger simulations. Providing mobile hands-on learning to each Group company We plan to provide hands-on learning throughout Japan during fiscal 2015. We look to extend such initiatives to overseas group companies. The Takasago Plant was Kaneka’s first operation to provide hands-on learning (see note 1). Such initiatives thereafter expanded to the Osaka, Shiga, and Kashima plants and Group company Tochigi Kaneka. Although Group company members are permitted to participate in these classes at each of the business sites, many of them found it difficult to do so because of location or time issues. Therefore, the Production Technology Division produced mobile hands-on learning equipment and began taking it around business sites for classes from December 2013. The three-hour course comprises one hour on what happens when people are caught in machinery, one hour of hands-on learning, and an hour on taking precautions to prevent falls. Group Through hands-on learning, class participants learned about situations in company presidents, plant managers, and full-time and conwhich accidents are likely to occur tract employees take part in mobile hands-on learning. As of the end of March 2015, we had conducted 28 courses for 867 employees at 13 Group companies. Feedback from hands-on learning course participants at Kanto Styrene Co., Ltd. Yoshihiro Morijiri (left) says that, “I had gotten used to operating machinery without turning it off for many years. The course demonstrated the horrible consequences of acting habitually.” Hitomi Otake (right) says that, “I’d been going through the motions with nearmisses, and the course drove home the Participants stand on one leg for several seconds to check their balance and importance of continuing to keep all of confirm their own physical capabilities so they can prevent themselves from us aware of what can happen.” falling Employee Feedback You can always catch up if you miss a production target but a life lost can never be recovered Kouji Oonaka rather than realize them once an accident has occurred. Environmental Protection & Safety Group, Safety is about preventing injury and illness and avoiding Responsible Care Department, Production Technology Division workplace accidents. What’s important in these mobile hands-on learning classes, If you miss a production volume target, you can catch which we began in 2013, is that you should repeat the learning. I think up if everyone pitches in. But if someone is injured or dies as a it's important for supervisors and colleagues to keep disseminating result of being caught in machinery or through some other mishap, safety messages to ensure that all of our people maintain the right you cannot undo the damage or loss of life. In hands-on learning, safety mindset. My fundamental message to new employees joining we emphasize that we want people to notice the dangers in advance the group every year is that carelessness is the enemy of safety. Note 1: Feel free to read Kaneka’s CSR Report 2014, which presents hands-on learning on the Highlight page of the Caring for Our Employees section. 74 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Caring for Our Employees Cultivating Human Resources and Creating Comfortable Work Environments Kaneka respects human rights, diversity, and individuality. We comply with laws and regulations and eschew discrimination against any employee. In fiscal 2014, we deployed a new policy to promote opportunities for women as part of our human resources diversity initiatives. Basic Concepts for People and the ■ Deploying the Kaneka Spirit as Part of Management Initiatives Organization to Drive Innovation and Growth Management philosophy We established basic concepts for our people and organization in keeping with our corporate philosophy and the Management vision components of our long-term vision. Deploying the Kaneka Spirit as Part of This concept reflects repeated discussions between labor and management. Management Initiatives to Drive Innovation and Growth Through our personnel system, we will ■ The four elements foster the Kaneka Spirit and cultivate Kaneka Spirit of the Kaneka Spirit = Basic concepts for people and the organization challenge takers, people with strong organizational skills, diversity, and inquirMeeting Meeting Embrace ing minds. new new challenges new challenges challenges Our People and Organizational ApBuild a robust Strong proaches organizational organization that integrates the strengths Strong Personal Inquiring skills of individuals organizational We aim to cultivate people who can work skills growth minds Create workplaces that can attract, cultivate, globally by swiftly bolstering our educaDiversity and properly deploy tion and training programs, stepping diverse human resources up training rotations, and undertaking strategic hiring activities. Diversity Inquiring Cherish a free In fiscal 2014, we conducted future minds and open culture leader training for domestic general managers and Group company presidents, as well as overseas future leader training Personnel system for prospective executives of overseas Group companies. In Japan and abroad, we also expanded the leadership chaldevelopment. We also offer programs lenge workshop program that we started to support self-advancement. We are in fiscal 2013. continuing the Global Employee Development Program to quickly cultivate inCareer and Life Development Support ternationally minded people and bolster overall language skills. In 2014, we reviewed our profesTo cultivate human resources in keeping sion-specific program to strengthen with the Kaneka Spirit, we provide extenawareness and foster career developsive off-time training programs. These ment and augmented our self-advanceinclude programs that are professionment support programs with applied specific or those that support career training courses. 75 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Caring for Our Employees Cultivating Human Resources and Creating Comfortable Work Environments Promoting Opportunities for Women ■ Employee Briefings and Other Events Senior Reemployment to Promote Opportunities for Women Number Number of In fiscal 2013, we established a workof times attendees In response to the Revised Law Coning group within the Human Resources Briefings for organizational 21 297 cerning Stabilization of Employment of Department that embarked on efforts to administrators and evaluators Older Persons, which came into efpromote opportunities for women. One Regional executive briefings 12 164 fect in April 2013, we are reviewing the Seminars for managers with female 6 176 issue is the lag in deploying women subordinates system for senior contract employees, more actively in the workplace. Both and offer employment to existing and management and labor representa■ interested employees up to the age of Percentage of Managers tives agreed to support the interests of 65. We intend to provide new training who are Female female employees by fostering equal through the Career Design 50 and 55 （%） opportunities, work-life balance, and 1.2 1.2 programs, which will offer opportunities a corporate culture that embraces 1.0 1.0 1.0 for senior employees to swiftly and sysreforms to create a company in which 0.8 0.6 0.8 tematically develop the skills they need highly motivated female employees can to find value in their work and maintain 0.6 thrive. their high productivity. 0.4 Specifically, we look to abolish 0.2 the managerial career track and re0.0 gional executive categories to help all 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) employees develop and promote their Ratio of female managers to all managers. talents, while deploying programs for working from home, taking leave while their spouses are transferred abroad, or for subsidizing child-raising. We plan Employing and Encouraging Foreign ■ Number of Foreign Employees to fully launch these initiatives in fiscal Employees (New graduates) 2015. Fiscal Year Technology Administration Number During fiscal 2014, we conducted Employed Hired briefings for organizational adminisWe actively employ foreign nationals. 2011 1 2 3 trators and regional executives at all Consultation desks for these people at 2012 3 6 9 domestic business sites to build emeach business site help them to adapt 2013 1 2 3 ployee acceptance of our commitment as swiftly as possible. Our ongoing 2014 4 2 6 to promoting opportunities for women. support extends to offering Japanese 2015 2 2 4 At the same time, we held seminars language courses to reinforce commuin which external lecturers addressed nication skills. managers with female subordinates about ways to transform the corporate Employing People with Disabilities ■ Percentage of Employees culture. We plan to have female employwith Disabilities ees undertake external training as part Fiscal Kaneka’s Rate of Hiring of efforts to create leadership developKaneka’s rate of hiring people with disYears People with Disabilities Legally Required Rate ment opportunities for them. abilities in fiscal 2014 was 1.83%, which 2010 1.73% 1.80% was below the legal requirement of 2011 1.67% 1.80% 2.0%. In fiscal 2015, we plan to actively 2012 1.86% 1.80% employee such people and expand their 2013 1.90% 2.00% 2014 1.83% 2.00% occupational categories while stepping up efforts to enhance their work environments, as well as supporting hiring of these individuals at Group compaAttendees at a seminar for managers with female subordinates nies. 76 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Caring for Our Employees Cultivating Human Resources and Creating Comfortable Work Environments Flexible Working Systems ■ Discretionary Work System Users 392 400 379 380 370 We introduced flextime, discretionary work, and variable working hour pro346 (Number of users) 350 grams to provide flexible and self-driven systems for employees. On top of that, in fiscal 2014 we 300 introduced a work-at-home program as part of efforts to provide more opportunities for women. We plan to expand on 250 our flexible working programs. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) Childcare and Family Care Leave Programs to Help Employees Balance Their Professional and Private Lives ■ Number of Childcare Program Users Fiscal 2014 Females Males Kaneka received the Kurumin mark, Shorter working hours system 43 2 which is awarded to companies that Childcare leave 38 1 provide childcare support to employees, in fiscal 2009. We have formulated The Kurumin Mark is Action Plans based on the Act on Adawarded to companies vancement of Measures to Support recognized for supporting employees with childRaising Next-Generation Children as raising part of ongoing efforts to attain our goals. In fiscal 2014, we inaugurated the Child-Raising Subsidy program to help employees balance their work and We plan to fully deploy these benefits in family care commitments. We also ex2015. tended eligibility for programs in which We also established a program employees can enjoy shorter working that exceeds legal requirements in prohours, flextime, or stagger their comviding ongoing support for employees muting times to look after children up needing to balance their work and nursto the first year of junior high school. ing care commitments. Employee Feedback A Noteworthy Success for Female Employees Receiving the President’s Award for Workplace Reforms that Draw on Female Perspectives explore improvement measures as part of efforts to change work approaches. Ideas from the task force have been incorporated Procurement Department comprehensively in various tools and in the internal procurement recipients of the President’s Award infrastructure. The efforts of this group in dramatically improving procurement procedures as a result of five years of effort led to the task force receiving the President’s Award. Since 2008, the Procurement Department has maintained a womThe task force will deepen collaboration with domestic and en’s task force in which female procurement employees brainstorm overseas Group companies in pushing ahead with further business ideas for business process improvements. They discuss ways to process reforms. procure better quality items at lower costs and more efficiently, and 77 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Caring for Our Employees Cultivating Human Resources and Creating Comfortable Work Environments Reinforcing Ties within the Kaneka Group through the 65th Anniversary Event and other Activities After reaching its 65th anniversary on September 1, 2014, Kaneka celebrated by holding events at the Osaka Municipal Central Gymnasium and the Makuhari Event Hall. Around 3,200 people from Kaneka and about 1,500 employees of Group companies and their family members enjoyed these events. Attendees strengthened group ties by taking part in sports events and More than 1,600 people, including those from 18 Group companies, gathered at Makuhari Event Hall in December 2014 attractions and viewing DVD videos featuring contributions from employees at 41 domestic Group companies. March 2015 saw the Takasago Plant hold the Kaneka Group Ekiden, a long-distance relay race, at its running course. The 70 competing teams further reinforced ties between Kaneka Group people through this event. As we continue to expand Employees strengthened their relationships Employees all took part in a quiz based through a long rope jumping competition on information on the front and back of a brochure domestically and abroad, we at the Osaka Municipal Central Gymnasium look to keep holding events to in November 2014 strengthen ties within the Group. The Kaneka Group Ekiden in fiscal 2014 attracted 70 teams 78 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Caring for Our Employees Cultivating Human Resources and Creating Comfortable Work Environments Labor and Management Relationships Preventing Sexual Human Rights Education and Power Harassment Labor and management representatives Respect for human rights is a fundameet daily to discuss and exchange We endeavor to keep workplaces free mental requirement for Kaneka and its opinions concerning joint targets. Enfrom sexual and power harassment employees, as explicitly stated in our gagement is through gatherings such and are fully prepared to rapidly adRules of Employment and Ethical Code as management meetings, central labor dress any instances of such behavior. of Conduct. We spread awareness of and management conferences, and We highlight awareness of these isthe importance of human rights in many conferences of representatives. We resues through our Rules of Employment other ways, such as through training flect on the results of operations underand Compliance Guidebook and other for new and promoted employees. We taken by a specialist labor management means. We maintain consultation desks also have employees participate in local committee regarding the introduction at every business site, and have adgovernment-sponsored human rights of new work programs and review of opted a system for submitting reports to seminars and conferences. personnel systems. consultants over the Web. ■ Human Rights Education ■ Labor and Management Protecting Personal Information Fiscal 2014 Contents Joint Targets Training for 98 new Explains such issues as employees during the year sexual and power harassment and nationality/racial Labor and management mutuWe formulated a Personal Informadiscrimination. ally seek to develop business and tion Protection Policy that covers the Training for 38 newly Human rights instruction from achieve rewarding lives for union management and handling of private appointed managers outside experts. during the year members while contributing to soinformation on customers, employees, cial progress. and other parties, as part of efforts to comply with legislation and related laws and ordinances. We are improving our Employee Satisfaction Survey capabilities through ongoing education based on the Information Security Guidebook produced by the Information We introduced a self-reporting system Systems Department. and conduct annual surveys of all employees to measure workplace and job Introductory training session for new employees satisfaction. One planned diversity effort in fiscal 2015 will be to follow up on initiatives under our program to promote opportunities for women and keep undertaking enlightenment activities. We also plan to deploy specific measures for the key themes of bolstering our education and training programs, stepping up training rotations, and undertaking strategic hiring activities. 79 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Caring for Our Employees Occupational Safety and Health Efforts The Kaneka Group strives to achieve zero occupational accidents by implementing various occupational safety and health measures at each business site that reflect personnel, facilities, raw materials, and organizational factors. Occupational Safety and Health Efforts ■ Zero Accident Principles ◆ All people, you and me, are indiswe ensure everyone is working Pledge of safety pensable safely. In 2014, there were 22 occupational accidents, of which 14 resulted in work time ◆ Safety is everyone’s responsibility we do not miss sparing the time Participation in to seek safety. safety losses and eight did not. As there were many incidences of people being caught ◆ There is no trick to safety we always value a fundamental Adherence to safety approach to it. basics in machinery or falling, we are reinforcing oversight to minimize dangers and ◆ Be aware of potential danger we endeavor to eliminate safety Safety in advance risks. are educating employees to enhance their safety sensitivities to prevent such ◆ Where there is carelessness, we do not allow even a small 99%, yet 0% there is the possibility of an acchance of negligence. occurrences and reduce the overall cident number of occupational accidents. Enhancing Our Occupational Safety and ■ OSHMS Certifications Health Management System Plant Location Certification Date Certification No. Takasago Plant Hyogo March 10, 2008 08-28-13 All of our four parent plants acquired Osaka Plant Osaka August 21, 2007 07-27-10 occupational safety and health manageShiga Plant Shiga January 15, 2008 08-25-6 ment system (OSHMS) certification from the Japan Industrial Safety & Health AsKashima Plant Ibaraki December 13, 2010 10-8-26 sociation in fiscal 2007, and have continued initiatives to enhance such systems. They plan to validate and modify their ■ Number of Group Employee Accidents Resulting/Not Resulting in Lost Time activities as part of ongoing improveLost time at Kaneka No lost time at Kaneka ments. Lost time at affiliated Group companies No lost time at affiliated Group companies 30 In 2014, our key CSR safety and quality inspection initiative was to ex25 10 pand quantitative evaluations to identify 20 7 the strengths and weaknesses of CSR 15 activities. This initiative was launched 11 8 10 9 in fiscal 2013 to encompass all plants, 7 6 3 6 including those of group companies. 5 1 3 1 2 1 5 3 3 5 2 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal years) ■ Accident Severity Rate and Accident Frequency Rate All Kaneka Group Group Companies in Area Parent Company Companies Japan and Overseas Years 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Employees of Kaneka Frequency Rate 0.19 0.84 0.00 0.38 0.30 1.12 and Group Companies Accident Severity Rate 0.01 0.02 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.03 80 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Caring for Our Employees Occupational Safety and Health Efforts Tokyo Kaneka Foods Corporation Receives Award for 1.43 Million Consecutive Accident-Free Hours (Around Four Years) of Operations Tokyo Kaneka Foods Corporation produces commercial margarine, whipped cream, and other products at a facility in Iruma-gun, Saitama Prefecture, with Safety award ceremony (photo on left) and board displaying the number around 200 employees. Safety activiof consecutive accident-free days (photo on right) ties include risk prediction training and risk assessments. The company also prioritizes hands-on learning through simulations to increase sensitivity to risk. These activities enabled the facility to record 1.43 million accident-free hours, representing around four years of operations. The company received an award from the Tokorozawa Federation of Labour Standards Associations for this achievement. It will continue undertaking safety activities to maintain its accident-free record. Mental Health Care Kaneka conducts ongoing training to more swiftly identify and prevent mental illness and enhance the mental health of employees. In fiscal 2014, each business site conducted line care training for managers of all levels. We also extended such training to domestic Group Managers and supervisors at a training session companies, providing everything from basic knowledge to conducting case study sessions for key mental health leaders at each of those operations as part of a wide-ranging training program. The entire Kaneka Group will continue striving to maintain the physical and mental wellbeing of its employees. Despite vigorously undertaking occupational health and safety initiatives to eliminate accidents, statistics on incidents for the five years from 2010 showed that while numbers had leveled off, we were still far from our target. In light of repeated incidences of people being caught in machinery or falling, we will push forward with initiatives to make safety awareness our top priority and reinforce the implementation of rules. 81 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Kaneka Group Overseas Group Company Initiatives Group companies practice CSR in Japan and abroad. While initiatives have a local focus, they all share the same objective of contributing to society through chemistry. Supplying environmentally friendly maContributing to progress in the food Enhancing living standards in Brazil by terials that make automobiles lighter industry by providing safe and reliable cultivating products that match local and safer confectionary and baking ingredients market needs Kaneka (Foshan) High Performance Materials PT. Kaneka Foods Indonesia Kaneka South America Representative Ltd. Co., Ltd. Kaneka (Foshan) High Performance MateriWe jointly established PT. Kaneka Foods InWe established Kaneka South America als Co., Ltd. was established in May 2011 donesia with Mitsubishi Corporation in 2013 Representative Ltd. in Sao Paolo, Brazil in and began operations in October 2013. This as the first overseas operation for our food 2013 as our first Latin American business subsidiary manufactures and sells expandbusiness. This subsidiary began operations unit. This subsidiary employees four people. able plastic products mainly for automotive in 2014, focusing on processed oils and fats Their role is to promote Kaneka’s products, parts in southern China and for electronic for fillings. conduct market research, and provide techequipment packaging and transportation With 250 million people, Indonesia nical services to customers. materials. has the world’s fourth largest population. Brazil is a particularly large country in China is urgently pushing ahead with Its middle class is fast growing against a Latin America that is home to around 400 a national drive to improve the environment. backdrop of stable GDP growth. The market million people. Domestic demand is solid Reducing the weight of vehicles is central to for confectionary and bread is thus steadily in Brazil, which has a big ethnic Japanese cutting exhaust emissions, so manufacturexpanding. Although traditionally rice and population. This makes Brazil a particularly ers are deploying various alternative materinoodles have been staples of the Indoneattractive market for Japan despite the disals to that end. sian diet, demand for bread and pastries tance, and we look forward to the country’s The polypropylene and polyethylene has emerged in recent years in line with the ongoing economic development. foam “Eperan” that Kaneka produce using westernization of tastes and progress in While focusing on developing prodthe bead technique are extremely strong, mini marts and other retailing channels. ucts as a market insider to accommodate and customers have lauded them as maWe are leveraging the expertise that Brazilian tastes, we are endeavoring to terials that can deliver both lightness and we have cultivated in Japan in a steady create demand and penetrate the market safety. effort to contribute to Indonesia’s food to drive our corporate progress and conEperan is attracting considerable atindustry by supplying tasty and functional tribute to Brazilian national life. In functional tention as a recyclable and energy-conservconfectionary and bread ingredients that plastics, we are cultivating new applications ing material that is good for the environment are safe and reliable. beyond existing architectural ones. In areas because air is the prime component of this We are looking to expand throughout in which we have yet to build operations, product. Southeast Asia from our base in Indonesia. we aim to help improve lifestyles in terms We seek to leverage such strengths to We aim to continue accommodating local of health, beauty, and food through market contribute to better environments in China needs, pleasing customers by contributing research and referrals from time to time. and throughout the solidly developing to taste. We aim to become a company that Southeast Asian region. can contribute to Brazil’s people and society by continuing to engage in proactive development and sales activities. Sharing Japanese confectionery and Automotive parts bread techniques with materials local employees 82 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Kaneka Group Domestic Group Company Initiatives Developing new medical devices that Strengthening support for developing Providing resource-conserving prodalleviate the burden on health care local products for local consumption ucts and engaging in environmentally workers and patients and collaborating in domestic agriculfriendly manufacturing to contribute to RIVER Co., Ltd. tural promotion social sustainability Kaneka Foods Corporation Kaneka Kanto Styrol Co., Ltd. Kaneka Foods East Japan Logistics Center River Co., Ltd. is a medical equipment Kaneka Foods Corporation was created in Kaneka Kanto Styrol Co., Ltd. was estabmanufacturer based in Okaya, Nagano PreJuly 2013 by integrating four Group food lished in 1963 to manufacture and sell fecture. The company became part of the sales companies. polystyrene foam products. The company Kaneka Group in 2013. We sell an array of ingredients and became part of the Kaneka Group in 2001, River engages in original design and related supplies, including Kaneka Group and manufactures containers for fish and manufacturing, focusing on endoscope ingredients, primarily for commercial convegetable products. treatment units. Demand is increasing for fectionary and bread making. As a food Polystyrene is a commonly used such instruments as new surgical tools. ingredients wholesaler with annual sales exmaterial that conserves resources and is Since its establishment in 1988, the ceeding about 100 billion yen, our company environmentally friendly. More than 88% company has focused on developing new leverages its nationwide sales and logistics of containers made with this material are medical equipment to alleviate the burden bases to supply customers around Japan. recycled. Kaneka Kanto Styrol promotes on health care workers and patients. During We have built an information systems the reuse of resources by functioning as a that time, numerous medical professionals network that harnesses IT technologies recycling center for the Japan Expanded have consulted the company for its advice. and swiftly accommodates customer needs Polystyrene Association. River is currently developing new products as part of our objective of creating a strucThe company obtained Eco-Action that draw on the techniques and expertise ture in which we can deliver exactly what 21 certification in October 2009 and has enthat Kaneka has cultivated in catheters. It customers around Japan desire when they gaged extensively in environmental proteclooks to keep developing products that can want it. tion initiatives. In fiscal 2013, it reduced its contribute to health care progress. The company currently provides supcarbon dioxide emissions by 34% below the port in the development of local products base year of 2007. for local consumption. It is drawing on our Kaneka Kanto Styrol will continue branch network in an effort to strengthen making efforts to address social sustainabilplanning and sales around Japan for disity through its business activities. tinctive agricultural and marine products. In keeping with our motto of always making surprising and tasty products available, we aim to become a specialty wholesaler of inspirational and delicious food ingredients to customers, contributing to the creation of a new food culture. 83 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Third-Party Verification 84 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Third-Party Opinion My Impressions from Reading CSR Report 2015 Chieko Minami Doctor of Commerce and Professor of Marketing, Graduate School of Business Administration, Kobe University. Graduated from the Faculty of Letters of Kobe University. Completed a Master’s Degree in Communication from the Graduate School of Michigan State University. Completed the first semester of a doctoral course at the Graduate School of Business Administration, Kobe University. Left late in doctoral course. Assistant Professor, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, Yokohama City University. The Role of a CSR Report is to Convey Meriting Praise for a Structure Focused pact. Unfortunately, the section did not spell a Company’s Stance as well as Provide on Key Strategic Fields out how the company would contribute to the their Standards and Foster Stakeholder international community by taking part in this Understanding I also read the Communication Book, which initiative. I have heard of examples of other is even more compact than the previous vercompanies making an effort by identifying new This is my third third-party opinion for Kanesion. I assume that the goal here was to relate CSR activities as part of their overseas business ka. When reviewing the report this time it beKaneka’s social contributions through busideployments. Thus, since Kaneka only became came even more evident to me that the role of ness activities to its four key strategic fields, part of the UN Global Compact in spring 2015, a CSR report is to convey a company’s stance. presenting special features that highlighted two specific activities and contributions lie ahead. I found that the report endeavored to clearly of those fields. Many B2B companies have I would like the company to deploy and share convey Kaneka’s stance by presenting a variety numerous products that are hard to understand its specific contributions with the international of information. This was particularly noticeeven if presented comprehensively, with the community while pushing forward with its able to me in the ongoing efforts to disseminate end result that the information ironically does activities. environmental data. Corporate activities have not get across. In that light, I think that readers an environmental impact at the raw materials will easily understand Kaneka’s direction and To date, B2B enterprises have set about esprocurement, manufacturing, logistics, and technologies from its sharp focus in its priortablishing businesses by communicating with other stages. I think that the company deserves ity fields. To top it off, the special spotlighted direct customers. As globalization evolves, great praise for its ongoing efforts to gather, such topical areas as regenerative medicine and however, companies will have to engage more process, and disclose data on its efforts to next-generation lighting, so I read with interest with societies as they deploy products and lower its environmental impact. If there were about Kaneka’s specific approach to contributtechnologies in different fields. I hope that anything I would like improved, it would be ing to social progress through its new technoloKaneka can more broadly convey to stakeholdto explain the backdrop for the standards that gies. ers how its products and technologies are used the company uses for its numerical targets and and how they contribute to society in keeping self-assessments. I think that this would enable Looking for Further Social Contribuwith the company's goal of seeking to make the company to convey its ongoing endeavors tions from Kaneka as a Signatory to the wishes come true through science. to more people and gain their understanding. UN Global Compact I also noted in the report that it included a section on Kaneka signing the UN Global ComSuggestions and Improvements from the 2014 Version Kaneka made the following improvements in response to Professor Minami’s suggestions regarding the 2014 version. 1. Kaneka needs to explain its criteria for establishing its CSR → In the PDF version, we presented the bases for setting the standards in the text activity targets and self-assessments. and endeavored to add an explanation of the self-assessments. In particular, we included explanations in areas where content was lacking. 2. I expect the company will more broadly communicate a glob→ From the 2015 version, we ensured that the content was even more relevant for an ally valid message. overseas readership. Having become a signatory of the UN Global Compact, we will present stronger messages through the CSR report. 85 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Third-Party Opinion Stakeholder Feedback Below we present feedback from readers of the Kaneka Group CSR Report 2014. Overview Questionnaire implementation period August 1 through October 23, 2014 Period analyzed August 1 through October 23, 2014 Materials covered by questionnaire Kaneka Group CSR Report 2014 Number of valid responses 598 Q.1 Key Opinions What were your impressions of the Kaneka Group CSR Report 2014? Q.3 What areas would you like to see improved or know more about? Weak 1% • I think that specific business case studies would promote greater Somewhat solid 5% Very solid 14% understanding of the company. • I would like the company to step up its earthquake reconstruction efforts. Fairly solid 38% Quite solid 42% • I would like the company to do more in terms of areas such as work-life balance and diversity. Q.4 Q.2 What interested you most about the Kaneka Group What did you think about the special features? Special Feature I Benefiting Customers CSR Report 2014? Providing Thermal Solutions that Enhance the Compactness and Performance of Mobile Devices What articles impressed you the most • I learned that the company is creating vital functions to improve the (pick all that apply)? user feel for smartphones and other popular devices. • I came away with a desire to find out the other benefits of this tech1. Initiatives Related to the Great East Japan Earthquake 43% nology in addition to its application to smartphones. 2. Highlight— Developing Products to Reduce Bone Fracture 40% Special Feature II Safeguarding the Environment Risks in the Elderly after Falls Protecting the Environment by Creating Advanced Manufacturing Sites 3. Measures to Prevent Global Warming 37% • I found that corporate policies have penetrated all aspects of the 4. CSR Targets, Results, and Evaluations 36% organization. • Energy conservation efforts are vital to Japan, and I would like the 5. Highlight— Initiatives in Biodiversity 32% company to keep up its thorough efforts in this direction. 5. Reducing Waste and Preventing Pollution 32% Special Feature III Fulfilling Our Social Responsibilities 5. Highlight— Procuring Raw Materials from Multiple Sources to Contributing to Malaysia’s growth by cultivating our manufacturing prow32% Stabilize Product Supplies ess and human resources 8. Special Feature II: Safeguarding the Environment 30% • I think that Kaneka will have a positive impact on Japan’s relationships with Malaysia by cultivating operations there. I would like it to 9. Cultivating Human Resources and Creating Comfortable Work keep up the good work. 29% Environments • Both Kaneka and communities can benefit synergistically from the 10. Dividend Policy and Disclosure 28% company cultivating local human resources. 86 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Third-Party Opinion Editorial Afterword (Response to Third-Party Opinion) Editorial Afterword (Response to Third-Party Opinion) The 2015 version of our CSR Report carries special features that spotlight our thinking and activities in contributing to society through Health Care and the Environment and Energy, two of the company’s key strategic fields. In presenting examples from Information and Communications and Food Production Support, we had in mind the notion of materiality in keeping with the fourth-generation of our Global Reporting Initiative guidelines that are set for formal deployment. Near the beginning of the report, we presented the “How? CSR” section in a Meeting between a member of the Administration Office CSR Committee and Professor Minami question-and-answer format to illustrate how best to deliver corporate value to all stakeholders. Professor Chieko Minami, who wrote the Third-Party Opinion, pointed out several areas in which she would like to see improvements. One is that Kaneka needs to explain its criteria for establishing its CSR activity targets and self-assessments, and the other is that she would like to see how we engage with the international community as a signatory to the UN Global Compact. We will endeavor to reflect her views in our next report. We aim to increase the satisfaction of all stakeholders by conveying our specific CSR initiatives through our business activities. We would appreciate your sharing your impressions, requests for improvements or corrections, or other feedback on this report. Finally, we appreciate you taking the time to read this report. Administration Office CSR Committee Kaneka Corporation 87 KANEKA CSR Report 2015 Group Product Registered Trademarks and Other Trademarks The following product names in the CSR Report 2015 are registered trademarks of the Company or the Group. ● KANEKALON ● KANECARON ● KANE ACE ● KANEKA TELALLOY ● KANEKA MS POLYMER ● SILYL ● SUNDUREN ● APICAL ● PIXEO ● ELMECH ● KANEKA FLUX ● EPERAN ● EPERAN PP ● KANEPEARL ● KANELITE ● LIXELLE ● LIPOSORBER ● KANEKA QH ● KANELITE FOAM ● PATTHERMO ● Graphinity ● KANEKA Q10 ● KANEKA Hip Protector ● ILLUMIKA ● CellEffic ● KANEKA PEPTIDE 88 About the Front Covers A childlike curiosity is fundamental to realizing Kaneka’s long-term vision of building a more impressive and productive future. The multicolored motif on the cover underscores Kaneka’s commitment to a better future for our children. Each of the colors in the motif represents one of Kaneka’s strategic domains. How? CSR corporate social responsibility Osaka Head Office 2-3-18, Nakanoshima, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8288, Japan Tel: +81-6-6226-5050 Fax: +81-6-6226-5037 Tokyo Head Office 1-12-32, Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-6025, Japan Tel: +81-3-5574-8000 Fax: +81-3-5574-8121
