SELF-ASSESSMENT  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes  Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 5th October 2016 To our stakeholders: Being a signatory of the UN Global Compact and supporting the 10 fundamental principles augur well for Maka Engineering Sdn Bhd. As Maka Engineering Sdn Bhd. looks ahead to further expand its regional and international business, we are increasingly confronted with multicultural issues, domestic conflicts and various socio-economic sensitivities. The UN Global Compact and the UNGC Local Networks “spheres of influence” brings great comfort to our stakeholders domestically, regionally and internationally. We look forward to participating in the Local Network’s activities, continuing to influence our stakeholders on the values of Global Compact’s principles and being vigilant in ensuring that our organization and its people abide by these principles. Sincerely Yours, Wong Ken General Manager. HUMAN RIGHTS  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. MAKA has explicitly defined these in its related SOPs and Code of Conduct to ensure fairness and respect for all employees in the company.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. A safe working environment is of our topmost concern. Maka believes a continuous program for improvement in ensuring the above can bring about the desired achievements and adherence to Human Rights Policy.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. No incidents of non-conformance. LABOUR  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. MAKA actively commits to being an equal opportunity and anti-discriminatory employer promoting and providing for an equal and fair opportunity in employment, compensation and other terms and conditions of employment. The guidelines and policies include:  Zero tolerance towards physical or verbal discriminatory harassment in the workplace.  Performing unbiased and constructive employee evaluations.  Respecting the rights of employees to freedom and association.  Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. During the past year, the company has initiated reviews and meetings to assess the satisfaction within the workplace.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. During the reporting period, MAKA was not involved in any investigation, legal proceedings or other relevant event related to labour rights. ENVIRONMENT  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. MAKA committed to promoting greater environmental responsibility by ensuring our work space and work culture embraces the principles above.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Apart from continue to maintain and promote green, paperless environment, we promote environmental initiatives in our business operations and proactively raise employee awareness of environmental issues.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. MAKA has not experienced any reportable environmental incidents during the past year and has not been subject to any statutory notice or prosecutions. ANTI-CORRUPTION  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. MAKA is committed to observing the principal set forth in the UN Global Compact and shall do full compliance with Malaysia Anti-Corruption Act 1997.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. We had disseminated guidance, process flow charts and a checklist in relation to anti-corruption to all of the employees. MAKA management is committed to conducting reviews and follow up compliances to ensure that there will be no conflict of interests.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. MAKA has not been involved in any legal proceedings, ruling or other event related to corruption or bribery.
