RADIOMETER CSR REPORT 2015 From our president At Radiometer, our mission is to provide caregivers around the Our high ethical standards are underscored in every aspect of globe with the insight needed to make diagnostic decisions that our operations including our engagement with our surrounding save lives and support them in what they do best: caring for community. What started as a casual engagement has over patients. Social responsibility and continuous improvement are the past twenty years developed into a wider commitment to keystones in our endeavor to fulfil our vision of improving global the Tingbjerg/Brønshøj district that surrounds the Radiometer healthcare through reliable, fast and easy patient diagnoses. headquarters. Our continued commitment to the local community centers in helping local youth from a less privileged environment Our commitment to corporate sustainability corresponds well with build their self-esteem and sense of purpose in life. our focus to the most vital part of our business, our employees. We believe that having exceptional people on our teams is crucial At the end of the day, we recognize that our actions have a to sustaining our business and to fulfilling our mission and vision. great effect on others, on members of the community, caregivers Therefore, we are passionate about retaining, developing and around the world and the hospitals and healthcare facilities that inspiring the best talents as well as encouraging associates at all we serve. levels to further develop their skills at Radiometer. On the same note, we are also strongly committed to integrity Yours sincerely, and our reputation for fairness and honesty, areas that are vital to ensure our continuous success. Indeed, we insist that our Henrik Schimmell associates and business partners conduct business in an ethical President, Radiometer Group manner in full compliance with applicable laws, operating policies and procedures as well as our Standards of Conduct. Radiometer CSR Report 2015 2 I 15 Our business Founded in 1935 and headquartered in Copenhagen, Denmark, such as intensive care units (ICUs), emergency departments (EDs) Radiometer Medical is a pioneer in blood gas testing, introducing and operating rooms (ORs). the world’s first commercially available blood gas analyzer in 1954. Worldwide, six samples are performed every second using a Today, Radiometer develops, manufactures and markets Radiometer analyzer. That equals 360 samples a minute, 21,600 solutions for blood sampling, blood gas analysis, transcutaneous samples an hour, 518,400 samples a day – or 189,216,000 monitoring, immunoassay testing and related IT management samples annually. systems under the ABL, AQT, TCM, RADIANCE, AQURE, PICO, CLINITUBES and QUALICHECK brand names. Since 2004, Radiometer has been part of the Danaher Corporation (NYSE:DHR) life sciences and diagnostics platform, which offers With our leading position within blood gas analysis, Radiometer is a broad range of analyzers, consumables, software and services dedicated to improving global healthcare by ensuring reliable, fast used in the diagnosis of disease and to aid treatment decisions at and easy patient diagnoses at hospitals, clinics and laboratories pathology labs, hospitals and other critical care units. Radiometer in over 130 countries. Radiometer solutions help caregivers make alone has 2842 employees worldwide and is directly represented life-saving diagnostic decisions by accurately offering information in 32 countries. We also have more than 600 distributors globally on the most critical parameters in acute care testing, in settings and production/R&D companies in Denmark, USA, Switzerland, Finland, Poland and India. 6 samples are tested using a Radiometer analyzer every second somewhere in the world That’s 360 a minute, 21,600 an hour, 518,400 a day Production/R&D companies in Denmark, USA, Switzerland, Finland and Poland 189,216,000 samples are tested every year on a Radiometer analyzer somewhere in the world More than 600 distributors cover the rest of the world Direct representation in 32 countries 2,842 employees worldwide Radiometer CSR Report 2015 3 I 15 Our Vision and Mission OUR VISION Improving global healthcare with reliable, fast and easy patient diagnoses We impact caregiver Reliability come first satisfaction Speed is essential Ease-of-use in everything we do Caregivers depend Insight and confidence on us are key OUR MISSION We help caregivers make diagnostic Without information, We help save lives decisions that save lives no diagnoses Radiometer CSR Report 2015 4 I 15 United Nations Global Compact In 2009, Radiometer joined the UN Global Compact as a natural Radiometer’s commitment to integrity and our reputation for next step in the continuous improvement of our Corporate Social fairness and honesty are key drivers in our continued corporate Responsibility. Global Compact builds on ten principles within success. We strive for a high level of integrity and are aware that four areas: human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. nurturing a strong ethical culture provides a clear competitive These principles guide us in our commitment to sustainable advantage and contributes positively to our business success. business development. We bear this in mind when developing the various programs to address anti-corruption and anti-bribery. Business integrity Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Radiometer CSR Report 2015 5 I 15 Standards of Conduct Our Standards of Conduct is the cornerstone of our compliance SPEAK UP! program culture and applies to all associates at all Danaher companies worldwide. We expect our agents, representatives, independent contractors, consultants, suppliers, business partners and others who support our business to comply with our Standards of Conduct, which provide a framework for our associates within which to develop and nurture a compliance culture that guides and assists them in making fair and honest decisions. Danaher’s Speak Up! program makes clear our commitment to creating an environment of trust and transparency that encourages all our associates to raise integrity and compliance Associate training concerns through one of a variety of reporting mechanisms without fear of retaliation. One of the reporting methods is our We insist that our employees conduct business ethically and in compliance helpline, which associates may use to raise concerns full compliance with all applicable laws as well as our corporate by telephone or internet (anonymously if they choose). Standards of Conduct, operating policies and procedures. In 2015, approximately 96% of Radiometer associates enrolled in the We track and investigate all concerns raised. In 2015, of the mandatory Danaher Integrity and Compliance training program, 20 concerns raised, 15 were validated to at least some extent which they completed within the deadline. This is a statistic that and corrective action was taken, including, in several cases, the makes Radiometer proud. separation of associates from the company. 96% Radiometer CSR Report 2015 6 I 15 Channel partners Equal access to healthcare With over 600 distributors across the globe, Radiometer has At Radiometer we have a desire to improve global healthcare with adopted a comprehensive screening procedure to ensure that all reliable, fast and easy patient diagnoses, helping caregivers around distributors adhere to our high level of integrity and Standards of the world provide accurate diagnostic. We recognize that the Conduct. As part of this procedure, we have implemented various information we provide affects the life of millions of people, and to initiatives, including mandatory annual online anti-corruption us every patient is equally important. We consider access to better training. This training is very similar to the training provided to healthcare a human right and take great pride in our efforts to find new ways to exploit our resources to further improve the treatment Radiometer associates on integrity and anti-corruption. of critically ill patients in less privileged parts of the world. With In line with our culture of continuous improvement, Radiometer our long-term strategy of performing business with high integrity will also continue to further its anti-corruption and anti-bribery and social responsibility we endeavor to make a difference by efforts with special focus on high-risks areas as defined by forging partnerships with governments, healthcare institutions and Transparency International. development agencies worldwide. In 2015, we developed a recycling program with the aim of making used analyzers available to developing markets, such as the Philippines, Serbia, Brazil, Russia and Iraq, which could not otherwise accommodate such solutions. Standard procedures with built-in checks have been established to ensure that we always deliver excellent quality worldwide, while also reducing our waste and environmental impact by reusing analyzers that would otherwise have been discarded. Radiometer CSR Report 2015 7 I 15 Refurbished instruments across the world Radiometer CSR Report 2015 8 I 15 Labour commitment Principle 3: Radiometer has adopted a vision to build winning teams and Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the to hire, develop and retain the best talent across cultures, effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, geographies and organizations. We aim to attract and develop associates who embody the diversity of thought and the work Principle 4: style needed to advance in our innovative culture and industry the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, as well as attracting associates who take great pride and responsibility in advancing their careers. Principle 5: In return, we invest in developing our associates and provide the effective abolition of child labor, and them with formal training and coaching as well as challenging assignments. By listening to our associates and focusing on Principle 6: retaining and developing our talents, we can set the best team the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and and ensure the brightest future for Radiometer and our associates. occupation. Innotrac 139 RBNL 25 RMED 1053 RRUS 10 RDEU 161 RGBP 54 RPOL 21/RSTA 235 RAME/RCAN 212 RZCE 11 RKAZ 7 RFRA 55 RHUN 9 RKK 192 SenDx 158 RSCH 20 RTUR 23 RKOR 9 RCRO 3 RCHN 213 RBSL 44 RIBE 49 RIND 45 RLAT 3 RHKL 4 RMEA 15 RIDC 17 RMAY 15 RSIN 2 RPAC/RNZ 43 RSAF 16 Radiometer CSR Report 2015 9 I 15 Success through continuous improvement Building on a culture driven by continuous improvement, Radiometer associates are encouraged to explore and widen their competences within the Danaher Business System (DBS) – our very own approach to building strong results and working together. Based on four pillars, DBS drives the company forward through a constant cycle of change and improvement, focusing on: • exceptional PEOPLE • outstanding PLANS • executing using world-class tools to construct sustainable PROCESSES • achieving superior PERFORMANCE Having the right people on the team is crucial to sustaining our success, which is why we encourage all associates at all levels to attend our DBS Academy, offering a chance for associates to develop their skills. Radiometer values the success of our associates just as much as the overall success of our business. The two go hand-in-hand. Radiometer employees who graduated our Advanced Lean Education as part of the DBS academy: 2014 2015 2016 110 180 250 Expected Radiometer CSR Report 2015 10 I 15 What good looks like At Radiometer, everyone’s a leader. We view all associates as leaders regardless of whether or not they are managing a team – or have the desire to do so. Every associate can show leadership, regardless of position, and we believe that leadership is closely linked to personal development and taking lead of one’s own career. At Radiometer, we use the Danaher Leadership Anchors to define what ‘good looks like’ in the form of a path for career development. Whether you have just begun a career or are the leader of a global organization – or somewhere in between – the Leadership Anchors helps each associate to develop and reach their career goals. When assessing associate’s performance and potential we not only look at the delivered result but also how these results were achieved using the Leadership Anchors as a guide. Radiometer CSR Report 2015 11 I 15 Associate engagement At Radiometer, we believe that a winning team is a team We are continually seeing high survey participation rates and where all members are fully engaged. 2015 was no exception. In 2015, 95% of Radiometer associates grasped the opportunity to have a voice and invested time in Every year, we conduct an engagement survey in which we making Radiometer a better place to work. invite all Radiometer associates to voice their opinion and evaluate their experience working at Radiometer. At the heart In 2015, we also saw an increase of 6 basis points in the overall of this effort is our vision of building a winning team of fully engagement index as well as an increase in all of the other 15 engaged associates, and in order to achieve this we need to dimensions we measure, including our three 2014 priorities for listen and respond to associate feedback. improvement: trust, vision and communication. The results motivate us to continue our journey towards making Radiometer an To us, engagement is all about passion, commitment and even better place to work. responsibility in driving the success of Radiometer, and we want to make sure that our associates have the right tools, resources, training and development opportunities to succeed and grow. The engagement survey provides our associates with a platform for free and anonymous feedback to help identify and shape areas of improvement ch de x an ge In ng em en in de en em en ng Co tI x t t i ra m nd ex m ys t em Be te pl ia op sS lo nc e ve ab l po Di re l ines En nd ns catio ct Su De ta e n pe rv an us an m tio es un ur In no iso d er ce en n lo i ha va rE B rm Re n ba n m vio En tion ffe ct th na volve co clu lR st sio Co Sa ga ivene ro w h Pe gn sio G Tr u Vi m Be fe g ty ss G Da rfo In i In 2014 95% +4% +3% +3% +4% +1% +5% +4% +4% +1% +3% +4% +1% +3% +2% +1% 2015 95% +7% +5% +6% +8% +6% +5% +5% +9% +5% +7% 5% +3% 6% +6% +4% Radiometer CSR Report 2015 12 I 15 Bridging the divide As an active part of society, Radiometer is dedicated to making Over the past three years, we have hosted 33 ninth-grade a difference and giving deprived youth in the area the courage elementary school students, who have all remained committed to make the right choices for themselves. What started as a to their education and future following their internship at casual local initiative has over the course of the past 20 years Radiometer. We believe that our program makes a difference widened its outreach within the vicinity of the Radiometer HQ in a challenged neighborhood. It helps instill in the students in Tingbjerg/Brønshøj to give special emphasis to building selfa sense of confidence and purpose, whichever path of esteem and a sense of purpose among a generation of young education they subsequently choose to pursue. individuals growing up in this socially deprived area. Radiometer also engages in a wide variety of activities with We see it as our duty to invest in our local communities and local institutions with the aim of reaching out to the local proactively contribute to creating activities that will deliver youth in the proximity of the Radiometer HQ in Tingbjerg. The social change and development. In 1998, Radiometer started grass-root initiatives supported by Radiometer are developed an internship program that targets 14 to 15-year-olds in in close partnership with local sports and cultural associations Tingbjerg. The idea was to give these teens a chance to as well as social services. The initiatives span from sponsoring spend a week at the Radiometer campus and learn about the musical instruments and clubhouse furniture to supporting different departments with the aim of encouraging them to a social gardening project where the youth and elderly join consider how they, through education, could become part of forces to create a living green space in the district. such an environment. Radiometer CSR Report 2015 13 I 15 Environmental compliance Principle 7: Radiometer invests great importance in the environmental Businesses should support a precautionary approach to impact of designing and producing a new analyzer, all the way environmental challenges, through our supply chain. Radiometer analyzers are designed to last, which minimizes the need for replacement and limits Principle 8: the generation of waste. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and To ensure compliance with environmental legislation worldwide (e.g. RoHS, REACH, China RoHS, California Principle 9: Prop65), Radiometer has implemented an assessment encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally procedure that ensures that no unwanted hazardous friendly technologies. substances are used in the production. Radiometer is committed to continuously improving the Radiometer maintains a list of regulated chemical substances environmental performance of the company, which primarily and we continually aim to reduce the amount of hazardous includes a focus on lifecycle energy and waste management and substances in production. Radiometer ensures that all chemical limiting the use of hazardous chemicals and substances. substances are handled to ensure the safety of our employees A number of initiatives were enacted in 2015 that aim to improve and the environment. the environmental performance of the company: • Conducting comprehensive energy assessments of our activities in line with the EU Energy Efficiency Directive (2012/27/EU) • Optimisation of the systems and processes for the collection of data on energy and waste management. Radiometer CSR Report 2015 14 I 15 Contact us Radiometer is represented in more than 100 countries. For local Radiometer representative nearest you please visit www.radiometer.com Headquarters Radiometer Medical ApS Åkandevej 21, 2700 Brønshøj Denmark Tel: +45 38 27 38 27 Fax: +45 38 27 27 27 www.radiometer.com CVR No. 27509185 Radiometer CSR Report 2015 15 I 15
