2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We create communities. We are Stantec. Table of Contents 1 We are Stantec. 2 We live our values every day. 4 We are committed to sustainability. 5 Data Collection Methodology and Independent Verification 5 Scope 6 Letter from Our President & CEO 8 2015 Highlights and Recognition 10 We designed a resilient sustainability strategy. 12 We are dedicated to stakeholder engagement. 14 We put people first. 15 Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) 16 Diversity and Inclusion 20 Learning and Development 24 Employee Turnover and Retention 26 We do what is right. 27 Ethics, Integrity, and Anticorruption Training 27 Corporate Governance 28 Integrated Management System 30 Environment 32 We are better together. 33 Community Engagement 35 Partnerships 38 We are driven to achieve. 39 Environmental and Sustainability Services 40 Designing with Community in Mind 43 Creativity and Innovation 44 We've been profitable every year since 1954. 45 Economic 46 Appendices Employees’ six-word stories tell Stantec’s story. We can say a lot with six words. In 2013, we challenged our people to share their Stantec stories using only six words. Since then, the Six-Word Story Project has inspired employees across the world. We share some of those stories in this report. We are Stantec. Creating communities is our purpose. Designing with community in mind is our promise. The Stantec community unites more than Since 1954, our local strength, knowledge, 15,000 employees working in over 250 locations. and relationships, coupled with our world-class We collaborate across disciplines and industries expertise, have allowed us to go anywhere to to bring buildings, energy and resource, meet our clients’ needs in more creative and environmental, and infrastructure projects to life. personalized ways. With a long-term commitment Our work—professional consulting in planning, to the people and places we serve, Stantec has engineering, architecture, interior design, the unique ability to connect to projects on a landscape architecture, surveying, environmental personal level and advance the quality of life in sciences, project management, and project communities across the globe. Stantec trades on economics—begins at the intersection of the TSX and the NYSE under the symbol STN. community, creativity, and client relationships. Stantec is people—connected, creative, talented. Allison Wenzel, Operational Business Analyst, Calgary, Alberta Stantec Inc. 1 We live our values every day. 2 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report We Put People First We Are Better Together Our people are at the core of what When we combine our unique we do, and we want them to succeed. strengths and passion, we reach our By providing challenging work and full potential as an organization and by developing our leaders, we foster as trusted advisors to our clients. a culture of opportunity, mentorship, diversity, and innovation. We Do What Is Right We Are Driven to Achieve Working with integrity is a promise we Achievement at every level begins make to our clients, colleagues, and and ends with a firm commitment to shareholders. Our high standard of being the best we can be. We are business practices guides our project committed to being a top 10 design management framework, code of firm across the sectors, markets, and ethics, and policies and practices. regions we serve, and we plan to achieve an average compound annual growth rate of 15%. Doing what’s right. Integrity drives everything. Jeff Crawford, Marketing Manager, Irvine, California Stantec Inc. 3 We are committed to sustainability. Welcome to Stantec’s ninth annual Sustainability This report was prepared in accordance Report. In this document, we report on our with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) sustainability performance, thereby fulfilling our G4 comprehensive framework. Widely used commitment to transparent public disclosure. internationally, this framework facilitates greater organizational transparency and improves the Also in this report, we outline our focus and our consistency of sustainability reporting across commitment as a Company: economic, social, and environmental indicators. • We focus on our key stakeholders— There are no significant changes in scope and employees, clients, investors, and members aspect from previous reporting periods. of the communities where we live and work— and regularly communicate to them about our performance, priorities, and commitments on issues that matter most to them and our business • We commit to reducing our environmental impacts and improving the social impacts of our operations while we continue to strengthen economically 4 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Data Collection Methodology and Independent Verification Data Collection Methodology Independent Verification Data and other information for this report were collected We extracted data from the Consolidated Financial from many functional areas across the Company, including Statements section of the 2015 Annual Report, and we but not limited to Human Resources, Financial Services, make reference to those statements in this report. Our Community Engagement, Quality Management, the consolidated financial statements were audited by Project Delivery Office, Sustainable Development, IT, Ernst & Young LLP Chartered Professional Accountants. Corporate Real Estate, Health and Safety, and Research For additional details about our operations and to verify our & Development. data, refer to the GRI Content Index found in Appendix E. We established internal controls and a formal review process to check that the information in this report is accurate and reliable. Senior-level management in each functional area reviewed and approved the final content. Members of our Executive Leadership Team reviewed the information in the report at various stages of production and conducted a final review for overall quality before its release. Scope In this report, you’ll find information about Stantec’s social, environmental, and economic performance for our 2015 fiscal year (the calendar year) and our forward-looking plans for 2016 and beyond. Unless otherwise specified, this information relates to all Stantec operating companies worldwide. The list of all subsidiaries and structured entities included in the financial statements (for GRI disclosure G4-17) appears in our 2015 Annual Report on pages F-48 and F-49. Stantec Inc. 5 Letter from Our President & CEO Stantec’s secret to success: great people! Bob Gomes, President & CEO, Edmonton, Alberta 6 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report I am pleased to share Stantec’s commitment to sustainability We are better together and the highlights and challenges of 2015. In this report, We continued to engage with the communities we serve we address our environmental, social, and economic by donating approximately 1% of our pre-tax profits performance. We prepared it following the Global Reporting to charitable and not-for-profit endeavors in the arts, Initiative’s G4 comprehensive framework, which enables education, environment, and health and wellness. transparent and consistent sustainability reporting across We also organize corporate volunteer opportunities and environmental, social, and economic indicators. support our employees to give personally. Our best example In 2015, we joined the United Nations Global Compact. is Stantec in the Community Day. On September 15, 2015, We support and commit to this unique worldwide strategic over 7,000 employees from 80 offices joined our third annual platform, used by businesses to embrace universal principles Stantec in the Community Day. relating to human rights, labor, anticorruption, and Stantec has created successful aboriginal partnerships environment, and to advance their commitments since 2000. In 2015, Stantec was a minority partner in to sustainability and corporate citizenship. eight aboriginal partnerships across Canada’s North. In the second quarter of 2015, we comprehensively We are also the title sponsor for the inaugural Indigenous reviewed our 2016 Strategic Plan. We included a few new Partnership Development Program, which helps business and initiatives, while keeping our core values and commitment nonindigenous public sector leaders work with indigenous to creativity, client relationships, and communities strong. communities with greater effectiveness and understanding. This report is organized by our core values as follows: We are driven to achieve A recognized leader in environmental design and consulting We put people first services, Stantec offers practical, sustainable solutions for Regrettably, an employee was fatally injured working on infrastructure and building design, resilience planning, a construction administration project in October 2015. remediation, and climate change mitigation and adaptation. We will establish a scholarship at the South Dakota School of Mines & Technology in 2016 in memory of him. Once In 2015, we achieved solid financial performance, a result the investigation closed, our entire staff partook in a of our strong, diversified business model and the collective Safety Pause. Lessons learned were shared with employees, efforts of our employees. We generated C$2,877.2 million clients, and partners. in gross revenue, 13.7% more than in 2014. Net income, impacted by an increase in the amortization of intangible In 2015, we formed two Diversity & Inclusion councils assets related to acquisitions and software additions, in Canada and the United States; subcommittees will decreased to C$156.4 million in 2015 from C$164.5 million work on initiatives such as women in leadership and in 2014. Diluted earnings per share decreased to C$1.65 aboriginal awareness. in 2015 from C$1.74 in 2014. As our Company evolves, our investment in employee In 2015, we completed six acquisitions—Dessau; Sparling; training continues. I proudly announce that through the VI Engineering; VA Consulting; Fay, Spofford & Thorndike; HR.com Leadership Excellence Awards, Stantec’s Leadership and the Infrastructure Americas Division of KBR. These Development program was top-ranked in three categories: acquisitions broaden our range and depth of services Best First Time Manager, Best Experienced/Senior Leaders, and our geographic presence. For example, we acquired and Best Global/International Leadership Programs. the engineering operations of Dessau, a Montreal-based firm with other offices in Quebec and Ontario. This adds We do what is right to our expertise in healthcare, water, power and energy, Yearly, all regular and contract employees must take transportation, and community development. As well, Ethics and Code of Conduct training which addresses Dessau introduces telecommunications and security services code of conduct, conflicts of interest, antibribery and to our broader platform. KBR, with offices in Texas and anticorruption, harassment and discrimination, social Alabama, adds to our expertise in transportation, water and responsibility, and more. wastewater, and aviation,and enhances our infrastructure Our Integrated Management System provides a design capabilities in the Gulf region. disciplined, accountable framework for managing risks, We believe that achievement begins and ends with a strong quality outcomes, and occupational health, safety, commitment to being the best we can be. The time, passion, and environmental compliance across our Company. creativity, and commitment of our employees brings our We simplified and improved our environmental footprint work to life and helps make our communities such fantastic process in 2015, and it now includes the impacts of places to live. I thank our employees for their efforts and for airline travel. Our revised eco-footprint methodolody keeping our promise to design with community in mind. has established new benchmarks which we will assess performance against at the end of 2016. Bob Gomes President & CEO Stantec Inc. 7 2015 Highlights and Recognition Highlights Third-Party Recognition Donated approximately 1% of pre-tax profits to charity Held our third annual Stantec in the Community Day— approximately 7,300 employees from 80 offices #14 in Best 50 Corporate across the Company volunteered their time Citizens in Canada Achieved a 13.7% increase in gross revenue and a 3.9% increase in EBITDA over 2014 Ranked on the Canadian Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for the sixth consecutive year 120+ Stantec professionals have their Envision Sustainability Professional (ENV SP) credential #2 in Top Green Building (approximately 20 added in 2015) Architecture Firms by Building Design + Construction (BD+C) Successfully completed the first two Envision-certified projects in Canada We have memberships in the following national and international organizations 9th consecutive year listed which support sustainability: on the Jantzi Social Index United States Green Building Council Canadian Green Building Council Building Owners and Managers Association Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure International Standards Organization 6th consecutive year on Habitat for Humanity CDP’s Canadian Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index Architecture, Construction and Engineering Catalyst #17 in the Top 100 Green Buildings Design Firms by Engineering News-Record (ENR) 8 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report To learn more about our creative and caring people, visit stantec.com. Stantec Inc. 9 We designed a resilient sustainability strategy. Sustainability is no longer a differentiator but an To increase our commitment to sustainability, expectation. One of our core values—we do what in 2015, Stantec joined the United Nations Global is right—sums up our approach to sustainability. Compact, which brings together businesses By following policies and practices and holding that are committed to aligning their strategies true to our promise to design with community and operations around 10 universally accepted in mind, we foster a culture of health, safety, principles. These principles focus on human and sustainability for employees and other rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. stakeholders. In this Global Compact, we join more than 10,000 businesses worldwide. We have a three-year strategic planning process: a comprehensive planning year followed by The focus areas for our sustainability strategy two execution years. During the comprehensive include planning year, we develop our long-range • Health and safety performance strategy, performing a more in-depth review of the market environment and industry and • Diversity and inclusion challenging the direction of past strategic plans. • Environmental management and internal In the interim execution years, we focus on sustainability performance executing that long-range strategy. • Community engagement Historically, our strategy has consistently • Professional services provided shareholder value. During the 2015 • Economic performance comprehensive strategic planning process, we determined that the key elements of our strategy will not fundamentally change over the next three years. 10 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Targets and Progress Targets that relate to our sustainability strategy are listed in the following table: Targets for 2015 and Beyond Work In Not Progress Target Achieved Achieved On Track Extended Notes Health & Safety Reduce total recordable incident At the end of 2015, TRIR was 0.67 and TIR was 0.59. rate (TRIR) below 0.60 and total injury rate (TIR) below 0.45. Diversity Develop a Diversity and Inclusion In 2015, we used census data from our Employee (D&I) Plan—with shortand long-term Engagement Survey to formulate a Diversity and Inclusion objectives—by the end of 2015. (D&I) Plan. Two D&I councils were established in 2015. Environment Continue to review, refine, and • We choose corporate vendors that continually expand implement green purchasing their range of green products. guidelines in relevant categories. • We negotiate discounts on a list of core products that includes a number of green products. • In 2014, we switched to a new corporate office supplies vendor that simplifies online ordering of green products for our offices. Begin to track greenhouse gas (GHG) • Target was carried forward from 2013. emissions for business travel in 2014. • We mandated the use of a consolidated travel agency system in February 2014 so that we could track GHG emissions Company-wide. For 2015, we have included airline business travel in Scope 3 GHG emissions. Increase the participation rate for the In 2015, 2,453 employees participated in the Cool Cool Commute Challenge by 10% Commute Challenge—a 21% increase from 2014. each year. Energy consumption: Reduce by 5% Our revised methodology for calculating energy per capita (1.25% annual average) consumption has established a new benchmark which by the end of 2017. we will assess performance against at the end of 2016. GHG emissions: Reduce by 5% per Our revised methodology for calculating GHG emissions capita (1.25% annual average) by has established a new benchmark which we will assess the end of 2017. performance against at the end of 2016. Waste: Implement local recycling All offices audited in 2015 met or exceeded local municipal programs that align with local recycling standards. collection standards by the end of 2017. Paper use: Reduce by 10% Our revised methodology for calculating paper usage (2.5% annual average) by the has established a new benchmark which we will assess end of 2017. performance against at the end of 2016. Paper – recycled content: Increase In 2015, recycled content increased to 39.2% on a to at least 80% on a weighted weighted average basis. average basis by the end of 2017 (end of 2014, 60%; end of 2015, 70%; end of 2016, 75%). Community Engagement Donate approximately 1% of pre-tax Donated approximately 1% of pre-tax profits to charity profits to charity every year. through direct cash contributions and services in kind. Professional Services Undertake 12 projects that apply In 2015, 13+ projects across the Company were using the the Envision framework. Of these Envision framework, and 2 of these achieved Envision projects, 4 receive certification by certification. We anticipate that several projects initiated the end of 2015. in 2015 will achieve certification in 2016. Economic Become a top 10 global design firm. We focused on the following: • Using the strength of our local position to bring our Achieve a compound average world-class expertise to the communities where we live growth rate of 15% through organic and work and acquisition growth. • Driving a client-focused culture and highlighting our quality and creativity • Positioning ourselves among the top-tier service providers in the sectors and geographic locations we serve • Expanding our capabilities and geographic reach through strategic hires and acquisitions Stantec Inc. 11 We are dedicated to stakeholder engagement. Our key stakeholders—employees, clients, investors, Using a variety of tools and processes, we ask our and the communities where we live and work—play key stakeholders to focus on their relationship with a crucial role in our success and ability to achieve Stantec and identify what matters most to them. our goal of becoming a top 10 global design firm. In the next table, we highlight the ways we involved We define “key stakeholders” as those who are our key stakeholders in 2015. We have identified the either significantly impacted by our operations or material sustainability issues and determined their able to significantly impact our operations. priority based on the level of potential risk and their impact on the economic, environmental, and social To develop plans for addressing issues that are health of our organization. We based this report on materially significant—those that most impact our the priority issues and issues to track that are listed in business—we do the following: this table. • We informally and formally survey our employees • We hold an annual leadership forum • Our most senior leadership meets regularly with investors • We formally survey our clients • We produce an annual Risk Report that is updated quarterly and shared with our board of directors 12 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement Engaging Our Stakeholders Stakeholder How We Engage Priority Issues Raised How We Address Priority Issues Raised Employees • Annual employee survey Health and safety • Integrated Management System (IMS) – OHSAS 18001 (75% responded) Company-wide certification • Post-acquisition surveys • Mandatory training for all supervisors and project managers (7 surveys conducted; • Stop work authority just over 800 newly acquired employees Economic performance • Balanced leadership model and geographic diversification responded) Ethics • Core value: We do what is right • Town hall meetings • Annual mandatory training for all employees with employees • Integrity Hotline (38 offices visited; just over 3,300 employees Energy and GHG • IMS – ISO 14001 Company-wide certification participated) management Greener buildings • IMS – ISO 14001 Company-wide certification • Sustainability criteria for new offices Diversity and inclusion • Diversity and Inclusion councils (Canada and the United States) • Focused D&I strategy and metrics Clients • Regularly scheduled client Project execution and • Project Management Framework meetings through the quality • IMS – ISO 9001 Company-wide certification Account Management program (458 clients in Services – Integrated • 120+ trained Envision Sustainability Professionals (ENV SPs) the program) Sustainable Infrastructure • Client surveys and Envision (267 conducted) Ethics • Core value: We do what is right • Supplier questionnaires • Annual mandatory training for all employees • New executive vice • Integrity Hotline president (EVP) role— chief business officer Health and safety • IMS – OHSAS 18001 Company-wide certification (CBO); the CBO oversees account management Energy and GHG • IMS – ISO 14001 Company-wide certification and client development management • Sustainability criteria for new offices Compliance with health, • IMS – OHSAS 18001 Company-wide certification safety, and environment • IMS – ISO 14001 Company-wide certification regulations Investors • Annual General Meeting Boardand executive-level • Quarterly compliance certificates for board of directors • Quarterly investor updates engagement and oversight meetings • Meetings with investors (156) Economic performance • Balanced leadership model and geographic diversification • Investor conferences (9) Growth • Acquisition strategy • Online survey to gather • Talent management strategy feedback about the previous year’s Operational effectiveness • Business Continuity Management Sustainability Report • IT Disaster Recovery Plan • Enterprise Risk Management Framework • Pandemic Plan • Crisis Communications Plan • IMS Ethics • Core value: We do what is right • Annual mandatory training for all regular and contract employees • Integrity Hotline Water scarcity • Issue to track (emerging issue) Communities • Stantec in the Community Varies, though some overall Day (more than 7,000 issues have been identified, employees from 80 offices including the following: participated) • Access to cost-effective • Participation in local United Way campaigns and safe shelter • Contributions to Oxfam • Improved food security • Contributions to Oxfam • Clean environment • Our design work • Various environmental projects undertaken during Stantec in the Community Day • Access to education • Stantec-sponsored scholarships • ACE Mentor Program • Aboriginal partnerships (8) • Work experience • Aboriginal partnerships • Education • Scholarships Stantec Inc. 13 We put people first. Our people remain at the core of what we do. We want our employees to succeed, however they define it—from accomplishing stimulating, challenging work to becoming leaders in their fields and communities. We are committed to supporting, fostering, and investing in individual success through a culture of opportunity, mentorship, and innovation. 14 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Stantec is certified to OHSAS 18001, an internationally Also in 2015, we formally implemented a subcontractor recognized consensus standard for health and safety prequalification process to confirm that organizations and management. This helps our Company individuals who will be conducting work for Stantec meet or exceed the health, safety, quality, and environment • Provide for the occupational health and safety expectations set by our clients, our industry, and our of our employees organization. Account managers and project managers • Monitor compliance with safety regulations discuss their HSE needs with clients when prequalifying them • Advance safety performance commitments that and when services are delivered. are consistent with Stantec’s Health, Safety & The total recordable incident rate (TRIR) includes injuries Environment (HSE) Policy and illnesses as defined by the Occupational Safety and The scope of our certified Occupational Health & Safety Health Administration (OSHA). At the end of 2015, Stantec’s Management System (OHSMS) includes all operations TRIR was 0.67, an increase of just over 8% since the end of at Stantec’s owned and leased facilities and properties 2014; however, our injury severity rate has steadily improved (including labs) and all field and professional services. over the past 12 months. We continue to monitor our The OHSMS is reviewed and its scope is expanded annually; TRIR and report it to our internal and external stakeholders. our goal is to continually improve our safety performance. Please refer to Appendix C for a breakdown of our health and safety statistics by region and gender. Because Stantec is committed to attaining and maintaining an incidentand injury-free environment, we will continue Based on Stantec’s injury statistics for 2015, our 2016 to implement programs designed to protect our health, Incident Prevention Program will focus on “struck by” safety, and environment. At Stantec, we do what is right. hazard prevention; hand safety; slips, trips, and falls; Unsafe work—even if urgent—should never be performed as well as safe lifting and materials handling. by our employees and contractors. Work should be done Stantec received a stop work order on June 11, 2015; safely and with environmental stewardship in mind. improvements to a traffic protection plan were required All Stantec employees are responsible and authorized to for a site where work had already been completed. stop work immediately if they become aware of an unsafe Most important, no injuries were incurred, and Stantec behavior or condition that could place anyone in danger. cooperated fully with the Ministry of Labour by providing To help ensure the safety of employees and contractors, an improved traffic protection plan. The stop work order we implement an HSE Risk Management Strategy for was then lifted. every project that involves field work. Our regional HSE Regrettably, a Stantec employee was fatally struck by professionals are available to support employees in all a vehicle while crossing a road on foot in October 2015. Stantec offices. An OSHA investigation resulted in no orders or citations Stantec empowers its leaders—from those in our against Stantec. Executive Leadership Team to regional and business After the close of the investigation, leaders to project managers—to take responsibility for keeping our employees safe and to build a health and • Leadership delivered a Stantec-wide Safety Pause safety culture that is consistent with the first of our four using video messaging from our chief operating officer. core values: we put people first. To further reinforce our • We shared HSE lessons learned with employees commitment to health, safety, and the environment, throughout the organization, clients, and partners using in 2015, we hired a new vice president of Health, Safety various methods: we gave presentations and discussions & Environment (HSE) who reports directly to our chief and posted Lessons Learned bulletins in offices. operating officer. • Stantec reviewed and assessed current programs In late 2015, we added professionals from Environmental and training practices relating to work zone safety. Services, Mining, and Oil & Gas to our corporate HSE team. As a result, steps were taken to prevent “struck by” This expanded team of health and safety professionals hazards in all aspects of our business. The resulting helps leadership achieve our safety metrics at all education program focuses on traffic management, organizational levels. working around roadways, working around mobile equipment in a construction setting, rail safety, and personal protective equipment. The review and assessment have helped us identify opportunities for continuous improvement. Stantec Inc. 15 Diversity and Inclusion We create opportunity by inviting, embracing, and In 2015, we undertook a comprehensive census and survey celebrating differences. that went out to all employees with our annual employee survey. The demographic information obtained led to the At Stantec, we believe that diversity and inclusion (D&I) development of a current-state assessment analysis, which, means creating opportunity by inviting, embracing, and in turn, led to the development of our D&I Plan. celebrating differences. We focus on supporting, fostering, and investing in each employee’s success through a As part of our plan, we established two Diversity and culture of opportunity, equity, development, diversity, Inclusion councils in 2015—in Canada and the United and innovation. States. Both councils met in September and October 2015 to receive training. The councils have set up subcommittees Our mission is to shape the diversity of our workforce, to work on an array of D&I initiatives for the Company, equitably and inclusively, across differences. Committed including women in leadership and aboriginal awareness. to our mission, we strive to foster a workplace where employees are valued based on their abilities, talent, As a US government contractor, Stantec has program and potential. This mission helps us meet the needs of and reporting obligations under Executive Order 11246, our employees, clients, suppliers, shareholders, and Section 503, of the Rehabilitation Act and the Vietnam Era communities; is supported throughout our organization; Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act (VEVRAA). In 2015, and is reflected in our value statements: we put people Stantec developed 58 affirmative action plans to provide first, we are better together, we do what is right, and protection to women, minorities, individuals with disabilities, we are driven to achieve. and certain classifications of veterans. Global Workforce by Region, Gender, and Employee Type for 2015 16,000 16,000 14,000 14,000 12,000 12,000 10,000 10,000 8,000 8,000 6,000 6,000 4,000 4,000 2,000 2,000 0 0 Fulland Casual Employee Contractors Total by Grand Part-Time and Total (Non-Employees) Gender Total Regular Temporary (including (including Contractors) Contractors) Employees Employees Canada United States International Canada United States International 16 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Our next steps will involve Global Workforce by Age Group and Gender for 2014 and 2015 • Creating more awareness across the Company about the importance of diversity and inclusion • Providing training and education to highlight the 2014 effects of unconscious bias, giving employees the tools and techniques to help them contribute to a more inclusive environment • Enhancing resources and support systems to improve diversity and inclusion outcomes Our Workforce At Stantec, we put people first by continually looking for ways to improve the working lives of our employees. At the end of 2015, 14,870 regular employees worked Age: for Stantec (13,964 full and part time; 906 casual and Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 temporary). Including contract employees, the total is 15,246. All employees on leave at year end are included in our total employee count in this report but were not included in our 2015 Annual Report. 66% 34% The diversity and demographics of our workforce can shift significantly over time due to new acquisitions. Part of our workforce planning strategy involves tracking various demographics to measure our progress and to put initiatives in place. 2015 In Canada, Stantec participates in the Employment Equity Program administered by the federal government. In the United States, Stantec complies with the guidelines of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and the Affirmative Action Plan and all applicable federal, state, and local laws that govern the hiring and treatment of employees. Globally, we track the age and gender of our workforce. In Canada, we closely track the percentage of our workforce by four employee categories: gender, visible minorities, aboriginal peoples, and persons with disabilities. Age: Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Details are presented on page 19. Stantec understands and appreciates the work ahead of us to continue to improve these statistics. In the United States, we closely track the percentage of our 67% 33% workforce by four employee categories: gender, veteran status, people with disabilities, and ethnic origin. Details are presented on page 19. Stantec Inc. 17 At Stantec, we build stronger communities by focusing on clients, creativity, and community. 18 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Canadian Workforce by Gender and by Visible Minorities, Aboriginal Peoples, 20% and Persons with Disabilities for 2014 and 2015 2014 2015 15% 10% 5% 36.2% 33.5% 63.8% 66.5% 0 Visible Aboriginal Persons Minorities Peoples with Disabilties 100% US Workforce by Gender and by Veteran Status, People with Disabilities, and Ethnic Origins for 2014 and 2015 90% 2014 2015 80% 20% 70% 60% 50% 15% 40% 30% 30.8% 10% 20% 69.2% 10% 0 5% 2014 2015 0 Veteran People American Asian Black or Two or Hawaiian Hispanic Status with Indian or African more Native / or Latino Disabilties Alaskan American races Other Native Pacific 30.9% Islander 69.1% Stantec Inc. 19 Learning and Development With the strong and ongoing support of our organization, Career Development employees can maintain and develop their skills, learn and Our annual career development planning process helps adapt to change, and develop their careers at every level. our people set clearly defined goals and objectives. To increase our employees’ personal and organizational Employees, with assistance from their supervisors, can effectiveness, we provide various formal and informal measure their contributions and achievements through learning opportunities: internal training courses; eLearning; assessments and reviews. One-on-one sessions help opportunities to attend conferences, seminars, and events; fine-tune individual contributions, identify career professional memberships; tuition assistance; coaching and development and training opportunities, and establish mentoring programs; and on-the-job training. strategic performance objectives. Stantec’s career streams help employees define their As a formal part of the Career Development Performance career path, whether it is in business management, project Review (CDPR) process each fall, employees define a management, or technical skills development (to become specific career development path with the assistance of a subject-matter expert). All streams are equally important their supervisors. A total of 98.9% of our eligible workforce and are designed for career management based on each completed CDPRs in 2015. employee’s unique skills and preferences. Additionally, all Stantec leaders participate in our succession planning program. Each leader develops a succession plan that includes identifying potential candidates and developing plans to prepare the candidates for advanced roles and duties. The chief executive officer and board of directors work together on executive-level succession planning. CDPR Completion Rates and Average Number of Training Hours by Gender and Employment Category (EEOG) for 2014 and 2015 CDPR Completion Rate Average Training Hours per Employee 2014 2015 % Difference 2014 2015 % Difference Female 99.6% 98.8% -0.8% 27.5 27.2 -1.1% Male 99.6% 99.0% -0.6% 30.0 30.9 3.1% Senior managers 100.0% 96.6% -3.4% 15.0 23.4 55.9% Middle and other managers 99.7% 98.6% -1.1% 24.8 25.3 1.9% Professionals 99.5% 99.2% -0.4% 31.6 32.3 2.3% Semiprofessionals and technicians 99.7% 98.9% -0.8% 30.8 28.3 -8.2% Administrative and senior clerical personnel 99.4% 98.5% -1.0% 12.3 14.8 20.7% Clerical personnel 99.3% 98.3% -1.0% 39.2 28.1 -28.4% Skilled sales and service personnel 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 10.4 10.4 0.1% Semiskilled manual workers 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 8.0 46.3 479.2% Other manual workers 100.0% N/A N/A 60.4 0.0 -100.0% Acquisition employees N/A 100.0% N/A 19.4 25.4 30.8% Total 99.6% 98.9% -0.7% 29.2 29.7 1.7% Notes: • Because Stantec is Canadian based, we use Canada’s Employment Equity Occupational Groups (EEOG) employee categories in this report. • Employees are automatically assigned to EEOG categories based on job classification. • Employees in the United States and the other countries in which we operate have been mapped to these EEOG categories. • Acquisition employees joined the organization through acquisition and had not been placed in an EEOG category at the time of reporting. 20 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Upgrading Employee Skills and Learning Strategy On-the-Job Development Individual growth and career development are Our employees learn on the job every day working essential ingredients for our success as a professional with the industry’s best professional leaders and services firm. As we develop our learning strategy, we technical specialists on work that varies from small consider the entire employee experience at Stantec, community-focused initiatives to large ongoing and from onboarding to retirement. multifaceted projects. New Employee Onboarding Global Opportunities New employees receive an enrollment package that At Stantec, our people may have the opportunity to provides information about the onboarding process, cross geographical lines to take on new challenges the Company, benefits, and taxation. Offered to all with teams across Canada and the United States, employees, our new-employee orientation training Caribbean, United Kingdom, and Middle East. focuses on Coaching And Mentoring • Our core values Coaching and mentoring opportunities provide • Integrity and ethics Stantec employees with the guidance and support • Our Career Development and Performance to help reach their full potential. This two-way Review process relationship helps both partners gain significant • Health, safety, and environmental compliance personal and professional benefits. • General information about our Company Stantec Inc. 21 Training Programs We are proud to announce that Stantec’s Leadership Stantec employees have access to a variety of training Development Program was top-ranked in three programs, including categories: • Compliance training on topics such as ethics and • Best First Time Manager Program – #11 in the Top 15 health and safety • Best Experienced/Senior Leaders Program – • Performance management learning on topics such #10 in the Top 25 as project management, supervision, and leadership • Best Global/International Leadership Program – • Technical and professional learning on topics specific #17 in the Top 25 to discipline, sector, and business operating unit needs 2. Project Management Training Program: This In 2015, we launched a Learning Dashboard, which program, composed of three distinct boot-camp improves the tracking of course-completion dates. We have sessions, is designed to reinforce our 10-point Project developed more than a dozen new training courses, and Management Framework. We deliver this training our online core training courses have been centralized in program in person and online. In 2015, 496 employees our Learning Management System. participated in at least one of the 46 in-person sessions delivered in 22 offices across the Company; Following are some learning programs that we delivered in total, 1,257 in-person courses were completed. in 2015: An additional 775 employees completed 2,328 online courses. 1. Leadership Development Program: Stantec supports leaders at all career stages with the following training 3. Mandatory Training Program: All employees must take and development programs: our Policies and Practices course at least once during their career at Stantec and our Ethics and Code of • Emerging Leaders Program: Employees who have Conduct course every calendar year. In addition, been identified as top performers with high potential, all supervisors and project managers are required to leadership qualities, and limited experience are participate at least once in each of three health and nominated for the Emerging Leaders program. safety training programs. The 2014/15 program had 240 participants; the 2015/16 program has 174 participants across In 2015, an average of 29.7 training hours were logged 6 regions of the Company. per employee to internal and external training (including • Supervisory and Leadership Programs: attending seminars and conferences), up 1.7% from 2014 This training, based on organizational values, when the average training hours logged per employee was builds leadership capabilities around key principles 29.2. More information is shown in the table on page 20. and competencies. In 2015, 375 employees took Looking Forward 16 supervisory courses, and 166 employees took In 2016, our focus will be on the following initiatives: 8 leadership courses. • Vice President Program: This training program • Developing a comprehensive learning strategy focuses on ethics, integrity, and business with defined principles discipline practices. • Defining learning paths and options that align with HR’s talent segmentation initiatives We entered Stantec’s Leadership Development Program in the Leadership Excellence Awards • Strengthening our acquisition integration competition. This gave us an opportunity to assess training strategy for acquisition employees how our leadership program ranks among world-class • Defining requirements for our advanced Learning firms. The expert panel evaluated each organization’s Management System leadership program based on the mission, program • Translating all learning products into French purpose, design and content, and effects on the participants and organization, as well as on how the program grows and sustains leadership initiatives. 22 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Our community of project management specialists is passionate about achieving predictable and sustainable project outcomes for our clients. Stantec Inc. 23 Employee Turnover and Retention Our employee turnover rates for 2014 and 2015 are presented below. Number and Rate of New Employee Hires and Employee Turnover by Region for 2014 and 2015 Canada United States International Company-Wide (Total) 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Number of new employee hires 838 646 1,736 842 114 63 2,688 1551 Rate of new employee hires 12.2% 8.6% 36.0% 13.5% 29.9% 31.2% 20.7% 11.1% Employee turnover count 1,122 1,356 808 963 94 107 2,024 2,426 Rate of employee turnover (voluntary) 8.6% 10.4% 42.6% 18.0% Total turnover rate 16.3% 18.0% 13.9% 15.5% 29.7% 53.0% 15.6% 17.4% Note: Total turnover rate represent both voluntary and involuntary employee departures. Differences in turnover year over year and between regions may be attributed to • Escalating economic challenges in Canada and the • Divesting our India operations, which resulted in a United States that significantly impacted our Oil & Gas significantly increased turnover rate for our International and Environmental Services business lines. operations. Removing our India operations from the calculation reduces the International employee turnover count by 86—from 193 to 107. Number and Rate of New Employee Hires and Turnover, as well as Total Turnover (Total, Age, and Gender) for 2014 and 2015 Age: Under 30 Age: 30 to 50 Age: Over 50 Female Male Total 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 New employee hires 799 515 1,090 775 799 261 964 566 1,724 985 2,688 1,551 New employee 75 37 133 83 27 31 91 49 144 102 235 151 turnover New employee 9.4% 7.3% 12.2% 10.7% 3.4% 11.9% 9.4% 8.7% 8.4% 10.4% 8.7% 9.7% turnover rate Total employee 19.0% 19.8% 15.9% 17.1% 12.9% 16.5% 14.7% 17.0% 16.0% 17.6% 15.6% 17.4% turnover Notes: • New employee hires refers to employees, including acquisition employees, who joined the organization for the first time. New employee hires does not include rehires, casual and temporary workers, or contractors. • All numbers presented in the table above are as at December 31, 2015. Local expertise to solve world problems. Mark Wilson, Principal – Power, Fredericton, New Brunswick 24 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report The following table presents parental leave data for • Group Retirement Program: We offer several types 2014 and 2015. of group retirement plans that have a wide variety of investment options, including retirement savings Parental Leave Data for 2014 and 2015 plans in Canada, the United States, Barbados, and the United Kingdom that provide employer-matching Parental Leave Female Male Total contributions. We also have share purchase plans in 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Canada and the United States, and a Tax-Free Savings Number of employees 180 232 57 132 237 364 Account plan in Canada. who took parental leave We continually monitor our benefits plans, making regular enhancements so we remain competitive within our industry Number of employees 161 202 56 70 217 272 due to return to work and within each country we operate in. (in same year) after leave ends In 2015, several cost-sharing and other plan enhancements Number of employees 56 192 50 130 106 322 were made in Canada and the United States. In Canada, who returned to work effective January 1, 2015, Stantec enhanced Basic Life (in same year) after Insurance by paying 100% of the cost for coverage leave ended (equivalent to one times an employee’s base annual Number of employees 209 129 61 48 270 177 salary). We also introduced an identity (ID) theft still employed 12 months after parental leave* coverage option. * Includes only those employees who remained employed for a minimum of 12 months In the United States, Stantec continued to offer a after their return from leave. Consumer-Driven Health Plan (CDHP) and Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) Plan (the latter Compensation and Benefits offered in California only) and added a new tool, Our employees’ health and financial well-being is the Healthcare Bluebook, to educate those enrolled in focus behind our competitive, flexible benefits plans and our Health Reimbursement Account (HRA) Plan or compensation programs. Employees can use these to Health Savings Account (HSA) Plan options. make decisions about their health and wellness, retirement, and Company ownership. Dental savings were passed along to our employees through premium reductions, and we introduced full We offer a comprehensive health and wellness package Wellness Plan participation to spouses through a pilot to our employees and their eligible dependents. To program; this program allows spouses to earn additional put people first, our overall program provides access credits that are applied to their medical plan the to information, tools, and support that help employees following year. improve their physical and mental health and well-being. In Canada and the United States, our country-specific benefits plans are standard for all full-time and permanent part-time employees working at least 20 hours per week. In other countries, program eligibility is consistent with the local market. Details of some of our programs follow: • Medical, vision, and dental care: We offer comprehensive medical, vision, and dental care coverage for employees and their eligible dependents. By participating in Stantec’s voluntary wellness program, employees can access free information, tools, and support programs to help themselves and their families improve their health and well-being. • Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP): Stantec offers EFAP, a voluntary, confidential counseling and referral service available at no cost to employees and dependent members of their households. This program is designed to help with personal and work-related problems, pressures, and stresses. Stantec Inc. 25 We do what is right. A company’s reputation centers on its integrity. The way we treat our people, clients, and neighbors reflects who we are, what we believe in, and how we do our work. Our commitment to doing things right is evident in everything we do, from our health and safety culture to the professional excellence in our project work to taking responsibility for projects within our communities. 26 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Ethics, Integrity, and Anticorruption Training One of our core values—we do what is right—means we embrace the highest standards of personal and professional integrity. Our ideals are those shared by all good companies: sound governance, transparent accounting, and long-term shareholder value. Stantec’s Integrity Policy Stantec strives to conduct business in an ethical and All operations are assessed for risks related to corruption professional manner, complying with all applicable each quarter. In 2015, no corruption-related risks were laws and regulations and our internal policies. Stantec’s identified. We closely monitor the economic and political board of directors encourages employee comments conditions of the markets we serve and typically operate in and concerns relating to both financial and nonfinancial geographic locations where the risk of corruption is low. matters, including violations of applicable laws, Stantec’s Business Compliance Training Program requires regulations, and internal policies. that all employees, including contract employees, take Employees who become aware of issues relating Ethics and Code of Conduct training every year. This training to accounting, internal controls, auditing, or other helps us do what is right: comply with federal regulations financial or nonfinancial matters can report them to and requirements while we demonstrate to stakeholders the Company’s Integrity Hotline, which is managed by our commitment to ethics, integrity, and safety. Numerous an independent third party. To encourage discussion topics are addressed, including code of conduct basics, about observations and concerns, complaints can be conflicts of interest, global antibribery and anticorruption, made anonymously. government contracting, harassment and discrimination, political activities, and social responsibility. For more information about Stantec’s Integrity Policy, visit Corporate Governance at www.stantec.com. Corporate Governance The integrity of a company’s board of directors sets the tone Audit and Risk Committee—are composed entirely of for its operations, and we have a strong group of qualified independent directors. The Corporate Governance and and knowledgeable directors. All board members fulfill Compensation Committee carries out performance their roles by guiding the management of the Company’s assessments of the board and its committees each business and affairs while adhering to sound corporate year and may authorize individual directors to consult governance practices. Our corporate governance model— independent advisors at the Company’s expense. in compliance with the corporate governance guidelines set out in National Policy 58-201—addresses Stantec’s Expertise practices in three major areas: stewardship, independence, At board meetings, we host management presentations and expertise. on various topics relating to Company business. Meetings are held at Stantec offices across North America so that Stewardship directors can meet local leadership. As stewards of our Company, board members participate with executive leadership in our strategic planning We regularly update our Directors’ Reference Manual, have process. As well, they periodically review management’s measures in place to confirm the financial literacy and performance while management works to meet key expertise of our Audit and Risk Committee, and provide strategic and operational objectives. The board reviews orientation and education for new directors. succession plans, particularly for the president and chief Board Composition executive officer, as well as executive compensation. Of our nine board members, two (22%) are women, seven Independence (78%) are men, all members are over 50, and no one is a We maintain a board structure in which a majority of member of a minority group. directors are independent. Each board meeting includes a Details about governance and boardand executive-level session without management present. remuneration and incentives are available in our 2015 As well, the board’s two committees—the Corporate Management Information Circular. Governance and Compensation Committee and the Stantec Inc. 27 In 2015, the board adopted a Board Diversity Policy to Board members are committed to actively pursuing gender help ensure that effective stewardship is achieved. The diversity on the board; however, when the Board Diversity board has delegated to the Corporate Governance and Policy was adopted, they did not believe that establishing Compensation Committee the responsibility of overseeing quotas or using a formulaic approach would necessarily and ensuring the implementation of this policy. result in identifying or selecting the best candidates. Accordingly, the Company does not currently have set To support the Company’s board diversity objectives fixed targets or approaches for increasing the number of when identifying and selecting candidates for election women on the board. or re-election to the board, the committee considers the following: • Board members provide the required range of perspectives, experience, and expertise • Only candidates who are highly qualified, based on their experience, functional expertise, and personal skills and qualities • Diversity criteria, including gender, age, ethnicity, At Stantec, we recognize that a disability, and geographical background of the significant part of doing what is right is candidates having the right leadership in place. • The level of representation of women on the board • Engaging qualified independent external advisors when appropriate to conduct a search for candidates who meet the board’s and the Company’s expertise, skills, and diversity criteria (in addition to our own searches for candidates) Integrated Management System Stantec’s Integrated Management System (IMS) The IMS benefits the organization by incorporates continual improvement approaches for • Aligning critical business processes with quality, environmental, occupational health and safety, strategic objectives and IT service management. Our IMS is certified by BSI Management Systems (BSI) to the following internationally • Providing a disciplined, holistic approach recognized consensus standards: to managing risks • Promoting quality outcomes in the services • Quality Management System Standard we deliver (ISO 9001: 2008) • Reducing costs by sharing management • Environmental Management System Standard processes such as internal practice audits (ISO 14001: 2004) and management reviews • Occupational Health & Safety Management System • Promoting transparent accountability with Standard (OHSAS 18001: 2007) formal performance assessments and reporting • IT Service Management System Standard • Clarifying expectations for employees (ISO/IEC 20000-1: 2011) and management The IMS provides a disciplined and accountable framework • Confirming regulatory requirements for managing risks, quality outcomes, and occupational • Facilitating formal client feedback to health, safety, and environmental compliance across the promote continual improvement Company. It covers all critical business processes. 28 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Components of Stantec's Integrated Management System (IMS) Business Planning Service Delivery • Strategic Plan • Project Management (PM) Framework • Core values Project delivery processes: • Enterprise risk 0. Proposal development (preliminary assessment project plan, scope, budget) • Carbon footprint 1. Contracting practices reduction targets (client agreements, • Business Quality Management System subconsultants, subcontractors) continuity (ISO 9001: 2008 Certified) 2. Project execution plan (scope, management project risk assessment, budget, • Policies Environmental schedule, resources) • Employee Management System 3. Record control orientation (ISO 14001: 2004 Certified) 4. Health, safety, and environmental risk assessment Occupational Health & Safety Management System 5. Project controls and PM dashboard (OHSAS 18001: 2007 Certified) 6. Scope management 7. Quality assurance checking IT Service 8. Mandatory independent review Management System 9. Project closeout (ISO/IEC 20000-1: 2011 Certified) • Regulatory compliance • Career development and performance review • Sustainability • IT management process Review and Improvement Performance Assessment • Management review • Client feedback surveys • Improvement plans • Internal practice audit • External audit Our internal practice audits assess compliance with Forward-looking Plans IMS requirements. Internal practice auditors conduct field Our primary IMS objectives for 2016 are audits in at least one-third of our offices annually and conduct audits for all offices at least once over the • Transitioning the former Dessau offices from Dessau's three-year term for each of our ISO 9001, ISO 14001, former management systems and certifications OHSAS 18001, and ISO/IEC 20000-1 registrations. In addition, to Stantec’s IMS our headquarters in Edmonton, Alberta, is audited every • Expanding the Company’s internal practice audit year because many processes that need to be audited program and combined assurance framework are centralized and managed in that office. • Exploring the creation of client advisory groups in consultation with our chief business officer and Acquired entities are also added to the scope of account managers registration once the integration process is substantially complete. In 2015, we added the following recently • Evaluating all audit results, survey results, incident acquired companies to the scope of our ISO and OHSAS notifications, and improvement plans; then developing certifications: Ashley Pryce Interior Design; Roth Hill, LLC; a project plan for consolidating them into a CompanyJDA MacKenzie Architects; and Cambria Gordon. wide Governance Risk Control application BSI is our external registrar for all of our ISO and OHSAS certifications. Each year, BSI conducts third-party compliance audits. BSI’s report, summarizing any observed noncompliances and opportunities for improvement, goes to the Company’s Executive Leadership Team. BSI spent 37.5 audit days in 12 office locations in 2015 and completed their annual recertification audit in June 2015. Stantec Inc. 29 Environment Stantec strives for least-impact approaches to its Airline Travel operations. We focus mainly on reducing energy Our corporate travel provider gave us a summary of all consumption, GHG emissions, waste generation, business air travel conducted by our employees during paper consumption, and spills (in our labs). 2015. We have used the information to quantify our Scope 3 emissions. We will continue to work with our travel In an effort to streamline our environmental footprint data provider to educate employees about least-impact air collection, we have retired the environmental footprint travel options. survey that each office completed annually. In its place, data was collected using information from a variety of Fleet Stantec’s accounts payable, real estate, travel, and Our Fleet Management group is very conscious of fleet management systems. the environmental impacts of our fleet and is working constantly to improve efficiency and reduce emissions. Because we redefined our organizational boundaries In 2015, more than 60 older vehicles were taken out of in 2015, data reported for office energy usage is not service. We purchased 16 new vehicles that offer lower comparable to previous reporting years. For reporting, emissions and better fuel economy than the older vehicles. the new baseline year for our footprint data, including paper, will be 2015. Paper In 2015, we redefined our paper reporting methodology We are also considering revising our targets for those to only include paper used internally within our control. operations where we have more influence and an In 2015, Stantec offices used the equivalent of 80,652,064 increased ability to reduce our emissions. These are sheets of 8.5 x 11 paper (about 161,304 reams), or 5,612 as follows: sheets of 8.5 x 11 paper (about 11 reams) per employee. • Airline Travel – reducing our Scope 3 emissions by (Note: A ream is 500 sheets of paper.) reducing travel when possible and influencing travel behaviors so employees select lower emissions routes Paper Use 2015 2014 when possible 8.5” x 11” sheets – Company-wide 80,652,064 100,345,099 • Fleet – improving the fuel efficiency of our vehicles Reams – Company-wide 161,304 200,690 and choosing the right vehicle for the job 8.5 x 11 sheets – Per employee 5,612 7,214 • Paper – reducing our Scope 3 emissions by using Reams – Per employee 11 14 corporate vendors whenever possible and increasing the percentage of recycled content in paper Note: All figures are rounded to the nearest whole number. In 2015, the total weighted average of post-consumer recycled-content paper used was 39.2%, a 14.7% increase from 2014, when it was 24.5%. Our use varies by regional operating unit. In 2015, the weighted average of postconsumer recycled-content paper used was 58% in Canada, 24% in the United States, and 0% internationally. We will continue our efforts to reduce paper consumption and increase the percentage of recycled-content paper used by • Converting paper filing to electronic file storage when possible • Promoting double-sided printing and electronic markup of documents and drawings • Encouraging the use of corporate vendors for all paper purchases 30 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Office and Lab Operations Greenhouse Gases Our offices are mainly leased and without separate The following gases were included in our inventory: carbon metering. Therefore, we have no control over the operation dioxide (CO2 ), nitrous oxide (N2O), methane (CH4 ), and of major building performance systems, such as HVAC and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). All are expressed in metric building envelope, or over the energy use of other tenants. tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents (mtCO2e). For these reasons, we will use a new method to quantify our In 2015, GHG emissions were 57,250 mtCO2e and office environmental footprint in 2016 and will define new per-capita GHG emissions were 4.17 mtCO2e. Emissions environmental targets for the organization. per square foot were 0.01 mtCO2e, based on the total There is no generally accepted intensity factor for Scope 1 square footage of Stantec-owned offices in 2015. emissions approved under the Climate Registry’s General Reporting Protocol v2.1; therefore, we have only reported Type of GHG Emissions mtCO2e Scope 1 data for the 30% of Stantec offices where we pay Scope 1 directly for utilities. 1,252 (direct fuel burn)* Energy Scope 1 6,701 (fleet operations) In 2015, our energy use from nonrenewable sources was 407,778 gigajoules (GJ). Per capita, this equates to Scope 2 39,629 (electricity consumed in all facilities)** 28.38 GJ per employee. Our energy use per square foot from nonrenewable sources was 0.08 GJ. Normalizing our Total – Scopes 1 and 2 47,582 data to employee counts and square footage provides Scope 3 – Business travel 8,756 us with metrics that will be comparable between years Scope 3 – Paper 912 as our organization grows and evolves. Total – Scope 3 9,668 Scope 2015 (Baseline) Total – All Scopes 57,250 Scope 1 13,970 Note: All figures are rounded to the nearest whole number. (direct fuel burn)* * Scope 1 direct fuel burn in offices is reported only for the 30% of offices where activity Scope 1 data could be obtained through Accounts Payable. 50,309 (fleet operations) ** Scope 2 electricity consumed in all facilities – this figure includes 30% of offices where Scope 2 activity data could be obtained through Accounts Payable plus estimated data by 343,499 square footage for all other offices. (electricity consumed in all facilities)** Total Gigajoules (GJ) 407,778 Note: All figures are rounded to the nearest whole number. * Scope 1 direct fuel burn in offices is reported only for the 30% of offices where activity data could be obtained through Accounts Payable. ** Scope 2 electricity consumed in all facilities – this figure includes 30% of offices where activity data could be obtained through Accounts Payable plus estimated data by square footage for all other offices. Our wetland professionals have completed thousands of wetland delineations to help clients with project planning and regulatory approvals. We are passionate about doing what is right with less to protect our natural resources and to leverage sustainable solutions. Stantec Inc. 31 We are better together. Strong, long-lasting relationships directly impact the success of our employees, clients, projects, and communities. We will reach our full potential as an organization and as trusted advisors for our clients only when we combine our unique strengths and passion. 32 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Community Engagement We Give with Community on Our Minds Oxfam and the ACE Mentor Program We aim to make a difference in the places where we live Oxfam and the ACE Mentor Program are two organizations and work. By donating, sponsoring, and volunteering, we that exemplify our commitment to our communities. connect with our communities and strengthen them in meaningful ways. With offices worldwide, our support is Oxfam spread across the globe. But making a difference is not just We help communities bounce back from disasters. When about where we give; it is also about how we give. emergencies hit, the best chance to save lives is during the days immediately after. So each year, Stantec donates We target donating 1% of our annual pre-tax profits— C$50,000 to Oxfam’s disaster and emergency relief efforts. through direct cash contributions and services in kind— At Stantec, we believe that the capacity to respond to charitable and not-for-profit endeavors in the arts and immediately is critical to building resilient communities. in education, environment, and health and wellness. Over the years, we have supported diverse initiatives in these ACE Mentor Program focus areas, and we continue to help strengthen our We have the future of our communities in mind. The communities through them. architects, contractors, and engineers in school now will • Arts: Every thriving community has a vibrant arts scene. be the stewards of that future—and our responsibility today We contribute to it by supporting visual and performing is to prepare them for tomorrow. arts organizations, museums, art education programs, Stantec supports the ACE Mentor Program—an education symphonies, and public media. initiative that uses a direct, hands-on approach to • Education: We support youth in their pursuit of higher introduce high school students to the world of building and education through scholarships and educational design. Through this program, students partner with Stantec programs. We also partner with schools and businesses mentors to develop a real project in a discipline of the to help students pursue education and training in students’ choice. design disciplines. • Environment: Our support for the environment is Employee Giving focused on programs that promote sustainable In addition to our corporate commitment to give 1% of development, environmental responsibility, energy our annual pre-tax profits, we also organize corporate efficiency, air quality, and climate change. volunteer opportunities and encourage our employees to give personally. • Health and Wellness: We focus on supporting credible and recognized health charities, including national, Stantec in the Community Day provincial, and state charitable health organizations, On September 15, 2015, over 7,000 Stantec employees regional hospitals, and health centers. from 80 offices participated in our third annual Stantec in the Community Day. On this day, we support our employees to volunteer in their communities, whether that means repairing a waterway, planting foliage, harvesting vegetables, or solving flooding and water infrastructure challenges. We launched Stantec in the Community Day in 2013 to give back to the communities that support our clients, Company, employees, and families. As professionals and as volunteers, we commit to our communities yearround in various ways. Uniting our people on Stantec in the Community Day is powerful: it emphasizes the vital difference we make in our communities. Some highlights from the day follow: • Mt. Laurel, New Jersey: As part of the Camden SMART Initiative, a green stormwater infrastructure project, our team planted a rain garden—1,236 trees and shrubs of 18 varieties—at Union Field. • Sarasota, Florida: A bucket brigade 40 people long created new habitat for over 300 species, including oysters, at Robinson Preserve. Stantec Inc. 33 • Red Deer, Alberta: In the weeks before Stantec in Stantec Scholarships the Community Day, this office raised awareness, In 2011, we created a scholarship program in honor of contributed food, and donated money for the our former president and chair of the board of directors, Red Deer and District Food Bank. On Stantec in the Ron Triffo. This scholarship recognizes the achievements of Community Day, we delivered approximately 3,630 children and other dependents of Stantec employees. kilograms (8,000 pounds) of food and $7,900 in cash in one jam-packed truck. As we grow, we create communities in more and more locations. Our commitment to the people and places we Stantec employees enthusiastically shared their Stantec serve should reflect that growth. Starting in 2016, we are in the Community Day experiences on Twitter using the evolving our scholarship program to celebrate and reward hashtag #StantecInTheCommunity, and they proudly wore more young people. Rather than giving one scholarship of their red volunteer T-shirts. $5,000, we will give four scholarships of $2,500 each through the new Stantec Scholarship. Stantec in the Community Day is a celebration of our diverse communities that shows us all why we are These Stantec Scholarships will be awarded to better together. undergraduate and graduate students up to age 25 attending programs at colleges and universities, as well Dollars for Doers as vocational and technical schools. Two of the We encourage our employees to personally give back to scholarships will be awarded to students enrolled in their communities through our Dollars for Doers program. science, technology, engineering, or math disciplines; We reward our employees who volunteer personal time the other two will be awarded to students enrolled in to local charities by boosting the value of their charitable business-related or general higher education programs. contribution with a cash donation from Stantec. Students on Ice Expedition Scholarship Feed the Need The Students on Ice Foundation educates the world’s In December 2015, 84 offices participated in the Feed the youth about the importance of the polar regions, supports Need initiative. Feed the Need collected and donated them in their continued personal and professional growth, 14,190 food items and donated C$35,400 to local food and inspires and catalyzes initiatives that contribute to banks and other charitable organizations. global sustainability. Iqaluit’s Robert Comeau is the recipient of Stantec’s 2015 Students on Ice Expedition Scholarship. On July 27, 2015, Robert joined 100 youth from around the world on an Arctic expedition—beginning in Ottawa and ending in Resolute Bay—with elders, educators, artists, dignitaries, and innovators. “Students on Ice will help me see beyond my own community and further understand the connection between myself, the land, and my culture,” says scholarship recipient Robert Comeau. “Participating in the Students on Ice Expedition is something that I have wanted to do for a number of years, and I am so excited to depart on this journey next week.” Stantec’s promise is action not words. Eva Lutz, Administrative Assistant, Reno, Nevada 34 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Partnerships When we commit to the principles of sustainable development, we attract and retain the best partners, clients, and talent. We support the development and strengthening of the skills, abilities, and processes required to thrive in a fast-changing world through employment, Aboriginal Partnership: CRE-Stantec training, direct investment, and a commitment to community initiatives. CRE-Stantec, established in 2013, is a partnership between Christina River Enterprises (CRE), the Sustainable development in northern Canada requires economic development office of Fort McMurray a commitment to and understanding of aboriginal #468 First Nation (FM#468FN), and Stantec Consulting cultures, as well as an understanding of the economic, Ltd. CRE is solely owned by FM#468FN and has been environmental, and social conditions in the North. Stantec delivering quality services and workmanship to the has been creating successful aboriginal partnerships since resource development industries since 1987. 2000. Now, Stantec is the minority partner in eight aboriginal partnerships across Canada’s North. For more information, CRE-Stantec brings together the local presence and visit Aboriginal Partnerships on www.stantec.com. experience of CRE and the technical capabilities and experience of Stantec to deliver a full suite of In 2015, we designated C$35,000 to community environmental and other consulting services to clients engagement activities relating to our aboriginal throughout the municipality of Wood Buffalo, Alberta, partnerships. This investment was allocated to local while providing employment, training, and investment community programs that focused on education, in the local community. culture, and health. C ST A UD SE Y Indigenous Partnership Development Program Stantec is the title sponsor for the inaugural Indigenous This program helps nonindigenous public sector and Partnership Development Program. We have an business leaders work alongside indigenous communities agreement with the University of Alberta to be the title more effectively and with greater understanding. sponsor from 2015 to 2020. This program aims to strengthen coalitions within Alberta and beyond. During each learning experience, indigenous and nonindigenous leaders can discuss key issues, establish a shared knowledge of history, and engage in conversations about how to move forward into the future. Meeting these objectives makes this program transformational: it creates positive change within the province of Alberta. Stantec Inc. 35 Partnerships for Success In the United States, we are Stantec works with various partners to promote • A member of the Equal Employment Advisory Council opportunities for engaging with and recruiting women, (EEAC), a nonprofit association providing guidance to members of visible minorities, aboriginal peoples, and member companies regarding their Equal Employment persons with disabilities in Canada, and engaging with and Opportunity and Affirmative Action plans recruiting women, veterans, people with disabilities, and people with diverse ethnic origins in the United States. • Corporate sponsors of the ACE (architecture, construction, and engineering) Mentor Program; In North America, we are a member of Catalyst, an Stantec employees provide mentoring to high school organization that is developing and improving the ways to students across the United States recruit, retain, and advance women in the workplace. • Currently recruiting through organizations such as We are members of and a sponsor of Commercial Real the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), Estate Women (CREW), a national organization with the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), the more than 9,500 members across more than 70 chapters Society of Women Engineers (SWE), and Women’s throughout Canada and the United States. CREW’s Transportation Seminar (WTS) mission is to influence the success of the commercial • Actively involved with the National Organization of real estate industry by advancing the achievements Minority Architects (NOMA) and Latinos in Architecture of women. (LiA), a subset of the American Institute of Architects (AIA), as well as a sponsor of the AIA’s Equity by Design In Canada, we are Project (The Missing 32%), a national effort looking at • Employing people with disabilities through the Partners the diminishing representation of women in the industry for Workplace Inclusion Program (PWIP) developed by the Canadian Council on Rehabilitation and Work (CCRW) and funded by the Government of Canada’s Opportunities Fund for Persons with Disabilities • Employing people with special or different needs and abilities for administrative assistant support roles through Stantec’s Partnership with ECO Canada the Saskatchewan Abilities Council (SAC) For the past several years, we have partnered with the • Actively participating in many initiatives run by the ECO Canada BEAHR (Building Environmental Aboriginal Edmonton Region Immigrant Employment Council Human Resources) Program to develop culturally (ERIEC), including Speed Career Networking, Smart relevant, skills-based environmental training programs Connections, and Career Mentorship programs for aboriginal participants. We have delivered BEAHR • Participating in events and career fairs put on by programs in Rankin Inlet, Nunavut (2012), and Fort Women in Scholarship, Engineering, Science & McMurray, Alberta (2014). Technology (WISEST), a unit of the University of Alberta Delivered in the participants’ communities, BEAHR that encourages women and diverse voices in the programs provide participants with practical fields of engineering, science, and technology environmental field experience that is integrated with • Partaking in the Canadian Coalition for Women aboriginal culture and local knowledge. Participants in Engineering, Science, Trades and Technology learn how to use this integrated knowledge to identify, (CCWESTT) conference recognize, and record natural changes. They can then • Members of various Women in Engineering (WIE) translate these changes into information that can be committees used to protect the environment. Drawing on years of experience working with communities, our ECO-certified trainers deliver programs that help these communities grow their technical capacity. They teach relevant skills so that after graduating, aboriginal participants can build careers that focus on the environment. These trainers recognize that the communities have their own rich resource of relevant knowledge, called “traditional ecological knowledge.” As a result, community Elders share traditional wisdom with students as part of the BEAHR program. 36 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Supplier Diversity In the United States, our proportional contract value Stantec performs services for numerous US federal, with small businesses and small disadvantaged state, and municipal clients. We are committed to businesses was 13.4% (US$55.5 million) in 2013 and providing opportunities to all businesses, including 13.8% (US$49.2 million) in 2014. Our proportional those that fall within various categories of small and spend continues to increase; in 2015, it was 15.4% diverse businesses. (US$70.9 million). Stantec Inc. 37 We are driven to achieve. Achievement at every level begins and ends with a firm commitment to being the best we can be. We are committed to being a top 10 global design firm. To achieve this objective, we recognize our key challenge is to maintain the stability and strength of our local relationships while balancing the management of growth projections. 38 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Environmental and Sustainability Services Stantec is a recognized leader in environmental design C ST A and consulting. We provide a wide range of environmental UD SE Y and sustainability services: preparation of complex permit applications; site monitoring during construction; design of decommissioning plans; environmental assessments and technical support for projects requiring municipal, ASAP III – New Alberta Schools: provincial, state, or federal environmental approvals and A LEED Project in Central and Southern Alberta licenses; greenhouse gas (GHG) validation and verification; To support the education of 7,700 future Alberta ecosystem and land reclamation; environmental students across 12 new schools, we drew on risk assessments; strategic sustainability consulting; our collective expertise in school builds and environmental accounting; and climate change risk modernizations. We provided architecture and assessment and planning. engineering solutions, creating bright, fun, and We also continue to be leaders in the sustainable design of comfortable mini-communities for Alberta’s students. buildings and communities through progressive energy and Taking a proactive, locally focused approach, we building information modeling, net-zero energy, Envision, set up teams in offices near the building sites, which BOMA BEST, Green Globes, and Leadership in Energy and helped us deliver timely and responsive designs. Environmental Design (LEED) projects. We included energy-efficient design which Sustainable Solutions by the Numbers minimizes environmental impacts. We incorporated • Approximately 710 Stantec LEED-accredited high-efficiency heating plants that reduce energy employees at the end of 2015 consumption. And because they reduce the • Approximately 380 LEED-registered projects and circulation of airborne germs and bacteria, indoor air 375 LEED-certified projects to date quality is improved, thereby decreasing absenteeism due to illness. • 10 net-zero projects to date • In 2015, Stantec led 10 new BOMA BEST projects For each school, the key sustainability and innovative features included • Stantec selected to redevelop BOMA Canada’s BOMA BEST programming in 2015; the new version— • Reducing water usage by 30% to 35% BOMA BEST Version 3—is expected to be launched • Reducing energy consumption, which cut costs in late 2016 by 37% to 61% • 120+ Envision Sustainability Professionals (ENV SPs) • Diverting 65% to 94% of waste from landfills across North America during the construction process • 5 Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure(ISI-) approved • Reducing the number of parking stalls to Envision trainers and 4 Envision verifiers at the end encourage alternate sources of transportation, of 2015 such as carpooling and public transit; this • 13+ projects incorporating the Envision Sustainable diminishes negative impacts on the environment Infrastructure Framework since 2012, with 2 of these projects achieving Envision certification in 2015 The ASAP III project is pursuing LEED Silver Certification under LEED Canada NC 2009. We’re building spaces that will heal. Abhishek Gupta, Manager – Architecture & Interior, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Stantec Inc. 39 Designing with Community in Mind A significant part of Stantec’s business is designing C ST A infrastructure. Integrated Sustainable Infrastructure UD SE Y integrates life-cycle environmental, social, and economic factors into the decision-making process for infrastructure development. Port Metro Vancouver Low Level Road The Envision Sustainable Infrastructure Framework and (Vancouver, British Columbia) Rating System is a proven approach to planning and evaluating infrastructure projects and rating them against When a challenging project is complete, celebration the needs and values of the community. The system is always in order. Such is the case with Port Metro Vancouver’s remarkable $100-million Low Level Road • Evaluates the environmental, social, and economic project, featuring Stantec as the design lead. This was benefits of all types and sizes of infrastructure projects, the first transportation project to receive the Envisionincluding roads, bridges, wastewater treatment plants, verified Sustainable Infrastructure Rating System’s and recreational facilities Platinum Award from the Institute for Sustainable • Gives infrastructure owners, design teams, community Infrastructure (ISI) in September 2015. groups, environmental organizations, planners, regulators, constructors, and policy makers a consistent, objective, and holistic infrastructure planning and design tool Continuing to invest in and use Envision remains a strategic priority for Stantec. C ST A UD SE Y West Five Community (London, Ontario) This community needed to be different. To shift the paradigm away from single-family homes and strip malls, it needed to be a place with walkability, bikeability, and transit, thereby reducing traffic impacts and promoting The project involved realigning and elevating a healthy and sustainable lifestyle. approximately 2.6 kilometres (1.6 miles) of the Low Level Road in North Vancouver, British Columbia. The West Five community in London, Ontario, was The project was designed to enhance rail and port designed with community in mind. Our plan focused on operations as international trade continues to grow by a park-once-and-walk approach for drivers. This did not providing space for two new rail tracks. The project also mean signature pedestrian spaces only; it also meant eliminated three existing road and rail crossings and strong connections between neighborhood features. provided direct access to major port terminals. Our robust, multimodal strategy—using housing and job density to encourage non-vehicular traffic—was the key Our design addressed safety, congestion, recreation, to creating this highly livable community. and noise challenges associated with port operations along the road, including improving lanes for cyclists We carefully integrated open space and opportunities and reconfiguring three intersections. Highlights of for retail, restaurants, community facilities, and the this landmark project include continuing the Spirit Trail neighborhood coffee shop, those extra places where pedestrian walkway, adding structures over two creeks neighbors build bonds through shared experiences. and an overpass, incorporating First Nations’ artwork, Using Envision guidelines, we worked to incorporate and re-establishing native species. energy-saving initiatives and craft solutions that fit geography, uses, climate, and regional culture View the project video here: to create a one-of-a-kind place that many now http://www.stantec.com/our-work/projects/ call “home.” canada-projects/l/low-level-road.html 40 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Climate Change Adaptation and In 2015, Stantec launched a new business initiative— Greenhouse Gas Management to advance resilience across the globe—by uniting our Stantec’s team of environmental scientists and engineering work in creating urban, infrastructure, environment, and professionals offers practical solutions to climate change. quality-of-life improvements. With an increasing commitment to reducing global Stantec works with global publicand private-sector greenhouse gas emissions, our clients are recognizing how clients to assess climate change risks, develop adaptive these solutions may affect their business and what strategic strategies, promote climate-resilient decision making, and actions they should be taking. build capacity to manage climate risks. Using geographic Stantec continues to stay current on all climate change information systems (GIS) modeling, the Envision Sustainable policies and programs, and works with clients to assess and Infrastructure Framework, and a life-cycle cost analysis, we manage the impact of these regulatory changes. With this provide our clients with the information they need to make information, we work with our clients to make informed informed, valuable, long-term, and adaptive planning decisions regarding their future direction when dealing with decisions for their communities. climate change and to plan and implement strategies, Our key resilience and planning services follow: including those within an ISO framework, that relate to any number of discrete or interrelated impacts, such as • Resilience and Disaster Planning: We constantly the following: research and work together to innovate, develop, and integrate proactive plans for the future, while • Sea-level rise and shoreline erosion discovering solutions that help make our communities • Floods, droughts, and wildfires more resilient. Our work involves the following: • Air and water quality degradation • Risk and vulnerability assessments • Greenhouse gas (GHG) generation • Risk mitigation planning • Ecosystem and natural resource deterioration • Adaptation plan integration and implementation • Energy supply, demand, and delivery systems • Ecosystem analysis and modeling Our GHG Management services help organizations • Program and grant writing assistance benchmark, manage, and verify their GHG emissions. • Stakeholder engagement Stantec professionals guide clients through each step of a multifaceted process that addresses some or all of • Urban Planning: We are helping dozens of communities the following: across the globe chart a path to improved livability, equity, and resilience. We can help with the following: • GHG emission inventory development • Walkable downtowns • GHG reduction strategy and process development • Greenways and urban trails • GHG risk and opportunity assessment • Seawalls and causeways for flood protection • Environmental impact assessment • Transit-oriented development • GHG strategic management plans • Low-impact development (LID) • Sustainability audits and planning • Affordable housing • Climate change mitigation planning Our resilience experts help our communities plan and make • Vulnerability assessments and adaptation strategies strategic investments to become more climate resilient. Resilience Services As part of the Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD’s), Extreme weather events like hurricanes Katrina, Irene, National Disaster Resilience Competition, Stantec helped and Sandy, and last year’s South Carolina flooding—plus our clients secure more than $225 million in grant money droughts, economic downturns, infrastructure decay, aging that will help make their communities stronger, more populations, hackers, earthquakes, terrorism, and more— resilient, and better prepared for future natural disasters. draw our attention to a growing movement in architecture We are supporting the Federal Emergency Management and engineering: resilience. Agency (FEMA) in mapping the climate risk for over 4,500 miles of coastline. For the New York State Governor’s So what do we talk about when we talk about resilience? Office of Storm Recovery, we are leading a US$125 million We believe that resilience is the capacity of communities three-year effort to manage the Rebuild by Design: Living to endure, adapt, and thrive, regardless of chronic stresses with the Bay Project, which provides a comprehensive and life-altering shocks. suite of resiliency interventions for communities hit hard by Hurricane Sandy. Stantec Inc. 41 C ST A UD SE Y Pier 4 Apartment Building (Boston, Massachusetts) Increasing resiliency in the places we live and work Our designers—keenly aware of the site’s proximity to is one way Stantec designs with community in mind. Boston Harbor—designed with resilience in mind. Our Resilient neighborhoods promote walking, support energy design elevated the first floor above the 100-year flood efficiency, increase green space, and create meeting level, called for an 18-inch concrete wall to surround areas where neighbors connect and build relationships. the building, and safeguarded critical mechanical and electrical systems by locating them on the second floor. A number of resilience goals were met when we designed Pier 4 in Boston’s Seaport District, a vibrant, walkable All in all, the building is designed to resist a threeto 24-hour community. Well-appointed common spaces and six-foot surge of water above the 100-year flood level. pet-friendly areas promote a neighborhood experience that balances everyday comfort with hardy safeguards. C ST A UD SE Y Stamford Master Plan (Stamford, Connecticut) A city’s master plan covers a range of issues—from and energy. The chapter provides guidance on land use and economic development to housing and sustainable development patterns and policy changes, transportation. But today, there’s an added challenge: which will help the city capitalize on advancements climate change. And for a coastal city like Stamford, in energy conservation, density integration, and the Connecticut, incorporating sustainability and resiliency connection of open spaces. into the master plan is essential. The master plan addresses resiliency issues as far ahead For the City of Stamford’s master plan, we devoted an as 2025. By encouraging more open space, shoreline entire chapter to planning for a resilient future, focusing protection, enhanced stormwater management, and on open and waterfront spaces, context-sensitive multimode transit capacity, Stamford can look to the transportation development, environmental protection, future with confidence. 42 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Creativity and Innovation At Stantec, we recognize that creativity and innovation In-house researchers can stay at the forefront of their fields are essential for us to continue being competitive in by going to Stantec’s eLibrary; online access is provided the marketplace. In 2015, we established a Creativity & to subscriptions for 5,500 technical journals, including Innovation (C&I) Program. Research and Development those specializing in sustainability. The environmental is now a subset of this new program. The intention of the impacts of hardcopy libraries are avoided when using C&I Program is twofold: Stantec’s eLibrary, which saw 20,000 paperless downloads (approximately 10 pages per download) in 2015. • To celebrate our creative and innovative work both internally and externally In some sectors, clients and Stantec employees partner to • To encourage creative and innovative thinking as a publish research papers, journal articles, and reports about key part of the value we bring to our projects, clients, scientific advances achieved or attempted while working and communities on client projects. Further details about the C&I Program will be included in our 2016 Sustainability Report. Research and Development Stantec carries out research and development (R&D) in anticipation of future client needs. R&D management is the responsibility of leadership in each Stantec business line. Support for R&D is provided by the Stantec R&D Fund, which allocates C$1 million each year in project grants to applicants (employees and project teams). Stantec values the leverage provided by engaging in collaborative research and invites applicants to the R&D Fund to secure matching funding from external partners. In 2015, Stantec R&D Fund allocations were matched by commitments of external partner funding of more than C$2 million. Stantec claims research tax credits in Canada and the United States and uses the tax savings to finance further research. Stantec’s Creativity & Innovation Program will support, encourage, In 2015, approximately 59% of the R&D Fund was allocated and celebrate the efforts of our to fund projects related to sustainability, including people to develop and apply ideas that benefit all of our stakeholders. • Developing a prototype of “smart city” technologies that monitors and analyzes the public use and environmental conditions of a new park • Examining three unique end-of-pipe approaches to reduce the temperature of warm urban runoff, which can have a significant negative impact when discharged into urban creeks and rivers • Analyzing how wind-power facilities affect peregrine falcon breeding and flight activities • Developing procedures to successfully reintroduce rare terrestrial orchid species to habitats in the Great Lakes region Design distinction, client interaction, team excellence! Rajat Shanker, Senior Associate, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Stantec Inc. 43 We’ve been profitable every year since 1954. 44 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Economic Our gross revenue increased 13.7% to $2,877.2 million GROSS REVENUE EBITDA in 2015 from $2,529.9 million in 2014. Gross revenue was positively impacted by acquisitions completed in 3,000 350 2014 and 2015 and by foreign exchange due to the weakening Canadian dollar. This was partly offset by 300 organic revenue retraction in our Energy & Resources 2,500 business operating unit. 250 In 2015, EBITDA increased 3.9% over 2014. EBITDA 2,000 was impacted by a decrease in gross margin as a percentage of net revenue and an increase in 200 administrative and marketing expenses. The increase 1,500 in administrative and marketing expenses was due in part to decreased utilization from the decline in 150 the oil and gas and mining sectors and includes an increase in severance costs and acquisition and 1,000 100 integration costs, as well as an increase in share-based compensation expense. EBITDA was also impacted by a non-operating loss related to the sale of our 500 50 India subsidiary. Net income was $156.4 million in 2015 compared 0 0 to $164.5 million in 2014, and diluted earnings per 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 share (EPS) was $1.65 in 2015 compared to $1.74 in 2014. Net income was impacted by an increase in the amortization of intangible assets related to acquisitions and software additions. These increases were partly offset by a slight reduction in our annual DILUTED EPS NET INCOME effective income tax rate, which decreased to 26.1% 180 2.0 from the 26.3% rate in 2014. Acquisitions continue to be a key part of our strategy, deepening the Company’s expertise and 150 strengthening our presence in priority markets. In 2015, 1.5 we completed six acquisitions, including the January acquisition of certain engineering assets of the 120 Dessau Group. This opened the door to more opportunities in Quebec, enabling us to offer services in all regions of Canada and serve national clients 1.0 90 wherever they operate. For more information about our financial performance, see our 2015 Annual Report. 60 0.5 30 0 0 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 EPS Diluted before Net income before All charts represent millions of Canadian dollars, except for diluted EPS. goodwill impairment goodwill impairment Diluted EPS for 2011 to 2013 have been adjusted for the November 14, 2014, EPS Diluted Net income two-for-one share split. Figures for 2012 are restated for IFRS 10 and 11. Stantec Inc. 45 Appendices 46 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Appendix A: Stantec’s Supply Chain Upstream • Leased buildings and fleet Activities • Purchased goods and services • Stantec employees and subcontractors Stantec • Stantec-owned buildings Operations • Business travel Downstream • Client project execution Activities • Construction partners; other partners Stantec Inc. 47 Appendix B: Additional HR Data 2015 Global Workforce by Gender and Age Groups and by Employee Category (EEOG) and Type Middle Supervisors: Senior and Other Semiprofessionals Crafts and Managers Managers Professionals and Technicians Supervisors Trades Total 485 606 8317 4355 0 0 Female count 50 130 2521 1109 0 0 Female % 10.3% 21.5% 30.3% 25.5% N/A N/A Male count 435 476 5796 3246 0 0 Male % 89.7% 78.5% 69.7% 74.5% N/A N/A Age: Under 30 0 8 1452 898 0 0 Age: 30 to 50 161 347 4656 2119 0 0 Age: Over 50 324 251 2209 1338 0 0 Notes: • Because Stantec is Canadian based, we use Canada’s Employment Equity Occupational Groups (EEOG) employee categories throughout this report. • Employees are automatically assigned to EEOG categories based on job classification. • Employees in the United States have been mapped to these EEOG categories. • No employees were classified as acquisition employees as at December 31, 2015. • Total employee count does not include contractors. 2015 Percentage of Canadian Workforce by Visible Minorities, Aboriginal Peoples, and Persons with Disabilities and by Employee Category (EEOG) Middle Supervisors: Senior and Other Semiprofessionals Crafts and Managers Managers Professionals and Technicians Supervisors Trades Visible Minorities 2.7% 3.5% 8.2% 9.6% 0% 0% Persons with Disabilities 0.2% 0.5% 0.4% 1.0% 0% 0% Aboriginal People 0.4% 0.0% 0.3% 0.9% 0% 0% Women 10.3% 21.5% 30.3% 25.5% 0% 0% Notes: • Designated groups presented in the first column in the table above are as outlined in the Employment Equity Act. • No Canadian employees were classified as acquisition employees as at December 31, 2015. 2015 Percentage of US Workforce by Veteran Status, People with Disabilities, and Ethnic Origins and by Employee Category (EEOG) Middle Supervisors: Senior and Other Semiprofessionals Crafts and Managers Managers Professionals and Technicians Supervisors Trades Veteran Status 2.3% 2.3% 2.2% 3.5% 0% 0% People with Disabilities 0.0% 0.0% 0.4% 0.7% 0% 0% American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.0% 0.0% 0.3% 0.4% 0% 0% Asian 2.3% 2.3% 7.4% 3.9% 0% 0% Black or African American 0.0% 0.0% 1.6% 2.9% 0% 0% Hispanic or Latino 4.2% 4.2% 6.6% 8.7% 0% 0% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0% 0% Two or More Races 0.0% 0.0% 1.4% 1.4% 0% 0% Notes: • Equal Employment Opportunity job categories are the employee groupings required by the Joint Reporting Committee (Equal Employment Opportunity Council and Department Of Labor) for EEO-1 reports. • Disability definitions are based on the Americans with Disabilities Act Amendment Act legislation. • Veteran categories are determined by amendments to the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act. • No US employees were classified as acquisition employees as at December 31, 2015. 48 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Administrative and Senior Clerical Semiskilled Skilled Sales and Other Manual Acquisition Clerical Personnel Personnel Manual Workers Service Personnel Workers Employees Total 1086 368 20 9 0 0 15,246 951 330 9 4 0 0 5,104 87.6% 89.7% 45.0% 44.4% N/A N/A 33.5% 135 38 11 5 0 0 10,142 12.4% 10.3% 55.0% 55.6% N/A N/A 66.5% 152 29 3 1 0 0 2,543 548 195 9 6 0 0 8,041 386 144 8 2 0 0 4,662 Administrative and Senior Clerical Semiskilled Skilled Sales and Other Manual Acquisition Clerical Personnel Personnel Manual Workers Service Personnel Workers Employees Total 5.4% 6.8% 10.0% 11.1% 0% 0% 8.0% 1.5% 0.8% 0.0% 0.0% 0% 0% 0.7% 1.4% 1.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0% 0% 0.6% 87.6% 89.7% 45.0% 44.4% 0% 0% 33.5% Administrative and Senior Clerical Semiskilled Skilled Sales and Other Manual Acquisition Clerical Personnel Personnel Manual Workers Service Personnel Workers Employees Total 0.9% 0.6% 0.0% 0.0% 0% 0% 2.4% 0.7% 0.0% 33.3% 0.0% 0% 0% 0.5% 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0% 0% 0.3% 3.9% 4.3% 22.2% 0.0% 0% 0% 5.9% 5.7% 6.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0% 0% 2.2% 10.7% 6.7% 0.0% 0.0% 0% 0% 7.1% 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0% 0% 0.1% 1.5% 0.6% 22.2% 0.0% 0% 0% 1.3% Stantec Inc. 49 2015 Ratio of Total Annual Compensation for Organizations Highest-Paid Employee to Median Annual Compensation Base Salary % Increase 2015 Total Ratio of Base Ratio of Ratio of Total Compensation 2014 to 2015 Bonus Compensation Compensation % Increase Compensation Canada (Canadian Dollar – CAD) Highest 850,005 0% 1,147,500 1,997,505 11.5 0.0 23.4 Median 74,003 -1% 11,500 85,503 United States (US Dollar – USD) Highest 525,013 0% 695,000 1,220,013 7.0 0.0 15.1 Median 74,984 2% 6,000 80,984 India1 (Indian Rupees – INR) Highest 9,000,000 0% N/A 9,000,000 22.6 0.0 12.9 Median 397,758 4% 300,000 697,758 Qatar (Qatari Riyal – QAR) Highest 660,000 N/A 0 660,000 1.5 N/A 1.5 Median 432,000 N/A 0 432,000 United Arab Emirates (United Arab Emirates Dirham – AED) Highest 2 973,440 -5% 47,000 1,020,440 3.9 1.7 3.8 Median 251,996 -3% 20,000 271,996 United Kingdom (British Pound – £) Highest 125,000 4% 20,000 145,000 2.8 0.6 3.0 Median 44,000 7% 4,750 48,750 Barbados (Barbadian Dollar – BBD) Highest 212,667 0% 17,000 229,667 4.5 0.0 4.5 Median 3 47,619 0% 3,750 51,369 Notes: • All salaries are annualized to full-time hours for the country the employee works in. • The table includes only employees eligible for benefits. • Salaries are reported in local currency. • Bonus figures are included only for employees who are eligible for bonuses. • Total compensation covers all employees eligible for benefits. • Base salaries are effective December 31, 2015. • Bonuses are for the 2014 calendar year, but they are paid in 2015. • Total compensation is based on 2015 salaries and 2014 bonuses (which are paid in 2015). • Employee salaries for our Kingdom of Saudi Arabia office were not reported because the sample size—one employee as of December 31, 2015—was very low. Footnotes: 1. India’s operations were divested on December 4, 2015; results shown above are from January 1, 2015, to December 4, 2015. 2. In 2015 in the United Arab Emirates, the highest-earning employee left Stantec; this employee’s successor was compensated at a different level. 3. In 2015, an error in median compensation was discovered in our 2014 Sustainability Report. Correct data have been input into the table. 50 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report 2015 Ratio of Basic Salary, including Bonus Pay, by Employee Category, Gender, and Significant Operations in Canada (in Canadian Dollars) Base Salary Base Salary + % Ratio Average Base Salary plus Bonus Ratio Gender: Employee Counts Average Base Salary Male: Female Bonus Pay Male: Female EEOG Category Female Male Female Male Female Male Senior Managers 29 187 $176,304 $198,874 1.13 $207,390 $262,139 1.26 Middle and Other 72 238 $117,417 $132,993 1.13 $127,705 $146,843 1.15 Managers Professionals 1,164 2,542 $77,319 $99,210 1.28 $78,897 $102,381 1.30 Semiprofessionals 710 1,883 $62,526 $73,275 1.17 $62,754 $73,952 1.18 and Technicians Supervisors 0 0 N/A N/A Supervisors: 0 0 N/A N/A Crafts and Trades Administrative and Senior Clerical 535 37 $50,907 $53,445 1.05 $50,937 $53,445 1.05 Personnel Clerical Personnel 177 21 $51,886 $53,866 1.04 $51,892 $53,866 1.04 Skilled Crafts and 0 0 N/A N/A Trades Workers Semiskilled 2 6 $45,971 $46,449 1.01 $45,971 $46,449 1.01 Manual Workers Skilled Sales and 4 5 $79,394 $85,800 1.08 $79,394 $85,800 1.08 Service Personnel Other Manual 0 0 N/A N/A Workers Notes: • Because Stantec is Canadian based, we use Canada’s Employment Equity Occupational Groups (EEOG) employee categories throughout this report. • Only employees on active assignment as of December 31, 2015, have been included. Stantec Inc. 51 2015 Ratio of Basic Salary, including Bonus Pay, by Employee Category, Gender, and Significant Operations in the United States (in US dollars) Base Salary Base Salary + % Ratio Average Base Salary plus Bonus Ratio Gender: Employee Counts Average Base Salary Male: Female Bonus Pay Male: Female EEOG Category Female Male Female Male Female Male Senior Managers 20 240 $168,352 $190,592 1.13 $191,277 $222,234 1.16 Middle and Other 56 210 $119,786 $139,415 1.16 $129,108 $150,846 1.17 Managers Professionals 1,150 2,912 $75,623 $95,774 1.27 $77,324 $98,510 1.27 Semiprofessionals 311 1,111 $56,475 $64,032 1.13 $56,694 $64,309 1.13 and Technicians Supervisors 0 0 N/A N/A Supervisors: 0 0 N/A N/A Crafts and Trades Administrative and Senior Clerical 360 85 $49,085 $55,520 1.13 $49,215 $55,614 1.13 Personnel Clerical Personnel 147 15 $53,069 $55,322 1.04 $53,106 $55,322 1.04 Skilled Crafts and 0 0 N/A N/A Trades Workers Semiskilled 0 0 N/A N/A Manual Workers Skilled Sales and 0 0 N/A N/A Service Personnel Other Manual 0 0 N/A N/A Workers Notes: • Because Stantec is Canadian based, we use Canada’s Employment Equity Occupational Groups (EEOG) employee categories throughout this report. • Only employees on active assignment as of December 31, 2015, have been included. 52 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Appendix C: Health and Safety Statistics by Region and Gender Hours Recordable Injuries Lost Time Days Injury Rate (IR) Lost Day Rate (LDR) Stantec 24,927,941 84 97 0.67 0.78 Canada 13,386,168 47 91 0.70 1.36 Canada East 5,840,614 27 89 0.92 3.05 Canada Mountain 4,489,624 8 2 0.36 0.09 Canada Prairies 3,055,930 12 0 0.79 0.00 United States 10,791,504 37 6 0.69 0.11 US Midwest & Mid-Atlantic 2,988,951 12 0 0.80 0.00 US Northeast 1,968,832 2 6 0.20 0.61 US South 2,653,499 14 0 1.06 0.00 US West 3,180,222 9 0 0.57 0.00 International 750,269 0 0 0.00 0.00 Notes: • Recordable Injuries are those that require more than first-aid treatment. • IR (injury rate) = (recordable injuries × 200,000)/hours worked • LDR (lost day rate) = (lost days × 200,000)/hours worked • 200,000 represents the number of hours that 100 employees would work in a calendar year. • Hours have been rounded to whole numbers. Recordable Injuries Lost Time Days Female 28 17 Canada East 15 17 Canada Mountain 1 0 Canada Prairies 3 0 US Midwest and Mid-Atlantic 5 0 US South 3 0 US West 1 0 Male 56 80 Canada East 12 72 Canada Mountain 7 2 Canada Prairies 9 0 US Midwest and Mid-Atlantic 7 0 US Northeast 2 6 US South 11 0 US West 8 0 Grand Total 84 97 Stantec Inc. 53 Appendix D: United Nations Global Compact: Commitment on Progress (COP) Issue Area Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Stantec COP: Stantec’s mandatory Ethics and Business Conduct training covers topics on ethics, integrity, harassment and discrimination, anticorruption, government contracting, political activities, and social responsibility. Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Stantec COP: Stantec monitors best practice commitments with regard to all ethical performance in the context of ongoing project management and terms and conditions reviews. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Stantec COP: Stantec does not engage in any practices that would impinge on freedom of association or the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Stantec COP: Stantec does not do business in areas where forms of forced and compulsory labour are a significant risk. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour. Stantec COP: Stantec does not do business in areas where child labour is a significant risk. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Stantec COP: Stantec has a comprehensive Harassment and Discrimination Policy that prohibits harassment or discrimination of employees on the basis of characteristics such as race, sex, gender, color, creed, religious beliefs, citizenship status, national origin, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Stantec COP: Stantec’s Sustainability Policy clearly enunciates accordance with the precautionary approach. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Stantec COP: Stantec’s ISO 14001-certified Environmental Management System helps the Company reduce the environmental impacts of our operations, monitor compliance with environmental regulations, and advance environmental performance commitments consistent with the Company’s Sustainability Policy. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Stantec COP: Stantec encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies through initiatives such as Stantec’s Research & Development Fund and Creativity & Innovation Fund, and the application of Envision’s Sustainable Infrastructure Framework. Anticorruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Stantec COP: Stantec’s mandatory Ethics and Code of Conduct training covers topics on ethics, integrity, harassment and discrimination, anticorruption, government contracting, political activities, and social responsibility. 54 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Appendix E: GRI Content Index Citation Performance External Indicator Description SR* AR* AIF* MIC* Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the 7 No organization and its strategy. G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and 10, 12 No opportunities. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization. F10 No G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. M4-M9 No G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. 62 No G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where the organization has 159 No significant operations. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 4 No G4-8 Markets served. M4-M8 No G4-9 Report the scale of the organization. 19, M4-M8, F4 and F5, No F52 G4-10 Number of and demographic information 17, 19 No about employees. G4 -11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by 59 No collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 47 No G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period F9, F21-F24, regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, No M6-M8 or its supply chain. G4-14 Explanation of how the precautionary approach or M64-M71 No principle is addressed by the organization. G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 8 No the organization subscribes or endorses. G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national or international 8 No advocacy organizations. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated F9, F30, Yes (AR: F2) financial statements or equivalent documents. F49, F51 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. Explain how the organization has 5 No implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining 12 and 13 No report content. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 12 and 13 No within the organization. G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 13 No outside the organization. G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in 30 and 31 F10 Yes (AR: F2) previous reports, plus reasons. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in 5 No the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. * SR Sustainability Report AR Annual Report AIF Annual Information Form Continued on next page MIC Management Information Circular Note: All reports referred to are for 2015. Stantec Inc. 55 Citation Performance External Indicator Description SR* AR* AIF* MIC* Assurance STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 12 and 13 No G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 12 and 13 No whom to engage. G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement. 12 and 13 No G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 12 and 13 No stakeholder engagement. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period. 5 No G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 5 No G4-30 Reporting cycle. 4 and 5 No G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or 62 No its contents. G4-32 “In accordance” option the organization has chosen. GRI Content Index for the chosen option. Reference to 5 No the External Assurance Report. G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 5 No external assurance for the report. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization. 23-28 No G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social topics from the 23-28 No highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics, and 27 No whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, 27 23-28 No environmental, and social topics. G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body 27 23-28 No and its committees. G4-39 Report whether the chair of the highest governance 27 27 No body is also an executive officer. G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the 13, 25-30 No highest governance body. G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to 23-28 No ensure conflicts of interest are managed. G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value, or mission 23-28 No statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social impacts. G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of 26, 29 No economic, environmental, and social topics. G4-44 a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics. 23-29 No b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics. Continued on next page 56 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Citation Performance External Indicator Description SR* AR* AIF* MIC* Assurance G4-45 a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. M64-M71 59-62 No b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management 27, 41 No processes for economic, environmental, and social topics. G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s 31-34, review of economic, environmental, and social impacts, No 59-62 risks, and opportunities. G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability 5 No report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns 27 No to the highest governance body. G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance No critical concerns were communicated body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-51 Renumeration. 19-22, No 38-45 G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration. 19-22 No G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken 37 No into account regarding remuneration. G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country 50 No to the median annual total compensation for all employees in the same country. G4-55 Ratio of % increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the median 50 No percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (per country). ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior, such as codes of conduct and codes of 23 No ethics. G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters 23 No related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful 23 No behavior. Disclosures on Management Approach G4-DMA a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. M2-M6, b. Report how the organization manages the material M54-M61, No Aspect or its impacts. M64-M71 c. Report the evaluation of the management approach. Continued on next page Stantec Inc. 57 Citation Performance External Indicator Description SR* AR* AIF* MIC* Assurance ECONOMIC Economic Performance G4-EC1 a. Report the direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis. b. To better assess local economic impacts, report F5, No EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market F7 and F8 levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. G4-EC2 Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive M60 No changes in operations, revenue, or expenditure. G4-EC3 Report coverage of the organization’s defined benefit Not applicable plan obligations. G4-EC4 Report on financial assistance received from F52 No government. Market Presence G4-EC5 Report on ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant Omitted locations of operation. G4-EC6 Report proportion of senior management hired from the Omitted local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Report on the development and impact of infrastructure Omitted investments and services supported. G4-EC8 a. Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organization has. Omitted b. Report the significance of the impacts in the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities. Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Report proportion of spending on local suppliers at 37 No signficant locations of operation. ENVIRONMENTAL Materials G4-EN1 Report the total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the organization’s 30 No primary products and services during the reporting period. G4-EN2 Report the percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture the organization’s primary products and 30 No services. Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. 31 No G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization. Not applicable G4-EN5 Energy intensity. 31 No G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 2015 baseline year G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products Not applicable and services. Water (G4-EN8 to G4-EN14) Not applicable Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 31 No (Scope 1). G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 31 No (Scope 2). Continued on next page 58 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Citation Performance External Indicator Description SR* AR* AIF* MIC* Assurance G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 31 No (Scope 3). G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. 31 No G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 2015 baseline year G4-EN20 Report emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). 31 No G4-EN21 Report NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions. 31 No G4-EN22 Report total water discharge by quality and destination. Omitted G4-EN23 Report total weight of waste by type and Omitted disposal method. G4-EN24 Report total number and volume of significant spills. None G4-EN25 Report weight of transported, imported, or treated Omitted waste deemed hazardous. G4-EN26 Report the identity and biodiversity of water bodies. Not applicable Products and Services (G4-EN27 and G4-EN28) Not applicable Compliance G4-EN29 Report the monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance None with environmental laws and regulations. Transport (G4-EN30) Not applicable Overall (G4-EN31) Not applicable Supplier Environmental Assessment (G4-EN32 and G4-EN33) Not applicable Environmental Grievance Mechanisms (G4-EN34) Not applicable SOCIAL Employment G4-LA1 Employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 24 No G4-LA2 Benefits which are standard for full-time employees by 25 No “significant locations of operation.” G4-LA3 Report on parental leave by the number and gender 25 No of employees. Labor/Management Relations G4-LA4 a. Report the minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their elected representatives prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them. Not applicable b. For organizations with collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees 15 No that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. G4-LA6 Report H&S statistics by region and gender. 53 No G4-LA7 Report whether there are workers who are involved in occupational activities who have a high incidence or None high risk of specific diseases. G4-LA8 a. Report whether formal agreements (either local or global) with trade unions cover health and safety. b. If yes, report the extent, as a percentage, to which Not applicable various health and safety topics are covered by these agreements. Continued on next page Stantec Inc. 59 Citation Performance External Indicator Description SR* AR* AIF* MIC* Assurance Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year. 20 No G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees 20-22 No and assist them in managing career endings. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular 20 No performance and career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to 48-49 No gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 a. Report the ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category, by significant locations of operation. 51 and 52 No b. Report the definition used for “significant locations of operation.” Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Report the percentage of new suppliers that were Not applicable screened using labor practices criteria. G4-LA15 Report the number of suppliers subject to impact Not applicable assessments for labor practices. Labor Practice for Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Report the total number of grievances about labor practices filed through formal grievance mechanisms None reported during the reporting period. HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-HR1 Report the total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include Not applicable human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. G4-HR2 Report the total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or 20, 22 No procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Non-Discrimination G4-HR3 a. Report the total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent None human rights screening. b. Report the definition of “significant investment agreements” used by the organization. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining (G4-HR4) Not applicable Child Labor (G4-HR5) Not applicable Forced or Compulsory Labor (G4-HR6) Not applicable Security Practices (G4-HR7) Not applicable Indigenous Rights (G4-HR8 and G4-HR9) Not applicable Supplier Human Rights Asssessment (G4-HR10 and G4-HR11) Not applicable Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms (G4-HR12) Not applicable Anticorruption G4-SO3 a. Report the total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. 27 No b. Report the significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. Continued on next page 60 2015 Stantec Sustainability Report Citation Performance External Indicator Description SR* AR* AIF* MIC* Assurance G4-SO4 Report any communication and training on 27 23 No anticorruption policies and procedures. G4-SO5 a. Report the total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. b. Report the total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. c. Report the total number of confirmed incidents when 27 No contracts with business partners were terminated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption. d. Report public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. Public Policy G4-SO6 a. Report the total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly by the organization by country and None recipient/beneficiary. b. Report how the monetary value of in-kind contributions was estimated, if applicable. Anticompetitive Behavior G4-SO7 Report the total number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding anticompetitive behavior and violations of anti-trust and None monopoly legislation in which the organization has been identified as a participant. Compliance G4-SO8 a. Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, No signficant fines or sanctions were accrued a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. during the reporting period c. Report the context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society (G4-SO9 and G4-SO10) Not applicable Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society (G4-SO11) Not applicable PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Report the percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts 15 No are assessed for improvement. G4-PR2 Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the None health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period. Product and Service Labelling (G4-PR3 to G4-PR5) Not applicable Marketing Communications (G4-PR6 and G4-PR7) Not applicable Customer Privacy G4-PR8 a. Report the total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy. b. Report the total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data. None c. If the organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Compliance G4-PR9 a. Report the total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. None b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Stantec Inc. 61 Contact us for more information Head Office 200, 10160 – 112 Street Edmonton AB T5K 2L6 Canada Ph: (780) 917-7000 Fx: (780) 917-7330 Learn more about Stantec’s sustainability efforts at sustainability.internal@stantec.com stantec.com/sustainability.
