SETRIGHT Powering Africa UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2016-2017 CONTACT INFORMATION Company name: Setright Technologies Limited Sector: Renewable Energy & Telecommunication Number of Employees: 40 st UN Global compact signatory since: 31 August, 2012 Contact person: Ray Ongocho th Address: West End Towers, 08 floor, Waiyaki Way, Nairobi-Kenya P.O. Box 1379-00606 E-Mail: info@setrightechnologies.com Phone: +254 20 444 000 1/6, +254 789 994 838/9 Website: www.setrightechnologies.com SETRIGHT Powering Africa CEO’s Message of Continued Support To our stakeholders, I am pleased to inform that Setright Technologies Limited reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compacts in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our goal is to build innovative and sustainable solutions that embrace the best technologies. This is why we have continued to improve the standards of our solutions to ensure integration of the Global Compact principles into our business strategy and operations. In this Communication on Progress, we describe the practical actions we have taken to support the Global Compact. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Tony Ketter SETRIGHT Powering Africa Brief Nature of Business Renewable energy solutions are an effective way to reduce OPEX, providing ‘clean’ energy in their carbon footprint. At SETRIGHT TECHNOLOGIES, we offer turnkey, renewable energy solutions for our corporate customers, particularly telecommunication companies in Sub-Saharan Africa. We are a young dynamic company striving to stay on the cutting edge of the ever-changing technological evolution and environmental needs. At SETRIGHT TECHNOLOGIES, we recognise that each customer’s needs are unique. Our experienced team has the expertise to tailor-make solutions to meet each customer’s unique renewable energy needs. We harness and combine traditional (diesel generators, battery banks etc) and innovative technologies (wind turbines, solar chargers and panels etc) to offer our customers the best overall solution for both OPEX reduction and optimise performance. In other words, we take the best that current technology has to offer, along with what nature provides, to both reduce energy consumption and provide renewable energy as an alternative. Technologies in the renewable energy field are constantly changing, evolving and improving and we keep abreast of these developments in order to offer our customers proven solutions. We have manufacturer partners around the world, with the products that have been stringently tested, proven for sustainable, reliable energy solutions. Through our knowledge and expertise we are able to provide these solutions at competitive prices. As solution providers, we serve our clients with integrity and strive to make a difference with each project that we undertake. High quality products, competitive pricing, excellent lead times and service, have allowed us to build a broad customer base in Sub-Saharan Africa. We look forward to partnering with our customers in reducing carbon emissions in our planet, while lowering their OPEX. SETRIGHT Powering Africa “Excellence is our driving force” that is what makes us different. Vision the trusted Sub-Saharan service provider of choice for high quality, economic, customized, scalable and reliable renewable energy solutions and to deliver outstanding solutions that exceed the expectations and needs of our customers. Mission Statement To provide our customers with a wide range of renewable energy and other cost saving energy solutions and products. Our sights are set on continually providing and implementing the latest tested technology, in order to lower customers OPEX and be at the forefront of reducing carbon emissions Human Rights Principle Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Setright Technologies supports the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and has implemented policies which support the protection of such rights and avoidance of human rights abuses both within the firm and where they may inter-relate with our business activities. Setright General Handbook carries a code of conduct that includes policies on business ethics for employees, suppliers and partners that promotes the two principles SETRIGHT Powering Africa Assessment, Policy and Goals Setright Technologies supports the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and has implemented policies which support the protection of such rights and avoidance of human rights abuses both within the firm and where they may inter-relate with our business activities. Setright technologies Handbook carries a code of conduct that includes policies on business ethics for employees, suppliers and partners that promotes the two principles. Implementation The above documents are discussed during new employee orientation; supplier and partner engagement .They include general employment, business ethics and conduct, equal employment opportunity, employee standards of conduct, sexual and other unlawful harassment and violence in the work place. All employees of Setright Technologies are expected to adhere to these policies, and there is a suggestion/information box for employees and external parties to submit any grievances or complaints to be addressed by senior management. Measurement In the past year Setright Technologies has not been the subject of any investigations, legal claims or other action relating to human rights. Labour Principle Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation SETRIGHT Powering Africa Assessment, Policy and Goals Setright Technologies supports the International Labour Organization (ILO) Core Conventions and acknowledges every employee’s right to be a member of a trade union for collective bargaining and employee representation purpose. Setright technologies has issued policies to all employees and other staff regarding the importance of upholding equal opportunities and the prohibition of discrimination and harassment in the workplace on grounds of gender, race, disability, age, sexual orientation and religion. Where Setright deals directly with external suppliers, the contract agreements that we sign with them binds all parties to a master agreement that we sign with all of our clients and partners. All Setright specified suppliers will be expected to comply with our Responsible Procurement Guide. This guide expects that our suppliers do not use child labour or forced labour, are committed to equal opportunities and ensure that employees have the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Implementation We are guided by the laws of Kenya on labour. We have applied for ISO certification through Bureau Veritas and are pleased to report that our audit was successful. Our staff members are entitled twenty six working day leave as well as paternity/maternity leave. We also extend compassionate leave in addition to sick leave to our employees. In an endeavor to promote our human resource capacity we undertake regular training of our staff in addition to study leave to individual staff to further their education. Measurement In the past year, Setright Technologies has not been the subject of any investigations, legal claims or other action relating to discrimination of employees in their course and place of work SETRIGHT Powering Africa Environment Principle Principle7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Setright Technologies recognizes the importance of planning environmental factors into tall projects at the earliest possible stage to prevent any pollution for environment. This Construction Environment and Social Management Plan has been prepared to describe how Setright Technologies intends to manage, control and coordinate all works in order to protect the environment around the projects which may be affected by the operations. Implementation We continuously engage in social, economic and environmental corporate responsibility activities within the community around our projects sites as part of our contribution for Sustainable development through economic empowerment and environmental conservation. Measurement of outcomes Setright has not had any reportable environmental incident within the last year Anti-Corruption Principle Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SETRIGHT Powering Africa Assessment, Policy and Goals Setright Technologies does not tolerate corruption of any form in any way whatsoever. We have laid down procedures of pre-emptively discouraging corrupt practices and encourage dealings in a dignified and clean manner. This policy sets out specific guidelines and responsibilities regarding appropriate actions that must be followed for investigation of corruption, fraud and other similar irregularities. Implementation Setright Employee Handbook includes the following policies related to bribery and corruption: Business Ethics and Conduct, Employee Standards of Conduct, Conflicts of Interest, Acceptance of Gifts and Professional Misconduct. All employees of Setright are expected to adhere to these policies. In addition, where Setright has direct dealings with external parties the contract agreements that they sign with us binds them to a standard master agreement that we sign with all of our clients, suppliers and partners. Measurement In the past year, Setrigt technologies has not been the subject of any investigations, legal claims or other action relating to the matters covered by these principle
