UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 1 BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 3 LABOUR PRINCIPLES 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION 5 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES UN GLOBAL COMPACT | TABLE OF CONTENTS | 2 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT “As one of the leading law firms BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER in South Africa, we understand that our privileged position AT CLIFFE DEKKER HOFMEYR (CDH) WE upcoming black and female lawyers to advance their careers and overcome obstacles that may otherwise comes with responsibilities PRIDE OURSELVES IN A CULTURE OF hinder their progression. responsibilities we do not SERVICE, STARTING FROM OUR ENTRANCE BOOM RIGHT UP TO OUR TOP FLOOR. On behalf of CDH, I reaffirm our undertaking to the take lightly.” ten principles of the UN Global Compact and commit Our valued clients receive quality legal advice and to advance and protect human rights, promote and experience a high level of commitment in every teach fair labour practices, consider and safeguard the interaction with the firm. This holistic approach is evident environment that sustains us, and ensure that our firm’s not only in our client relationships but in everything we governance remains corruption free. do, including our dedication to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. As one of the leading law firms in South Africa, we understand that our privileged position comes with responsibilities – responsibilities we do not take lightly. We consider it our duty to leverage our resources, knowledge and expertise to the benefit of the clients we partner with, the communities we form part of, the cities Brent Williams, Chief Executive Officer, we work within and the country we call home. Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc We believe that the most positive contribution our firm can make is within our own profession because we understand and are aware of the transformation and socio-economic issues at hand. To this end, we have launched a number of initiatives to help young and UN GLOBAL COMPACT | STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER | 3 2 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS whose mandate is to assist vulnerable and disadvantaged people to access justice and to forward human rights and As a responsible corporate citizen CDH is sensitive to constitutionalism through public interest work. The Pro the broader socio-economic context within which Bono Policy provides that: it conducts business and is committed to respecting and promoting human rights both internally in its • The firm has adopted and maintains a pro bono relations with its employees and externally through its policy independent of any legislation or regulation engagement with clients and communities. In 2013 as requiring mandatory pro bono work; a manifestation of the firm’s commitment to human • The firm is committed to the involvement of its rights CDH adopted a Human Rights Statement. In that practitioners and staff members in pro bono work; statement we record as follows: • All CDH practitioners and staff members • We are cognisant of the social context within which acknowledge that they have a role to play in we operate as a law firm, and we are committed to assisting and supporting the firm in fulfilling these respecting the rights entrenched in the Constitution commitments; of the Republic of South Africa, 108 of 1996 (the Constitution), and in particular the Bill of Rights. CDH has also adopted a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy and has set up a Social and Ethics • We confirm that we support upholding the rights Committee. entrenched in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the African Charter IMPLEMENTATION on Human and Peoples’ Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and OUR WORK IN PROMOTING HUMAN RIGHTS Cultural Rights and the core conventions of the We strive on a continued basis to realise our human CDH has adopted a International Labour Organisation (ILO). rights commitments in various ways. First, we dedicate Corporate Social Investment Policy, • We confirm our commitment to respecting the ten significant time and effort to ensuring in our everyday principles of the United Nations Global Compact. conduct that we promote and respect the rights and a Pro Bono Policy, and a interests of all of our employees by means of adherence Human Rights Statement. • We communicate our commitments as set out in this to the precepts of our Constitution and our domestic Human Rights Statement to our clients, employees CDH has also established a and other stakeholders. labour, employment equity, occupational health and safety and other relevant legislation. In this regard we Social and Ethics Committee In 2011 as part of its commitment to human rights, CDH recognise the need to continuously work at promoting in terms of the Companies Act, adopted a Pro Bono Policy and set up a dedicated Pro a more inclusive and diverse work culture in which the No 71 of 2008 (The Companies Act). Bono and Human Rights Practice (the Pro Bono Practice) equal rights of all are advanced and employees are UN GLOBAL COMPACT | HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 4 encouraged to raise any grievances in accordance with Third, through the firm’s ongoing commitment our grievance policy. Our ongoing progress in this regard to corporate social responsibility, we continue to is outlined in more detail below in the section of this COP dedicate significant financial and human resources dealing with the Labour Principles. to various social investment projects, vehicles and causes. A summary of some of our key corporate social Second, through the implementation, as described DURING THE PERIOD below, of our Pro Bono Policy. Our dedicated Pro Bono responsibility projects and activities for the period under review is provided below. SEP 2015 TO NOV 2016 Practice continues to provide thousands of hours of pro CDH DONATED IN EXCESS OF bono assistance each year in the implementation of this policy, to numerous people and organisations who are PRO BONO AND HUMAN RIGHTS WORK IN THE R15 MILLION unable to afford to pay for these services. In the period under review our small but dedicated PERIOD UNDER REVIEW We are proud to report that during the period under IN PRO BONO LEGAL SERVICES Pro Bono Practice has made a material contribution to review CDH as whole donated over 8,000 hours/in promoting social justice by providing access to legal excess of R15 million in free legal services to deserving services to a number of people who would not have individuals and organisations during the period September 2015 to November 2016. been in a position to enforce their rights without the aid of pro bono assistance. We summarise some of the highlights of our pro bono and human rights work below. Through some of the new cases that it has taken on during the period under review, our Pro Bono Practice has also made an important contribution in advancing POWERS OF THE PUBLIC PROTECTOR the human rights causes of some particularly vulnerable The Pro Bono Practice represented Corruption Watch and marginalised groups of people and has worked (an NGO whose mandate is to fight corruption and to extend the boundaries of our human rights and promote transparency) in the Supreme Court of Appeal constitutional protections. It has also contributed (the SCA) in a high profile matter concerning the powers towards advancing awareness and education on various of the Public Protector (one of the several watchdog human rights issues through the hosting of key events, bodies set up in terms of Chapter 9 of our Constitution participation in other partner organisation/stakeholder to strengthen constitutional democracy). The matter initiatives, and through special project work. concerned the alleged failure by the public broadcaster Our Pro Bono Practice has also encouraged and (the SABC) and the Minister of Communications to assisted members in other practice areas in the firm comply with remedial action directed by the Public to make pro bono contributions. Many practitioners in Protector following an investigation conducted by her numerous different practice areas in our firm both at offices into various complaints of alleged abuse of our Johannesburg and Cape Town offices have given power and maladministration by the SABC. Corruption generously of their time over the 2016 year and have Watch was successfully admitted as amicus curiae in the provided invaluable assistance to countless clients. proceedings before the SCA. UN GLOBAL COMPACT | HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 5 In a judgment which made ground breaking findings Human Rights Commission (the SAHRC) for assistance in concerning the powers of the Public Protector (including seeking redress. We have assisted our client to institute the finding that the Public Protector has the power proceedings in the Equality Court. The SAHRC has been to make binding decisions) the SCA affirmed many joined as the second applicant in the matter because of submissions made by Corruption Watch to the Court. its special statutory mandate in terms of the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 4 The findings of the SCA concerning the powers of the of 2000 (PEPUDA)) in the Equality Court proceedings. Public Protector were subsequently relied upon and upheld by the Constitutional Court in another high profile matter We seek compensation for our client for the infringement “The Pro Bono Practice has (Economic Freedom Fighters // the Speaker of the National of his constitutional rights to equality and human dignity Assembly & two Others and The Democratic Alliance // the and for the emotional pain suffered by him, together with been assisting a member Speaker of the National Assembly & two Others) concerning an unconditional apology. Importantly, we also seek an of the South African Police an investigation into and decision made by the Public order requiring the respondent to perform community Services ... to obtain redress Protector in respect of the use of public resources on service and to attend sensitivity training to be provided by from a member of the public the private Nkandla homestead of the President. Both the SAHRC. Requiring the respondent to attend sensitivity accused of committing serious decisions have fundamentally strengthened the position training will we hope usher in a new and important tool acts of racially motivated hate of the Public Protector which plays an essential role in in addressing the root causes of racism and racially based speech against him.” protecting the rights of all in this country. hate speech going forward. This is especially important given that the SAHRC reports that the number of hate DEFENDING A VICTIM OF RACIST HATE SPEECH speech incidents occurring in the country has increased significantly in recent months. The Pro Bono Practice has been assisting a member of the South African Police Services (SAPS) to bring PROMOTING AND PROTECTING THE RIGHTS OF proceedings in the Equality Court to obtain redress from a member of the public accused of committing serious TRANSGENDER LEARNERS acts of racially motivated hate speech against him. In May 2016 the Pro Bono Practice agreed to assist During February 2016 our client was in a marked SAPS the SAHRC with an urgent complaint that it had vehicle patrolling in and around Johannesburg. As he received from a transgender learner regarding unfair was driving, he noticed a civilian vehicle flashing its lights discrimination suffered by her at a public school. The at him. Our client, accompanied by two other colleagues learner who is in the process of transitioning from the from the SAPS, pulled over in order to assist the driver of male to female gender sought to express herself in a the vehicle (the respondent). The respondent who more feminine manner, in particular by growing her hair. claims that she had just been the victim of a smash and According to the School's Code of Conduct boys are grab incident-refused to be assisted by a black officer strictly required to wear their hair short. After various and thereafter verbally attacked our client in a prolonged incidents, the learner was suspended from the School spate of racial abuse. Shocked and traumatised by and was only allowed to return if she complied with the incident, our client approached the South African the School dress code requirements for boys. The learner who sought bravely to assert her constitutional UN GLOBAL COMPACT | HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 6 rights refused to cut her hair both as a matter of principle The Pro Bono Practice supports the right of all and because she suffered from gender dysphoria (a transgender learners to equality, dignity and freedom and clinically recognised condition often experienced by security of the person. We will be assisting the SAHRC transgender people in which they suffer an intense and going forward to work for the necessary policy reform in persistent discomfort with the primary and secondary order to ensure that the rights of all transgender learners “The Pro Bono Practice supports sex characteristics of one’s assigned birth sex). Forcing a are in future respected and protected. the rights of all transgender transgender person to conceal their gender identity often learners to equality, dignity and exacerbates their dysphoria as was the case with our client. HELPING REFUGEES BORN AND LIVING IN freedom and security of the person. As a result of the suspension the learner was unable to SOUTH AFRICA FOR MORE THAN 18 YEARS TO enrol for her final school year during the 2016 school APPLY FOR CITIZENSHIP We will be assisting the SAHRC year. Concerned and deeply hurt by the actions of the going forward to work for the The Pro Bono Practice is currently assisting two brothers school, the learner approached the SAHRC for assistance. necessary policy reform in order who were born in South Africa (SA) and who are over to ensure that the rights of After a lengthy engagement with the School we managed, 18 (and have lived all of their lives in SA) to apply for in conjunction with the SAHRC, to arrange for the learner citizenship in terms of section 4(3) of the Citizenship Act, transgender learners are respected to return to the School during the course of 2017 as a girl 88 of 1995 (the Citizenship Act). Section 4(3) of the and protected.” and for sensitivity training to be conducted at the School. Citizenship Act provides that people who were born in We also began a process of engaging with the School SA to parents who are neither citizens nor permanent regarding the amendment of its code of conduct. residents, and who have lived in SA continuously until the age of majority are entitled to apply for citizenship, Sadly, the fear of facing ongoing hostility and being provided that their births were registered in accordance treated differently, combined with the lack of any policy with the Births and Deaths Registration Act, 51 of 1992. governing the rights of transgender learners, resulted in the learner choosing at the last minute to complete her The brothers’ parents are Angolan citizens who fled schooling via online correspondence instead of at the Angola in 1995 and who sought and were granted School in question. refugee status in SA from 1997 until 2014 when their refugee status was withdrawn as a result of the Our client’s experience clearly highlights the need for Angolan refugee repatriation process entered into by policy reform at all schools and for concrete steps to be our government in 2013. The two brothers were born taken by all relevant role players to address the needs in SA in 1996 and 1997 respectively and were also of transgender children. Many transgender learners granted refugee status until 2014 when their status drop out of school because of acute victimisation and was also withdrawn together with that of their parents. prejudice, often enabled by a schooling system that Both brothers who have never been to Angola, were continues to be insensitive to their rights and needs. In in high school at the time that their refugee status was recognition of the need for broader reform, during the withdrawn and had to apply for temporary study permits course of this matter the SAHRC began a process of in order to remain in the country. engagement with our Minister of Basic Education and the member of the Provincial Executive responsible for Education. UN GLOBAL COMPACT | HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 7 No application forms have been promulgated by the of anti-apartheid activists such as Griffiths Mxenge. Most Department of Home Affairs (the DHA) for section 4(3) of the transcripts have now been provided to SAHA. applications. We have as a first step made applications to the DHA in terms of section 4(3) on behalf of both REFUGEE LAW CLINIC GUIDE brothers by way of affidavit. We anticipate that we may The Pro Bono Practice which regularly staffs a Refugee have to bring legal proceedings to enforce our clients’ Law Clinic and assists a number of refugees with the rights and possibly even apply for interim protection asylum adjudication process, was requested by the pending the finalisation of the proceedings. The matter convenors of the clinic to produce a Guide on Judicial has the potential to set an important precedent for Review in the context of the Refugee/Asylum Seeker a whole class of vulnerable people who despite the Adjudication process. We have completed the Guide, provisions of section 4(3) of the Citizenship Act, are which forms part of a larger project that aims to equip currently practically unable to assert their rights. attorneys who assist with the refugee clinic with a basic overview of refugee law and related matters in order OBTAINING ACCESS TO THE DATABASE OF THE to enable them to more effectively advise clients at the TRUTH AND RECONCILIATION COMMISSION clinics. The Guide will be launched together with two After a very long battle we successfully assisted the others compiled under the auspices of the project in South African History Archive Trust (SAHA) to gain access early 2017. to a complete version of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) Database. The Database has now NATIONAL SCHOOLS MOOT COURT been published by SAHA and is already being put to good COMPETITION – NSMCC use. Investigators affiliated to the Foundation for Human Led by the Pro Bono Practice, CDH continued to provide Rights are making use of the Database to identify extensive support for the National Schools Moot Court information with a view to prosecuting perpetrators that Competition (NSMCC) in 2016. did not apply for amnesty for human rights violations committed during the Apartheid years. The NSMCC is an annual schools moot court competition which began in 2011. It is a joint initiative Material progress was also made during 2016 in another of the University of Pretoria, the Foundation for Human matter in which we have been representing SAHA for Rights, the Department of Justice and the Department some time – the section 29 transcripts matter. The of Basic Education, amongst others. Learners from section 29 transcripts are the transcripts of hearings of all secondary schools in the country are encouraged the TRC investigative enquiries held in camera at which to participate in the Competition which involves two individuals were required under oath to divulge the stages – an essay writing elimination round and various full extent of some of Apartheid’s most serious crimes. oral rounds culminating in a final round argued before Hearings held under section 29 included discussions a panel of adjudicators at the Constitutional Court. The of the plane crash that killed Mozambiquan President aim of the NSMCC is to create greater awareness and Samora Machel; the Helderberg disaster; and the deaths understanding among schools and communities about UN GLOBAL COMPACT | HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 8 the Constitution as well as the rights and values that it ADJUDICATING THE FINALS OF THE AFRICAN embodies. In addition the Competition aims to provide DISABILITY LAW MOOT COURT COMPETITION young people with exposure to the legal system and profession, and encourage them to consider pursuing a During the week of 7 11 November Jacquie Cassette, career in law. Each year the moot problem is one which National Practice Head of the Pro Bono Practice, acted as involves fictional learners faced with a scenario in a school an adjudicator in the finals of the Fourth African Disability environment implicating various bill of rights issues. Rights Moot Court Competition. The Competition formed part of a weeklong Disability Rights in Africa As part of CDH’s 2016 contribution, our firm in conference hosted by the Centre for Human Rights, conjunction with the University of Pretoria, facilitated University of Pretoria. The theme for the conference and a training workshop for 90 learners preparing for the moot court competition was “Advancing the Rights of oral component of the Competition, together with their Persons with Albinism in Africa – A Call to Action.” The educators. The seminar included presentations and conference highlighted the many atrocities and human panel discussions on various topics ranging from an rights abuses committed against People with Albinism introduction to the South African legal system, sources of (PWA) across the continent, and interrogated the legal law, the structure of the South African courts, pleadings complexities that the particular and distinct hurdles faced and the use of authority. The workshop then divided into by PWA’s give rise to in both international and domestic break away sessions which comprised of a facilitated human rights law. This was one of the first times that a discussion on relevant constitutional rights and the art of conference has been arranged to deal exclusively with mooting amongst other things. the plight of PWA. The highpoint of the workshop was a keynote address by The conference was well attended by NGO’s, academics, former Justice of the Constitutional Court, Johann van representatives of inter-governmental organisations and der Westhuizen, who spoke passionately about following state officials from all over Africa and included a number ones dreams, embracing one another’s culture, the of high-level panelists. Amongst the high level panelists importance of diversity and respecting, protecting and were Ms Ikoponwosa Ero (the UN Independent expert promoting our constitutional democracy. The evening on the Enjoyment of Human Rights by Persons with concluded with a dinner hosted at CDH’s offices. Many Albinism); the Honourable Abdallah Possi (the Deputy members of the firm also assisted with the adjudication Minister of State, Prime Minister’s Office (Persons with of the preliminary, quarter final and semi final rounds of Disability) Tanzania; Commissioner Nomasonto Mazibuko the Competition. from the South African Human Rights Commission and As has been the case with previous years, the standard Dr Lungowe Matakala (Lecturer, University of Zambia). of learners participating in the national rounds of All four mentioned also acted as adjudicators of the final the Competition and the level of dedication and rounds of the Moot Court Competition. Students from determination displayed was impressive. CDH is once law schools across the continent participated in the Moot again offering a generous bursary to the 4 learners from Court Competition with the two final teams coming from the winning team (if they choose to study law). the University of Malawi and the University of Makerere UN GLOBAL COMPACT | HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 9 (Uganda). There was little between both teams, both REFUGEE LAW CLINIC of whom excelled. Ultimately, it was the team from the As mentioned above, our Pro Bono Practice staffs this University of Malawi that won the Competition. The clinic on a monthly basis and provide much needed finals of the Competition were live streamed and can be advice on the asylum seeker adjudication process. We accessed through the following links: also assist with refugee appeal board hearings and high https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zn8Xo4ltPsU court reviews. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wRATclbR4SU SASLAW CLINICS Our Employment Practice staffed this clinic on a weekly basis and provide advice on all aspects of South Africa’s Members of our firm assisted with the staffing of legal labour law to indigent persons unable to pay for legal clinics which offer free legal services to poor and services. vulnerable communities: INNER CITY HOUSING CLINIC PRO BONO TRAINING INITIATIVES Our Property Practice staffed the Inner City Housing WORLD AIDS DAY Clinic on a monthly to bimonthly basis. This clinic runs on a weekly basis and individuals from all walks of life During the course of December 2015, our Practice visit the clinic in order to obtain assistance/advice on hosted a talk with Mark Heywood, Executive Director of an array of issues including rectification of title deeds, the non-profit public interest organisation Section 27. transfer of ownership, endorsements, cancellation of The event was held to commemorate World Aids Day and bonds and drafting of various agreements. served to show the firm’s support for the idea of ‘Getting to Zero’, an idea that echoes the UN AIDS vision of achieving ‘Zero new HIV Infections, zero discrimination, MASTER’S HELPDESK zero AIDS-related deaths’. Our Wills and Estates Practice staffed the Master’s The talk focused on the history of AIDS activism in South Helpdesk on a monthly basis. Individuals can obtain Africa and, in particular, on the role played by the law and advice on all aspects of deceased estates at the clinic. the Constitution in shaping the framework for strategic litigation in the field. HIGH COURT HELPDESK Our Litigation Practice helped staff the High Court YOUTH DAY AWARENESS CAMPAIGN helpdesk. This clinic runs on a weekly basis and indigent On June 16 every year South Africa celebrates Youth Day individuals can obtain advice on instituting and defending in commemoration of the 1976 Soweto uprising in which matters in the High Court. black school children rose up against the mandatory UN GLOBAL COMPACT | HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 10 imposition of Afrikaans as a medium of instruction in Justice Mhlantla’s messages was her call to junior black schools by the Apartheid government. practitioners present at the event: In June 2016, in honour of Youth Day, the Pro Bono “You all have long careers ahead of you and I hope Practice in conjunction with our marketing and Human that this discourse will inform that journey. The Resources team hosted a Youth day awareness campaign future of this profession is in your hands and with it in both our Johannesburg and Cape Town offices the goal of making practicing in a profession that is themed around youth empowerment. discrimination-free and accessible to all a reality.” A panel discussion was held with representatives from various youth organisations in which the panellists HOUSING WORKSHOP discussed the significance of Youth Day in the year 2016 During the course of May 2016, our Pro Bono Practice and the problems our youth face now in contrast to 1976. in conjunction with the offices of Probono.org hosted CDH also made a generous donation to each a housing workshop. The workshop was facilitated organisation as a show of gratitude for them participating by a director in our Property Practice and included in our Youth day campaign. The proceeds collected from discussions on various topics of relevance to lawyers and a raffle was donated to the organisations. NGO’s assisting poorer communities with housing related legal problems. WOMEN’S DAY EVENT TALK WITH JUSTICE CSR INITIATIVES MHLANTLA CDH remains committed to discharging its corporate On the evening of 16 August 2016, the Pro Bono Practice social responsibility (CSR) obligations through continued hosted the Honourable Justice Mhlantla (the most recent enforcement of its corporate social responsibility appointee to our Constitutional Court) at the firm for policy, as overseen by the Social and Ethics Committee an event in commemoration of National Women’s Day. (SEC). It is actively involved in a number of corporate The purpose of the event was to give recognition to social responsibility initiatives and projects and also the progress that has been made, but also to honestly continues each year to make significant donations to explore and recognise the continued challenges that various charitable causes. Some of the main projects women in the legal profession continue to face. and initiatives with which CDH was involved over the Justice Mhlantla addressed a number of issues specific reporting period include: to gender equality in the workplace as well as a number of broader issues associated with transformation of TRANSFORMATION INITIATIVES the profession as a whole. Justice Mhlantla presented a powerful and meaningful talk interspersed with As part of its commitment to corporate social anecdotes of her own personal experience as an attorney responsibility CDH has implemented a number of and judicial officer. Perhaps the most compelling of transformation initiatives both internally and externally in conjunction with other external role players. A core UN GLOBAL COMPACT | HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 11 emphasis in recent initiatives has been the transformation Advancement Fund (CDH LEAF) to each university on the of the legal sector. Below are some of the external basis that such funds be ring-fenced in the accounts of initiatives that the firm embarked upon during the course the University, in order to be utilized for the development of the period under review: of black African law students at any level/phase in their legal education and training in the academy. ADVOCATES FOR TRANSFORMATION (“AFT”) INITIATIVE NATIONAL SCHOOLS MOOT COURT COMPETITION AND BURSARY SCHEME As one of its enterprise development initiatives CDH has established a project with Advocates for Transformation As has already been mentioned above CDH provides “As part of its committment to (AFT). An agreement was concluded between CDH and extensive and varied assistance to the NSMCC, including Corporate Social responsibility AFT, in terms whereof CDH financially supports AFT, for the provision of generous bursaries to the 4 winning CDH has implemented a the benefit of new Black advocates, at the start of their students (should they decide to study law). number of transformation careers, to enable them to overcome the barriers to entry initiatives. to that profession presented by the need to self-support PROFESSIONAL COLLABORATION for a considerable period of time during training, and A core emphasis in its recent We have established collaborative relationships while establishing a practice. In addition, the agreement initiatives has been the with a number of small, black owned law firms in entails the framework for further interactions to establish transformation of the legal and cement relationships between the beneficiaries of Johannesburg. We share information, knowledge and sector.” expertise on a regular basis through training sessions the support (as well as other young Black and female and seminars at CDH, and the distribution of our internal advocates) and CDH’s professionals, to encourage publications and marketing materials. a change in exclusionary briefing patterns between attorneys and advocates. IKAMVA LABANTU LEGAL EDUCATION ADVANCEMENT FUND We continue to provide support to Ikamva Labantu, a PROJECT (“LEAF”) well-respected non-profit organisation whose primary objectives are to redress the damaging effects of South In response to an ongoing financial (and other) crisis Africa’s Apartheid past. Ikamva Labantu runs facilities in tertiary education in South Africa CDH came to and projects in townships across Cape Town which the conclusion that as a large law firm we need to provide training, teaching, mentoring and support to demonstrate more effective efforts at transformation vulnerable communities. The organisation works with in the corporate legal sector, as well as the skills seniors, orphans and vulnerable children; in the fields development sector. We then proceeded to provide of early childhood development and primary healthcare financial support to needy and academically deserving and also runs and facilitates projects in townships across African black law students at various identified universities Cape Town. Our Cape Town office in particular provides across the country. As part of the financial support to the Ikamva Labantu with ongoing pro bono legal assistance universities CDH stipulated that it would make the agreed including advice on various legal, regulatory, tax and amount available through the CDH Legal Education governance issues. UN GLOBAL COMPACT | HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 12 COME TOGETHER HOME otherwise not receive gifts over Christmas. CDH contribute around 300 individual boxes to The Come Together Home remains one of our key the Santa Shoebox Project annually. CSR beneficiaries. We continue to provide significant financial and other support to the Home. As part of our CANSA SHAVATHON ongoing commitment to the Home, one of our Directors serves as board member on the Come Together Board. Since its inception 12 years ago, the Shavathon has Members of our staff continue to visit and assist the grown considerably in drawing support for those affected home. As part of a long standing tradition at the firm, by cancer. Corporate businesses across the country are CDH will be hosting a Christmas party for the home encouraged to host events to raise funds for the Cancer during the course of December 2016. The Christmas Association of South Africa. CDH has supported the Party provides an opportunity for the children and staff at CANSA Shavathon for a number of years and in 2016 and the home to enjoy an afternoon with CDH staff filled with raised in excess of R17,000 for the cause. entertainment, treats and games. In 2015, individual gift boxes were prepared for each child and each caregiver at NELSON MANDELA DAY MANDELA DAY the Home. CDH honoured the legacy of Mandela by participating in Mandela Day initiatives across both its Johannesburg CEO SLEEPOUT and Cape Town offices. In Johannesburg, staff visited Our managing partner in Cape Town, Gasant Orrie, the Masihambisane Day Care and Lerato Laka Day and our CDH Values Ambassador Themba Madubela Care Centres in Alexandra Township in Northern participated in the Sun International CEO Sleepout Johannesburg. The visits were a fun-filled experience supported by the Philanthropic Collection and hosted with fervent activity – from face painting, singing and by the City of Johannesburg. Held on the longest dancing, to having one-to-one encounters with the little and coldest night of Johannesburg’s winter, the CEO ones and handing over the offerings we had for them Sleepout challenged corporate South Africa and business which consisted of blankets and party packs. In Cape leaders to sleep under the stars for one night in aid of Town, staff got together to make sandwiches for the Boys’ and Girls’ Town. The CEO Sleepout is a global Salesian Youth Institute which is dedicated to educating movement aimed at raising awareness around the plight and empowering at-risk children and youth in the of people living in poverty. The Johannesburg Sleepout Western Cape Province. raised in excess of R31 million from its participants. WINTER DRIVE COLLECTION SANTA SHOEBOX PROJECT The Winter Drive is somewhat of an institution at CDH CDH began participating in the Santa Shoebox Project and CDHers come together annually to support the in 2014. An initiative of the Kidz2Kidz Trust which aims to collection. Generous donations of clothing and nonshare the joy of giving over the festive season, the Santa perishable food items were made in 2016 to Rays Shoebox Project co-ordinates, collects and distributes of Hope: a Section 21 non-profit and Public Benefit personalised gifts to underprivileged children who would Organisation which manages a large number of social UN GLOBAL COMPACT | HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 13 outreach projects in Alexandra Township in northern • A particular emphasis was placed by the firm Johannesburg. Rays of Hope aims to enable individuals during the period under review on supporting and and families to improve all aspects of their lives, thereby promoting the rights of some of the most vulnerable creating a lasting impact on the broader Alex residential groupings in our society, including young people, community. It is also registered with the Department of people with disabilities, the transgender community Social Welfare to provide assistance to children. A similar and refugees. donation was made by our Cape Town office to the • Over and above this, sizable new CSR projects were Saartjie Baartman Centre in Manenburg which provides rolled out by the firm during the period under review a safe haven for women and children who are victims aimed at transforming the legal sector. Significant of domestic violence. A further cash donation was also financial and human resources were dedicated to made to StreetSleeper an organisation based in Cape these projects. Town that makes sleeping bags for the homeless using “upcycled” billboards. CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • While our policies do not commit our firm to a specific total pro bono or CSR spend each year, CDH takes pride in ensuring that every year it makes a significant and valuable contribution to forwarding the human rights of others through its pro bono and human rights related work and CSR activities. • As the above summary of our work throughout the reporting period illustrates CDH made a material contribution to forwarding the rights of many through pro bono work, training and awareness building and through various CSR special projects. • The total hours spent on pro bono by the firm in the period under review exceeded 8,000 and this we believe demonstrates a strong level of dedication and commitment. This amounts to a monetary spend of in excess of R15 million during the period under review. UN GLOBAL COMPACT | HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES | 14 3 LABOUR PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Employment Equity Plans (EEP) being created. Under these EEP’s, annual goals are set, designed to remove South Africa is a member state of the International under-representivity of designated groups (Black people Labour Organisation (ILO), and ILO standards find (as defined in the EEA), women and people living with their way into local law. Both ILO instruments that disabilities) in every level of the organisation. These goals are binding on South Africa, and those to which the do not function as absolute barriers to employment country is not a party, are used as tools of interpretation or advancement of non-designated, or already fully in a South African context. This is specifically required represented groups of employees, however, are guides by the Constitution and has been confirmed by the that inform employment decisions, in a conscious Constitutional Court. These principles therefor inculcate effort to remove areas of under-representivity of the the local legislation and case law. designated groups. Under-representivity is established CDH is committed to the fostering of social and by a comparison between actual employee numbers, economic progress for all South Africans, irrespective of per prescribed category, with an ideal position, typically individually defining characteristics, in accordance with either the national economically active population, and/ the prescripts of applicable legal principles. or the regional economically active population, as may be appropriate. A comprehensive set of employment policies have been designed by CDH, to give effect to its commitment to Employees receive formal and informal feedback from respecting the dignity and equality of its employees, their EEC representatives, on the work of the EEC. This business partners and clients, while maintaining the work includes (amongst others) the identification of professional standards and ethics expected of a leading training needs on issues of employment equity, equality, South African law firm. These policies are available to all and the respect for human dignity. Training on issues of employees on an internal electronic platform, as well as sexual harassment and gender sensitivity is conducted in writing. Employment practices are tested against the CDH has adopted a regularly, and all levels of the organisation are exposed to employment policies, read with employment legislation such training. Corporate Social Investment Policy, and relevant codes of good practice. a Pro Bono Policy, and a The EEC further identifies barriers to employment Human Rights Statement. IMPLEMENTATION or advancement of designated groups, and works to remove such barriers. This includes for instance ensuring CDH has also established a The work of the CDH Employment Equity Committee, that reasonable accommodation is made for people with Social and Ethics Committee a widely representative employee body constituted in disabilities; bringing employment barriers to the attention in terms of the Companies Act, accordance with the requirements of the Employment of HR or the EEC; and engaging with their constituents to Equity Act, 55 of 1998 (EEA), results in periodic ensure that an avenue is available to employees to No 71 of 2008 (The Companies Act). UN GLOBAL COMPACT | LABOUR PRINCIPLES | 15 raise concerns. Individual grievances are raised and dealt Notable initiatives arising from Transcom’s work include with in accordance with the firm’s disciplinary code and the redesign of CDH’s mentorship programme, so as to grievance procedures, while issues of wider concern, offer greater support to junior professionals; adaptations such as an employment policy or practice that may have to the firm’s remuneration structure to encourage a discriminatory intent or effect, may be considered by increased briefing of colleagues who may not have the EEC before any further action is taken. otherwise had equal access to work, and, with that, “Over the past year Transcom advancement opportunities; formalised support to the has met extensively, and All new trainee lawyers (candidate attorneys) entering advocates profession, to support the entrance into the has done an exhaustive the organisation must participate in formal prescribed professional of designated individuals; and a process of training, which includes Gender Law, Constitutional infusing interactions with and between employees with evaluation of past and existing Law, and Labour Law training. Such training includes the principles of respect for, and celebration of, diversity. transformation initiatives, training on CDH’s policy regarding discrimination, sexual including an evaluation of its harassment and respect for the dignity of others in the Many of the initiatives envisaged by Transcom remain failures and successes.” organisation. in the planning phase, for further development over the coming year(s), however many have already found CDH has a Transformation Committee (Transcom), implementation for example our AFT initiative (see comprised of firm leaders (director level). Transcom discussion under CSR initiatives). reports directly to the CDH executive committee, and meets regularly to address transformation issues. Over the past year Transcom has met extensively, and has done an exhaustive evaluation of past and existing transformation initiatives, including an evaluation of its failures and successes. This has resulted in a report being presented to the firm’s directors, setting out the initiatives which the firm will embark on in the coming year, to progressively weed out actual or perceived prejudice resulting from race or gender. UN GLOBAL COMPACT | LABOUR PRINCIPLES | 16 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES CDH has consistently filed its EEP, and has never failed to meet the goals it set for itself, over the lifetime of its EEP Outcomes of transformation initiatives are formally (typically, 3 years). CDH’s BBBEE level, for the year 2016, measured in two ways. Annually, the EEC prepares is level 3 (with level 1 being the highest possible level). a report, in prescribed form, for submission to the Department of Labour. This report constitutes a The firm further tracks internally whether any alleged breakdown of employees’ race, gender, and disability violations of other employment legislation occurred. Outcomes of transformation profiles across the firm, and tracks whether CDH has Any such alleged violations are resolved through our initiatives are formally met the goals it set for itself in its EEP, to reduce underdisciplinary and grievance procedures. We are again measured in two ways: representivity in designated groups. pleased to confirm that no awards have been made against us at any of the Courts or Tribunals with • through a report to the The second formal evaluation of transformation jurisdiction over us (ie the Commission for Conciliation, Department of Labour; and initiatives is done in terms of the Broad-Based Black Mediation and Arbitration, or the Labour Court) since Economic Empowerment Act, 53 of 2003. This CDH’s formation in 2008, nor have any complaints been • through a formal legislation requires companies to obtain an annual lodged under any other labour related legislation. evaluation of certification of its BBBEE status. Certification is based transformation initiatives on a detailed independent evaluation of many aspects in terms of the Broadof the company’s transformation initiatives, and is not Based Black Economic solely based on labour principles, although the underEmpowerment Act. representivity of designated groups in (especially) the higher categories of employee will adversely impact on a company’s level. The BBBEE Act’s purpose is to promote economic transformation in order to enable meaningful participation of black people in the South African economy, and to achieve a substantial change in the racial composition of ownership and management structures and in the skilled occupations of existing and new enterprises (amongst others). UN GLOBAL COMPACT | LABOUR PRINCIPLES | 17 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION INTRODUCTION Regrettably, corruption in public and private life remains part of the South African reality, and perhaps that of As always, maintaining the highest legal, professional the world. In South Africa, the Zeitgeist in 2016 reflects and ethical standards remains a key part of CDH culture something of a backlash against State capture and and the firm is committed to the fight against corruption other more insidious forms of corruption. However, and bribery. Anti-corruption initiatives at CDH are both enforcement at a criminal level continues to lag. internal and client facing to the extent that the firm runs anti-bribery and corruption seminars for its practitioners Nevertheless, from a due diligence perspective, an as well as clients. understanding of the anti-corruption compliance risks inherent in today’s local, regional and global business A number of our attorneys continue to develop valuable climate is gaining prominence. An awareness of local expertise in advising on white-collar crime, bribery and and global legislation influences the way we conduct corruption as well as the conduct of forensic audits business and interact with our clients, associates and and investigations. CDH has sought to formalise and suppliers and we continue to take our obligations in this coalesce this aspect of its service offering through a regard seriously. cross-disciplinary virtual practice in white collar crime and related advice made up of regulatory attorneys and COMPLIANCE litigation experts. Through advice and advocacy, CDH supports CDH’s Pro-Bono Practice acts in support of the rule compliance with a number of local laws that underpin of law in its broadest sense, while other practices such anti-corruption enforcement in South Africa including: as Competition Law contribute to advocating against corruption in the form of price-fixing and bid-rigging f The Prevention of Organised Crime Act, 121 of 1998; cartels. f The Protected Disclosures Act, 26 of 2000; CDH has adopted a South Africa’s role in the global economy means that f The Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 38 of 2001; Corporate Social Investment Policy, foreign legislation and treaty obligations also need to be considered, including obligations under the Organisation ff The Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities a Pro Bono Policy, and a for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Act, 12 of 2004; Human Rights Statement. Recommendations on Combating Bribery, Bribe f The Public Services Act, 1994; CDH has also established a Solicitation and Extortion; the UN Convention against Corruption and the African Union Convention Against ff The Protection of Constitutional Democracy against Social and Ethics Committee Corruption; and more pointedly, the US Foreign Corrupt Terrorist and Related Activities Act, 33 of 2004; and in terms of the Companies Act, Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. f The Companies Act, 71 of 2008. No 71 of 2008 (The Companies Act). UN GLOBAL COMPACT | ANTI-CORRUPTION | 18 The Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (FICA) and the TRAINING Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Act, 11 of 2008, are geared towards combatting money laundering. The CDH offers focussed anti-bribery and corruption training firm, as a registered “accountable institution” under FICA as part of formal career academies for professionals. has comprehensive policies and procedures in place to In addition and as part of the firm’s in-house training comply with our obligations in respect of, for example, programme, newly appointed candidate attorneys are Ethical conduct remains verifying the identify of clients, keeping records of required, in preparation for their admission examinations, a cornerstone of the legal business relationships and transactions and reporting to attend various training sessions on professional profession and a fundamental cash transactions as well as suspicious transactions to the conduct and ethics, which includes, for example, a part of CDH’s ethos. Financial Intelligence Centre. We have comprehensive discussion of risk management, fraud, bribery and internal rules in this regard, which are made available to corruption as well as attorney-client privilege. all employees as part of compulsory training on our FICA As part of the new practice management course for policies and procedures. new directors which has been introduced by the Law A key development in CDH has been the appointment Society of South Africa, new directors attend in-house of a dedicated risk and compliance manager. Our risk training sessions on professional conduct, ethics and risk and compliance manager is responsible, inter alia, for management. overseeing compliance with all local anti-corruption and bribery related legislation; formulating recommendations OTHER INITIATIVES AND POLICIES for improvements in line with international best practice and statutory objectives; providing an ad-hoc CDH adopts a zero tolerance policy on corruption, advisory service to the business in respect of queries bribery and extortion. CDH recognises that anti-bribery relating to due diligence, money laundering, reporting and anti-corruption requires on-going vigilance from responsibilities and for leading the implementation of senior managers through to professional staff and other internal policies, guidelines, procedures and training. employees. The firm’s internal guidelines on anticorruption continues to be refined to take into account developing best practice in managing these risks and REGULATION driving a culture of compliance at CDH and in relation to Ethical conduct remains a cornerstone of the legal third parties with whom we work. profession and a fundamental part of CDH’s ethos. In terms of the Attorneys Act, 53 of 1979, our attorneys are registered with the relevant provincial law societies where they practice and comply with the rules in regard to professional conduct and ethics. UN GLOBAL COMPACT | ANTI-CORRUPTION | 19 5 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES RELEVANCE OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPLEMENTATION PROTECTION FOR CDH CARBON FOOTPRINT The legal sector has a relatively small environmental footprint. However CDH acknowledges that it has a CDH conducted its annual carbon footprint to obtain a clear responsibility to ensure its environmental impacts are overview of all the greenhouse gas emissions it causes, minimised. We maintain that the greatest impact we can including energy use. The footprint is attached to this COP. have on environmental sustainability is using our expertise CDH’s total emissions have increased from 2014/2015 by in providing legal advice to our clients to help them only 4.7%. This is much less than the increase between understand and comply with environmental legislation and 2013/2014 and 2014/2015 of 15%. implement environmentally sound management, so as to respond to the environmental challenges facing the world. The increase between 2014/2015 and 2015/2016 relates to commuting by private car (up 2%), and air travel (up 3%). CDH’S ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY CDH’s commitment to reduce its carbon footprints At CDH we continue to recognise the critical importance is shown by its emission reductions in electricity natural resources have on economic growth and consumption (down by 5%) and paper consumption sustainable development, particularly in Africa. As can be (down by 1%), in line with its goals in the 2014/2015 COP. seen from our projects implemented in 2016, we continue Electricity consumption makes up most of CDH’s carbon to strive to reduce our environmental impact in all areas footprint. The Sandton office has an electricity intensity of our business and contribute to projects that support of 37% less than the Cape Town office per full time positive environmental outcomes. employee (“FTE”). Our commitment to operate in a responsible way remains Cape Town’s electricity intensity has however reduced CDH has adopted a focused on the following areas: as follows from the 2013/2014 carbon footprint due to Corporate Social Investment Policy, • Reduction and efficient use of water, energy and paper. proactive steps CDH has taken to reduce the Cape Town office’s electricity intensity: a Pro Bono Policy, and a • Reduction, re-use and recycling of waste. • 2013/2014 Human Rights Statement. • Creating environmental awareness among staff, 1,869,720 kWh / FTE CDH has also established a clients and business partners. • 2014/2015 Social and Ethics Committee • Providing pro bono legal support to non-profit 1,845,117 kWh / FTE organisations (NPOs). in terms of the Companies Act, • 2015/2016 • Furnishing environmental legal services to clients. No 71 of 2008 (The Companies Act). 1,824,500 kWh / FTE UN GLOBAL COMPACT | ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 20 The Sandton office also has an emission intensity of 38% Electrical energy consumption is reduced at the less than the Cape Town office per FTE. Again, through Johannesburg Office through movement sensors and steps taken by CDH, the Cape Town office’s emission timers for lighting systems. Timers have also recently “CDH conducted its annual intensity has reduced as follows: been installed at the Cape Town Office. Energy efficient carbon footprint to obtain PCs and laptops are also used. • 2013/2014 a clear overview of all the 14.04 tCO2e / FTE A large portion of the carbon footprint constitutes greenhouse gas emissions it • 2014/2015 electricity usage in the Cape Town Office. CDH therefore causes, including energy use. 13.6 tCO2e / FTE conducted an energy efficiency audit on it in 2014. The The footprint is attached to • 2015/2016 findings of the Audit and the steps CDH has taken are set this COP.” out below. 13.3 tCO2e / FTE • Lighting is believed to be the largest energy TRANSPORTATION consumer, mainly due to some of the time schedules being set to extended hours. Adjusting the lighting CDH used ‘foot-messengers’ for all inner-city deliveries operating hours and the installation of more efficient (within a 1-4 km radius). lighting will result in a saving of 24%. Our virtual meeting technology, installed in both our In 2014/2015 CDH piloted a process of adjusting the Cape Town and Johannesburg Offices provides an lighting timers for a certain period whilst it received effective alternative to travel and is increasingly used. feedback from employees that usually work later hours. CDH’s increases in its carbon footprint however relate to The timers in the Cape Town Office are now set to turn transport (commuting by private car and air travel) and off at 7pm in the evening and back on again at 7am. measures to reduce this portion of the carbon footprint In order to achieve significant savings, it is recommended will need to be considered in the next reporting year. that the lighting be replaced with more efficient lighting REDUCTION AND EFFICIENT USE OF WATER AND and that occupancy control in the individual offices be installed. ENERGY CDH has installed more energy efficient LED globes in The design of CDH’s Johannesburg Office ensures the areas that are able to accommodate them. efficient use of water and energy. Solar panels on the roof generate hot water and evaporative cooling in the It is recommended that the operating hours of both atrium controls the air temperature. The glass used HVAC and lighting be specialized to reduce wastage. extensively on the Office facades is a low e-glass, which Furthermore, the tenant equipment (mainly computer emits low levels of radiant energy. The top basement equipment) could be specialized by installing specialized levels are designed to allow for natural ventilation and software whereby the operating hours can be reduced. the Office windows are designed to allow as much light CDH did not adjust the timers on the HVAC system in in as possible. Double-glazing on vision panels and roof the 2014/2015 reporting period. This is now planned to insulation allows for the conservation of natural energy. occur in the next reporting year and will be piloted for UN GLOBAL COMPACT | ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 21 staff feedback. This will however differ from the lighting PROVIDING PRO BONO LEGAL SUPPORT TO adjustment, as the need varies per season. ENVIRONMENTAL NPOS Some proposals can be done internally without any CDH has provided a wide range of pro bono legal additional costs (such as adjusting the air conditioning services to the Endangered Wildlife Trust (EWT) since and lighting operating hours). 2012. Our Property Department is presently involved in Our security contractor/guards continue to assist with assisting EWT relating to the purchase and transfer of a monitoring and switching off unnecessary equipment property in a nature conservation area. during their hourly patrols at night. In 2015/2016 it has also provided corporate and In an effort to reduce and save energy consumption on employment pro bono legal services to Delta a larger scale, CDH enlisted the services of a Company Environmental Centre. that deals primarily in assisting corporate companies with their energy efficiency (Winterbourne-Green Energy (Pty) CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS Ltd) in the 2014/2015 reporting year. This project has been put on hold, as Winterbourne-Green Energy (Pty) AMONG STAFF, CLIENTS AND BUSINESS Ltd is still in the process of enlisting more corporates for PARTNERS this initiative. When the Project is implemented, it will The Environmental Law Practice provides seminars to assist greatly in both the Cape Town and Johannesburg other Practice areas, candidate attorneys and clients on Offices becoming more energy efficient, while still various aspects of environmental law. It also frequently operating optimally. publishes articles on developments in environmental law and environmental rights in Africa, aimed inter alia at REDUCTION, RE-USE AND RECYCLING OF WASTE increasing awareness amongst its clients and the general We remain committed to reducing paper use and public. recycling paper, plastics and other waste. CDH continues to utilise an accredited recycling company at its FURNISHING ENVIRONMENTAL LEGAL Johannesburg and Cape Town Offices. As with most law SERVICES TO CLIENTS firms, paper constitutes the bulk of CDH’s waste stream. CDH continues to represent several clients with An employee of the recycling company is based significant environmental impacts due to the nature of permanently at the Johannesburg Office to separate their operations, such as the mining, industrial, waste waste streams for recycling purposes. In addition, sectors and nuclear power generation. Through our recycling boxes are present in prominent positions in Environmental Law Practice we advise our clients both the Cape Town and Johannesburg Offices. on all environmental aspects of their business, from CDH’s paper consumption has reduced in 2015/2016 and environmental regulation and compliance to strategic it will continue to ensure efficient paper usage in the next environmental planning. reporting period. UN GLOBAL COMPACT | ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 22 TRAVEL MONITORING GOALS CDH’s Social and Ethics Committee has an CDH is committed to further reducing our environmental environmental representative, who is a Director in the impact in the three key areas identified in the carbon Environmental Law Practice. She continues to report footprint assessment namely: energy efficiency, air travel back on the extent and effectiveness of environmental and car travel. Measures to reduce our carbon footprint strategies within the Firm and presents proposals on from air and car travel will be considered in the next further reduction/mitigation strategies to reduce CDH’s reporting year. environmental impact. The energy audit will determine where and how the Through the carbon footprint’s outcome and data Cape Town Office can become more energy efficient, accumulated on our waste stream, we have a measurable thereby reducing our carbon footprint even further. For baseline to set annual targets and objectives, enabling business air travel we are still formulating an appropriate us to accurately track and report our progress and travel policy. Regarding private car travel we continue to determine if our strategies are effective. Management actively encouraging lift-sharing and the use of public regularly assesses the effectiveness of strategies that transport. Lastly, in order to have an accurate carbon have been implemented and whether they successfully footprint, we have implemented the necessary data reduce the negative impact in the three key areas. management processes and will continue striving to improve them. UN GLOBAL COMPACT | ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES | 23 Carbon Footprint Report Reporting period: 1 April 2015 – 31 March 2016 28 July 2016 www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Table of contents Acknowledgements 2 OVERVIEW OF CLIFFE DEKKER HOFMEYR’S 2015/2016 CARBON DIOXIDE EQUIVALENT (CO2e) EMISSIONS 3 1 Introduction 5 2 Required information 6 2.1. Company description 6 2.2. GHG inventory boundaries 6 2.3. Reporting Period 7 3 Methodology 8 3.1. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) 8 3.2. Emission Factors (EFs) 8 4 Carbon footprint Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr 9 4.1 Scope 1 & 2 emissions 9 4.2 Relevant scope 3 emissions 10 4.3 Historical overview 11 4.4 Benchmarking 13 4.5 Information on Offsetting 14 5 Carbon footprint CDH Sandton Office 15 5.1 Scope 1 & 2 emissions 15 5.2 Relevant scope 3 emissions 16 6 Carbon footprint CDH Cape Town Office 18 6.1 Scope 1 & 2 emissions 18 6.2 Relevant scope 3 emissions 19 6.3 Comparison between Sandton & Cape Town office 21 Contact Persons 22 Acknowledgements Franz Rentel from Climate Neutral Group would like to thank Sandra Gore and Beverley Winter for fielding all questions and coordinating the Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr team for the carbon footprint. Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 2 OVERVIEW OF CLIFFE DEKKER HOFMEYR’S 2015/2016 CARBON DIOXIDE EQUIVALENT (CO2e) EMISSIONS REPORTING PERIOD: Financial Year 2015 / 2016 (1 April 2015 – 31 March 2016) CONDUCTED ON: Sandton & Cape Town office Basic Information Total CDH employees: 630 Total square metres of space reported: 15.751 Scope 1 Direct Emissions Metric tonnes of CO2e Equipment owned or controlled (generators) 2.3 Company delivery vehicles 33.0 TOTAL SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS 35.4 Scope 2 Indirect Emissions Electricity consumption 4874.0 TOTAL SCOPE 1 & 2 EMISSIONS 4874.0 Scope 3 Indirect Emissions Commuting by private car 744.2 Commuting by public transport 54.2 Business travel in commercial airlines 1044.3 Business travel in rental cars 7.9 Business travel in hotels 7.2 Paper 60.7 TOTAL SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS 1918.5 TOTAL SCOPE 1, 2 & 3 EMISSIONS 6827.8 Total emissions per full-time employee (tCO2e/FTE) 10.84 Total emissions per square metre of space (tCO2e/m2) 0.43 OVERVIEW OF RESULTS OF EMISSIONS BY SCOPE Description Metric tonnes of CO2e emissions Scope 1 35.4 Scope 2 4874.0 Scope 3 1918.5 Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 3 company vehicles paper 1% 1% air travel public 15% transport 1% 11% Private car 71% electricity consumption emission per source in this period Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 4 1. Introduction An organisational carbon footprint serves as a starting point of the carbon footprint, based on your reported data. This and foundation for your company’s carbon management carbon footprint was determined in accordance with the programme by providing you with a clear overview of all Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting the greenhouse gas emissions caused by your operations, and Reporting Standard methodology1. including energy use by your offices and processes. Gaining insight into your business or organisation’s carbon Climate Neutral Group has gone to all reasonable lengths footprint is the first step towards managing it. This will to ensure that the primary information provided by you is allow you to: correct but we take no responsibility for any inaccuracies that this information might contain. This report, in its • disclose your carbon emissions to clients, government entirety, is both material and complete and is intended and other stakeholders for your company’s internal use only. Information may, • prepare for future mandatory carbon reporting however, be extracted for reporting purposes, such as for • determine your carbon tax exposure submission into international and/or national greenhouse • realise potential energy and cost savings gas registries and sustainability reporting. • track and reduce your carbon emissions • invest into carbon offsetting thereby linking your CSI We hope that this carbon footprint report will provide you mandate with your carbon strategy with the valuable insight you need to (further) limit your impact on the climate and/or demonstrate that any carbon This carbon footprint report is part of the standard service reduction measures you might have taken in so far have offering from Climate Neutral Group. It contains a brief had the desired effect. If you would like any advice on description of the boundaries, scope and methodology limiting your climate impact and/or how to offset (a part used. The major part of the report gives a detailed account of) your footprint, please speak to one of our consultants. 1 The GHG Protocol is a multi-stakeholder partnership of business, NGOs and governments led by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). It is the best source of information about corporate GHG accounting and reporting, and draws on the expertise and contributions of individuals and organisations from around the world. The GHG Protocol is the most widely used standard for mandatory and voluntary GHG Programmes. Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 5 2. Required information 2.1. Company description Group advises that any emissions from significant scope 3 activities that your organisation has an influence over should also be included (for example business travel). This Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr (“CDH”) is one of the largest provides you with a realistic carbon footprint which is the business law firms in South Africa with some 115 directors/ best basis to initiate effective carbon reduction plans and partners and 200 qualified lawyers, located at offices in communicate transparently to stakeholders. Below is a Sandton and Cape Town. The firm specialises in services short description about boundaries and scopes. covering the complete spectrum of business legal needs with dedicated sector-led teams. ORGANISATIONAL BOUNDARIES This 2015/2016 Carbon Footpring Report constitutes the Organisational boundaries determine which business fourth consecutive carbon footprint commissioned by units (core, subsidiaries, franchises, etc.), facilities, or Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr (“CDH”) and should be compared physical places of operation, owned or controlled by the against the previous carbon footprint calculations. This reporting company, are included in the carbon footprint. report covers emissions resulting from business activities of The more complex the company structure, the more CDH’s two South African offices: Sandton (Johannesburg) important are the boundaries of an organisation for the and Cape Town. This covers a staff complement of some clear definition and scope of the report. 630 full-time employees (FTEs), excluding contracted intermediaries, and 15 751 square metres (m2) of total Organisational boundaries are established on either the office space. control approach or the equity share approach. Under the control approach, a company accounts for all emissions by entities and activities that are controlled by the 2.2. GHG inventory boundaries organisation. Under the equity share approach, a company accounts for its GHG emissions from operations according to its share of equity in the operation. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, clear organisational and operational boundaries (including “scopes”) have to Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr reports on all emissions using be defined before a carbon footprint can be reported. It the Operational Control approach. This includes South is important to highlight that under the GHG Protocol, the African offices managed and controlled by the firm for reporting of both direct emissions and indirect emissions which Scope 1 (direct), Scope 2 (indirect electricity) and resulting from purchased electricity are compulsory (scope Scope 3 (indirect) emissions can be accounted for. The 1 and 2 respectively). All other indirect emissions (scope 3) offices included in the boundary are the Sandton and are reported on a voluntary basis. However Climate Neural Cape Town office. Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 6 OPERATIONAL BOUNDARIES 2.3. Reporting Period Operational boundaries determine the actual business The reporting period of this report is for CDH’s 2015/2016 activities of the reporting company that generate financial year (1 April 2015 – 31 March 2016). emissions, which of these activities should be included in the calculation, and how these activities should be classified (i.e. direct or indirect emissions). The GHG-emitting activities covered by the report include direct emissions resulting from fuel used by companyowned or controlled equipment and fleet vehicles; indirect emissions from purchased electricity (referred to as Scope 1 and 2 emissions respectively); and selected indirect emissions resulting from your business travel activities, third-party vehicle fleet, employee commuting patterns and the consumption of office paper (referred to as Scope 3 emissions). Refer to Appendix B for a diagram to illustrate direct and indirect emissions and the different scopes of reporting. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions resulting from the following activities have been calculated: Scope 1 (direct): • Equipment owned or controlled by company (e.g. backup Diesel generators) • Operation of company-owned delivery vehicles Scope 2 (indirect – electricity): • Consumption of purchased electricity Scope 3: (indirect – other): • Commuting of staff by private car & public transport • Business travel in rental cars, commercial airlines & hotel stays • Paper use Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 7 3. methodology 3.1. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent values. These default values are representative averages based on the most extensive data sets available and are (CO2e) largely identical to those used by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the premier authority on The root cause of climate change is the release of mangreenhouse gas accounting practices at the global level. made greenhouse gases into the atmosphere which trap heat. The most important are carbon dioxide (CO2), The GHG Protocol recommends, however, that businesses methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). Due to the varying should use customised values whenever possible, as ability of greenhouse gases to trap heat in the atmosphere, industrial processes or the composition of fuels used by some are more harmful to the climate than others. Each businesses may differ with time and by region. This report greenhouse gas has a “global warming potential” (GWP), largely uses the latest emission factors provided by the UK which refers to its heat trapping potential relative to that government’s Department of Environment, Food and Rural of CO2. Therefore, to provide a comparable final figure, all Activities (Defra), May 2015. emissions are reported as a relative figure to CO2, i.e. as CO2e values. In reporting emissions generated by the consumption of electricity purchased from Eskom, the emissions factor provided by the utility’s annual integrated report (2015) has 3.2. Emission Factors (EFs) been used to give local context accuracy. Emission factors convert activity data (e.g. amount of fuel It is important to note that emission factors from the used, kilometres driven, and kilowatt hours of purchased relevant institutions are continuously updated in line electricity) into a value indicating carbon dioxide equivalent with new developments. Sometimes this can make (CO2e) emissions generated by that activity. comparisons with a previous year’s carbon footprint less straight-forward. Therefore the changes you see in your Default values are used by the GHG Protocol to assist footprint over time are not only caused by changes in your businesses that are unable to develop accurate customised behaviour but also changes in emission factors. Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 8 4. Carbon footprint Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr 4.1. Scope 1 & 2 emissions The following two tables outline all direct emissions under Scope 1 and indirect emissions from purchased electricity under Scope 2 for the 2015/2016 financial year. Emissions associated with the operation of air-conditioning units and refrigerators have not been included due to unreliable data. TOTAL DIRECT SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit2 CO2e emissions Fuel used in equipment Litres of diesel 3.257 768 2.4 owned or controlled (back-up generators) Vehicle fleet Litres of petrol 2.75 12,010 33.0 Total emissions from vehicle fleet 35.4 TOTAL INDIRECT SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS FROM PURCHASED ELECTRICITY Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit CO2e emissions Purchased electricity Kilowatt hours 1.013 4,825,724 4,874.0 Vehicle fleet Litres of petrol 2.75 12,010 33.0 Total emissions from purchased electricity 4,874.0 TOTAL SCOPE 1 & 2 EMISSIONS 4909.4 Unless otherwise stated, all emission factors are provided by the UK Government Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Guideline to Defra’s 2 GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting; Annexes Updated May 2015. Eskom emission factor per kilowatt hours of electricity generated in South Africa from Eskom was sourced from the Eskom 2015 Integrated Report. 3 Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 9 4.2. Relevant scope 3 emissions The following table outlines major and relevant Scope 3 emissions generated during the 2015/2016 financial year. Employee commuting carbon emissions have been calculated by means of a staff survey carried out in July, 2016 (details of the survey in Appendix C). TOTAL INDIRECT SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit4 CO2e emissions Employee commuting tCO2e/FTE Various according to 6510 km5 798.3 transportation mode Business travel – air km Varies with distance 2825883 km 1044.3 travel Business travel – car Km / liters 0.229/2.75 7970/2194 7.9 hire Business travel – hotel Bed night 20.6 351 7.2 accommodation Paper ton Various types 55.212 60.7 TOTAL SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS 1918.5 Unless otherwise stated, all emission factors are provided by the UK Government Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Guideline to Defra’s 4 GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting; Annexes Updated May 2015. An online commuting survey was completed on 26 July 2016. Total responses received: 201, representing 32% of full time employees. Appendix C contains 5 details of the survey. Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 10 4.3. Historical overview Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr had initially set 2012/2013 financial year as its base year for the carbon footprint calculations. A base year is the historical year against which a company’s emissions are tracked and compared over time. It is typically the earliest relevant point in time for which a company has reliable data. However, this has been adjusted to the 2014/2015 financial year due to unreliable electricity consumption data in 2013/2014 financial year. The table below compares CDH’s carbon footprint over the past three financial years of reporting. COMPARISON OF EMISSIONS AND INTENSITY 1 April 2013 – 31 March 2016 BASIC INFORMATION 2013/2014 2014/2015 2015/2016 Full-time employees (FTE) 583 601 630 Square metres (m ) 2 15.751 15.751 15.751 ACTIVITY (tCO2e) Equipment owned or controlled (back-up generators) 3.18 2.4 2.3 Company owned delivery vehicles 37.63 28.4 33.0 TOTAL SCOPE 1 40.8 30.8 35.4 TOTAL SCOPE 2 – Electricity 2871.62 5006.6 4874.4 TOTAL SCOPE 1 & 2 2912.42 5037.4 4909.4 Employee commuting by private car 417.45 547.8 744.2 Employee commuting by public transport 68.31 45.0 54.1 Business travel – commercial airlines 1543.51 737.2 1044.3 Business travel – car hire 0.27 No data 7.9 Business travel – hotel accommodation 5.46 No data 7.2 Paper 92.10 142.0 60.7 TOTAL SCOPE 3 2127.1 1472.0 1918.5 TOTAL GROSS EMISSIONS 5039.53 6509.3 6827.8 Carbon Offsets 0 0 0 TOTAL NET EMISSIONS 5039.53 6509.3 6827.8 Emission intensity per employee (tCO2e/FTE) 8.64 10.83 10.84 Emission intensity per square metre office space 0.32 0.41 0.43 (tCO2e/m2) Intensity: % tCO2e from electricity 58 77 73 Kilowatt Hours consumed 2,930,226 4,908,411 4,825,724 Electricity intensity: kWh/FTE 5,026 8,167 7,660 Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 11 historical overview 2013-2014 2014-2015 2015-2016 8000 7000 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 0 total electricity air travel commuting Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 12 4.4. Benchmarking For comparative purposes, the following international and South African companies in the legal and financial services sector are indicated below according to public disclosure. It is important to note that differences between organisational and operational boundaries of companies need to be taken into account when comparing performance. This is especially true for Scope 3 emissions whereby companies would be reporting different emission activities, which is why for comparative purposes Scope 3 emissions have been omitted. Company Scope 1 & 2 Total scope 1 & 2 / Total Scope 1 & 2 Emissions (tCO2e) FTE emissions / m2 Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr 4,904 7.79 0.31 Webber Wetzel 5,793 7.29 0.19 Norton Rose Fulbright 4,669 8.11 0.22 Linklaters Global 18,481 4.10 Sanlam 41,582 4.92 0.31 Nedbank 154,871 5.77 0.34 Liberty 47,052 5.59 0.25 Santam 8,163 3.12 0.22 Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 13 4.5. Information on Offsetting Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr has not (yet) offset any of its GHG emissions generated in the past four financial years by purchasing carbon offsets (credits). Carbon offsetting offers a unique opportunity to make an immediate and significant difference to reducing your impact on the environment. Our projects not only reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, but also impact communities who benefit from the sale of carbon credits. Carbon offsetting can help your business to gain competitive advantage, build brand value, support your CSI policy, improve your BEE scorecard, motivate staff, and encourage reduction activities by setting an internal price for carbon. Climate Neutral Group has several exciting offset projects in its portfolio that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve livelihoods. All our projects comply with the three most internationally recognised carbon credit standards – the Gold Standard, Verified Carbon Standard and the Clean Development Mechanism. Our projects combine energy, environment and developmental solutions into sustainable business opportunities. Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 14 5. Carbon footprint CDH sandton office CDH’s carbon footprint takes into account the GHG emissions of all your facilities and business activities as a whole (i.e. both CDH offices within South Africa). You have requested for us to produce individual sub-reports for each of your offices during this process. While this is not mandatory to satisfy the best practise in carbon accounting, it is beneficial from a carbon management point of view in order to track how the individual offices perform over time. 5.1. Scope 1 & 2 emissions The following two tables outline all direct emissions under Scope 1 and indirect emissions from purchased electricity under Scope 2 for the 2015/2016 financial year for the Sandton office. Emissions associated with the operation of air-conditioning units and refrigerators have not been included due to unreliable data. TOTAL DIRECT SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS – SANDTON OFFICE Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit CO2e emissions Fuel used in in Litres of diesel 3.2576 768 2.3 equipment owned or controlled (back-up generators) Vehicle fleet Litres of petrol 2.75 8.721 24.0 Total emissions from vehicle fleet 26.3 INDIRECT SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS FROM PURCHASED ELECTRICITY SANDTON OFFICE Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit CO2e emissions Purchased electricity Kilowatt hours 1.017 3,001,224 3,031.2 Total emissions from purchased electricity 3,031.2 Unless otherwise stated, all emission factors are provided by the UK Government Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Guideline to Defra’s 6 GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting; Annexes Updated May 2015. Eskom emission factor per kilowatt hours of electricity generated in South Africa from Eskom was sourced from the Eskom 2015 Integrated Report. 7 Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 15 5.2. Relevant scope 3 emissions The following table outlines major and relevant Scope 3 emissions generated during the 2015/2016 financial year for the Sandton office. Employee commuting carbon emissions have been calculated by means of a staff survey carried out in July, 2016 (details of the survey in Appendix C). INDIRECT SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS – SANDTON OFFICE Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit CO2e emissions Employee commuting tCO2e/FTE Various according to x 579.1 transportation mode8 Business travel – air km Varies with distance 2204975 845.0 travel Business travel – car Total kilometres 0.229/2.75 484km+7970L 3.2 hire travelled Business travel – hotel Bed night 20.6 257 5.3 accommodation Paper Tons Varies with type 40.3 44.3 Total Scope 3 tCO2e 1476.9 OVERVIEW OF RESULTS OF EMISSIONS BY SCOPE Sandton office Description Metric tonnes of CO2e emissions Scope 1 26.3 Scope 2 3031.2 Scope 3 1476.9 An online commuting survey was completed on 26 July 2016. Total responses received: 201, representing 32% of full time employees. Appendix C contains 8 details of the survey. Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 16 paper 1% air travel 19% public transport 1% 12% private car 67% electricity consumption emission per source in this period Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 17 6. Carbon footprint CDH Cape Town Office 6.1. Scope 1 & 2 emissions The following two tables outline all direct emissions under Scope 1 and indirect emissions from purchased electricity under Scope 2 for the 2015/2016 financial year for the Cape Town office. Emissions associated with the operation of air-conditioning units and refrigerators have not been included due to unreliable data. DIRECT SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS CAPE TOWN OFFICE Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit CO2e emissions Fuel used in in Litres of diesel 3.257 0 0 equipment owned or controlled (back-up generators) Vehicle fleet Litres of petrol 2.75 3289 9.0 Total emissions from vehicle fleet 9.0 INDIRECT SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS FROM PURCHASED ELECTRICITY – CAPE TOWN OFFICE Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit CO2e emissions Purchased electricity Kilowatt hours 1.01 1,824,500 1842.7 SA Total emissions from purchased electricity 1842.7 Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 18 6.2. Relevant scope 3 emissions The following table outlines major and relevant Scope 3 emissions generated during the 2015/2016 financial year for the Cape Town office. Employee commuting carbon emissions have been calculated by means of a staff survey carried out in July, 2016 (details of the survey in Appendix C). INDIRECT SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS CAPE TOWN OFFICE Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit CO2e emissions Employee commuting tCO2e/FTE Various according to x 219.2 transportation mode9 Business travel – air km Varies with distance 620908 199.3 travel Business travel – car L petrol 2.75 1710 4.7 hire Business travel – hotel Bed night 20.6 94 1.9 accommodation Paper Tons Various grades 14.9 16.4 Total Scope 3 tCO2e 441.66 OVERVIEW OF RESULTS OF EMISSIONS BY SCOPE Cape Town office Description Metric tonnes of CO2e emissions Scope 1 9.1 Scope 2 1842.8 Scope 3 441.66 An online commuting survey was completed on 26 July 2016. Total responses received: 201, representing 32% of full time employees. Appendix C contains 9 details of the survey. Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 19 paper 1% air travel public transport 9% 1% private car 9% 80% electricity consumption emission per source in this period Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 20 6.3. Comparison between Sandton & Cape Town office To gain better insight into the carbon emissions and energy intensity between the two offices a direct comparison is provided in the table below. The biggest difference is the electricity intensity: Sandton’s 4 Star Green Building has an electricity intensity of 6,567kWh per full-time employee whereas the Cape Town office is 10,546kWh per full-time employee. COMPARISON OF EMISSIONS AND INTENSITY CDH SANDTON & CAPE TOWN OFFICES 2015/2016 FINANCIAL YEAR Sandton Cape Town BASIC INFORMATION Full-time employees (FTE) 457 173 Square metres (m ) 2 11,882 3,869 ACTIVITY (tCO2e) Equipment owned or controlled (back-up generators) 2.3 0 Company owned vehicle fleet 24.0 9.0 TOTAL SCOPE 1 26.3 9.0 TOTAL SCOPE 2 – Electricity 3031.2 1842.8 TOTAL SCOPE 1 & 2 3057.5 1851.8 Employee commuting by private car 539.8 204.3 Employee commuting by public transport 39.3 14.9 Business travel – commercial airlines 673.1 199.3 Business travel – car hire 3.1 4.7 Business travel – hotel accommodation 5.3 1.9 Paper 44.3 16.4 TOTAL SCOPE 3 1476.9 441.6 TOTAL GROSS EMISSIONS 4534.8 2296.4 Carbon Offsets 0 0 TOTAL NET EMISSIONS 4370.7 2296.4 Emission intensity per employee (tCO2e/FTE) 9.6 13.3 Emission intensity per square metre office space 0.37 0.59 (tCO2e/m2) Intensity: % tCO2e from electricity 69 80 Kilowatt Hours consumed 3,001,224 1,824,500 Electricity intensity: kWh/FTE 6,567 10,546 Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 21 Contact Persons About Climate Neutral Group Franz Rentel Climate Neutral Group (CNG) aims to shape and promote Climate Neutral Group, Country Director South Africa the low-carbon agenda. We were established in 2001 in franz.rentel@climateneutralgroup.com the Netherlands by the Doen Foundation and Triodos Telephone: 021 202 6067 Bank. Since then we have grown to market leader in Website: www.climateneutralgroup.co.za the Benelux thanks to our knowledge and experience in carbon management. Wieb Miedema Climate Neutral Group, Carbon Footprint Specialist In 2012 we expanded operations into South Africa – a wieb.miedema@climateneutralgroup.com country with one of the largest carbon footprints in the Telephone: + 31 30 232 6172 world and increasing regulatory measures (such as the Website: www.climateneutralgroup.nl proposed carbon tax). Our expertise and services are well matched with the need for professional services that can Sandra Gore ensure compliance and accelerate businesses’ transition Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr, Director Environmental towards sustainability. sandra.gore@dlacdh.com Telephone: 021 403 6395 CNG is member of the International Carbon Reduction and Website: www.cliffedekkerhofmeyr.com Offset Alliance (ICROA), thereby helping to set standards for the carbon industry. As a member of the Southern Africa-Netherlands Chamber of Commerce (SANEC) we help strengthen business ties between the two regions. Through our National Business Initiative (NBI) membership we engage with business leaders in shaping a low carbon future in South Africa. Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 22 appendix A ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY OF TERMS A/C Air-conditioning Baseline year An historical year used to compare preceding year’s emissions. Carbon Offset A unit of carbon dioxide-equivalent (CO2e) that is reduced, avoided, or sequestered to compensate for emissions occurring elsewhere CO2 Carbon dioxide CO2e Carbon dioxide equivalent – standardisation of all greenhouse gases to reflect the global warming potential relative to carbon dioxide Defra United Kingdom Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Direct emissions Greenhouse gas emissions from facilities/sources owned or controlled by a reporting company, e.g. generators, blowers, vehicle fleets Emission factors Specific value used to convert activity data into greenhouse gas emission values. Presented in specific units, e.g. kgCO2/km travelled FTEs Full-time employees GHG Greenhouse gases GHG Protocol Greenhouse Gas Protocol – uniform methodology used to calculate the carbon footprint of an organisation GWP Global Warming Potential – an indication of the global warming effect of a greenhouse gas in comparison to the same weight of carbon dioxide IPCC International Panel on Climate Change Indirect emissions Greenhouse gas emissions from facilities/sources that are not owned or controlled by the reporting company, but for which the activities of the reporting company are responsible, e.g. purchasing of electricity Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 23 Offset See “Carbon Offset” Operational boundary Determination of which facilities or sources of emissions will be included in a carbon footprint calculation Organisational boundary Determination of which business units of an organisation will be included in a carbon footprint calculation Relevant emissions Emissions generated as a result of the business activities of the reporting company Required information Information relating to emissions that are compulsory under the GHG Protocol, namely direct emissions and indirect emissions from purchased electricity Scope 1 emissions Emissions resulting from equipment owned or controlled by a reporting company Scope 2 emissions Emissions resulting from consumption of electricity purchased by a reporting company Scope 3 emissions Emissions resulting from other activities of a reporting company, such as commuting travel, business air travel, paper consumption WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development WRI World Resources Institute Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 24 appendix b DIAGRAM ILLUSTRATING DIRECT VS. INDIRECT EMISSIONS Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 25 appendix c DETAILED RESULTS OF EMPLOYEE COMMUTING SURVEY 2016 RESULTS OF EMPLOYEE COMMUTING EMISSIONS SURVEY 2016 Description Emission factors Total consumption (km) Metric tonnes of kgCO2e/km10 Sandton Cape Town CO2e emissions Private car – petrol 0.228 2,017223 763,631 636.1 Private car – diesel 0.185 419,511 158,808 107.0 Private car – hybrid 0.162 0 0 0 Private car – electric 0 0 0 Motorbike 0.107 0 0 0 TOTAL private car 743.1 Minibus/taxi 0.0173 44,629 168,95 1.1 Bus 0.109 84,473 33.7 Train 0.047 119,388 20.5 Walking / Cycling 0 22,526 0 TOTAL public transport 55.3 TOTAL commuting 798.3 Unless otherwise stated, all emission factors are provided by the UK Government Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Guideline to Defra’s 10  GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting; Annexes Updated May 2015. Cliff Dekker Hofmeyr 2015/2016 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 71 Waterkant Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa T +27 (0)21 403 6395 E info@climateneutralgroup.com REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 26
