ANNUAL REPORT 2016 For the Year Ended March 31, 2016 Contents 1 About Astellas 2 Business Philosophy Retracing Astellas’ Steps 3 Astellas Today 5 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 7 Raison D'être Editorial Policy 9 Contribute toward improving the health of people 2 Our Strategy 10 around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products Astellas Value Creation Process 11 • To go beyond all others in exploring and tapping the potential CEO Message 13 of the life sciences. CSR-Based Management 17 Business Environment 19 • To continue tackling new challenges and creating innovative Strategic Plan 2015-2017 20 pharmaceutical products. Financial Strategy 24 • To deliver quality products along with accurate information Management Structure 25 and retain solid credibility among customers. Interview with an Outside Director 27 • To support healthy living for people around the world. 3 • To continue shining on the global pharmaceutical field. Performance 1. Business Review 30 Mission Research 31 Sustainable enhancement of enterprise value Clinical Development 32 Feature: Our Initiatives to Create Innovation 33 • Astellas will seek to enhance its enterprise value in a R&D Topics During the Year 37 sustainable manner. Review of Operations by Therapeutic Area 41 • Astellas will seek to be the company of choice among all Review of Global Operations 47 its stakeholders, including its customers, shareholders, Sales of Main Products by Region 51 employees, and the global community. Astellas will strive to gain the trust of all stakeholders and 2. Corporate Social Responsibility 52 thereby enhance its enterprise value. Overview of CSR Activities 53 CSR Activities: Results and Plans 55 Beliefs Responsible Business Activities 57 Employees 63 Our “beliefs” provide the code of conduct we prize at all times. Society 67 Astellas will always be a group of people who act upon Environment 71 these beliefs. Ethics & Compliance 75 Dialogue with Stakeholders 79 High Sense of Ethics We will always manage our business with the highest sense 4 of ethics. Corporate Governance 80 Customer Focus Corporate Governance 81 We will always seek to understand customer needs and our Messages from Outside Officers 86 focus will always be on achieving customer satisfaction. Creativity 5 We will not be complacent and will always seek to innovate Financial Information to create new value. and Data 88 Competitive Focus Our eyes will always be directed to the outside world, and 11-Year Financial Summary 89 we will continue to create better value faster. Management’s Discussion and Analysis 91 Consolidated Financial Statements 98 Astellas promises to perform its obligations toward all Investor Information 153 stakeholders by acting ethically and seeking to actively Corporate Data/Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates 154 disclose information. Cautionary Note In this annual report, statements made with respect to current plans, estimates, strategies and beliefs and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements about the future performance of Astellas. These statements are based on management’s current assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: (i) changes in general economic conditions and in laws and regulations relating to pharmaceutical markets, (ii) currency exchange rate fluctuations, (iii) delays in new product launches, (iv) the inability of Astellas to market existing and new products effectively, (v) the inability of Astellas to continue to effectively research and develop products accepted by customers in highly competitive markets, and (vi) infringements of Astellas’ intellectual property rights by third parties. Information about pharmaceutical products (including products currently in development) which is included in this annual report is not intended to constitute an advertisement or medical advice. 1 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas Contribute toward Health through Innovative Drugs Astellas is concentrating on the innovative drug business, where it possesses key strengths. We are enhancing our ability to continuously develop innovative drugs, in conjunction with optimizing the allocation of resources, in an effort to deliver valuable medicines to patients worldwide. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2 1 About Astellas Retracing Astellas’ Steps Astellas has been achieving growth by contributing toward improving the health of people around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products. The Company is strengthening its business foundations through concentrating its resources on the innovative drug business. 2006.3 2007.3 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 Net sales (¥ billion) MYCAMINE Vesicare Celecox Irribow Bonoteo 1,400.0 Geninax Graceptor Micombi Careload Lexiscan Symbicort Advagraf MYCAMINE Qutenza Launch of New Products Japan 800.0 Americas Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) FY2010 Mid-Term Management Plan (2007.3-2011.3) • Established • Established Expansion of Own a sales affiliate a sales affiliate Sales Network in India in Brazil Positioned oncology as a focus Upgraded and expanded therapeutic area in research the research and development framework Strengthened the capability for antibody • Completed new buildings in Building a Platform drugs and established a business platform the Tsukuba Research Center to Support Growth in oncology • Reorganized drug discovery research functions • Entered licensing agreement with Regeneron • Established global development Pharmaceuticals, Inc. headquarters in the U.S. • Acquired Agensys, Inc. • Acquired OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Concentrated management resources Optimized manufacturing on the innovative drug business bases Optimization of Resource Allocation • Sold subsidiary operating in the non-prescription • Sold three plants in Europe drug business • Sold the Grand Island Plant • Concentrated head office functions in Tokyo Strengthened corporate governance framework Initiatives to Support Sustainable Growth • Changed Board of Directors composition to a majority of outside members • Established the Nomination Committee and Compensation Committee • Strengthen corporate • Changed term of appointment for Directors to one year governance framework • Initiatives to fulfill social responsibilities : Summarized major activities for each medium-term management plan 3 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 Micamlo Betanis Kiklin Acofide XTANDI CRESEMBA Repatha ENCEVAC Regnite Bisono Tape Suglat Gonax ASTAGRAF XL Quattrovac VESOMNI ARGAMATE Cimzia XTANDI Myrbetriq BETMIGA DIFICLIR XTANDI FY2010-FY2014 Mid-Term Management Plan Strategic Plan 2015-2017 (2011.3-2015.3) (2016.3-2018.3) • Established • Established a sales affiliate • Established • Established • Established a sales affiliate in a sales affiliate in Slovenia a sales affiliate a sales affiliate Malaysia and an umbrella in Australia (overseeing South East Europe) in Singapore in Dubai organization covering SESA*2 (overseeing MENA/SSA*1) • Established a sales affiliate in Columbia Reshaped research framework Conducted various • Captured external opportunities under the Network Research System initiatives for creating • Commenced full-scale regenerative medicine research innovation • Launched initiatives to boost R&D productivity through FASTEN • Acquired Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (currently Astellas Institute for Formed strategic alliance with Amgen, Inc. in Japan Regenerative Medicine) Withdrew from in-house Transferred the Fuji Plant to Nichi-Iko Transferred Astellas’ global fermentation research Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. dermatology business to LEO Pharma A/S Closed and scaled back Outsourced Group-wide shared research facilities in the U.S. operations in Japan Reinforced the global Declared support for the United Changed Audit & management system Nations Global Compact Supervisory Board • Strengthened compliance organization composition to a majority • Strengthened organization for Promoted various initiatives on of outside members development and quality and reliability neglected tropical diseases assurance Enhanced compliance functions *1 Middle East, North Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa *2 The South East and South Asia regions Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 4 1 About Astellas Astellas Today (Fiscal 2015/as of March 31, 2016) As a global pharmaceutical company with its own distribution channels in more than 50 countries around the world, Astellas is developing business in a well-balanced manner across its four main regions of Japan, the Americas, EMEA and Asia & Oceania. ¥3.7 17,217 Market capitalization (as of July 31, 2016) Number of employees trillion R&D expenses ¥225.7 Number of employees by geographical area Asia & Oceania Japan 2,373 7,056 billion Ratio to sales 16.4 % Number of new molecular/ biological entities in the pipeline 36 (as of July 2016) EMEA Americas 4,726 3,062 Number of ongoing collaborative 100 research projects Number of R&D personnel More than Approx. 3,020 5 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Global sales Number of countries Number of Medical where Astellas has its Representatives (MRs) ¥1,372.7 own distribution channels Approx. Approx. billion 50 countries 6,000 Sales by geographical area Asia & Oceania Japan ¥ 91.1billion ¥497.2 billion 6.6 % 36.2 % EMEA Americas ¥329.3 billion ¥455.1 billion 24.0 % 33.2 % Sales composition of the three main therapeutic areas and main products Oncology 23.3% • XTANDI Transplantation 14.8% Urology • Prograf 15.8% • Vesicare • Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 6 1 About Astellas Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Astellas achieved double-digit growth in sales and profit year on year in fiscal 2015, fueled by global growth of products in the oncology field and the urology overactive bladder (OAB) franchise, the Company’s growth drivers. Sales Core Operating Profit / R&D Expenses / Core Operating Margin R&D Ratio per Sales Sales Core operating profit Core operating R&D expenses R&D ratio per sales margin (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) 1,500.0 350.0 19.5 20 350.0 20 1,372.7 17.4 1,247.3 16.3 16.8 16.6 16.4 1,200.0 280.0 16 280.0 16 1,139.9 267.5 216.5 225.7 900.0 210.0 12 210.0 206.6 12 186.3 191.5 600.0 140.0 8 140.0 8 300.0 70.0 4 70.0 4 0 0 0 0 0 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 Consolidated sales in fiscal 2015 Core operating profit in fiscal 2015 Research and development (R&D) increased by 10.1% year on year to increased by 23.5% year on year to expenses in fiscal 2015 rose by 9.2% ¥1,372.7 billion, supported by growing ¥267.5 billion. The core operating year on year to ¥225.7 billion, which, sales of prostate cancer treatment margin was 19.5%. Following on from in addition to increased expenses XTANDI, OAB treatments (Vesicare the previous fiscal year, Astellas related to progress on development and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA) and achieved double-digit growth in core projects, was partly due to the foreign other products. operating profit, along with a steady exchange rate impact. The ratio of increase in the core operating margin R&D expenses to sales was 16.4%. in line with the strategic plan. Core Profit for the Year Free Cash Flows ROE* Core profit for the year Free cash flows ROE (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 200.0 198.8 200.0 20 187.4 166.7 150.0 153.2 150.0 15 15.0 132.8 116.2 10.5 100.0 100.0 10 7.4 50.0 50.0 5 0 0 0 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 In fiscal 2015, core profit for the year Free cash flow in fiscal 2015 increased In fiscal 2015, ROE increased to 15.0%. increased by 29.7% year on year to mainly due to an increase in profit Astellas aims to maintain and improve ¥198.8 billion, tracking the increase in before tax, and proceeds from the this level over the medium to long term core operating profit. transfer of the global dermatology by maximizing earnings capabilities business, despite an increase in net and enhancing capital efficiency. cash flows used in investing activities. * Return on equity 7 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Dividends per Share*1 / DOE*2 Number of Employees by Region Number of Employees / Female Employee Ratio / Japan Americas EMEA Female Manager Ratio Dividends per share DOE Asia & Oceania Number of Female employee ratio employees Female manager ratio (¥) (%) (People) (People) (%) 50 6 20,000 50,000 50 5.4 43.5 5.0 5.1 17,649 17,113 17,217 42.2 42.6 5 40 2,104 2,373 40,000 40 15,000 2,269 32 4 32.2 30 30 4,580 30,000 28.5 29.9 30 4,628 4,726 27 3 10,000 2,883 20 2,975 3,062 20,000 20 2 17,649 17,113 17,217 5,000 10 8,082 10,000 10 1 7,241 7,056 0 0 0 0 0 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 Astellas strives to increase dividend The number of employees increased On a global basis, the female employee payments stably and continuously based by a combined total of around 100. It ratio was 43.5% and the female on mediumto long-term profit growth. In increased in the Americas, EMEA and manager ratio was 32.2% in fiscal fiscal 2015, the annual dividend was ¥32 Asia & Oceania, but decreased in 2015. Improving female manager ratio per share, representing a DOE of 5.4%. Japan. in Japan is a particularly urgent issue for Astellas. *1 Calculated based on retrospective adjustment for a stock split of common stock at a ratio of 5 for 1 conducted on April 1, 2014. *2 Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent Energy Consumption / Amount of Water Withdrawal Greenhouse Gas Emissions Definition of Financial Results on Energy consumption Greenhouse gas a Core Basis emissions Amount of water withdrawal We disclose our financial results under IFRS on a core basis to help provide an accurate (TJ) (kilotons) (thousand m3) indication of the Group’s recurring profitability. 5,000 500 12,000 Certain items reported in financial results under IFRS on a full basis that are deemed to 10,117 10,396 10,269 be non-recurring items by the Company are 4,127 4,000 3,923 3,917 400 excluded as non-core items on a core basis. 9,000 3,000 300 Consolidated Financial Consolidated Financial 6,000 Results (Full Basis) Results (Core Basis) 2,000 203 210 200 185 Sales Non-recurring other Cost of sales income and other 3,000 Gross profit expenses within 1,000 100 IFRS-based operating Selling, general profit are excluded (for and administrative example, items such as expenses impairment losses or 0 0 0 R&D expenses restructuring expenses) 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 Amortisation of intangible assets Share of profits of In fiscal 2015, greenhouse gas emissions Aiming to establish a recycling-oriented associates and Core operating were 185 kilotons, reflecting efforts society, Astellas has been striving to joint ventures profit by Astellas to reduce greenhouse gas reduce water withdrawal. As a result, Adjustments for emissions accompanying its own Astellas achieved its numerical target Other income finance income and activities. The amount of greenhouse for water withdrawal in the final target Other expense finance expense (for Operating profit example, gain (loss) gas emissions accompanying year of fiscal 2015. on sale of availableelectricity use at overseas production Finance income for-sale (AFS) financial Finance expense assets and impairment sites was reviewed against losses on AFS international guidelines. Profit before tax financial assets are Income tax expense excluded) Profit for the year Core profit for the year Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 8 1 About Astellas Editorial Policy To enable deeper stakeholder understanding of Scope of the Report Astellas’ efforts to continue to create value for Period covered sustainable growth, the Company has published Fiscal 2015 (April 1, 2015 March 31, 2016) this annual report as an integrated report. * As much as possible, we have used the latest In this report, we have attempted to provide information available at the time of publication. disclosure while taking note of the Guiding * The period and scope of coverage may vary depending on the subject. We have noted each such Principles and Content Elements of the case individually. international integrated reporting framework of the * The figures indicated in the field of Environment International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). represent the results for fiscal 2015 (April 1, 2015 to We have also referred to G4 Sustainability Reporting March 31, 2016) in Japan and the calendar year 2015 Guidelines* published by the Global Reporting (January 1 to December 31, 2015) for overseas operations as a combined total. Initiative and Environmental Reporting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2012 Version) issued by Japan’s Organizations covered Ministry of the Environment. Astellas Pharma Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries in In creating the report, we have sought to make Japan and overseas (referred to in the report as “Astellas”) an effective tool for communicating with our many * The Americas includes North America and Latin America, and EMEA includes Europe, the Middle stakeholders. We have therefore used charts and East, and Africa. photographs, and endeavored to use plain language * In the field of Environment, the report covers all that is easy to read. business sites in Japan and production sites Astellas has adopted the International overseas, which are subject to the Environmental Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), effective Action Plan, as well as overseas sites not covered by the plan such as principal office buildings, research from fiscal 2013. Information in this report is based facilities, sales office buildings, and sales fleets. on IFRS unless otherwise indicated. Note: In the information about pharmaceutical products in this report, market * For the GRI Content Index, please visit the following website: size, market share and product ranking are sourced from IMS Health https://www.astellas.com/en/csr/management/report.html Information Services. ©2015 IMS Health Calculated based on IMS MIDAS 2016Q1 MAT Reprinted with permission Websites Corporate Website Investor Relations Social Responsibility http://www.astellas.com/en/ http://www.astellas.com/en/ir/ http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/ 9 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2 Our Strategy Aiming to Realize Sustainable Growth over the Medium and Long Terms Astellas aims to turn advances in science into value for patients on the forefront of healthcare change. Guided by this vision, Astellas is advancing three strategic priorities— “Maximizing the Product Value,” “Creating Innovation,” and “Pursuing Operational Excellence”—to realize sustainable growth over the medium and long terms. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 10 2 Our Strategy Astellas Value Creation Process Astellas stands on the forefront of healthcare change, turning innovative science into value for patients. By repeating this cycle continuously, we are pursuing the sustainable growth of corporate value. Create innovative new drugs and medical solutions by leveraging our core capabilities with a central focus on our innovative drug business Focus Areas View business opportunities from multiple perspectives Principles of Activity Drivers Focus Core capabilities our resources on identified areas Astellas Way Redefine Earning trust from the focus when appropriate patients and Expand other stakeholders into new opportunities Innovative Value for science patients Dialogue Sufficient funds Generate funds Returns to with to create to sustain stakeholders stakeholders innovation growth 11 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Our Approach to Astellas’ raison d’être is to “contribute toward improving the health of people around the world the Value Creation through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products.” Process Based on this, we aim to stand on the forefront of healthcare change, turning innovative science into value for patients. The keys to our success will be our Focus Areas, Principles of Activity, and Drivers, which describe where we should create value and how we should act to realize that value. Guided by this approach, we will create innovation with a central focus on the innovative drug business. This process originates with advances in science, and Astellas then allocates sufficient funds and implements measures to satisfy the requests and expectations of stakeholders. By creating value for patients, through this process, we will generate funds to sustain the next phase of growth and provide returns to stakeholders. Astellas will continue to follow this cycle to achieve sustainable growth of corporate value. Focus Areas Amid continuing evolution in the healthcare industry, Astellas needs to identify business opportunities more flexibly and efficiently than ever in order to achieve further growth. We will define our Focus Areas by adding multiple perspectives to our conventional viewpoint of therapeutic areas. We will factor in a consideration of new technologies and treatment approaches, product development feasibility and new possibilities for commercialization, market trends and changes in pharmaceutical laws and regulations. Our goal is to identify areas of unmet need and find new business opportunities. Principles of In a fast-changing business environment, it is crucial to have the flexibility to reexamine business Activity fields as needed—even those that have been carefully selected as opportunities at some point in the past. Astellas aims to drive further evolution by having all employees remain mindful of the three-step process of Focus our resources on identified areas, Redefine the focus when appropriate, and Expand the focus for the next generation of activity, as they carry out their activities. Drivers One of the drivers for Astellas to achieve sustainable growth is its core capabilities, which constitute the source of its competitive edge. It is vital to carefully identify our essential capabilities and enhance them until they are among the world’s best. At the same time, when there are outstanding capabilities outside the Company, we will proactively form partnerships. By combining optimal capabilities, both internal and external, we enhance our productivity and creativity to maximize our value creation capabilities. Moreover, in the Astellas Way*, we have defined a shared set of values and actions to be embraced by all our employees as part of efforts to foster a corporate culture to help realize our Business Philosophy. At the same time, we remain committed to understanding the requests and expectations of a multitude of stakeholders, including patients, and transforming that understanding into value. * For details on the Astellas Way, Five Messages for One Astellas—Patient Focus, Ownership, Results, Openness, and Integrity—please refer to p. 63. Astellas’ Currently Identified Core Capabilities Capability to Capability to Commercial Operational Partnership create new drugs deliver new drugs presence foundation Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 12 2 Our Strategy CEO Message On the Forefront of Healthcare Change to Turn Innovative Science into Value for Patients Yoshihiko Hatanaka Representative Director, President and CEO 13 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Performance and Shortand Medium-Term Outlook Reference Strategic Plan 2015-2017 Remarkable First Year of the Strategic Plan with Strong Growth P20 from Oncology and Urology OAB Franchises Financial Strategy In fiscal 2015, we achieved solid results and made significant progress on implementing the three P24 strategic priorities contained in Strategic Plan 2015–2017, “Maximizing the Product Value,” Business Review “Creating Innovation,” and “Pursuing Operational Excellence.” P30 The initiatives of “Maximizing the Product Value” remained ontrack. We posted further growth in sales from the franchises of oncology and overactive bladder (OAB), which are key growth drivers for Astellas. On a core basis, we reported higher consolidated sales and earnings in year-on-year terms. Sales increased 10% to ¥1,372.7 billion, and operating profit rose 24% to ¥267.5 billion. Our investments to date are reaping returns. We expect some degree of impact on our performance in 2018–2020 due to the expiries of patents for the OAB treatment Vesicare and the anticancer product Tarceva. However, we are confident that our core products in both franchises will bolster our growth throughout this period, including the prostate cancer treatment XTANDI and the OAB treatment Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA. Overcome the “Patent Cliff ” by Advancing Late-Stage Development For “Creating Innovation,” we are actively enhancing our capabilities to deliver innovative medicines. We achieved steady progress including marketing approvals for new products in fiscal 2015. We also have a number of projects with strong potential in late-stage clinical development, including gilteritinib and ASP8273 in the oncology field, and roxadustat for anemia associated with chronic kidney disease. We are looking forward to further progression of these development activities. The innovative drug business always has the risk of a so-called “patent cliff” in connection with the expiry of patents for core products. The best way to mitigate this risk is to steadily advance the late-stage projects in line with our development schedule. Targeting ROE of 15% or More by Maximizing Profits and Enhancing Capital Efficiency Astellas positions return on equity (ROE) as an important management indicator. We are working to maintain and boost ROE by maximizing profits while enhancing capital efficiency. Our ROE reached 15.0% in fiscal 2015. We will continue to return profits to shareholders by increasing dividends in a stable and sustained manner, based on the mediumto long-term profit outlook. We will also flexibly implement share buybacks as needed based on an overall consideration of business environment, investment plans, and the level of cash-on-hand, among other factors, with a view to further enhancing capital efficiency and the level of return to shareholders. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 14 2 Our Strategy Initiatives to Drive Mediumto Long-Term Growth Reference Feature: Our Initiatives to Create Innovation Anticipating Changes and Moving Toward Long-Term Growth P33 We have also made significant progress with various initiatives to realize long-term growth. Employees It is critical to pursue the challenges inherent in new therapeutic areas, technologies and P63 modalities in terms of “Creating Innovation.” In February 2016, we successfully acquired Ocata Therapeutics, Inc., which was engaged in R&D in cell therapies for ophthalmic diseases. Ocata’s activities were a good strategic fit for Astellas from the perspective of a newly selected focus area and new technology we are exploring. We will continue to positively consider potential acquisitions, alliances and in-licensing opportunities. As part of focusing our investments on functional sources of competitive advantage, we transferred our global dermatology business to LEO Pharma A/S. This is a good example of the optimal allocation of business resources in “Pursuing Operational Excellence.” Through these kinds of activities, we aim to create an organization and system that can respond resiliently to changes in the business environment. Creating Innovation by Taking Ownership and Respecting Diversity Our vision and strategies provide a common language uniting Astellas, which has a diverse workforce in terms of values and perspectives. My belief is that the driving force behind creating innovation will come from encouraging every individual employee to take ownership and move ahead step-by-step by translating the vision and strategic goals into daily work activities. Over the past three years, we have established more than 20 joint research programs with external institutions and biotechnology companies. As part of this process, we have steadily entrenched the approach of actively incorporating the distinctive characteristics and R&D methodologies of our partners. The cycle of respecting and embracing diversity and converting our partners’ advantages into our own strengths is an essential element in building the platform for the sustained growth of Astellas. Our business conditions are in constant flux. As shown in prominent recent advances in the Internet of Things (IoT) and the field of artificial intelligence, the advances of various scientific areas driven by their interaction and fusion are creating new business opportunities for Astellas. Meanwhile, as the public cost of healthcare continues to increase, the question of how to balance patient access to medicines and innovation requires our proactive initiative. Under such conditions, we cannot create any competitive advantage if we are reactive to change. Moving ahead faster than change and never being satisfied with the status quo are part of the DNA of Astellas. While making the most of our strengths in transplantation and urology, we will always seek and strive to take advantage of good opportunities in other fields, and we are steadily gaining the ability to act on those opportunities. We see our future success in terms of facing the ongoing challenge of utilizing cutting-edge science to create innovative drugs and therapies. 15 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Aiming to Enhance Sustainability Reference CSR-Based Management Social Responsiveness and Self-Driven Evolution P18 as the Keys to Sustained Growth Society Our commitment to attaining self-driven evolution by accepting change and diversity has also P67 helped us to lay a stronger foundation for management. Ethics & Compliance At Astellas, we have adopted an advanced system towards corporate governance. Since June P75 2015, outside members have occupied a majority of the positions on the Audit & Supervisory Corporate Governance Board, in addition to the Board of Directors. We saw the adoption of Japan’s Corporate P80 Governance Code as a good opportunity to take steps in earnest to improve the transparency, appropriateness and agility of management, such as further reinforcement of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. In April 2016, we also took steps to upgrade our compliance capabilities by newly creating a global compliance function to manage all of the regional functions as well as making the function independent within our organization. In June 2016, we replaced our former compliance standards, which existed in each region, to create the Astellas Group Code of Conduct as the globally integrated basis for compliance. These measures will ensure we are a global player in terms of compliance quality, and emphasize to employees the importance of responding sincerely to the needs of society. One of the ways in which we are playing an active role in responding to social needs is through various Access to Health (ATH) initiatives. Astellas will use its capabilities and enhance its efforts to make a contribution in each of the following four areas: “creating innovation,” “enhancing availability,” “strengthening healthcare systems,” and “improving health literacy.” We are a consistent supporter of the United Nations Global Compact, and have incorporated its 10 principles covering the four fields of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption into our daily business activities. To Our Stakeholders Turning Innovative Science into Value for Patients Based on Dialogue Our mission is to turn advances in science into value for patients. Communication with our stakeholders is a vital part of realizing that mission at a high level. We are committed to ensuring that Astellas provides a consistent message and full disclosure regarding our current activities and future direction, including our challenges. Healthy and transparent dialogue with our stakeholders leads to continual business evolution and the creation of new value. We ask for your continued support in realizing the growth of Astellas. Yoshihiko Hatanaka Representative Director, President and CEO Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 16 2 Our Strategy CSR-Based Management Create and protect value for both Astellas and society by fulfilling social responsibility Astellas’ Interaction with Society Enhance the sustainability of society Society Trust from society CSR-based Enhance the sustainability management of Astellas Astellas Raison D’être: Contribute toward improving the health of people around the world Mission: Sustainable enhancement through the provision of innovative and of enterprise value reliable pharmaceutical products Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Means Value Creation and Protection for Both Astellas Realizing Our Business Philosophy and Society Astellas recognizes its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) CSR for Astellas has two aspects: value creation and value is its responsibility for any impacts that its decisions and protection. business activities have on society and the environment. Astellas is helping to enhance the sustainability of Value Creation society by fulfilling its social responsibilities as a Through its business activities, Astellas is creating value for pharmaceutical company by, for example, providing society by addressing social issues such as unmet medical pharmaceutical products that satisfy unmet medical needs. needs, and by returning profits to stakeholders. By We believe that we earn trust from society for both the reinvesting the profit we gain through business activities, Company and our products as a result of these activities, we strengthen our capabilities in research and and that this trust enhances our sustainability. This positive development. In addition, by winning trust from cycle will lead to the realization of our mission, government and business partners in each country, we “sustainable enhancement of enterprise value” through create new business opportunities. This process creates fulfillment of our raison d’être “contribute toward value for Astellas. improving the health of people around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical Value Protection products.” For Astellas, fulfilling our social responsibility Astellas seeks to preserve biodiversity by reducing the means realizing our business philosophy. environmental burden associated with its business activities, while maintaining social order by ensuring compliance, and preventing corruption. These activities will lead to the protection of value for society. In addition, Astellas protects its enterprise value by mitigating reputation risk and elevating Astellas’ corporate brand through these activities. 17 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Topics Astellas’ Initiatives to Contribute to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Through business activities and measures to fulfill obtained through collaborative research undertaken its corporate social responsibilities, Astellas aims with AIST and other partners. Moreover, in June to contribute to the United Nations’ Sustainable 2016, Astellas signed a new collaborative Development Goals (SDGs), which were development agreement with the Institute of established through a collaborative effort by the Medical Science, the University of Tokyo, on the international community. rice-based oral vaccine “MucoRice-CTB” against cholera and enterotoxigenic Escheria coli (E coli) Focus on Improving Access to Health caused diarrheal diseases. Furthermore, Astellas is in Four Areas working closely with partners to develop a pediatric In regard to “Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being” formulation of praziquantel tablets for the under the SDGs, Astellas has identified four areas treatment of schistosomiasis. where it is working to address Access to Health Reference Access to Health P67 issues. The four areas are (1) Creating innovation, (2) Enhancing availability, (3) Strengthening Advancing Various Initiatives to Reduce healthcare systems, and (4) Improving health literacy. Environmental Impact One of our priorities for creating innovation is Astellas is advancing initiatives such as reducing drug discovery research for the treatment of greenhouse gas emissions, promoting resource neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). In April 2016, recycling and improving the Biodiversity Index. Astellas signed a new collaborative research Through these and other initiatives, Astellas will agreement with the National Institute of Advanced contribute to achieving SDGs such as “Goal 6: Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) to Clean Water and Sanitation,” “Goal 13: Climate discover new drugs for the treatment of Chagas Action,” and “Goal 15: Life on Land.” disease. This agreement is based on knowledge Reference Environment P71 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 18 2 Our Strategy Business Environment Market expansion driven by aging populations and economic development Global Pharmaceutical Market Size Forecast New Drug Approvals in Japan, the U.S., Innovative drugs Generics and Europe ($ billion) Europe U.S. Japan 1,200 1,000 CAGR* for innovative drugs: 6.1% 60 50 800 40 600 30 400 20 200 10 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (actual) Source: EvaluatePharma Source: Centre for Innovation in Regulatory Science Ltd. * Compound average growth rate process, the requirements for a new drug to gain Trends in the Prescription Drug Market regulatory approval and secure price reimbursement at a reasonable level are also becoming more complex and There remain many diseases with high unmet medical needs more strict. Thus, it is more essential than ever to prove a for which patients are looking for new drugs to deliver new drug’s added value over existing drugs and therapies value. In step with continuing scientific and technological during development. advances, governments are putting frameworks in place for In this environment, there are higher expectations for recognizing innovation and have created regulatory the development of innovative medicines and better systems that can accelerate review of innovative drugs. general therapeutic solutions that can raise the quality of Moreover, the global market for prescription drugs is medical care from the patient’s standpoint. In recent years, expected to continue expanding against the backdrop of the development and application of new treatment aging populations and economic development. modalities and drug discovery technologies, including cell and gene therapies, have been advancing, and these advances are expected to be applied to healthcare in a variety of fields. Growth Challenges and Opportunities This evolving healthcare environment also present opportunities for Astellas to grow. Astellas will continue to While the market expands, there are also issues that must deliver new value to patients by creating innovation be overcome to achieve sustained growth. Measures to through the execution of sound investments from a restrain the rapid growth in healthcare spending are long-term perspective. accelerating in the form of reimbursement price cuts and the promotion of generic drugs. With insurance payers becoming increasingly more involved in the decision-making 19 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Strategic Plan 2015-2017 Focusing on three strategic priorities for realizing sustainable growth over the medium and long terms Overview of Strategic Plan 2015-2017 Creating innovation Maximizing the product value Enhancing capabilities to Advancing into deliver innovative medicines new opportunities Exploring and capturing external business opportunities through acquisition, collaboration, and in-licensing Net sales Pursuing operational excellence 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 opportunities in the perspectives of new therapeutic areas, Overview of the Strategic Plan new technologies, and new modalities. Under Strategic Plan 2015-2017, covering the three-year Pursuing Operational Excellence period from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2017, we will work to We will pursue operational excellence by creating a more overcome the impact of the substance patent expiries for efficient, higher-quality business operation infrastructure, our overactive bladder (OAB) treatment Vesicare and our in order to enhance our ability to address the changing anticancer product Tarceva in the period of 2018 to 2020, environment. and focus on realizing further sustainable growth through three main strategic priorities. Moreover, we will continue to actively explore and capture external business opportunities through acquisition, Maximizing the Product Value collaboration, and in-licensing. First, we will steadily nurture and maximize the value of our growth drivers, including XTANDI and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA, created through our investments so far. Financial Guidance Creating Innovation Astellas has recognized return on equity attributable to We will continue to make sufficient investments for owners of the parent (ROE) as an important management creating innovation. Here, we will establish frameworks for indicator. Under Strategic Plan 2015-2017, we aim to continuously creating more innovative medicines and achieve ROE of 15% or more by seeking to maximize our promote efficient research and development. Concurrently, earnings capabilities while ensuring that we enhance we will also make sufficient investments in new capital efficiency. We also aim to maintain and improve Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 20 2 Our Strategy this level after the strategic plan period. We aim to achieve growth in sales by maximizing the Maximizing the Product Value product value, while promoting measures to optimize cost of sales and SG&A expenses. In so doing, we seek to Targeting Mediumto Long-Term Growth maximize operating profit prior to deduction of R&D by Expanding New Product Group Sales expenses. Moreover, we plan to direct sufficient resources To ensure sustainable growth during and after the current to investment in R&D, while also working to improve our strategic plan, Astellas will maximize the value of the products operating margin. that have been realized through its investments to date. CAGR in the mid-single-digit range is forecasted for In particular, Astellas will prioritize the investment of sales during the strategic plan. R&D expenses will be resources in its new product group centered on XTANDI maintained at the level of 17% or more of sales, and and the OAB franchise. In this way, we forecast that the sufficient resources will be directed at new opportunities, in compositional ratio of key new products will expand addition to existing therapeutic areas. For core operating during the strategic plan, whereas the relative composition profit, we are targeting a CAGR that exceeds sales CAGR. ratio will decrease for key products for which patents will For core earnings per share (EPS), we are forecasting a expire by 2020. Nurturing the new product group early is CAGR that exceeds core operating profit CAGR. an important measure to overcome the impacts from In this way, we will work to enhance ROE by patent expiry. prioritizing the maximization of our earnings capabilities, while also pursuing balance sheet management and Nurturing the New Product Group in Various shareholder returns to enhance capital efficiency. Therapeutic Areas Astellas is working to expand sales of the new product Financial Guidance in Strategic Plan 2015-2017 group in its therapeutic areas including the oncology and OAB franchises. ROE 15% or more Maintain and improve this level Oncology Franchise Our efforts are focused on maximizing the value of after the strategic plan period XTANDI, our growth driver. We will work to expand the geographical sales area of XTANDI, while also working for Consolidated label expansion to chemotherapy-naïve prostate cancer and CAGR (%): Mid-single-digit Sales early penetration in each country. Moreover, we will steadily Core Operating CAGR that exceeds sales CAGR advance clinical trials with the aim of expanding indications Profit for earlier stages of prostate cancer, and other forms of R&D Expenses Higher than 17% against sales CAGR that exceeds core operating Core EPS profit CAGR Composition of Global Sales by Product DOE* 6% or more (For illustrative purposes only) Key new products* * Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent Key products with patents expiring by 2020 Others 16% 30% 54% 2015.3 2018.3 * Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA, XTANDI, Cimzia, Suglat, and CRESEMBA 21 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data cancer such as breast cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma. During the strategic plan, we expect sales of our oncology Creating Innovation franchise to expand with a CAGR in the mid-twenties, driven by XTANDI. Enhancing Capabilities to Deliver Innovative Medicines through Optimal Resource Allocation and Acquisition OAB Franchise of Cutting-Edge Science To overcome the anticipated impact from the patent expiry Astellas aims to continuously generate innovation through of Vesicare and continue to increase the value of our optimal resource allocation and the acquisition of franchise, we will work intensively to drive market cutting-edge science. Astellas is promoting open penetration of Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA as a new innovation by building a Network Research System. This option for OAB treatment. We expect to achieve CAGR for system appoints optimal personnel and researchers from sales in the high single digits for the OAB franchise during both inside and outside the Company to undertake the strategic plan. In the final year of the plan, sales of dynamic research activities in the best possible Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA are expected to have environment, and based on the world’s most innovative increased to account for approximately half of the overall science. By introducing a process named FASTEN to sales of the OAB franchise. manage R&D projects along one of three different tracks, Astellas has achieved positive outcomes such as shortening Other Areas of R&D duration and increased cost efficiency. The transplantation franchise has established a strong In addition to the fields we have focused on to date, presence with the immunosuppressant Prograf. We expect namely urology, oncology, immunology, nephrology, and growth in Prograf in emerging countries, despite decline in neuroscience, we have selected muscle diseases and the Americas, EMEA, and Japan, where the substance ophthalmology as new focused disease areas for research patent has expired. The average annual decline in sales where we will concentrate our resources. There is a high during the strategic plan is expected to be limited to the level of unmet medical needs in these therapeutic areas, low single digits. and we aim to deliver new medicines while seeking alliance In resource allocation, we will prioritize new products opportunities with external partners. in each region, aiming to achieve sales expansion at an early stage. In Japan, we will work to steadily achieve market penetration of new products including Suglat for type 2 diabetes, and Repatha for hypercholesterolemia, which was launched in April 2016. Changes in the Compositional Ratio of Products Enhancing Capabilities to Deliver Innovative Medicines in Sales (For illustrative purposes only) Network Oncology Franchise OAB Franchise FASTEN Research Others Vesicare (FAST-Ex-New-standard) System XTANDI Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA Greater utilization Highest CAGR (%) CAGR (%) of external R&D resource Mid-twenties High-single-digit resources FAST priority TRACK Take on challenges POC (Proof of Concept) in new therapeutic areas and drug discovery Launch technologies NEW Fastest POC ¥208.4 billion ¥188.4 billion STANDARD TRACK Best Science Utilize Best Talent external resources Ex. TRACK Best Place 2015.3 2018.3 2015.3 2018.3 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 22 2 Our Strategy Pursuing New Opportunities Pursuing Operational Excellence Astellas will make sufficient investments in opportunities that pave the way for long-term growth, including new Raising the Quality of Operations in Anticipation therapeutic areas and the use of new technologies and of Change modalities, and medical solutions that leverage our Astellas strives to improve the quality and efficiency of strengths, centered on the innovative drug business. operations by keeping a close eye on changes in the business environment from a number of perspectives, and New Therapeutic Areas implementing measures in anticipation of these changes. Selecting muscle diseases and ophthalmology as focused Astellas will optimize the allocation of management disease areas for research, Astellas is undertaking resources in conjunction with making effective use of groundbreaking research through partnerships with external resources. We are constantly reviewing our external entities. In the muscle disease area, we are organization and functions to optimize our business targeting ways to control the progression of disease or processes, cost structures and other aspects. From the achieve causal therapies. In the ophthalmology area, we are perspective of compliance, we will actively address laws, targeting disorders of the posterior eye segment for which regulations and social norms while working to further no standard drug treatments are available. increase the reliability of our products. Looking at recent initiatives, Astellas transferred its New Technologies and New Modalities global dermatology business to LEO Pharma A/S, and In addition to working to develop next-generation transferred the business of the Kiyosu Plant in Japan to vaccines, we have commenced cell therapy research in MicroBiopharm Japan Co., Ltd. Astellas will reinvest the earnest. As part of these efforts, in February 2016, Astellas funds generated by the transfer of these businesses into acquired Ocata Therapeutics, Inc., which is primarily functions that will hone its competitive edge, thereby engaged in research and development focused on cell further enhancing its capabilities to create innovative therapy in the ophthalmology field. In May 2016, this medicines. Moreover, in order to strengthen compliance company’s name was changed to the Astellas Institute for on a global basis, Astellas set up a global compliance Regenerative Medicine. Astellas has positioned the new function in April 2016, putting a structure in place to company as its hub for research and development in cell manage compliance functions in Japan, the Americas, therapy and the ophthalmology field, underscoring its EMEA and Asia & Oceania. Additionally, in July 2015, commitment to investing resources in this area. Astellas created a function designed to maximize big data utilization in the Company. Advancing into New Opportunities Our Approach to Operational Excellence olutions by com cal s medi external healthca binin Optimal reallocation of resources d re c g a ive an ap vat rnal ab var o te ili i in ti In of n New therapeutic areas y et s e (Muscle diseases, ophthalmology, etc.) Effective Continually Rx business utilization of external Operational enhance organizational Advancing Existing Advancing resources Excellence structure into new therapeutic areas into new opportunities (Urology, oncology, immunology, opportunities nephrology and neuroscience) Active response to Strengthen core various regulations capabilities New technologies/ and social norms New modalities (compliance) (Regenerative medicine, next-generation vaccines, etc.) 23 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Financial Strategy Focusing on increasing enterprise value continuously, thereby improving shareholder returns Profit Distribution Policy Initiatives for Shareholder Returns Total return ratio*1 Prioritize business investment to Dividend payout ratio*1 assure future growth Dividends/share*2 (%) 150 118% 100% 92% 97% Increase 74% 100 enterprise value 50 74% 65% 67% Enhance (Yen) 49% capital efficiency 40 36% 0 Continuously improve shareholder returns 20 26 27 30 32 34 25 Dividends to be 0 increased stably and Share buybacks 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 (forecast) continuously based to be implemented *1 Figures for fiscal 2011 are in accordance with J-GAAP and from fiscal on mediumand in a flexible manner 2012 are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). long-term growth *2 The Company conducted a stock split of common stock at a ratio of 5 for 1 with an effective date of April 1, 2014. Figures are calculated based on the number of shares issued after the stock split (excluding treasury shares) on the assumption that the stock split was conducted at the beginning of fiscal 2011. Put Highest Priority on Allocating Funds to Targeting Stable and Continuous Increases Business Investments for Future Growth in the Level of Dividends Astellas will put the highest priority on allocating funds to Astellas will target a stable and continuous increase in business investments for future growth in order to achieve dividends based on the mediumto long-term growth a sustainable increase in enterprise value. In particular, we prospects for consolidated earnings by taking into account will allocate the funds necessary to create innovation. We DOE. During Strategic Plan 2015-2017, we are targeting will continue actively pursuing alliances or M&A DOE of 6% or more. opportunities relating to acquiring promising new drug candidates or cutting-edge technologies that are a good fit for our business strategy. Looking at cash-on-hand, in line with the characteristics of the pharmaceutical business, we will Flexible Share Buybacks maintain a certain level of cash-on-hand, in addition to the working capital needed to fund day-to-day operations, in We will implement share buybacks flexibly as needed based order to respond flexibly to the need to make strategic on an overall consideration of the business environment, investments for future growth. Moreover, we will endeavor investment plans, and the level of cash-on-hand, among to maintain a healthy balance sheet at all times so that we other factors, with a view to further enhancing capital can finance smoothly at low costs, even if funding efficiency and the level of returns to shareholders. requirements exceed Astellas’ internal funding capacity. Furthermore, our policy is to cancel acquired treasury stock, in principle, to ensure the overall balance does not exceed our target level of 1-2% of outstanding shares. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 24 2 Our Strategy Management Structure Executive Committee (as of August 2016) The Executive Committee discusses important matters of management across Astellas. It is chaired by the Representative Director, President and CEO, and comprises top management as standing members. Extended members include the officers responsible for research, development and technological capabilities together with the officers responsible for each region, and these members participate in any necessary discussions at the request of the chairman. Standing Members Yasumasa Masuda Yoshirou Miyokawa Yoshihiko Hatanaka Kenji Yasukawa, Sef Kurstjens, Chief Financial Representative Representative Ph.D. M.D., Ph.D. Officer Director and Executive Director, Chief Strategy Chief Medical Vice President, President and CEO Officer Officer Chief Administrative Officer & Chief Compliance Officer Extended Members Nobuaki Masatoshi James Yukio Wataru Mitsunori Bernie Zeiher, Tanaka Kuroda Robinson Matsui Uchida, Ph.D. Matsuda M.D. President, Japan President, Asia & President, Americas President, EMEA President, Drug President, President, Sales & Marketing Oceania Business Operations Operations Discovery Research Technology Development Global Heads Martin Charlotte Kremer, Songlin Xue, Bill Fitzsimmons, Kunihiko Golden M.D. M.D., Ph.D. Pharm.D. Kokubo Head of Marketing Head of Medical Affairs Head of Head of Regulatory Head of Quality Strategy Pharmacovigilance Affairs and Clinical Assurance and Research Quality Assurance 25 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (as of August 2016) 1 Yoshihiko Hatanaka 2 Yoshirou Miyokawa 3 Yutaka Kase 4 Hironobu Yasuda 7 10 3 9 6 4 Representative Director, Representative Director Outside Director Outside Director President and CEO and Executive Vice President 11 1 2 5 8 5 Etsuko Okajima 6 Yoshiharu Aizawa, 7 Tomokazu 8 Hiroko Sakai Outside Director M.D., Ph.D. Fujisawa Audit & Supervisory Outside Director Audit & Supervisory Board Member Board Member 9 Toshiko Oka 10 Hitoshi Kanamori 11 Noriyuki Uematsu Outside Audit & Outside Audit & Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Member Member Member Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 26 2 Our Strategy Interview with an Outside Director I will contribute to improving the effectiveness of the Board of Directors in regards to the corporate governance of Astellas, which continues to evolve. Yutaka Kase Outside Director Joined Nissho Iwai Corporation (currently Sojitz Corporation) in 1970, and became Chairman and Representative Director in 2012 (present post). As of August 2016, he concurrently serves as an outside Director of Astellas, JAC Recruitment Co., Ltd., and SEKISUI CHEMICAL CO., LTD. consultant woman can raise challenges regarding talent Q1 In what ways do you think Astellas has good corporate governance? development to better inform the decisions made by the Board of Directors. Another valuable aspect of governance is that we have access to information-sharing programs that help deepen Astellas is ahead of competitors in our understanding of Astellas’ operations and the continually working to evolve its pharmaceutical industry. governance, in my view. As shown by the way that it responded to Japan’s Corporate Governance Code, Astellas is quick to seek Astellas has been one of the pioneers of excellent corporate outside opinions and advice and respond appropriately. governance, since well before Japan’s Corporate Governance The ability to anticipate important shifts and innovate is a Code was introduced. The Company has actively accelerated major characteristic of Astellas, in my opinion. efforts to make corporate governance stronger in various For instance, Astellas has been quick to develop ways ways since I was appointed an outside Director. of evaluating Board effectiveness. While we evaluated that Outside Directors have been in the majority on the the Board as a whole is functioning very effectively, we Board of Directors since 2006, and this happened on the have discussed how to make more progress in the future Audit & Supervisory Board as well in 2015. It is not just based on the results of the evaluations. about numbers—the outside Directors also have a varied Furthermore, the Astellas guidelines on corporate range of background. As corporate managers, lawyers and governance also stipulate the need for planning for the CEO medical doctors from a range of specialties, we provide succession. The Nomination Committee that I chair can management oversight from an independent standpoint carry out the responsibility by making transparent and are involved in making important business decisions. discussions for the selection of the Company’s next The lawyer can give compliance insight, the medical doctor executive leader. can speak from a scientific perspective, and the business 27 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data on solid grounds based on a good understanding of the Q2 What opportunities have you had to gain a better understanding of Astellas’ operations? related issues. To attend the Board, I work to understand resolutions as much as possible. My view is that outside Directors should take the resposibility to propose postponement of resolutions, request further discussions, I am gaining a deeper understanding or in some cases vote against them if they deem it through various information-sharing necessary. I see that as the best route to ensuring programs, including visits to operating sites. transparent, sound management of Astellas. We have had some resolutions tabled at Board meetings where one or Activities of Astellas are evolving year after year to draw on more outside Directors indicated they felt there had not the abilities of the outside officers and make discussions by been sufficient information for debate, and for these the Board of Directors more dynamic. proposals we ensured that further discussions were held. Astellas plans and organizes a program of events However, the fact that we, outside Directors, have throughout the year to help the outside officers gain a had a majority on the Astellas Board of Directors for greater, in-depth understanding of the Company’s over 10 years means that any resolution tabled has to operations and the pharmaceutical industry. We are gain the understanding and support of the outside briefed on major developments prior to each meeting of Directors. I believe this encourages sufficient preparation the Board of Directors. Astellas also invites representatives on the part of those tabling the proposal because they of public-sector institutions or experts from the capital know that it will require a thorough explanation. markets to make presentations to us on various We examine each tabled Board resolution from the industry-related issues. Twice a year we have off-site visits standpoints of impact on business performance; to Group R&D laboratories, factories or offices, where a compliance, environmental and other risks; and the actual Board meeting is held and we also receive presentations decision-making process itself. As part of ensuring the from executives and employees. These are valuable transparency and fairness of the decisions made by executive opportunities for us to get to know Astellas better. officers, I draw a mental line between myself and the In fiscal 2015, we also set up the Advisory Council, executive who is making the proposal, and I ask questions if comprising the seven outside officers of Astellas. This body I am not convinced. Board meetings are very dynamic because further supports communication between members and all the other outside Directors will voice their opinions as discussions with the Accounting Auditors and with the well. I think questions from the outside officers tend to be Audit & Supervisory Board Members so that we can the sorts that only outside stakeholders can raise. It is not improve our understanding of Astellas further. just the outside officers who do this: the internal Audit & My view is that, as outside officers, we need to study Supervisory Board Members also ask excellent questions the new therapeutic areas and new technologies and based on an essential core understanding. modalities that Astellas is targeting. I expect there will be The multitude of questions and opinions at every more opportunities in the future for M&As and alliances Board meeting has resulted in close examination of M&A as the Company seeks good ways to manage time and proposals in recent years, covering issues ranging from the risk. I think Astellas is already good at sharing valuation of the target business to the decision-making information with outside officers, but I am hoping that process and the potential for personnel leaving. We have we will be afforded more opportunities to learn about the adopted quite a strict stance on compliance issues, with new areas going forward. demands for additional reporting. Mr. Hatanaka, the President and CEO, expects the outside Directors and the outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members to foster active debate of the proposals by asking questions from Q3 What kind of discussions take place at meetings of the Board of Directors? many and varied perspectives. The executives take our questions seriously and respond accordingly. In serving as Chairman of the Board at Sojitz, I am always trying to foster active debate at Board meetings by Our responsibility is to ask questions and eliciting the views of all the outside Directors and auditors, to foster active debate on all Board and by ensuring questions generate a considered response resolutions. from the presenter or a Director. In this way, I work to ensure Board resolutions are properly debated. Based on Regardless of whether they are outside or not, Directors are this experience, I believe that Board meetings at Astellas charged with clarifying their position towards resolutions achieve a high degree of openness and transparency. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 28 2 Our Strategy Q4 What are your views on compliance as an outside Director? Q5 What issues do you think confront Astellas in today’s globalized business environment? Awareness and education are essential I see the issues as balancing speed with parts of promoting better compliance on ethics, responding to international changes, an ongoing basis. and targeting the growth potential in developing countries. Astellas supplies products that relate to lives. In terms of compliance, we must not only observe laws and Navigating the so-called “patent cliff” caused by the expiry regulations, but also promote an internal culture that goes of substance patents is a key issue for the management beyond regulatory compliance. We adopt a fairly strict team. I recognize three major issues, however, from my stance on compliance issues. We must build systems that standpoint as an outside Director. stop compliance breaches from occurring because the Besides the domains that have driven the growth of reputation of the Company is on the line in these cases. Astellas to date, the challenge is to develop a presence in With social attitudes tending to become stricter on new therapeutic areas, including ophthalmology, and also in compliance matters worldwide, our relationships with the new technologies and modalities such as next-generation medical community are always changing. Our sales, vaccines and cell therapy. The rapid innovation in development and research organizations need to be aware medicine and IT will lead to fierce competition with other of these shifts in each organization, and we must keep companies. Under such conditions, I believe Astellas will training our people and raising awareness. need to do more than ever to speed up the pace of We need to reinforce governance and compliance at innovation. On the other hand, new modalities such as cell overseas Group subsidiaries. In particular, it is vital we and gene therapies throw up a range of ethical issues that inculcate the importance of compliance in our operations demand caution in the processes followed by Astellas in within emerging countries. This is a question of developing these areas. So I regard the first issue as one of employing people with integrity and placing a premium balancing the need for speed with the demands of ethical on good management. business management as Astellas takes up the challenge of I think it is part of the role of outside officers to developing these new therapeutic areas and technologies. emphasize the importance of compliance on a continuous The second issue is about responding to global basis. At the moment, I feel there is a need for outside changes. The recent vote by the U.K. to leave the EU officers to have an opportunity to visit overseas Group illustrates how rapidly the situation is changing these days, subsidiaries because our level of knowledge is not high and shows how these problems are multifaceted. Astellas enough to gauge fully the status of these operations. needs to anticipate such shifts and respond accordingly. Astellas has actually responded to this desire already, and I see the third issue as how to expand the business in in 2016 we plan to hold our first ever Board meeting growing overseas markets. The current innovative drug outside Japan, in Republic of Korea. business of Astellas is heavily oriented towards advanced Astellas is making steady progress in terms of its countries, where we still derive the bulk of our earnings. financial results at the moment. That is why it is important Yet the emerging countries of China, India, Southeast Asia we continue to treat compliance and manage risks properly and Africa make up a majority of the global population. By so that we do not inadvertently pull the rug out from under the end of the century, the global population is expected to our feet. grow from seven billion to over ten billion, of whom 80% will be living in Asia and Africa. With these two regions in the process of becoming huge, concentrated markets, succeeding there will undoubtedly help us to secure a stronger future for Astellas. Establishing a presence in emerging markets will spawn a variety of issues such as the development of compliance structures. Along with the shifting international situation, I believe this will place a premium on human resource development, with a particular emphasis on flexibility and resilience. I see that as one of the key driving forces for the future growth of Astellas. 29 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 3 Performance 1 Business Review Steady Advances in R&D and Global Business In R&D, Astellas has delivered numerous accomplishments in terms of steadily advancing late-stage clinical development projects, along with forming partnerships to acquire innovation. Moreover, business has expanded steadily in all the regions of Japan, the Americas, EMEA and Asia & Oceania, driven by XTANDI and overactive bladder (OAB) products. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 30 3 Performance Business Review Research Pursuing Cutting-Edge Science through a Network A Range of Initiatives to Create Innovation Research System Looking ahead on the healthcare horizon, we will see an Astellas has a Network Research System with the slogan of increasingly stronger need to raise the value of treatment for “Best Science, Best Talent and Best Place.” Under this patients. This will accelerate the development of new system, Astellas is pushing ahead with initiatives in new treatment methods to progress further, driven primarily by therapeutic areas and drug discovery platform technologies. advances in personalized medicine and new technologies To incorporate advances in science into drug discovery such as gene and cell therapies, as well as the fusion of research in a timely manner, Astellas’ researchers have firmly healthcare with IT. embraced an awareness of the importance of conducting Astellas is also speeding up various initiatives strongly groundbreaking research in conjunction with proactively focused on the rapid and multifaceted changes reshaping leveraging external innovation. Our researchers have the environment. For example, these initiatives include continued to tackle the challenge of discovering innovative establishment of a program that transcends existing medicines by constantly remaining closely attuned to the organizational boundaries to support the development of latest trends and flexibly adapting to these changes. new ideas. We have put an environment in place where our In fiscal 2015, Astellas acquired Ocata Therapeutics, researchers are able to take on the challenges of various Inc. (Ocata), which possesses world-class R&D capabilities opportunities by thinking outside the box. These efforts in cell therapy. Taking full advantage of Ocata’s most have energized our unique, high-quality research activities. advanced technologies, Astellas will accelerate research In addition, Astellas is actively engaged in open aimed at building a pipeline focused on ophthalmology as innovation in basic research fields, notably the exchange of early as possible. Furthermore, Astellas aims to establish a compound libraries with other pharmaceutical companies. leading position in cell therapy by vigorously pursuing In fields where the aim is to access basic technologies joint research with several academic institutions. common to pharmaceutical companies, Astellas and its Moreover, Astellas formed several alliances in fields partners will pool together one another’s strengths. In including immuno-oncology therapeutics and fields where competitive advantages must be demonstrated, next-generation vaccines for allergic diseases. Astellas will closely collaborate with highly specialized One of Astellas’ current strengths is that it is able to partners. Through these approaches, Astellas will seek to conduct cutting-edge research while choosing the optimal discover innovative pharmaceuticals. option from various research approaches, including small molecular compounds, antibodies, proteins, genetics and cells, under its Network Research System. Develop New Therapeutic Areas and Novel Technology Platform (as of July 2016) Japan Europe U.S. Pursue “Best Science” with “Best Talent” in “Best Place” Unfold protein response Oncology Next-generation vaccines Oncology Dana-Farber Cancer Oncology Institute Oncology Kyoto Univ. (AK Project) Immunology Oncology Nephrology Ophthalmology Immunology Cell therapy Next-generation Nephrology vaccines, Immunology Ophthalmology Neuroscience Compound library Neuroscience Muscle Cell therapy diseases Muscle Compound library diseases Astellas Institute for Cell therapy Transgenic silkworms Regenerative Medicine* Ophthalmology NextHarvard Medical generation vaccines School Ophthalmology * Formerly known as Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. 31 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Clinical Development Working to Enhance Productivity through a Robust Progress on Many Development Projects That Will Clinical Development Framework Contribute to Growth Burden of disease for patients as well as their treatment In clinical development, our mission is to extract the full options and the optimal treatments, differ greatly value from pipeline programs and approved products, depending on the therapeutic area. In each therapeutic thereby turning advances in science into value for patients. area, Astellas has its own empowered project teams which To fulfill this mission, it is crucial to continuously obtain are under the leadership of scientific and medical experts. regulatory approvals with commercially desirable labels. In This organization enables us to make strategic and efficient fiscal 2015, Astellas obtained regulatory approvals for many decisions in line with the treatment landscape in each projects, including an approval in Japan for Repatha, a therapeutic area. Moreover, Astellas has built a globally treatment for hypercholesterolemia, and approvals for integrated framework for clinical trial execution to enhance expanded indications for three drugs. In addition, Astellas the quality and efficiency of development operations. One has submitted a new drug application for linaclotide in of Astellas’ clinical development strengths is that it has put Japan for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with a system in place from both of these perspectives for constipation (IBS-C). delivering cutting-edge treatment methods. We are constantly aware of the need to generate highly The need to improve productivity in R&D is a major reliable clinical trial data according to our development priority for the entire pharmaceutical industry. We schedules. In fiscal 2015, Phase 3 clinical trial data became prioritize projects in our portfolio by performing a robust available for a combination therapy comprising solifenacin and objective analysis of factors such as data obtained from and mirabegron, two agents in our OAB franchise, and for clinical trials, the probability of success, and development romosozumab, which is being jointly developed with costs. We channel adequate resources into prioritized Amgen Astellas BioPharma K.K. for the treatment of projects from the early development stage, with the aim of osteoporosis. Furthermore, Astellas is making steady achieving early filing and regulatory approval. When progress with various projects, including the start of several formulating clinical trial plans, Astellas considers the new Phase 3 clinical trials in the oncology field. different healthcare insurance and drug pricing systems in each country or region, and fine tunes the design and evaluation endpoints to clearly demonstrate the added value of innovative drugs. FY2015 Progress of Late Phase Compounds (April 2015 – July 2016) Phase 3 Filing Approval Launch US >>>: Progress since April 2015 enzalutamide, solifenacin, ASP0113, EB178, gilteritinib ASP8273 Europe solifenacin (pediatric) enzalutamide (new formulation) New indication roxadustat, enzalutamide, ASP0113, EB178, fidaxomicin, gilteritinib ASP8273, mirabegron Japan New indication ASP7374 New indication bixalomer (new formulation) linaclotide quetiapine, degarelix, romosozumab, fidaxomicin, ASP0113, ASP015K, gilteritinib, enzalutamide New indication ASP8273, ipragliflozin/sitagliptin, roxadustat, ipragliflozin, linaclotide XTANDI, Eligard, BETMIGA, Suglat, and Feburic were approved and launched in Asian countries Asia Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 32 3 Performance Business Review Feature Our Initiatives to Create Innovation Case 1 Accelerating R&D in Ophthalmology We will establish a cell therapy franchise in ophthalmology by pursuing “Best Science, Best Talent, Best Place.” Yoshitsugu Shitaka, Ph.D President, Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine (AIRM) directly to diseased tissue, (4) rejection is rare, and (5) precise Strong Start for AIRM Leveraging Both Companies’ Complementary Technologies, Experience, and clinical trial endpoints can be defined. Financial Bases We acquired Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (Ocata), one of the leaders in cell therapy advancing ophthalmic R&D, in There remains many diseases of the eye with no therapeutic order to advance research and development largely with options. In particular, we are still waiting for groundbreaking their capabilities. They have world-class technology and drugs to treat conditions that lead to vision impairment. In expertise in ways of sourcing differentiated cells from addition to developing small molecule VAP-1 inhibitor pluripotent stem cells. Ocata’s researchers lead the world in ASP8232* in-house, Astellas is researching new technologies this field and they also have clinical development experience to support cell and gene therapies in this area, including in cell therapy. The Company’s name was changed to the collaboration with Harvard Medical School, a global Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine after the front-runner in gene therapies for ophthalmic diseases. acquisition. Following my appointment as President of Many conditions that can lead to loss of sight involve AIRM and after only a few months in the job, I am the degeneration or loss of the cells responsible for visual convinced of the huge potential of these R&D activities. function. There is a rational case for developing cell therapies Most of the former key Ocata staff have stayed at to treat such conditions because (1) function can be restored AIRM and are highly motivated to continue the R&D with replacement of the affected tissue, (2) fairly few cells programs. One reason for this is the extremely good fit are needed for transplanting, (3) cells can be transplanted between Astellas and Ocata in terms of complementary functions. Astellas’ quality control, cross-divisional project management expertise, and understanding of diseases and Positioning of AIRM in Strategic Plan 2015–2017 conditions prove valuable in advancing current pipeline projects. The global network and experience of Astellas will New Therapeutic New Technology/ Area New Modality also be essential in advancing the projects currently at the clinical trial stage to commercialization. In that sense, Regenerative many have commented that Ocata and Astellas joined Ophthalmology medicine forces at an extremely opportune moment. * Currently in Phase II for diabetic macular edema. AIRM Cell therapy programs in ophthalmology Strengthen Important pipeline in initiatives ophthalmology to accelerate and enhance cell therapy at Astellas Advancing into New Opportunities 33 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Establishing a Presence in Ophthalmology Turning Challenge into Opportunity: First Aim to Create Cell Therapy Franchise in Ophthalmology Corneal endothelial cell therapy AIRM Since we are the front-runner, the absence of useful (Corneal endothelial dystrophy) precedents means we have to take projects forward based Cornea on internal debate over study protocols, manufacturing Retinal ganglion progenitor methods, and quality standards. We have a shared cell therapy AIRM understanding that we must change our challenges into (Glaucoma) opportunities, targeting a world-first treatment by Harvard Gene therapy accelerating R&D projects as much as possible. The goal of (Retinitis pigmentosa) Medical School AIRM is to advance multiple R&D projects as far as the clinical development stage within just a few years. Photoreceptor progenitor From a longer-term perspective, AIRM also aims to cell therapy Retina (Retinitis pigmentosa) AIRM take on the challenge of regenerative medicine. In line with (Dry AMD) this, since becoming AIRM, we have resumed a number of (Stargardt’s disease) projects with potential to broaden the project scope beyond Retinal pigment epithelium our traditional focus on ophthalmology. AIRM is also (RPE) cell therapy AIRM actively hiring. Under the leadership of Dr. Lanza, AIRM’s (Dry AMD) (Stargardt’s disease) talented personnel, technologies, and R&D projects in the field of regenerative medicine are attracting interest from VAP-1 inhibitor ASP8232 Astellas many outstanding scientists who would like to join our (Diabetic macular edema) team. Going forward, we expect to form a suitable team to work at the forefront of Astellas’ research in this area. Based on the “Best Science, Best Talent, Best Place” notion, Boston area where research in regenerative medicine Astellas will pursue cutting-edge medical science through thrives and the Group’s Regenerative Medicine Labs in the talents, technology and clinical development experience Japan. The overall aim is to establish a cell therapy of AIRM, including regulatory expertise. We will leverage franchise in ophthalmology and to build a leading position the research network comprising AIRM located in the in cell therapy. Adding the knowledge and understanding of Astellas’ talented researchers has made the company far stronger. Ocata’s vision was to be a leading ophthalmology company using its proprietary regenerative medicine platform to cure loss of vision. Astellas shares this same goal. Our pipeline includes several therapies with great clinical promise, notably the use of retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells for treating dry age-related macular degeneration (AMD). The creation of AIRM has made our organization stronger and enabled us to expand the scope of our research to include programs in other areas. Adding the knowledge and understanding of Astellas’ talented researchers, we will not only be able to advance our current projects in ophthalmology, but also help usher in a revolution by applying regenerative medicine across multiple fields. Robert Lanza, M.D. Head of Astellas Global Regenerative Medicine and Chief Scientific Officer AIRM Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 34 3 Performance Business Review Case 2 Steady Progress in Oncology With several late-stage development projects progressing, we are taking up the challenge of making breakthroughs in cancer treatment. Bernie Zeiher, M.D President, Development Clinical Development Program #1 Targeting Scientific Advances while Accelerating Enzalutamide (Prostate/breast cancer, etc.) Development Using Varied Approaches Prostate cancer is the second most prevalent type of cancer We have made progress in oncology on several fronts in men, with 1.1 million new cases diagnosed in 2012 recently. In late-stage development, we have begun several globally. It has the fifth highest mortality rate among new Phase 3 clinical trials with enzalutamide, gilteritinib cancers in men*. and ASP8273. In early-stage development, the data obtained Enzalutamide, which is indicated in treatment of in metastatic bladder cancer with the two Agensys, Inc. metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, both antibody-drug-conjugates are also promising. post-chemo and chemo-naïve, has offered a new treatment Oncology is a complex therapeutic area given the option since its launch as XTANDI. It is currently in Phase number of tumor types, differences in pathogenesis and 3 trials for three earlier stages of prostate cancer shown in changing treatment paradigm. What makes it even more the figure below. This comprehensive program, conducted complex is the pace of change recently due to the with our partner Medivation, Inc., will help to characterize advancement of new breakthrough therapies. the optimal use of enzalutamide in this disease. Personalized or precision medicine approaches have Enzalutamide is also being evaluated in breast cancer, made a significant impact on the development of including a Phase 3 program in triple-negative breast cancer treatments in oncology. Utilizing a more targeted and two Phase 2 studies in different breast cancer subtypes. approach, we anticipate an improved benefit-risk profile by * World Health Organization, GLOBOCAN 2012: Estimated Cancer administrating the right drug to the right patient. This Incidence, Mortality and Prevalence Worldwide in 2012 approach is taken with enzalutamide in triple-negative breast cancer, gilteritinib and ASP8273. Immunooncology Maximizing the Value of Enzalutamide for Prostate is another area of interest, where we are engaged in Cancer Patients partnership with Potenza Therapeutics, Inc. Localized Antitherapy*1 Castration androgen Chemotherapy It is vital to take advantage of accelerated development pathways. Gilteritinib is a good example where we have M0 BCR*2 M0 CRPC*3 EMBARK PROSPER been granted SAKIGAKE designation in Japan. PSA / tumor volume Phase 3 trial Phase 3 trial Our challenge at Astellas is to improve cancer treatment [ongoing] [ongoing] Chemo-naïve Post-chemo PREVAIL AFFIRM globally by turning innovation into value for patients. We M1 HSPC*4 Phase 3 trial Phase 3 trial ARCHES continue to follow the evolution of science so that we can Phase 3 trial [ongoing] remain on the forefront of the dramatic changes in the management of cancer patients. Asymptomatic Symptoms Non-metastatic Metastatic Hormone-sensitive Castration-resistant Time *1 Prostatectomy, radiotherapy *2 Non-metastatic biochemically recurrent prostate cancer *3 Non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer *4 Metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer 35 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Clinical Development Program #2 Clinical Development Program #3 Gilteritinib (Acute myeloid leukemia) ASP8273 (Non-small cell lung cancer) Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the most common form Astellas has Tarceva indicated for non-small cell lung of adult leukemia and requires urgent medical treatment. cancer (NSCLC). It is known that first-generation drugs of The prognosis for patients with FLT3*-positive AML is this type can induce resistance over time, and ASP8273 has generally worse than other types of AML. efficacy in these types of resistance mutations. With its high Besides inhibiting FLT3, gilteritinib also inhibits AXL, selectivity for mutated receptors over wild-type receptors, which is reported to be associated with resistance to some ASP8273 is expected to have an improved safety profile forms of chemotherapy. A comprehensive Phase 3 program compared to the first-generation epidermal growth factor for FLT3-positive AML is being conducted with gilteritinib. receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. This includes studies in relapsed and refractory AML as A Phase 3 trial for ASP8273 as a first-line NSCLC well as in patients receiving low-intensity chemotherapy therapy is underway. Further studies in Japan and Asia for and after transplantation. ASP8273 as a second-line therapy are being considered as well. * A receptor-type tyrosine kinase involved in cancer cell proliferation Gilteritinib in the AML Treatment Landscape Status of Development FLT3-positive AML High-intensity induction therapy Low-intensity chemo • U.S./Europe/Japan/Asia Developing first-line indications Chemo Transplantation Ongoing consolidation Maintenance Maintenance • Japan/Asia Considering development of second-line indications Under preparation Under preparation Salvage therapy Ongoing Our development approach has been rapid with gilteritinib as we look to satisfy unmet medical needs. Gilteritinib was originally discovered with the intent of treating a different type of cancer, but molecular activity screens revealed its strong inhibition of FLT3, a target for AML, as well as the related resistance mutation. In Phase 1 we were able to demonstrate clinical response and identify a dose for advancement into later stages of development. This enabled us to move directly from Phase 1 to Phase 3 in 2 years. The data were promising enough to be selected for SAKIGAKE designation in Japan. The investigators express strong expectations for the drug’s potential. Our team members are excited that we can provide novel therapeutic options to AML patients. Because gilteritinib also inhibits AXL, it has the potential to treat tumor types other than AML. We are making Itsuro Nagase every effort to deliver gilteritinib to patients worldwide who can benefit from it as soon as possible. D.V.M., Ph.D. Senior Director Global Development Project Leader Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 36 3 Performance Business Review R&D Topics During the Year Major Progress in Clinical Development (Approval, Filing, and Alliance) Japan Europe 2015 Suglat (generic name: ipragliflozin L-proline) for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes 4 Astellas announced the agreement of a memorandum of understanding with MSD K.K. regarding the co-development and co-commercialization of the combination product of Suglat and the selective DPP-4 inhibitor JANUVIA. 5 Cimzia for the treatment of adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) Astellas received regulatory approval for an additional indication for Cimzia allowing the use of the product for the treatment of RA patients without previous treatment with anti-RA drugs*. * The package insert for Cimzia contains the following precautions related to indications: “In principle, the use of Cimzia is limited to RA patients who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. However, although Cimzia can be given to patients with high risk of progression of 6 structural damage even if they have not received prior treatment with anti-rheumatic drugs, evaluate patient’s conditions and judge the necessity for use of this agent carefully, after referring to recent guidelines and so on.” Irribow for the treatment of diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome Astellas received regulatory approval for an additional indication allowing the use of Irribow for the treatment of diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome in female patients, in addition to male patients. 7 QUTENZA for the treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain in adult patients Astellas received regulatory approval for an additional indication allowing the use of QUTENZA for the 8 treatment of patients suffering diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, as well as those with non-diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. Kiklin (generic name: bixalomer) for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia 9 Astellas filed an application for approval of a granule formulation. Vesicare (generic name: solifenacin succinate) for the treatment of overactive bladder (OAB) Astellas filed an application for approval of the indication of OAB in pediatric patients of 5-18 years*. 10 * Received a notification for end of review procedure in June 2016. The indication was not approved but pediatric information was included in the label to enable a patent extension of 6 months. Repatha for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia 11 Regulatory approval of Repatha was received for the indications of familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) or hypercholesterolemia*1*2. *1 The indication is as follows: “Familial hypercholesterolemia, hypercholesterolemia, only when patients who have high risk of cardiovascular events and do not adequately respond to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.” 12 *2 Official guidance on points to consider regarding the use of Repatha under National Health Insurance coverage was issued by the Medical Affairs Division of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. (Medical Affairs Division 0419 No.1; April 19, 2016) 2016 Kiklin for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia 1 Astellas received regulatory approval of an additional indication allowing the use of Kiklin for patients suffering from chronic kidney disease who are not receiving dialysis, as well as those on dialysis. Guanylate cyclase-C (GC-C) receptor agonist linaclotide 2 Astellas filed an application for approval of the indication of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) in adults. XTANDI (generic name: enzalutamide) for the treatment of prostate cancer 3 Astellas filed for approval of XTANDI tablets. 37 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Neuroscience Capturing New Opportunities New therapeutics to treat neuropathic and other pain conditions Oncology In September 2015, Astellas entered into a license and Monoclonal antibody drug for acute myeloid leukemia collaboration agreement with Chromocell Corporation for the worldwide development and commercialization of new In April 2015, Astellas signed an agreement with The therapeutics to treat neuropathic and other pain conditions. University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center on an option to firstly negotiate an exclusive, worldwide license concerning research and development of h8F4, a Ophthalmology humanized monoclonal antibody, for patients with acute Gene therapy to treat retinitis pigmentosa myeloid leukemia. In January 2016, Astellas entered into a license agreement with CLINO Ltd. for the worldwide development and Building a portfolio of immuno-oncology therapeutics commercialization of a gene therapy, Adeno-associated Virus-modified Volvox channelrhodopsin-1 In April 2015, Astellas entered into an agreement with (AAV-mVChR1), to treat retinitis pigmentosa. Potenza Therapeutics, Inc. for exclusive research and development collaboration geared towards building a Cell therapy for ophthalmology portfolio of immuno-oncology therapeutics. The agreement includes an exclusive option that allows for the In February 2016, Astellas acquired Ocata Therapeutics, future acquisition of Potenza by Astellas. Inc., a biotechnology company focused on research and development of cell therapy for ophthalmology, and made it a consolidated subsidiary. In May 2016, the Immunology company’s name was changed to the Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine. Creating therapeutic drugs for type 1 diabetes and celiac disease In May 2015, Astellas signed an agreement with Kanyos Other Areas Bio, Inc., a newly established company, to collaborate on IT drug-discovery technologies research aimed at creating therapeutic drugs, based on technology for the induction of antigen-specific immune In July 2015, Astellas initiated collaborative research with tolerance owned by Anokion SA. Astellas holds an exclusive the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and option to acquire Kanyos Bio, Inc. Technology (AIST), utilizing Astellas’ own protein-ligand complex structural information and AIST’s highly advanced IT drug-discovery technologies. Next-generation vaccines In October 2015, Astellas signed an exclusive worldwide Sharing of compound libraries license agreement with Immunomic Therapeutics, Inc. concerning the LAMP-vax products for the treatment or In March 2016, Astellas and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma prevention of a wide range of allergic diseases in humans. Corporation concluded an agreement for sharing their respective approximately 250,000 compounds selected from their respective compound libraries. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 38 3 Performance Business Review Status of R&D Pipeline (as of July 2016) Code No. / Generic Name Classification Target Disease Area / Phase Dosage Form Licensor*1 Remarks Oncology MDV3100 Androgen receptor Metastatic castration-resistant Europe Filed Oral Medivation New enzalutamide inhibitor prostate cancer (Tablet) (Mar. 2016) formulation Non-metastatic castration-resistant US/Europe/Asia New indication prostate cancer Phase-III Prostate cancer in patients with US/Europe/Asia New indication non-metastatic biochemical Phase-III recurrence Metastatic hormone-sensitive US/Europe/Japan/Asia New indication prostate cancer Phase-III Triple-negative breast cancer US/Europe/Japan/Asia New indication Phase-III Breast cancer (ER/PgR positive, US/Europe New indication HER2 positive) Phase-II Hepatocellular carcinoma US/Europe/Asia New indication Phase-II ASP2215 FLT3/AXL inhibitor Acute myeloid leukemia US/Europe/Japan/Asia Oral In-house gilteritinib Phase-III Non-small cell lung cancer US/Japan/Asia Phase-I ASP3550 GnRH antagonist Prostate cancer Japan Phase-III Injection Ferring New degarelix (three-month formulation) formulation*2 ASP8273 Mutant-selective Non-small cell lung cancer US/Europe/Japan/Asia Oral In-house irreversible EGFR Phase-III inhibitor AGS-16C3F ADC targeting ENPP3 Renal cell carcinoma US/Europe Injection In-house (ADC Phase-II technology inlicensed from Seattle Genetics) AMG 103 Anti-CD19 BiTE Acute lymphoblastic leukemia Japan Phase-II Injection Amgen (co*2 blinatumomab development with Amgen Astellas) ASG-22ME Solid tumors Phase-I Injection In-house (coenfortumab vedotin Urothelial cancer development with Seattle Genetics) ASG-15ME Urothelial cancer Phase-I Injection In-house (codevelopment with Seattle Genetics) ASP5878 Cancer Phase-I Oral In-house AGS67E Lymphoid Malignancies Phase-I Injection In-house (ADC technology inlicensed from Seattle Genetics) ASP4132 Cancer Phase-I Oral In-house AGS62P1 Acute myeloid leukemia Phase-I Injection In-house (ADC technology, EuCODE license from Ambrx) Urology and Nephrology YM905 Muscarine M3 Neurogenic detrusor overactivity in US/Europe Phase-III Oral In-house New indication solifenacin receptor antagonist pediatric patients (pediatric) ASP1585 (AMG 223) Amine-functional Hyperphosphatemia in patients on Japan Filed Oral Amgen New bixalomer polymer dialysis with chronic kidney disease (Sep. 2015) formulation*2 (granule formulation) EB178 Concomitant use of Urinary frequency, urinary US/Europe/Asia Oral In-house solifenacin/mirabegron solifenacin and incontinence or urgency associated Phase-III mirabegron with overactive bladder ASP1517 (FG-4592) HIF stabilizer Anemia associated with chronic Europe/Japan Oral FibroGen roxadustat kidney disease in patients not on Phase-III dialysis and on dialysis YM178 Beta 3 receptor agonist Neurogenic detrusor overactivity in Europe Phase-III Oral In-house New indication mirabegron pediatric patients (pediatric) ASP8232 VAP-1 inhibitor Diabetic nephropathy Europe Phase-II Oral In-house YM311 HIF stabilizer Renal anemia Europe Phase-II Oral FibroGen (FG-2216) Japan Phase-I ASP2205 Stress urinary incontinence Phase-I Oral In-house ASP6282 Underactive bladder Phase-I Oral In-house ASP7398 Nocturia Phase-I Oral In-house ASP6294 Bladder pain syndrome / Interstitial Phase-I Injection In-house cystitis 39 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Code No. / Generic Name Classification Target Disease Area / Phase Dosage Form Licensor*1 Remarks Immunology and Neuroscience ASP0113 DNA vaccine Cytomegalovirus reactivation in US/Europe/Japan Injection Vical (VCL-CB01) for cytomegalovirus hematopoietic cell transplant Phase-III recipients Cytomegalovirus infection or US/Europe reactivation in solid organ transplant Phase-II recipients ASP015K JAK inhibitor Rheumatoid arthritis Japan/Asia Oral In-house peficitinib Phase-III US/Europe Phase-II FK949E Serotonin / dopamine Depressive episode Japan Phase-III Oral AstraZeneca New quetiapine antagonist in bipolar disorders indication*2 New formulation*2 ASKP1240 Anti-CD40 Recurrence of focal segmental US Phase-II Injection Kyowa Hakko bleselumab monoclonal antibody glomerulosclerosis in de novo Kirin kidney transplant recipients ASP3662 11beta-HSD1 inhibitor Painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy US Phase-II Oral In-house Alzheimer’s disease US Phase-I ASP1707 GnRH antagonist Rheumatoid arthritis Japan Phase-II Oral In-house ASP7962 TrkA inhibitior Osteoarthritis Europe Phase-II Oral In-house ASP5094 Rheumatoid arthritis Phase-I Injection In-house ASP4345 Cognitive impairment associated Phase-I Oral In-house with schizophrenia ASP4070 Pollinosis caused by Japanese red Phase-I Injection Immunomic (JRC2-LAMP-vax) cedar Therapeutics ASP0819 Fibromyalgia Phase-I Oral In-house ASP8062 Fibromyalgia Phase-I Oral In-house ASP7266 Severe asthma Phase-I Injection In-house ASP0892 Peanut allergy Phase-I Injection Immunomic Therapeutics Others ASP7374 Influenza vaccine Prophylaxis of seasonal influenza Japan Filed Injection UMN Pharma *2 (May 2014) ASP0456 Guanylate cyclase-C Irritable bowel syndrome with Japan Filed Oral Ironwood *2 linaclotide receptor agonist constipation (Feb. 2016) Chronic constipation Japan Phase-III New indication*2 fidaxomicin Macrocyclic antibiotic Infectious enteritis Japan Phase-III Oral Merck (bacterial target: Clostridium difficile) Clostridium difficile infection in Europe Phase-III New indication pediatric patients (pediatric) AMG 785 Anti-Sclerostin Osteoporosis Japan Phase-III Injection Amgen(co-devel *2 romosozumab monoclonal antibody opment with Amgen Astellas) ipragliflozin/ Fixed dose Type 2 diabetes mellitus Japan Phase-III Oral In-house *2 sitagliptin combination of (co-development ipragliflozin and with MSD and sitagliptin Kotobuki) ASP1941 SGLT2 inhibitor Type 1 diabetes mellitus Japan Phase-III Oral In-house New ipragliflozin (co-development indication*2 with Kotobuki) ASP1707 GnRH antagonist Endometriosis Europe/Japan Oral In-house Phase-II ASP8232 VAP-1 inhibitor Diabetic macular edema US Phase-II Oral In-house CK-2127107 Fast skeletal tropoinin Spinal muscular atrophy US Phase-II Oral Cytokinetics activator Chronic obstructive pulmonary US Phase-II disease RPE cell program Cell therapy (Retinal Dry age-related macular US Phase-II Injection In-house pigment epithelium degeneration (Astellas cell) Stargardt’s macular degeneration Institute for Regenerative Medicine) ASP7373 Influenza vaccine Prophylaxis of H5N1 influenza Japan Phase-II Injection UMN Pharma *2 *1 Compounds with “In-house” include ones discovered by collaborative research. *2 Local development (Japan) Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 40 3 Performance Business Review Review of Operations by Therapeutic Area Sales of XTANDI grew by 83.7% to ¥252.1 billion, Oncology owing to steady sales expansion in each region. Tarceva-related revenues were down 4.3% at ¥46.8 billion. Eligard is currently marketed in EMEA and Asia & Oceania. Sales declined 7.3% to ¥17.6 billion. Sales of Business Environment and Basic Strategy Gonax, which is marketed in Japan, increased 14.3% to ¥3.9 Given that cancer is one of the leading causes of death, billion. oncology has urgent unmet patient needs. It is also an area that has seen the development of a steady string of new drugs in line with scientific advancement. Astellas is focused on the oncology field as one of its core business Outlook areas. We currently have four oncology products: the We are advancing various clinical trials targeting additional prostate cancer treatments XTANDI, Eligard and Gonax, indications with the aim of maximizing the product value and Tarceva for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer of XTANDI. We are conducting Phase 3 trials involving and pancreatic cancer. earlier stage prostate cancer patients. Efforts are also XTANDI stands out as a significant growth driver for focused on conducting trials for other cancers, such as us in oncology. Currently, we are working to expand sales breast cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma. of XTANDI to new regions, as we work to expand the Elsewhere, more than 10 projects are under way, indication in each country and further increase the market including development of gilteritinib for acute myeloid penetration of this drug to chemotherapy-naïve patients. leukemia, and ASP8273 for non-small cell lung cancer. XTANDI offers a product profile featuring excellent These development projects will steadily reinforce our effectiveness proven in clinical trials, dosing conditions with business platform in the oncology area. few restrictions, and high tolerability. Furthermore, we have a In the research stage, we are pursuing drug discovery solid presence in the urology field. Leveraging these strengths, research targeting cancers and patients for which existing we aim to become the market leader in this category. treatments do not provide any benefit, with a focus on immune evasion and metabolic disorders in oncology. By forming partnerships with the world’s leading biotechnology companies and research institutions, we Fiscal 2015 Performance seek to establish a highly competitive drug pipeline. Total sales of Astellas’ four oncology products continued to Reference Maximizing the Product Value P21 rise sharply, increasing by 54% to ¥320.3 billion. Creating Innovation P22 Sales by Product Sales of XTANDI by Region XTANDI Eligard Gonax Tarceva Japan Americas EMEA Asia & Oceania (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 400 400 + 54 % 320.3 + 17% 300 46.8 17.6 3.9 300 + 84 % 252.1 295.9 4.5 2.4 95.9 200 208.4 200 70.7 48.9 19.0 3.4 137.2 252.1 0.6 100 100 33.4 152.9 169.8 137.2 88.3 0 0 14.9 26.2 25.7 2015.3 2016.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 (Forecast) 41 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Overview of Main Products Eligard (Prostate cancer treatment) Eligard is a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone XTANDI (Prostate cancer treatment) (LHRH) agonist that is marketed under license from This product is a once-daily oral androgen receptor TOLMAR Inc. inhibitor. XTANDI has been sold since 2012 in various In EMEA, sales declined by 3.7% to €131 million in regions for prostate cancer patients who had previously fiscal 2015, mainly due to intensified competition. In Asia received chemotherapy. As of May 2016, XTANDI is sold & Oceania, sales were ¥0.2 billion. We launched the in around 60 countries and regions. It was also approved in product in Taiwan in fiscal 2015. key countries for the treatment of chemotherapy-naïve prostate cancer patients. Gonax (Prostate cancer treatment) Looking at regional sales of XTANDI in fiscal 2015, sales in Japan increased 76.1% to ¥26.2 billion. Sales in the Gonax is a gonadotrophin-releasing hormone Americas were up 58.4% to US$1,272 million. In EMEA, (GnRH)-receptor blocker with a subcutaneously injectable sales rose sharply by 121.3% to €533 million. XTANDI is formulation in-licensed from Ferring Pharmaceuticals. It is gaining traction among chemotherapy-naïve prostate sold by Astellas in Japan. In fiscal 2015, sales rose 14.3% to cancer patients. In the Asia & Oceania region, sales in fiscal ¥3.9 billion. We will step up efforts to increase the market 2015 were ¥2.4 billion, with sales growing primarily in penetration of Gonax, along with that of XTANDI. Australia. In Europe, clinical study data comparing XTANDI and bicalutamide were reflected in the package Tarceva (Lung and pancreatic cancer treatment) insert (SmPC) in April 2016. In the U.S., we also submitted a similar application for label update to the Food and Drug Tarceva is a small-molecule drug developed to target the Administration. epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) that plays a key In the U.S., Astellas and Medivation, Inc. co-promote role in cancer formation and growth. In fiscal 2015, XTANDI and share profits equally. In all countries Tarceva-related revenues decreased by 12.4% to US$389 excluding the U.S., Astellas develops and commercializes million, mainly due to intensifying competition with other XTANDI, while paying Medivation royalties based on sales. drugs. In the U.S., we have been co-promoting Tarceva with Genentech, Inc., with earnings split equally between both companies. We also have a license agreement with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd in other countries, and receive royalties based on sales. These revenues are recorded as sales in the Americas. XTANDI Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 42 3 Performance Business Review billion. We saw double-digit sales growth in Japan, the Urology and Nephrology Americas, and Asia & Oceania on a local currency basis. We have established a leading market position in this area. In fiscal 2015, our market share reached approximately 63% in Japan, approximately 62% in the U.S. and Business Environment and Basic Strategy approximately 56% in Europe (on a value basis). Astellas has established a strong presence in the urology area through the sale of Harnal, a treatment for functional symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia, as well as the overactive bladder (OAB) treatments Vesicare (generic Outlook name: solifenacin) and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA In urology, EB178, a combination therapy comprising (generic name: mirabegron). solifenacin and mirabegron, is currently undergoing a OAB treatments have now become one of Astellas’ Phase 3 trial. Towards building a next-generation franchise, core growth drivers. We will continue to strengthen the we are advancing clinical development targeting new position of Vesicare as the first choice among urologic disorders with a high level of unmet medical anticholinergics—the standard therapy for OAB. needs. Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA has earned a strong In the nephrology area, we are advancing Phase 3 trials reputation as a new treatment option with a different of roxadustat in Europe and Japan for the target disease of mechanism of action from Vesicare. In anticipation of the anemia associated with chronic kidney disease in patients expiry of patent protection for Vesicare in various regions on dialysis and not on dialysis. In addition, we will work to from 2018 onward, we will put more emphasis on develop therapies for disorders with a high level of unmet Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA to achieve further market medical needs, such as diabetic nephropathy and chronic penetration. Considering the large number of potential kidney disease. subjects in the OAB treatment market, we will work to Reference Maximizing the Product Value P21 contribute to the treatment of many more patients by Creating Innovation P22 raising public awareness of this condition. Moreover, the nephrology area offers prospects for synergies with Astellas’ existing products and therapeutic areas, including urology. Accordingly, the development of several projects is now under way. Overview of Main Products Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA (OAB treatment) This drug is a beta-3 adrenergic receptor agonist that helps Fiscal 2015 Performance to relieve symptoms associated with OAB such as urinary Sales increased steadily in our OAB franchise, underpinned urgency, frequent urination, and urinary incontinence. It is by sales of Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA. In fiscal 2015, sold in around 50 countries and regions worldwide under aggregate sales of our OAB franchise rose 15% to ¥217.4 the brand name of Betanis in Japan, Myrbetriq in the Americas, and BETMIGA in EMEA and Asia & Oceania. Total Sales of the OAB Franchise (By Product) As an OAB treatment with a new mechanism of action, Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA has been achieving Vesicare Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA (¥ billion) increased market penetration. In fiscal 2015, aggregate sales 300 + 15 % + 1% grew sharply by 53.8% to ¥81.7 billion. Sales have been expanding in every region. In Japan, sales of Betanis 217.4 219.4 200 188.4 increased by 43.5% to ¥21.2 billion. Betanis’ annual share 53.1 81.7 100.4 of the OAB treatment market was approximately 28% (on a 100 value basis). In the Americas, Myrbetriq sales continued to 135.2 135.6 119.1 grow, up 49.8% to US$380 million. Myrbetriq’s annual 0 share of the U.S. OAB treatment market reached 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 (Forecast) 43 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data approximately 23% (on a value basis). In EMEA, sales of BETMIGA increased by 36.0% to €101 million. Immunology BETMIGA’s annual share of the region’s OAB treatment market was approximately 11% (on a value basis). In Asia & Oceania, sales of this product reached ¥1.4 billion (¥0.2 billon in the previous year). Business Environment and Basic Strategy In the immunology area, Astellas is contributing to the field of transplantation through the immunosuppressant Prograf. The transplantation franchise is a vital earnings base globally and Astellas will continue to focus on the franchise. Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA Fiscal 2015 Performance Vesicare (OAB treatment) Sales of Prograf rose 4.5% to ¥203.6 billion in fiscal 2015. Vesicare is an anticholinergic drug sold in approximately Global Prograf sales are steady, underpinned by growth in 80 countries and regions. It has continued to retain a high Asia & Oceania, despite the impact of generics in Japan, the share in each region as the first choice of therapy in the Americas, and EMEA. OAB area. In fiscal 2015, aggregate sales of Vesicare rose 0.3% to ¥135.6 billion. Looking at regional sales of Vesicare, sales in Japan rose 3.5% to ¥26.5 billion, sales in the Americas Outlook decreased 5.1% to US$530 million, sales in EMEA declined Astellas has several new drug candidates in the late clinical 1.4% to €300 million, and sales in Asia & Oceania rose development stage. These include ASP015K, which is under 0.1% to ¥5.3 billion. development for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and ASP0113, which is being developed for the prevention of cytomegalovirus infection or reactivation for Harnal/Omnic (Treatment for functional symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)) hematopoietic cell transplants and solid organ transplants. Looking ahead, we will work to develop drugs for This product is sold in approximately 100 countries and causal therapy/cure of immune-related disorders, drugs regions, and has established itself as a standard treatment that seek to completely cure immune-related disorders or of urinary disorders associated with BPH. substantially relieve their symptoms, and next-generation Sales in Japan declined 4.6% to ¥53.4 billion in fiscal innovative, immunoregulatory drugs. 2015. Regionally, sales in Asia & Oceania increased 17.7% Reference Maximizing the Product Value P21 to ¥21.5 billion, owing to continued growth in various Creating Innovation P22 countries. Meanwhile, sales in Japan declined 15.6% to ¥12.7 billion, due to the impact of generic drugs. In EMEA, sales decreased 10.1% to €116 million. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 44 3 Performance Business Review Overview of Main Products Other Areas Prograf and Advagraf/Graceptor/ASTAGRAF XL/ Prograf XL (Immunosuppressant) This drug is an immunosuppressant used to suppress organ Overview of Main Products (Global Products) transplant rejection. Although the patent for this drug has Funguard/MYCAMINE (Candin-type antifungal agent) already expired in major countries, it is sold in approximately 100 countries and regions and has made a significant global This drug is a candin-type antifungal agent used for the contribution to the field of transplantation. treatment of fungal infections. It is sold in approximately Looking at regional sales in fiscal 2015, sales in Japan 60 countries and regions. rose 3.4% to ¥49.8 billion, mainly due to growth in the In fiscal 2015, global sales of the product rose 7.4% to once-daily formulation Graceptor. Sales in EMEA via ¥41.6 billion. In terms of regional sales, sales in Japan in-house distribution channels rose 4.9% to €588 million, decreased 1.1% to ¥11.7 billion, and sales in the Americas mainly supported by expanded sales of the once-daily declined 3.5% to US$109 million. Meanwhile, sales formulation Advagraf. Supported by sales growth in China, continued to grow steadily in EMEA and Asia & Oceania. Republic of Korea and certain other countries, sales in Asia In EMEA, sales increased 14.7% to €85 million and in Asia & Oceania rose 20.2% to ¥38.4 billion. Meanwhile, sales in & Oceania, sales increased 30.3% to ¥5.7 billion. the Americas declined 4.1% to US$288 million, mainly due to the impact of generics. Overview of Main Products (Japan) Cimzia (Rheumatoid arthritis treatment) Micardis (Hypertension treatment) Cimzia is an anti-TNF (tumor necrosis factor)-alpha Micombi (Combination drug with a diuretic) antibody that is co-promoted in Japan with UCB Japan Micamlo (Combination drug with a long-acting Co., Ltd. Sales increased 30.2% to ¥6.6 billion in fiscal 2015. calcium antagonist) In May 2015, Cimzia’s indications were expanded, permitting use in patients who have not received prior Micardis is a once-daily oral angiotensin II receptor treatment with anti-rheumatic drugs when they present a blocker (ARB). In Japan, Astellas is co-promoting the high risk for progression of structural joint destruction. Micardis product line with Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Co., Ltd. Sales of drugs in the Micardis product line, including Micombi and Micamlo, increased by 1.5% to Sales of Prograf (By Region) ¥97.2 billion in fiscal 2015, mainly owing to continued (Including Advagraf/Graceptor/ASTAGRAF XL/Prograf XL) steady expansion in sales of Micamlo in line with growth in Japan Americas EMEA Asia & Oceania Export the market for combination drugs. The total share of the (¥ billion) Micardis line of drugs in the ARB market was around 21% 300 (on a value basis). In January 2016, Astellas extended the agreement with + 5% – 8% Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Co., Ltd. pertaining to the 200 194.7 203.6 sale and co-promotion of the Micardis line of drugs in 3.8 2.8 187.9 32.0 38.4 2.5 Japan. As a result, the term of the agreement, which formerly 37.1 ran to December 31, 2016, was extended by a year and 3 77.7 77.9 73.6 months to March 31, 2018. 100 33.0 34.6 26.9 48.1 49.8 47.8 0 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 (Forecast) 45 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Celecox (Anti-inflammatory agent) Repatha (Hypercholesterolemia treatment) Celecox is a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor In January 2016, Astellas obtained manufacturing and that is co-promoted with Pfizer Japan Inc. In fiscal 2015, marketing approval of Repatha, the first proprotein sales of Celecox increased 11.5% to ¥46.6 billion. Celecox’s convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitor in share of the market for oral anti-inflammatory analgesic Japan, indicated for the treatment of familial agents was around 59% (on a value basis) based on the hypercholesterolemia or hypercholesterolemia*. Repatha strong reputation of its product features. Going forward, was launched in April 2016. It is being co-promoted by we will target an even higher share of the market for oral Astellas and Amgen Astellas BioPharma K.K. We are anti-inflammatory analgesic agents. carrying out activities to supply information on Repatha, with an emphasis on encouraging proper drug use. * The indication is as follows: “Familial hypercholesterolemia, Symbicort (Treatment for adult bronchial asthma hypercholesterolemia, only when patients who have high risk of and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) cardiovascular events and do not adequately respond to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.” Symbicort is a combination drug of an inhaled corticosteroid * Official guidance on points to consider regarding the use of Repatha and a rapid and long-acting beta-2 agonist. Astellas is under National Health Insurance coverage was issued by the Medical Affairs Division of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. (Medical co-promoting Symbicort with AstraZeneca K.K. in Japan. Affairs Division 0419 No.1; April 19, 2016) In fiscal 2015, sales of Symbicort increased 13.3% to ¥37.4 billion. Symbicort’s share of the market in Japan for adult inhaled steroid treatment including combination drugs was around 36% (on a value basis). The dissemination of guidelines and other positive factors have contributed to annual growth of this market, where Symbicort has a strong reputation. Bonoteo (Treatment for osteoporosis) Bonoteo is an oral bisphosphonate osteoporosis treatment. In fiscal 2015, sales of Bonoteo increased 8.6% to ¥14.1 Repatha billion. Bonoteo’s share of the Japanese market for bisphosphonate agents was around 21% (on a value basis). Astellas will continue emphasizing the patient convenience offered by this drug, as well as its high clinical effect, with Overview of Main Products (U.S.) the aim of increasing Bonoteo’s market share. Lexiscan (Pharmacologic stress agent) Lexiscan is a pharmacologic stress agent in-licensed from Suglat (Type 2 diabetes treatment) Gilead Palo Alto, Inc. In fiscal 2015, combined sales of Suglat is Japan’s first sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 pharmacologic stress agents, comprising sales of Lexiscan (SGLT2) inhibitor. In Japan, Astellas is co-promoting and Adenoscan, for which generic products are already Suglat with Kotobuki Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and MSD available, increased 5.1% to US$634 million. K.K. In fiscal 2015, sales of Suglat grew 77.8% to ¥7.3 billion, following the availability of long-term prescriptions from CRESEMBA (Azole antifungal) May 2015. Suglat’s share of the market for selective SGLT2 inhibitors in Japan was around 39% (on a value basis). CRESEMBA is an azole antifungal in-licensed from Basilea Astellas has been building up post-marketing data in Pharmaceutica International Ltd. and launched in the U.S. regard to the efficacy and safety of Suglat. By supplying in April 2015. In fiscal 2015, sales of CRESEMBA were information based on this data, we aim to increase the US$22 million. We will continue working to increase market penetration of this drug. market penetration of this drug, which provides a new option for treating severe fungal infections. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 46 3 Performance Business Review Review of Global Operations Considering these changes in the environment, Astellas Japan revised its Medical Representative (MR) structure in October 2015. We have changed our previous system of assigning products to MRs based on therapeutic areas to a new system where each MR will be responsible for all of Astellas’ products, in principle. This will enable MRs to provide more detailed information tailored to the respective treatment courses of healthcare professionals and the specific conditions of individual patients. Additionally, in the three therapeutic areas of oncology, immunology and transplantation, we created the new post of Therapeutic Area Specialist in order to more precisely convey the value of our specialty products to patients. Under the new structure, as we continue carrying out our mission of bringing happiness to patients and their families, we will deliver drugs with high added value, such as the new products Repatha and XTANDI, and provide fair, high quality information. Nobuaki Tanaka Fiscal 2015 Overview President, Japan Sales & Marketing Sales in Japan including revenues related to exports and licenses decreased 0.3% year on year to ¥497.2 billion. Of these, sales in the Japanese market increased by 0.3% to ¥483.0 billion. By product, in addition to XTANDI and the OAB Business Environment and Strategy treatments including Vesicare and Betanis, products such In Japan, the government is implementing measures to as Prograf, Celecox, Symbicort, Suglat, and Micardis optimize healthcare expenditures, and society requires achieved sales growth. On the other hand, sales contracted more transparency and fairness than before. These changes for products such as Lipitor (for hypercholesterolemia) and are having a significant impact on our industry. With the Gaster (for peptic ulcers and gastritis) due to the impact of background of a rapidly aging society, reforms in the generics and other factors. healthcare delivery system are currently under way targeting the year 2025. Community medical care is expected to take on increasing importance in the reforms. Fiscal 2016 Outlook Sales in Japan are forecasted to decrease by 3.3% year on Sales in Japan (Japanese Market Sales) year to ¥480.8 billion. Of these, sales in the Japanese market (¥ billion) are expected to decrease by 5.5% to ¥456.6 billion, mainly 600 based on the impact of NHI drug price revisions. 481.7 483.0 456.6 We are forecasting continuing sales growth in 450 products such as Celecox, Symbicort, and Suglat, as well as 300 the OAB treatments Vesicare and Betanis. Meanwhile, sales are forecast to contract for products such as XTANDI and 150 Micardis (including its combination drugs, Micombi and Micamlo) based on NHI drug price revisions, although 0 sales volumes are projected to continue growing. 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 (Forecast) 47 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data even larger impact on the industry. Americas In this environment, in fiscal 2015, we increased the sophistication of our organization to respond to entities such as large physician groups and integrated health networks (IHNs) that incorporate the management of community medical care functions and public welfare and nursing care functions. Looking ahead from a marketing perspective, we will further strengthen the leading market positions of XTANDI and Myrbetriq, along with maintaining the market position of our hospital franchise including newly launched CRESEMBA. We know that people are crucial to anticipating and responding to the dynamic business environment. Accordingly, aiming to further enhance our competitiveness, we constantly strive to make Astellas a great place to work. To this end, we will continue working to recruit, train and retain outstanding talent; enhance diversity and inclusion further; and boost employee satisfaction. James Robinson Fiscal 2015 Overview President, Americas Operations Sales in the Americas amounted to US$3,788 million, up 15.4% from the previous fiscal year on a U.S. dollar basis. When converted to yen, net sales rose by 26.1% to ¥455.1 billion. By product, we posted US$1,272 million in sales of Business Environment and Strategy XTANDI, up 58.4% year on year. In the U.S., XTANDI In the past few years, the U.S. has implemented a series of sales surpassed US$1 billion for the first time, while in reforms based on the Patient Protection and Affordable Canada, the reimbursement of XTANDI to chemotherapyCare Act. And, in fiscal 2016, the impacts of these reforms naïve patients was approved in all Canadian provinces. on the business environment are expected to continue. In Sales of Myrbetriq continued to grow, increasing 49.8% this climate, trends such as evolving benefit models focused year on year, to US$380 million. Our share of the total on the value of care provided, the integration of insurance prescription market for OAB treatments, including payers and medical institutions, and an increase in the VESIcare and Myrbetriq, continued to expand. In other medical cost outlays of patients are expected to have an areas, our newest product, CRESEMBA, contributed to higher sales, in addition to the growth in sales of products such as Lexiscan. Sales in the Americas (US$ million) 4,000 4,011 3,788 3,284 Fiscal 2016 Outlook 3,000 We forecast regional sales of US$4,011 million, a 2,000 year-on-year increase of 5.9% on a U.S. dollar basis. When converted to yen, the regional sales are expected to decline 1,000 3.1% to ¥441.2 billion, mainly based on the impact of foreign exchange rates. 0 We expect sales of XTANDI to grow. Meanwhile, total 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 (Forecast) sales of OAB treatments, VESIcare and Myrbetriq, are projected to increase on a U.S. dollar basis, but these sales are expected to decrease when converted to yen, based on the impact of foreign exchange rates. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 48 3 Performance Business Review major therapeutic areas, along with building optimal EMEA business models for each country. In oncology, we will work to expand sales of XTANDI, for which an indication for chemotherapy-naïve patients was approved in fiscal 2014. Moreover, we will strive to nurture OAB treatments including BETMIGA, as well as MYCAMINE, DIFICLIR, and Advagraf. Astellas will take further steps to promote compliance activities in earnest. From fiscal 2016, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Code on transparency requires new reporting obligations in many countries in the region. Compliance requirements have been increasing year after year. Therefore, Astellas will endeavor to fulfill those requirements, along with addressing compliance issues. Fiscal 2015 Overview Sales in EMEA in fiscal 2015 rose 10.0% to €2,484 million. When converted to yen, sales rose 5.1% to ¥329.3 billion. Yukio Matsui Sales of XTANDI increased 121.3% to €533 million as President, EMEA Operations a result of the approval of its expanded indication for chemotherapy-naïve patients in 10 countries in fiscal 2015. Sales of BETMIGA increased 36.0% to €101 million, with the continued expansion of the combined share of Vesicare and BETMIGA in the OAB market. Meanwhile, sales of Business Environment and Strategy Omnic, which goes by the brand name Harnal in Japan, In the EMEA region, many countries have adopted more through our own distribution channels decreased 10.1% on stringent policies to curb medical expenditures, and there a euro basis, mainly due to the impact of generic drugs. are increasing pricing, reimbursement and market access challenges. Amid these conditions, Astellas will promptly respond to changes in the environment, while continuing to provide Fiscal 2016 Outlook value to patients through innovative pharmaceuticals. In fiscal 2016, we project a 9.4% increase in sales in EMEA Efforts are being made to execute growth strategies in on a euro basis to €2,717 million. This equates to ¥339.6 billion in yen terms, representing a 3.1% increase mainly based on the impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales in EMEA Sales of XTANDI are projected to continue growing. (€ million) Meanwhile, total sales of OAB treatments Vesicare and 3,000 2,717 BETMIGA are expected to increase 1% on a euro basis, but 2,484 2,258 decline when converted to yen based on the impact of 2,000 foreign exchange rates. 1,000 0 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 (Forecast) 49 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data affiliate, Astellas Pharma Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., and Asia & Oceania commenced operations at the company in April 2016. Moreover, in April 2016 we established an umbrella organization to further increase both the quality and efficiency of operations in the South East and South Asia regions (SESA Umbrella Organization) in Singapore and commenced its operations. The SESA Umbrella Organization will oversee the operations of our business in Singapore, Thailand, the Philippines, Indonesia, India, Malaysia, Vietnam and Brunei. We will further enhance our management and administration systems and continue to develop a structure for ensuring compliance. In addition, we will work to recruit and retain talented human resources and to bolster employee motivation by improving our corporate culture. Fiscal 2015 Overview Sales in Asia & Oceania increased 22.8% year on year on a yen basis to ¥91.1 billion. Excluding the foreign exchange Masatoshi Kuroda impact, sales maintained double-digit growth, up approx. President, Asia & Oceania Business 19% from the previous year. By product, sales of products including Prograf and Harnal increased during the year. Sales growth in the OAB treatments including Vesicare and BETMIGA, as well as XTANDI, also contributed to the higher net sales. Business Environment and Strategy During the year, we continued to launch many In the Asia & Oceania region, Astellas currently has 11 products into the markets. We commenced sales of sales affiliates covering 13 countries and regions. XTANDI for patients who have received chemotherapy in In terms of products, we are steadily expanding our the Philippines, Hong Kong/Macau, and Singapore. business through high-value-added pharmaceutical Additionally, we expanded the indication of XTANDI for products, just as in Japan, EMEA, and the U.S. We have chemotherapy-naïve patients in Republic of Korea and the high expectations of XTANDI and BETMIGA in particular Philippines. Moreover, BETMIGA was launched in for supporting our growth going forward. Singapore, Thailand, and Malaysia, Eligard in Taiwan, In January 2016, we established a Malaysia-based sales Suglat in Republic of Korea, and Feburic in Thailand. Sales in Asia & Oceania (¥ billion) Fiscal 2016 Outlook 100 91.1 88.3 In fiscal 2016, we project sales in Asia & Oceania of ¥88.3 75 74.2 billion, down 3.1% year on year. Excluding the impacts of foreign exchange rates and the dermatology business transfer, 50 we are forecasting an increase of approx. 14% in sales. By product, sales of XTANDI, the OAB treatments 25 including Vesicare and BETMIGA, and MYCAMINE are expected to continue increasing. Also, sales of Prograf and 0 Harnal are projected to expand on a local currency basis. 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 (Forecast) Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 50 3 Performance Business Review Sales of Main Products by Region Japan EMEA (¥ billion) (€ million) 2017.3 2017.3 2015.3 2016.3 (Forecast) 2015.3 2016.3 (Forecast) Sales in the Japanese market*1 481.7 483.0 456.6 Sales in EMEA 2,258 2,484 2,717 XTANDI 14.9 26.2 25.7 XTANDI 241 533 767 Vesicare 25.6 26.5 27.2 Eligard 136 131 138 Betanis 14.8 21.2 27.4 Vesicare 305 300 259 Harnal 15.0 12.7 9.4 BETMIGA 74 101 146 Prograf 48.1 49.8 47.8 Omnic 159 139 127 Funguard 11.8 11.7 11.5 Sales by Astellas 130 116 109 Micardis 95.7 97.2 90.8 Bulk and royalties 30 23 18 Micombi 10.7 10.1 Prograf and Advagraf 588 609 609 Micamlo 23.8 26.0 Sales by Astellas 560 588 589 Celecox 41.8 46.6 50.4 Advagraf 207 234 Symbicort 33.0 37.4 41.1 Exports to third parties 28 21 20 Bonoteo 13.0 14.1 15.1 MYCAMINE 74 85 90 Geninax 10.4 10.8 10.2 Protopic*4 56 58 Vaccines 38.8 41.1 25.9 QUTENZA 13 16 ARGAMATE 5.9 6.2 6.1 DIFICLIR 14 20 Kiklin 1.5 1.6 2.0 Gonax 3.4 3.9 4.6 Cimzia 5.0 6.6 9.6 Suglat 4.1 7.3 12.5 Asia & Oceania Lipitor*2 36.7 30.9 22.4 (¥ billion) Myslee 19.4 17.9 14.6 2017.3 2015.3 2016.3 (Forecast) Gaster 18.0 14.7 10.5 Seroquel 12.6 10.5 7.2 Sales in Asia & Oceania 74.2 91.1 88.3 Prograf 32.0 38.4 37.1 Harnal 18.3 21.5 20.5 Americas Vesicare 5.3 5.3 5.4 BETMIGA 0.2 1.4 2.8 (US$ million) MYCAMINE 4.4 5.7 6.0 2017.3 2015.3 2016.3 (Forecast) Protopic*4 3.4 4.6 Sales in the Americas 3,284 3,788 4,011 XTANDI 0.6 2.4 4.5 XTANDI 803 1,272 1,544 Eligard 0.1 0.2 0.3 US 779 1,235 1,488 Outside of the US 24 37 56 *1 Sales of products in Japan are shown on a gross sales basis. Tarceva 444 389 *2 Transferred distribution for Caduet to Pfizer Japan Inc. on April 1, 2015. US 305 281 Results for the previous fiscal year represent sales excluding Caduet. *3 Sales of Adenoscan and Lexiscan Outside of the US 139 108 *4 Transferred the global dermatology business, including Protopic, to VESIcare 559 530 488 LEO Pharma A/S on April 1, 2016. Myrbetriq 254 380 472 Prograf and ASTAGRAF XL 301 288 245 Scan*3 603 634 637 MYCAMINE 112 109 107 AmBisome 82 91 89 CRESEMBA – 22 45 Protopic*4 94 26 51 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 3 Performance 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Realizing Astellas’ Business Philosophy by Enhancing CSR Activities in Five Fields Astellas believes that fulfilling its social responsibilities is synonymous with realizing its business philosophy. In order to tackle material issues through its CSR activities, Astellas has drawn up an action plan for priority initiatives in each of its five fields of CSR-based management: Business Activities, Employees, Society, Environment and Ethics & Compliance. We are now proactively implementing these priority initiatives in each field. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 52 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Overview of CSR Activities Five Fields of CSR-Based Management Identification and Prioritization of Material Issues in CSR Activities Astellas has established five fields of CSR-based management: Business Activities, Employees, Society, Astellas identifies and prioritizes material issues in CSR Environment, and Ethics & Compliance. Notably, we not activities, and uses these material issues to guide its only consider laws and regulations, but also conduct our CSR-based management. corporate activities with the highest ethical standards. We Referring to various principles and guidelines, Astellas consider this Ethics & Compliance field to be the cornerstone has identified material issues from among the issues to be of all our activities. addressed as prerequisites of its business activities, and * Ethics & Compliance: The “Compliance” field, as shown previously, has social priorities including global issues related to medical been renamed as the “Ethics & Compliance” field with emphasis on care and health. encompassing the notion of conducting corporate activities based on the highest ethical standards. Making reference to expectations and requests from a broad range of stakeholders, we classified and prioritized the material issues into three categories by evaluating their social significance and relevance to our business (CSR Materiality Matrix). We are working to address material issues based on concrete action plans for initiatives we must intensively execute. Five Fields of CSR-Based Management Business Activities Business Activities Business activities from research and development (R&D) of new drugs through to production and EnvironCSR-Based marketing while fulfilling our social responsibility ment Management Society Employees Efforts to cultivate human resources and foster a workplace in which employees can concentrate on their work Society Initiatives aimed towards contributing to society Employees with a focus on issues related to human health Environment Initiatives to reduce the environmental burden in order to realize a sustainable society Ethics & Compliance Ethics & Compliance Efforts to maintain integrity and uphold the highest ethical standards in all our activities 53 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data CSR Materiality Matrix For more details, please refer to WEB http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/management/issues.html Important Very Important Most Important Very High • Societal benefit-driven product • Development of innovative products development • Socially responsible R&D • Affordable pricing for patients • Socially responsible marketing and • Improvement of healthcare ethical advertising infrastructure and services to solve • Fair pricing ATH issues* • Proper use of products • CSR procurement • Product quality assurance • Socially responsible manufacturing • Anti-counterfeit efforts • Recruitment and retention of employees • Diversity and equal opportunity • Stakeholder engagement • Training and development of employees • Information disclosure • Health, safety and welfare of employees • Compliance with laws and regulations • Business ethics and fair competition • Establishment and implementation of CSR policies Societal Significance • Child labor and • Universal design for products • Customer privacy forced labor • Customer satisfaction • Shareholder engagement • Water usage • Reduction of environmental impact • Transparent reporting of Board reduction throughout lifecycle of our products independence and its structure • Air pollution • Environmental and social impacts of reduction business operations • Climate change risk • Compensation and benefits • Labor relations and union practices • Risk mitigation and immediate remedy of environmental accidents • Efficient use of energy and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions • Waste management and hazardous water reduction • Patient assistance and advocacy • Advancement of medical science • Disclosure of executive compensation • Biodiversity • Appropriate lobbying and political • Philanthropic contributions High community support High Relevance to Astellas’ Business Very High * ATH issues: There are many people with insufficient access to the healthcare they need due to the lack of available treatments, poverty, challenges in healthcare systems and limited healthcare information. Astellas recognizes this problem as the Access to Health issue and works to improve Access to Health by engaging in various initiatives. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 54 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Activities: Results and Plans To solve material issues through its CSR activities, Astellas In addition, we determine the activities to be undertaken in identifies priority activities in each field of CSR management the following fiscal year based on progress with initiatives, every year based on their materiality and attainment level, changes in society and other factors. along with monitoring the results of these activities. Field of Review of Fiscal 2015 Initiatives CSR-based Management Main Activities and Results Relevant Material Issues • Compiled Position on Expanded Access to Investigational Medicines • Improvement of healthcare • Supported the doping prevention activities of the World infrastructure and services to Business Anti-Doping Agency solve Access to Health issues Activities • Expanded the scope of education and training programs on the • Socially responsible R&D safety of pharmaceutical products to all employees including • Proper use of products contractors of affiliates • Formulated a mediumto long-term plan and targets for • Diversity and equal opportunity improving the ratio of female managers at Astellas Pharma Inc. Employees • Recruitment and retention of • Conducted engagement surveys which include globally common employees questionnaires in Japan, the Americas, EMEA and Asia & Oceania • Signed a new collaborative research agreement with the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology to discover anti-protozoan parasite drugs for the treatment of Chagas disease, one of the neglected tropical diseases • Societal benefit-driven product • Signed a new collaborative development agreement with the development Society Institute of Medical Science, the University of Tokyo on a rice-based oral vaccine against diarrheal diseases caused by • Philanthropic community support cholera and enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli • Continued to implement Changing Tomorrow Day with attendance of more than 7,400 employees worldwide • Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions came to 162,000 tons, down 30.8% from the fiscal 2005 level. (Global target: reduce GHG emissions by 35% or more from the fiscal 2005 level by the end of fiscal 2020) • Water withdrawal amounted to 10,269 m3, 76.3% of the level in fiscal 2005, achieved the global target. (Global target: reduce water withdrawal • Efficient use of energy and to 80% or less of the fiscal 2005 level by the end of fiscal 2015) reduction of GHG emissions Environment • Biodiversity Index came in at 3.18 times the figure recorded in • Water usage reduction fiscal 2005, achieved the global target. (Global target: raise the Index to triple the fiscal 2005 level by the end of fiscal 2020) • Biodiversity • All other reduction targets for the end of fiscal 2015 (CO2 emissions from sales fleets, electricity usage at our offices, the final volume of landfill waste, and the amount of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) discharged) were achieved. • Established global policies including rules on harassment, data privacy, and medical affairs and commercial activities • Customer privacy • Ongoing implementation of compliance training on harassment, Ethics & data privacy, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, and other areas • Business ethics and fair competition Compliance • Compliance with laws and • Established a structure for providing appropriate medical and product information regulations • Promoted compliance management among third parties 55 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Page in Annual Report Activities to be Tackled in Fiscal 2016 P.60 Expanded Access to Investigational Medicines • Announce Position on Expanded Access to Investigational Medicines • Further strengthen the quality assurance system P.61 Anti-doping Measures • Promote anti-doping activities • Globally operate a new medical information system for responding P.61 Improving the Pharmacovigilance System to inquiries P.64 Strengthening Competitiveness • Promote various measures aimed at encouraging women’s success in Japan P.65 Improving Employee Satisfaction • Make preparations to conduct a globally common engagement survey P.67 Collaborative Research to Discover Anti-protozoan Parasite Drugs • Promote collaborative research to discover anti-protozoan parasite drugs for the treatment of Chagas disease P.67 Collaborative Research on a Rice-Based Oral Vaccine • Promote collaborative research of a rice-based oral vaccine • Continue implementation of Changing Tomorrow Day P.69 Group-Wide Volunteer Activities Changing Tomorrow Day P.72 Initiatives for Realizing a Low-Carbon Society • Continue initiatives to achieve the Environmental Action Plan targets (Numerical targets for the end of fiscal 2020: Reduce GHG P.73 Initiatives for Resource Recycling emissions and improve the Biodiversity Index) (Numerical targets added due to revisions based on results for fiscal 2015: Increase water resources productivity and reduce P.74 Initiatives for Biodiversity waste discharge per unit of sales) P.75 Promoting Compliance Globally • Revise the Code of Conduct P.77 Delivering Appropriate Medical and Product Information • Formulate and develop various global policies • Continue to implement compliance training P.77 Anti-bribery/Anti-corruption Initiatives Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 56 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Responsible Business Activities Astellas is committed to fulfilling its social responsibilities chain, from research and development to the provision of in the course of conducting business activities, aiming to information regarding our products. We also strive to ensure contribute to improving the health of people around the compliance with the Pharmaceutical and Medical Device world. We respect human rights in every stage of our value Act and other relevant laws and regulations. The Astellas Value Chain Partners • Ethical considerations in research on human subjects and specimens derived from humans • Ethical considerations in stem cell GLP Contract Research research and development Research • Ethical considerations in animal testing Organizations • Biosafety control • Treatment of intellectual property • Protection of human rights, privacy and confidentiality of personal information of research subjects, and assurance of reliability in clinical trials GCP Clinical Development • Disclosure of study information and results Alliance • Expanded access to investigational Partners medicines Quality and Reliability GMP Assurance • Stable supply and quality control GQP Technology • Measures to prevent medical malpractice GDP • Anti-counterfeiting Development and to improve the distinguishability of activities & pharmaceuticals • Product recalls Manufacturing • Introducing universal design into product packaging • Anti-doping measures Suppliers • Quality assurance policy • Improving the pharmacovigilance GVP system • Ensuring proper use Provision of GPSP • Responding to inquiries Product • Ensuring transparency in relationships Information with medical institutions* • Acknowledgement by business partners GLP :Good Laboratory Practice of the Astellas Business Partner Code GCP :Good Clinical Practice Procurement of Conduct GMP :Good Manufacturing Practice • Questionnaire-based surveys for and GQP :Good Quality Practice on-site audits of business partners GDP :Good Distribution Practice GVP :Good Vigilance Practice GPSP:Good Post-marketing Study Practice *Reference Delivering Appropriate Medical and Product Information P77 57 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data reviewed and approved by the committee to ensure that Research these research and development activities are implemented Ethical Considerations in Research on Human ethically and in line with a legitimate scientific purpose. Subjects and Specimens Derived from Humans Furthermore, when establishing and using human ES cells, Astellas conducts research on human subjects, and obtains Astellas will take steps to satisfy the ethical standards and conducts research on specimens derived from humans established by the world’s major scientific authorities, after appropriately obtaining the consent of the trial subjects including the guidelines laid out by the National Academy in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration* as well as the of Sciences of the United States of America. laws, regulations and guidelines of relevant countries. * For details, please visit the following website: In Japan, Astellas provides training for researchers in https://www.astellas.com/en/corporate/comp_policy/policy.html areas such as bioethics, genomic research and clinical studies, based on a strong commitment to respecting the Ethical Considerations in Animal Testing human rights of research subjects, protecting privacy and Astellas has established a Global Policy for Animal Care ensuring the reliability of research. In addition, Astellas has and Use, and conducts animal testing based on this policy. the Astellas Research Ethics Committee, comprising 10 We have established the Corporate Institutional Animal Care members of both genders, including 5 outside members. and Use Committee, in which outside members participate The committee fairly and impartially determines the ethical as committee members, at our animal testing facilities. acceptability and scientific propriety of research plans, Astellas’ initiatives in animal testing are recognized by including perspective from information on potential AAALAC International*. As a result, all of our animal conflicts of interest on the part of research institutions, testing facilities have acquired accreditation from researchers and other parties. In fiscal 2015, the committee AAALAC International. met 10 times and deliberated on 34 issues. * AAALAC International: The Association for Assessment and * Helsinki Declaration: A statement of ethical principles for medical Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International. An organization research involving human subjects, addressed to physicians and others that promotes the humane treatment of animals through voluntary who are involved in medical research on human subjects. accreditation and assessment programs. Studies are undertaken from both scientific and ethical standpoints to verify the quality of animal control and use programs. Ethical Considerations in Stem Cell Research and Development Biosafety Control Astellas believes that there is a possibility of supplying new Astellas performs experiments using genetically modified stem cell-based treatment methods to address diseases that organisms, or materials containing pathogens, under the previously had no known treatment methods. To achieve World Health Organization Laboratory Biosafety Manual*1 this, Astellas is advancing research and development activities and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention / focused on using stem cells in therapy. National Institute of Health Biosafety in Microbiological Astellas also recognizes that research into human stem and Biomedical Laboratories*2, as well as the laws of cells could give rise to concerns that warrant close examination. individual countries. In particular, Astellas is fully aware of the necessity to pay In Japan, Astellas has established biosafety management full attention to the social and bioethical issues associated rules in compliance with the Cartagena Act*3 and related with research using human embryonic stem cells (ES cells). ministerial ordinances, and has detailed procedures in place Based on these principles and awareness, Astellas has for handling experimental materials. In addition, we have established its “Policy on Human Stem Cell Research and set up the Biosafety Committee as a body to review whether Development*,” which sets forth the basic matters it must the experiments meet the standard required by these rules. comply with in the course of conducting human stem cell In addition, laboratory personnel receive regular training research and development. Specifically, in all of its research courses once a year (995 participants in fiscal 2015), in and development activities involving human stem cells, order to rigorously enforce safe and proper biosafety Astellas will comply with the relevant laws, ordinances management and use of these organisms and suchlike. and regulations of the countries and regions where it In the U.S., we use such experimental materials based undertakes these research and development activities. on the rules established by the occupational health and Moreover, Astellas will set up a committee comprising safety authorities. internal and external experts, from which it will obtain *1 Laboratory Biosafety Manual 3rd Edition oversight and advice on the ethical aspects and the *2 Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories 5th Edition *3 Cartagena Act: Law concerning the conservation and sustainable use of scientific legitimacy and merit of these research and biological diversity through regulations on the use of living modified development activities. All the proposals on research and organisms. development programs involving human stem cells will be Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 58 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Treatment of Intellectual Property Astellas believes that appropriately protecting intellectual Clinical Development property is crucial to maintaining our competitive advantage Protection of Human Rights, Privacy and to address unmet medical needs. Confidentiality of Personal Information of Intellectual property includes any creative works that Research Subjects, and Assurance of Reliability may be protectable by intellectual property laws, such as in Clinical Trials patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and know-how. In clinical trials, we investigate new drug candidates developed Astellas has established a Policy on Intellectual Property*1. through drug discovery research in further detail, and assess Considering the importance of improving Access to the efficacy and safety of the new drug candidates in patients. Health, Astellas is committed to not filing nor enforcing Under the Declaration of Helsinki, clinical trials must be patents in select countries with significant economic ethically planned and safely conducted with full consideration challenges. These select countries are decided by referring to protecting the human rights and privacy of clinical trial to those designated as Least Developed Countries (LDCs) subjects. Furthermore, it is crucial to conduct assessments defined by the United Nations or Low Income Countries in clinical trials scientifically and accurately in order to (LICs) defined by World Bank. Astellas is also committed develop new drug candidates into drugs that can be used to considering the licensing of patents in other developing confidently by patients. countries on a case-by-case basis*2. Accordingly, Astellas has a clinical development framework in place to ensure compliance with GCP and relevant laws and regulations. Moreover, our clinical trials Policy on Intellectual Property are conducted only at medical institutions complying with 1. In light of its importance to Astellas, appropriate steps, relevant laws and regulations. including compliance with all applicable laws and Astellas has established governance committees inside regulations, shall be taken to protect and maintain the Company that evaluate the ethical acceptability and Astellas’ intellectual property. Additionally, Astellas’ scientific validity of clinical studies from their planning intellectual property shall be used in an appropriate manner to enhance corporate value. phases. In addition, prior to initiating a clinical trial, Astellas obtains an approval from an Institutional Review Board 2. Astellas employees must promptly report any inventions or other creative works that could qualify independent of the Company, after the board evaluates the for intellectual property protection made in the course clinical trial from the perspectives of ethical acceptability of their work for Astellas. Astellas retains the right in and scientific validity. Furthermore, we implement such inventions or creative works in accordance with education and training for employees and other staff applicable laws and Astellas’ policy. members who are involved in clinical trials, and monitor 3. Since the premature disclosure of an invention may medical institutions that perform trials to ensure that preclude our ability to obtain patent protection, Astellas employees must use due care to avoid the intentional clinical trials are administered properly in line with GCP. or inadvertent disclosure of patentable inventions. In the course of performing clinical trials, Astellas confirms 4. Astellas respects the valid and enforceable intellectual that clinical trial subjects have provided their informed property rights of others and takes necessary measures consent to participating in clinical trials, i.e., they have to avoid infringement. given their consent based on a full explanation of the purpose and methods of the trial, the expected benefits and disadvantages, matters related to compensation for health *1 For details, please visit the following website: impairment and other details. Moreover, we properly https://www.astellas.com/en/corporate/comp_policy/property.html *2 For details, please visit the following website: administer the trial data so as to protect the privacy and https://www.astellas.com/en/corporate/comp_policy/ip.html confidentiality of the personal information of clinical trial subjects. We regularly confirm that outsourced clinical trials are conducted based on the same standards. 59 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Disclosure of Study Information and Results In order to enhance the transparency of clinical study Quality and Reliability Assurance information in conjunction with maximizing its value and ensuring that it leads to the advancement of science and Anti-counterfeiting Activities promotion of innovation, Astellas has drawn up a global The World Health Organization (WHO) defines a counterfeit policy on the disclosure of clinical trial information and medicine as follows: “A counterfeit medicine is one which is results*1. This policy provides a detailed description of deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled with respect to identity Astellas’ basic point of view on enhancing accessibility to and/or source.” These counterfeit medicines in legitimate clinical study data and related study results, such as the supply chains not only leads to the loss of opportunities for registration of clinical trial information, disclosure of patients to receive medical treatment, but could also have clinical trial results, and disclosure of study data to serious health consequences. Counterfeit medicines have scientists and healthcare professionals. therefore become a serious problem worldwide. More specifically, Astellas provides patient level data Astellas operates the Anti-Counterfeit Committee, led anonymized in accordance with the applicable laws and by the technology and quality assurance divisions, and has regulations to scientists and healthcare professionals who a product security division. Through these organizations, requested the data through an external website*2. In addition, Astellas conducts monitoring, surveys, and countermeasures we disclose summaries of study results through an Astellas targeting not only counterfeit medicines, but also diversion, website*3 to enable doctors and the general public to access smuggling, theft and other such activities. When selling them, along with working to build a website that will give products, Astellas systematically introduces effective patients access to summaries of study results prepared for anti-counterfeit technologies, including serialization non-experts. stipulated by regulations, based on pharmaceutical laws *1 For details, please visit the following website: and regulations and risks in each market where products https://www.astellas.com/en/corporate/comp_policy/clinicalstudies.html are sold, as well as product characteristics. *2 Patient level data are provided through the following website: http://www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com Moreover, Astellas works to gather information and *3 Summaries of study results are disclosed on the following website: implement other countermeasures in collaboration with http://www.astellasclinicalstudyresults.com/Welcome.aspx the relevant authorities and pharmaceutical companies worldwide. One example is Astellas’ participation in the Expanded Access to Investigational Medicines activities of the PSI*. Moreover, Astellas carries out educational Astellas has set forth its approach to supplying activities to prevent the spread of counterfeit medicines in investigational medicines to patients for purposes other collaboration with members of the pharmaceutical industry than clinical studies in its Position on Expanded Access to and international organizations such as the WHO, as well Investigational Medicines*. as the PSI and the Transported Asset Protection Association. Astellas recognizes that patients with serious or We also proactively endeavor to support and cooperate lifethreatening diseases may have exhausted all of their with national governments, judicial authorities and others, available treatment options, may not qualify for a clinical to crack down on counterfeit medicines. trial and may seek access to investigational medicines. In * PSI: Pharmaceutical Security Institute. PSI is a not-for-profit organization, these cases, in response to a request for investigational founded in response to need to strengthen the anti-counterfeiting effort. Currently, PSI membership includes 33 pharmaceutical manufacturers medicines from a primary physician, Astellas fairly, from many nations. impartially and rapidly evaluates whether or not the patient meets the required conditions and commits to establishing an expanded access plan as appropriate. The expanded Product Recalls access program will target countries where the clinical Astellas has a recall system in place that is activated when development of an investigational medicine is progressing the safety, efficacy or quality of a product is brought into and the drug is scheduled to obtain approval. Moreover, question. The system ensures that relevant information is this procedure will be implemented in accordance with the promptly passed on to medical institutions and other regulations of the country where expanded access is requested. affected parties, and that a recall of the product in question * For details, please visit the following website: is instigated. If an event affecting safety, efficacy or quality https://www.astellas.com/en/corporate/comp_policy/ea_to_im.html occurs, an internal committee is convened to assess the risk posed to patients, and a decision on a product recall is made based on the judgment of the committee. In fiscal 2015, Astellas initiated three voluntarily product recalls. As of June 2016, we have not received any reports of health impairment related to these recalls. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 60 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Anti-doping Measures departments responsible for contracts and outsourcing, Doping is an issue closely related to abuse and misuse of Astellas clarified the required conditions for medicines in sports. It is a serious priority for the pharmacovigilance activities and established the pharmaceutical industry given that it is not only associated mechanism to reflect those conditions in contracts between with a risk of inducing serious side effects, but it can also external service providers and departments other than the become a breeding ground for the unauthorized pharmacovigilance organization, as necessary. distribution and counterfeiting of medicines. Through these and other activities, Astellas strives to To contribute to the eradication of doping and undertake responsible pharmacovigilance activities on a improvement of public health, in July 2016 Astellas is in global, Company-wide basis. discussions with the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) to reach an agreement on a prospectus for supplying the relevant information on the compounds under development that have the potential for being used in doping. Technology Development & Manufacturing Additionally, Astellas is working to identify the compounds under development that have the potential to be Stable Supply and Quality Control used in doping and to prevent the misuse of those compounds. In drug manufacturing, we place the highest priority on ensuring a stable supply of safe and effective pharmaceuticals to patients. To ensure this, we have established our own Quality Assurance Policy quality standards in compliance with GMP and also meeting Astellas has set forth global policies concerning quality our high expectations to products’ quality. We apply these assurance in the Astellas Quality Assurance Manual. Based standards to manufacturing facilities and equipment, as on this manual, we prepare guidelines and standard operating well as all stages from the procurement of raw materials procedures concerning quality assurance systems and through to storage, manufacturing processes and shipments. operational management and procedures for a variety of We are also working to improve packaging designs for quality assurance related activities at the global, regional patients and healthcare professionals to reduce the risk of and national levels. Education and training programs are any misuse of medicines. implemented to promote understanding and awareness of We are also working to improve packaging designs for these matters. patients and healthcare professionals to reduce the risk of These documents are revised periodically and as any misuse of medicines. necessary. We respond swiftly to developments in the external environment, such as regulatory changes and amendments. Measures to Prevent Medical Malpractice and to Improve the Distinguishability of Pharmaceuticals Improving the Pharmacovigilance System Astellas strives to supply products from the users’ Astellas is continuously improving the pharmacovigilance perspective to ensure that healthcare professionals and system by strengthening collaboration between the patients do not mistake one pharmaceutical for another. pharmacovigilance organization and other relevant We are working to prevent medical malpractice in this departments, affiliates and licensing partners. This is to respect, through measures including printing product support provision of trustworthy products and the names directly on capsules and tablets, as well as printing proper use of those products, along with addressing product names and dosage on packaging sheets (blister regulatory requirements. sheets) so that the product name and dosage can be easily In 2015, Astellas broadened the scope of training identified even after the blister sheet is split apart. related to the handling of information concerning the To prevent misreading of labeling on blister sheets, safety of Astellas products from the staff closely involved Astellas also endeavors to make products easier to identify with the PV system, to all employees including contractors visually by adopting easily discernible colors and font types of affiliates. Moreover, working closely with the for the blister sheets of certain products. 61 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Introducing Universal Design into Product Responding to Inquiries Packaging Astellas believes that it has a responsibility to provide We have introduced universal design to certain product accurate medical information in response to inquiries from packaging. For example, the universal design packaging of patients and medical professionals. By fulfilling this Bonoteo 50 mg tablets, which is administered once every 4 responsibility, Astellas seeks to assist with the safe and weeks, features packaging with good openability. To effective use of our products. prevent patients from forgetting to take the drug, there is In countries throughout the globe, we have Medical an area provided on the packaging to write in the day when Information Call Centers that respond to a variety of the drug should be taken. A small label to be used as a inquiries. In larger call centers, we have systems that allow calendar is also attached. In addition, the packaging uses a for 24-hour responses to urgent inquiries, even on business universal design font type for easy reading. holidays. Systems are also in place to ensure the continuation of the centers’ functions in emergency situations, such as in the event of natural disasters. In fiscal 2015, we responded to approximately 135,000 calls. Astellas makes continuous efforts to improve its medical information services, with the aim of providing accurate, appropriate and consistent information. As part of these efforts, in March 2015 Astellas launched a new global medical information system where global content can be developed and shared. The new system will Universal design packaging of Bonoteo 50mg tablets document responses from affiliates around the world, enabling this information to be viewed on a global basis. The new system is also useful for analyzing matters of high interest based on inquiries or about which there is Provision of Product Information insufficient information. By sharing the findings of this analysis with the relevant departments, Astellas seeks to Ensuring Proper Use more accurately address the requests of patients and Astellas’ Medical Representatives (MRs) and Medical medical professionals. Science Liaisons (MSLs) gather and provide information to ensure that pharmaceutical products are used properly. MRs and MSLs observe high ethical standards. At the same time, MRs and MSLs make compliance their top priority, Procurement observing the Astellas Group Code of Conduct, local codes of conduct, and the relevant laws and regulations Promoting CSR Procurement in each country. Astellas considers it important to fulfill its social In addition to providing information on the accurate responsibility across the entire supply chain, including and appropriate use of our products and possible adverse suppliers. To achieve this goal, Astellas has formulated the effects, our MRs supply the latest knowledge and findings Astellas Business Partner Code of Conduct, which requires on diseases associated with our products to people on the business partners to do their business in accordance with medical front lines. In these ways, they contribute to the CSR measures. We also conduct global questionnaire-based treatment of patients. Our MSLs work to ascertain the surveys based on the Code, along with requesting our treatment-related needs of healthcare professionals by business partners to sign off on the Acknowledgement of engaging in in-depth discussions based on medical and Astellas Business Partner Code of Conduct. As of March scientific principles. 31, 2016, we had obtained survey responses from approximately 800 companies, covering suppliers of direct materials, as well as major suppliers of indirect materials and major facility and equipment suppliers. Furthermore, we conduct on-site audits of suppliers in countries that pose a high CSR procurement risk. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 62 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Employees Astellas employees play the most valuable role in shaping One Astellas with the Astellas Way the Company and creating new levels of corporate value. Under the HR Vision, we have enshrined our aspirations Astellas is encouraging every employee to embrace the for human resources and organizations in the phrase “One approach of demonstrating leadership and proactively Astellas with the Astellas Way.” Guided by the shared working to shape the Company. Astellas is working to values laid out in the Astellas Way, we will bring together strengthen its competitiveness through initiatives for individuals from diverse backgrounds within the Company promoting diversity and fostering global human resources. to surmount national, regional and organizational barriers, In addition, Astellas is fostering a corporate culture that foster mutual respect, enhance our organizational capabilities, aims to align the aspirations of its diverse global employees and unite our people to continuously achieve innovation. in one direction to realize its business philosophy. Astellas employees are one of our most important stakeholders as well. To this end, the Company is The Astellas Way —Five Messages for One Astellas— committed to fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities to employees. Patient Focus: Ask yourself if your decisions and actions contribute to improving patient health. HR Vision Ownership: Embrace change and always challenge In 2015, Astellas formulated a new corporate vision. As set by taking ownership. forth in our corporate vision, in order to turn innovative Results: science into value for patients at the forefront of healthcare Commit to results each time you face a challenge, and change, we believe that business strategies must be consider fresh approaches to achieving them. underpinned by human resources and organizational Openness: capabilities. That is why we have drawn up a new Human Maximize your creativity through diversity Resources (HR) Vision. Astellas has defined its aspirations and open communication. for its human resources and organizational capabilities, Integrity: along with the support structure needed for both of these Act with integrity by always considering the implications of elements, as a globally aligned, common approach. your actions, and then take responsibility for the outcomes. Overview of the HR Vision Towards Realizing the Corporate Vision One Astellas with the Astellas Way Our People Our Organization Embrace Change and Challenge Resilient Value Diversity and Inclusion Inspired Serve Others Aligned Act with Integrity Ethical HR MANAGEMENT ATTRACT EMPLOYER OF DEVELOP CHOICE RETAIN 63 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Our People and Our Organization Providing Opportunities for Employees to Succeed With the formulation of the HR Vision, we revised the Globally details of our aspirations for our human resources and Astellas provides employees with opportunities to succeed organizations and organized these concepts into the globally. In Japan, we have developed an internal specific framework shown on the previous page. recruitment system to revitalize our organization and motivate employees to develop their own abilities and grow, while encouraging our people to succeed in roles at HR and Organizational Management various overseas bases by proactively appointing employees Our HR and organizational management revolve around a to be assigned abroad from each division. In addition, we virtuous cycle of attracting, retaining and developing accept long-term and short-term assignees from Group personnel to ensure that we remain an employer of choice companies outside Japan. In these and other ways, we are among our employees. working to promote global interaction among our people at the divisional level. Strengthening Competitiveness New Human Resource Program in the Research Divisions Diversity Management In April 2016, Astellas launched a new program in its Astellas is working to promote diversity so that diverse research divisions to encourage the creation of innovation people can play a role in our company, irrespective of race, from a personnel perspective. Under this program, we have nationality, gender, or age. Respect for the diverse values of set up three tracks to serve as career paths for researchers, our employees will be reflected in various ways in our in order to support their growth. business activities to encourage creativity in our organization. The track that seeks to realize innovative ideas has We also believe that it will help to attract talented people as been designated as the Principal Investigator (PI) track. employees and enhance our competitiveness. The system works by having researchers apply, pass a Promoting the career advancement of women in Japan screening process and become designated as PIs. The goal is a high priority particularly because the country has a low of this program is to encourage researchers to ambitiously ratio of women in management positions compared to develop new ideas that were difficult to take on under many other parts of the world. We aim to develop a work existing systems. Researchers who obtain the PI environment in which life events will not hinder career designation will be given a certain degree of discretionary advancement, and have established a target to raise our authority for personnel and budgets to initiate the ratio of female managers in Japan to 10% or higher by 2020 development of drug development processes considered on a non-consolidated basis. Employee benefit programs indispensable for incorporating cutting-edge science and and work environments are being upgraded, while our technologies into research. Those with PI designation will people are striving to improve their awareness of diversity, also be expected to produce concrete R&D results in a to achieve this goal. timely manner. Apart from this, Astellas will also provide a track to develop a high degree of expertise following a similar process of screening and designation. There will also be a Male/Female Employee Ratio per Region and Ratio of Female Managers (Fiscal 2015) track to pursue management roles in research. Research personnel will be able to freely revise their career tracks as Japan Americas EMEA Asia & Total they proceed with the career development process as many Oceania times as they wish. By putting in place a personnel system that is consistent Male 72.5% 48.0% 42.4% 47.5% 56.5% with the overall direction of the research divisions, we aim to pursue cutting-edge research based on our Best Science, Female 27.5% 52.0% 57.6% 52.5% 43.5% Best Talent and Best Place approach to R&D. Ratio of female 7.4% 52.2% 49.2% 42.8% 32.2% managers Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 64 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Developing Rewarding and Safe Work Environments Improving Employee Satisfaction Astellas is working to ensure rewarding and safe work Astellas is also striving to improve employee satisfaction. environments where employees are able to concentrate on As part of this effort, we conducted an awareness survey of their duties in confidence. This is to ensure that every Group employees in Japan in January 2016. Through a employee is able to maximize their abilities and creativity third party, we surveyed how our employees evaluate on the job. In Japan, we have been promoting workstyle Astellas as a company in various categories. reforms since 2015 that include streamlining operations The survey showed that positive responses in more and encouraging our people to take the leave they have than 10 categories, including the overall direction of the earned. This is all in an effort to strike an equilibrium that Company, trust in management, and remuneration and enables each person to establish their own work-life employee welfare and benefits, were far higher than the balance while improving productivity and creativity. Our average for similar surveys conducted by Japanese efforts to promote inclusive employment and decent work, companies, and we found that these areas have become one of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Astellas’ strengths. Meanwhile, the results showed fewer (SDGs), include initiatives for upgrading the work positive responses in the category of operational efficiency, environment we provide for people with disabilities. We although the number was higher than the average for have been a participating member of Japan’s Accessibility Japanese companies. Consortium for Enterprises (ACE)*. The support we In response, Astellas will redouble its efforts to provide people to overcome disabilities includes an app we streamline its operations through workstyle reforms. have introduced for hearing-impaired employees that instantaneously converts voice data into written words. Our efforts to provide employees with a rewarding and safe workplace have garnered praise both inside and Ensuring Occupational Safety and Health outside the Company. The selection of our Canadian We have the Astellas Environmental and Safety Policy in subsidiary as one of the Best Workplaces in Canada by the place to prevent work-related accidents and minimize Great Place to Work® Institute is one example. those caused by workplace mishaps and hazards. Under Additionally, our U.S. subsidiary was recognized as one of this policy, each facility is independently building America’s Best Employers by Forbes Magazine for the environmental and safety management systems and second consecutive year in March 2016. promoting associated initiatives. We are also working to Astellas continues to monitor the turnover rate of ensure occupational safety from many different employees as an indicator for gauging the extent to which perspectives based on the information we share on the Company provides a rewarding and safe place to work. accidents and near misses that have occurred at our * Accessibility Consortium of Enterprises (ACE): A general incorporated workplaces around the world. association that was formed to conduct activities such as the Between January and December 2015, there were two establishment of a new employment model for people with disabilities who contribute to the growth of companies. work-related injuries requiring leaves of absence in Japan. Of these two injuries, the longest leave of absence was 97 Number of Employees per Region and Turnover Rate days. There were two injuries requiring leaves of absence at 2014.3 2015.3*2 2016.3 our overseas plants, of which the longest leave of absence Japan Number of employees 8,082 7,241 7,056 was 70 days. In view of the lengthy leaves resulting from Turnover rate*1 2.1% 7.5% 1.1% injuries in Japan and at our overseas plants, we will strive to reduce our occupational safety risks with the goal of Americas Number of employees 2,883 2,975 3,062 holding our severity rate of work-related injuries under Turnover rate 17.8% 10.4% 12.9% 0.005 on a global basis. EMEA Number of employees 4,580 4,628 4,726 Turnover rate 8.3% 15.6% 11.9% Asia & Number of employees 2,104 2,269 2,373 Oceania Turnover rate 13.8% 13.4% 12.9% Total Number of employees 17,649 17,113 17,217 Turnover rate 7.7% 11.0% 7.8% *1 The turnover rate in Japan excludes people retiring at the mandatory retirement age and employees moving outside of the Group due to transfer of Group businesses. *2 The increase in the total turnover rate in fiscal 2014 is mainly due to the introduction of an early retirement plan in Japan. 65 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Incidence of Work-Related Injuries in Japan Respect for Human Rights 2013.1-12 2014.1-12 2015.1-12 Number of injuries requiring The Astellas Charter of Corporate Conduct clearly states 3 5 2 leave of absence that all members of the Astellas Group must respect the Frequency rate of human rights, character and individuality of all its 0.18 0.34 0.14 work-related injuries*1 employees, observe all applicable international rules and Severity rate of 0.008 0.002 0.007 local regulations, and also respect all cultures and customs. work-related injuries*2 This recognition of the important respect for human rights is shared by Group companies worldwide. Based on respect Incidence of Work-Related Injuries at Overseas Plants*3 for human rights, we have established the Astellas Group 2015.1-12 Code of Conduct, which sets out standards including Number of injuries requiring respect for the human rights of employees, elimination of 2 leave of absence child labor or forced and compulsory labor, equal Frequency rate of 1.11 opportunities for employment, provision of opportunities work-related injuries*1 for improving job skills, employee health and safety, and Severity rate of the prevention of harassment in the workplace. 0.047 work-related injuries*2 To rigorously uphold respect for human rights, we *1 Frequency rate of work-related injuries: This rate shows the number have established a system for swiftly responding to human of employee deaths or injuries resulting from work-related accidents causing leaves of absence per million hours of work. The larger the rights issues that includes the establishment of external and number, the more frequently work-related injuries occur. internal helplines, as well as conducting training sessions *2 Severity rate of work-related injuries: This rate shows the number of days absent from work due to work-related injuries per thousand for employees. We have been globally confirming the hours of work. The larger the number, the more serious the injury. awareness of human rights issues in the workplace and the *3 From 2015 onward, we began disclosing consolidated data for all five status of human rights activities at our Group companies overseas plants. The data for each of the five overseas plants until 2014 is disclosed in the IR Library of the Astellas website. by conducting written surveys. In fiscal 2015, there were no urgent human rights issues or other issues of common, worldwide concern reported in the surveys. For further information on Astellas’ employees activities, please visit the following website: WEB http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/employee/ Message from the President of Astellas Pharma Canada We are building a great culture for our employees. Astellas Pharma Canada, Inc. takes pride in building a ourselves on creating a culture of excellence driven by workplace environment and culture where employees acknowledgment and recognition of employee feel respected and where they can excel. performance, where employees are offered the We are proud to have received awards from the opportunity to grow both personally and professionally. Great Place to Work® Institute Canada in two categories: CSR forms the core of our culture and our the category of large, multinational corporations employees are passionate about through our selection as one of the Best Workplaces in supporting in various ways the Canada in 2016, and the category of top workplaces for communities in which we work women. We believe that this recognition is especially and live. We are proud to be a meaningful because it is based on a survey completed by Great Place to Work and a a random selection of employees, and a third-party leader in CSR. assessment of our company culture. This award is a testament to the engagement employees have with our core values, which have Michael Tremblay fostered a unique culture that is shaped by a President, commitment to living the Astellas Way. We also pride Astellas Pharma Canada, Inc. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 66 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Society Astellas is cooperating with a range of stakeholders in an Chagas disease in a larger framework, is planned. Astellas effort to address social issues which affect people throughout also plans to consider joining the consortium. the world. We are also working to enhance the sustainability *1 Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs): NTDs are infections caused by of society through our activities, including addressing parasites and bacteria which are rampant mainly among underprivileged people in tropical areas of developing countries. It is estimated that over Access to Health issues, fostering advancement in medical one billion people worldwide are suffering from these infections. science and providing support to local communities. *2 In addition to Chagas disease, leishmaniasis and African trypanosomiasis are also caused by protozoan parasites belonging to trypanosomatidae. *3 Collaborative research has also been undertaken with the University of Tokyo, the Tokyo Institute of Technology, Nagasaki University, the Access to Health High Energy Accelerator Research Organization, AIST and the international non-profit organization Drugs for Neglected Diseases There are many people with insufficient access to the initiative (DNDi). healthcare they need due to the lack of available treatments, poverty, challenges in healthcare systems and limited Collaborative Research on a Rice-Based Oral Vaccine healthcare information. Astellas recognizes this problem as In June 2016, Astellas signed a new collaborative the Access to Health issue, and works to improve Access to development agreement with the Institute of Medical Science, Health by engaging in various initiatives. Astellas believes the University of Tokyo (IMSUT) on the rice-based oral that the relationships with governments and the local vaccine “MucoRice-CTB” against diarrheal diseases caused partners it develops through these initiatives will generate by cholera and enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (E.coli). synergies with its business activities over the long term. In developing countries, diarrhea caused by pathogenic bacteria such as Vibrio cholerae and enterotoxigenic E.coli, is a major cause of death among infants and young children. Initiatives to Combat Tropical Diseases by However, existing cholera vaccines present several issues, Harnessing Astellas’ Unique Strengths including the need to store and transport the vaccines at a Collaborative Research to Discover Anti-protozoan constant low temperature, and their ineffectiveness against Parasite Drugs enterotoxigenic E.coli. MucoRice-CTB is stable at room In April 2016, Astellas signed a new collaborative research temperature and easily produced. Therefore, it is expected agreement with the National Institute of Advanced to meet the unmet medical needs of existing cholera vaccines. Industrial Science and Technology (AIST). MucoRice-CTB is a rice-based oral vaccine expressing The collaborative research is targeting Chagas disease, a cholera toxin B (CTB) subunit in the intrinsic storage one of the neglected tropical diseases (NTDs)*1 caused by protein of rice using genetic engineering. It was developed protozoan parasites belonging to trypanosomatidae*2, for by Prof. Hiroshi Kiyono, Project Researcher Yoshikazu which a new drug is urgently needed to address unmet Yuki and their colleagues at the International Research and medical needs. Since 2012, Astellas has been collaborating Development Center for Mucosal Vaccines, IMSUT. with five research institutions in Japan as well as with an Under the agreement, IMSUT provides investigational international non-profit organization*3 to discover new medicines and study data, etc., which are necessary for drugs for the treatment of NTDs caused by protozoan phase 1 and 2 of clinical trials of MucoRice-CTB for parasites belonging to trypanosomatidae. By utilizing the cholera and enterotoxigenic E.coli, and Astellas is knowledge obtained through this collaborative research, responsible for conducting and managing the clinical trials. Astellas and AIST will now pursue collaborative research to Through this collaborative development, Astellas will discover new drugs for the treatment of Chagas disease. work to develop vaccines against infectious diseases Astellas and AIST will work collaboratively to validate affecting developing countries. whether genes crucial for the survival of Trypanosoma cruzi (the cause of the disease) can be pinpointed in a short Development of Pediatric Formulation for Schistosomiasis period of time using genome editing technology. Through Schistosomiasis is one of the most prevalent parasitic this new collaborative research, Astellas will endeavor to diseases in developing countries centered on Africa and amass the scientific knowledge that will lead to the South America. The disease has a particularly high discovery of new drugs for patients suffering from Chagas incidence rate among children. The existing ‘gold standard’ disease around the world. treatment for schistosomiasis is praziquantel. However, In case this approach is validated, the formation of an one challenge is that praziquantel tablets are difficult to AIST-driven research consortium, in which multiple administer to preschool age children, including infants and research institutions will participate to conduct extensive toddlers, mainly due to the risk of choking stemming from genome editing studies on the genes of Trypanosoma cruzi their large size and the drug’s bitter taste. and pursue discovery of new drugs for the treatment of Having set up a consortium with other pharmaceutical 67 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data companies, research institutions and international The program is making progress ahead of its targets. non-profit organizations, Astellas is developing a pediatric As of the end of April 2016, the program had successfully formulation of praziquantel. treated 1,210 women with life-changing reconstructive The pediatric formulation newly developed by Astellas surgery. It has established a fistula treatment network uses its original drug formulation technology. The pediatric comprising 7 hospitals and has increased the number of formulation was designed to be smaller than the existing fistula surgeons in the country. The initiative is also tablet and to be orally dispersible so that it can be taken undertaking a major outreach program with community even without water, with reduction of bitterness. In workers identifying patients and encouraging them to addition, the pediatric formulation can be manufactured access available treatment. using simple production technology, while holding down *1 For details, please visit the following website: production costs, and the tablets are stable even in the hot http://www.astellas.eu/action-on-fistula/ *2 An obstetric fistula is a hole that develops between the vagina and and humid environment of tropical areas. Astellas has rectum or bladder, causing incontinence. It is caused by prolonged hard transferred the technology and expertise needed to develop labor lasting several days when emergency care is unavailable. Untreated, fistulas can lead to chronic medical problems including the pediatric formulation to a consortium partner in Brazil, ulcerations, kidney diseases and nerve damage in the legs, and can cause thereby helping to build local pharmaceutical economic hardship in some cases if patients are excluded from society. manufacturing capabilities. The United Nations Population Fund estimates 3,000 new cases of obstetric fistulas occur annually in Kenya. The consortium is conducting Phase II clinical trials. Astellas continues to provide its expertise and technology to the consortium. Fistula surgeons in Kenya Newly developed pediatric formulation (top) and existing tablet (bottom) Progress in the Action on Fistula Program (May 2014-May 2016) Patients successfully treated with 1,210 patients reconstructive surgery Trained and certified doctors 5 Kenyan doctors to the standard level of competency Centers in the Fistula Treatment 7 centers Network FIGO*1-accredited fistula training Established the Gynocare center Fistula Center Reached counties*2 of Kenya 40 counties Trained community health volunteers 211 volunteers Members of the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium Team Conducted outreach activities 4,339 activities ©Lygature 2015 Reached community members with 206,000 members fistula messages Action on Fistula *1 FIGO: International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics Action on Fistula*1, a program focused on urology, is led *2 Kenya is divided into 47 counties. There are several units of governance below the county level. These units include subcounties, by the charity Fistula Foundation and funded by €1.5 wards, and villages. million provided by Astellas. In the three years through 2017, the initiative launched its activities with the aim of transforming the lives of more than 1,200 women in Kenya living with this condition and building capacity in the country by training doctors who can perform surgeries. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 68 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Special Programme for Research and Training Changing Tomorrow Day Held in Fiscal 2015 in Tropical Diseases Region Participants Volunteering Number of Number of Through the Special Programme for Research and Training hours locations countries in Tropical Diseases (TDR) of the World Health Japan 3,665 3,447 132 1 Organization, Astellas accepted research fellows from Americas 2,179 10,220 121 3 developing countries and provided them with job training EMEA 472 3,812 33 29 on management skills related to clinical development. In October 2015, one trainee from the Republic of Mali, the Asia & Oceania 1,133 6,278 14 9 third trainee of the programme, began training at Astellas’ Total 7,449 23,757 300 42 clinical development division in the U.S., and is scheduled to complete the training by September 2016. Support for Patients Astellas Foundations Astellas conducts a variety of activities to provide assistance Astellas has established foundations in Japan, the Americas, to patients fighting illnesses, and their family members, on EMEA, Asia and Oceania in order to provide financial a global basis. assistance for research and other support to foster Astellas promotes Starlight Partners Activities in Japan advancement in medical science, conduct philanthropic as part of efforts to support the self-reliance and activities in local communities, and contribute relief funds development of patient associations. Astellas Peer Support to assist with disaster recovery efforts. The foundations are Training Sessions are held for a wide range of participants, operated in accordance with the laws of the regions where including patients and their families, along with those who they are active. have recently formed patient associations. In these training Of these foundations, Astellas USA Foundation carries sessions, activities include programs for participants to out activities focused on health and education, including learn attentive listening skills, which enable colleagues who support for activities to ensure healthy lives and promote have faced the same issues or have experienced the same well-being for all at all ages, one of the United Nations’ problems to serve as consulting partners to one another. In Sustainable Development Goals. fiscal 2015, Astellas Peer Support Training Sessions were In fiscal 2015, with a focus on health, Astellas USA held in three locations across Japan, attended by 29 Foundation helped to immunize more than 200,000 children organizations and 42 people. against measles in Latin America, in addition to providing funding for enhancements to the pediatric wings of local hospitals. To strengthen the focus on education, Astellas USA Foundation supported fostering the next generation Group-Wide Volunteer Activities Changing through STEM* education. Astellas USA Foundation Tomorrow Day provided grants for eight specialized programs, thereby Astellas Group employees around the world are providing thousands of students with mentoring and contributing to their local communities by conducting a hands-on learning to cultivate critical thinking and diverse range of volunteer activities as part of Changing problem-solving skills, and raising their awareness about Tomorrow Day based on the themes of promoting careers in STEM. healthcare and maintaining the environment. In fiscal * STEM: Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math. 2015, more than 7,400 employees participated. For further information on Astellas’ society activities, please visit the following website: WEB http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/social/ 69 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Message from Collaborative Researcher in the Project to Discover Anti-protozoan Parasite Drugs I was deeply impressed with Astellas’ front-line focus, dedication and integrity as a pharmaceutical company. At the final reporting conference of the NTDs the pathogenic protozoa that causes Chagas disease, and Drug-discovery Research Consortium, my supervisor making those genes the target candidate for drug asked me to share my thoughts on working for the discovery. In this stage, the project will use the project over the past three years. Without hesitation, I genetically engineered pathogenic protozoa produced by answered, “It was very enjoyable.” the research consortium since 2012 to efficiently create Through this drug-discovery research consortium gene-deficient strains and use genetic editing technology initiated in 2012, we learned about Astellas’ front-line to identify the genes. focus, something that came as a big surprise to all of us. Another feature of the new project is that it will be This front-line focus encompasses Astellas’ research set up as a consortium at AIST that will be open to methods devoted to drug discovery and its speed of participation by multiple companies. The 2015 G7 research, which is far faster than that of academia, as Elmau Summit Leaders’ Declaration underscored the well as its scale and calm, level-headed decision-making. need for developed countries to take steps to fight Astellas’ researchers showed an incredible dedication to NTDs. Against this backdrop, Professor Satoshi Omura their work. They delivered progress reports with such an received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. intensity that the audience would often be left in Under these social conditions, and in the sense of stunned silence after the presentations. That is what the carrying on the legacy of the research consortium’s process of developing a new drug is like. However, as a work to date, AIST has been given an immense role to for-profit enterprise engaged in a social contribution play in leading this project. We can easily anticipate that effort, Astellas always conducted itself with the utmost a wide range of difficulties lie ahead. That is precisely integrity. I am deeply impressed with and grateful for why we must advance to the next stage with Astellas’ generosity in making this approach to the extraordinary determination. project possible. Another benefit of participating in this In fiscal 2016, our collaborative research is about to collaborative research has been the friendships I have enter the next stage of focusing on the treatment of developed with numerous colleagues. They are the Chagas disease as the target. To make the reason why the past three years have been so enjoyable. drug-discovery research more meaningful, the new For their sake too, I would like to continue working project will commence research by seeking to identify hard on this project. the genes crucial for the survival of Trypanosoma cruzi, Koji Furukawa, Ph.D. Senior Researcher Biomedical Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 70 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Environment Astellas understands that maintaining a healthy global initiatives and/or set more challenging targets. environment is an essential theme for maintaining sound Among the numerical targets of the Environmental business activities and building a sustainable society. Action Plan, Astellas has achieved all the items with a final Going forward, Astellas will strive to realize its vision target year of fiscal 2015. Accordingly, we have set new for being a responsible corporation based on a long-term targets for water resources productivity and waste timeframe that keeps future generations in mind and a generated per unit of sales, and have begun working global perspective. At the same time, we will continue towards these targets from fiscal 2016. efforts to address regional social issues and pursue corporate activities in harmony with the global environment. New Targets Added to the Environmental Action Plan Water resources productivity: Increase water resources productivity by around 2.5 times Environmental Action Plan the fiscal 2005 result by the end of fiscal 2020 Having determined its basic policy on the environment and (Indicator: Net sales (¥ billion)/Water resources withdrawn identified aspirational guidelines, Astellas formulated its (m3)) Environmental Action Plan, which outlines shortto Waste generated per unit of sales: medium-term activity targets, and has continued pursuing Reduce the waste generated per unit of sales to around 1/5 initiatives to achieve its numerical targets. Going forward, of the fiscal 2005 result by the end of fiscal 2020 we will review the plan based on various factors including (Indicator: Volume of waste generated (tons)/Sales progress status and social circumstances, and add new (¥ billion)) Environmental Action Plan Performance in Fiscal 2015 (Summary) Numerical Targets for Environmental Action Plan Fiscal 2015 Performance 1. Measures to Address Climate Change (Base year: Fiscal 2005) 1) Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 35% or more by the end of fiscal 2020 (Global) 1) Ratio to the base year level: 30.8% reduction Japan: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% or more Japan: 28.5% reduction Overseas plants: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 45% or more Overseas: 37.7% reduction 2) Reduce CO2 emissions generated through sales activities by 30% or more by the end of 2) Ratio to the base year level: 39.6% reduction fiscal 2015 (Japan) 3) Ratio to the base year level: 65.3% 3) Reduce electricity usage at our offices to 80% or less by the end of fiscal 2015 (Japan) 2. Measures for the Conservation of Natural Resources (Base year: Fiscal 2005) Ratio to the base year level: 76.3% Reduce water withdrawal to 80% or less by the end of fiscal 2015 (Global) 3. Waste Management Ratio of landfill waste to Reduce the final volume of landfill waste to less than 2% of the total discharged (Japan) the total discharged: 0.99% 4. Management of Chemical Substances (Base year: Fiscal 2006) Reduce the amount of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) discharged by 25% or more by Ratio to the base year level: 36.8% reduction the end of fiscal 2015 (Japan) 5. Biodiversity (Base year: Fiscal 2005) Ratio to the base year level: 3.18 times Triple the biodiversity index by fiscal 2020 (Global) Note: Among the greenhouse gas emissions in Japan, CO2 emissions generated through electricity usage are calculated using the following two types of coefficients: (1) A coefficient of 0.330 kg-CO2/kWh is used to calculate results needed to evaluate progress against the Environmental Action Plan and make investment decisions and implement countermeasures to bridge the gap between results and targets. The figures shown in the table above represent the results calculated using this coefficient. (2) Greenhouse gas emissions (actual emissions) for each fiscal year presented in series are calculated using the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (FEPC)’s actual end-use greenhouse gas emissions coefficient (hereinafter,“the electricity CO2 emissions coefficient”) for the previous fiscal year. The figures for the greenhouse gas emissions shown in this report represent results calculated using this coefficient. (A coefficient of 0.554 kg-CO2/kWh was used in fiscal 2015.) 71 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Breakdown of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Actual Emissions) Initiatives for Realizing a Low-Carbon Society (kilotons) Overseas manufacturing Regional headquarters Reducing Astellas’ Greenhouse Gas Emissions 14 6 Overseas sales Astellas endeavors to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions affiliates accompanying its own activities in order to help realize a 3 low-carbon society. Total Global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Breakdown accompanying Astellas’ business activities (actual 226 kilotons Others of Others emissions) totaled 226 kilotons, with activities generating 42 approximately 80% of those emissions covered by the Overseas sales Action plan fleets Environmental Action Plan. boundary 23 The amount of greenhouse gas emissions Japan Overseas R&D centers accompanying electricity use at overseas production sites 170 9 was revised in line with the GHG Protocol, an international guideline for the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions. Note: The above graph is based on the following energy consumption data. “Others” represents items outside the scope of the As a result, global greenhouse gas emissions (actual Environmental Action Plan, and includes principal office buildings, emissions) covered by the Environmental Action Plan were R&D centers, and office buildings of sales affiliates and sales fleets outside Japan. 185 kilotons in fiscal 2015. This was 21.1% (49 kilotons) lower than in the base year level of fiscal 2005. In Japan, there was a reduction of 25 kilotons due to Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Actual Emissions) improvement in the electricity CO2 emissions coefficient Japan: All Japanese facilities and sales fleets / compared to the previous fiscal year, along with a decrease Overseas: All five production facilities of 2 kilotons mainly due to effective ways of mitigating Japan Five production facilities overseas Ratio to FY2005 level (kilotons) (%) climate change. However, there was an increase of 3 100 400 100 kilotons due to an increase in business activities such as the 86.9 89.5 operation of new facilities. The difference between the 82.5 78.9 73.9 70.0 coefficients for actual emissions and for use in evaluating progress against the Environmental Action Plan was 0.224 234 200 193 203 210 * 50 kg-CO2/kWh. As a result of the difference between these 173 185 162 coefficients, actual emissions were 44 kilotons greater than 177 23 157 168 173 emissions in the Environmental Action Plan. 134 170 126 Greenhouse gas emissions at overseas production sites 57 39 36 35 36 14 36 decreased 22 kilotons as a result of assuming the 0 0 2006.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2016.3 greenhouse gas emissions accompanying electricity use Based on derived from purchased renewable energy, were zero. Action Plan In accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, * The difference between the actual emissions and emissions evaluated in the Environmental Action Plan reflects differences in coefficients Astellas has similarly adopted the market-based method as used in Japan (see the note on page 71) and changes in calculation the calculation method for Scope 2 emissions (indirect methods used at overseas production sites. emissions) in the CDP Climate Change 2016 questionnaire. Energy Consumption in Fiscal 2015 by Energy Type Scope Japan: All business bases and sales fleets Overseas: All production bases Outside scope Overseas: Principal office buildings, R&D centers, office buildings of sales affiliates and sales fleets (Terajoules) Liquid Fuel Gaseous Fuel Electricity Purchase Renewable Energy Environmental Heat Total Wind Wind Action Plan Purchase Woodchip Photovoltaic Fuel Oil Diesel Oil City Gas LPG/LNG Total Power Total Power Source Source Source Panels Covered 3,917 0 83 1,083 239 24 2,443 463 43 7 36 0.3 Not Covered 729 0 353 55 0 0 322 0 0 0 0 0 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 72 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Monitoring Greenhouse Gas Emissions Therefore, we intend to actively incorporate technologies in the Supply Chain that can be feasibly introduced. In recent years, it has become increasingly important to We operate a wind turbine system with a maximum monitor and announce not only greenhouse gas emissions output of 800 kW at the Kerry Plant in Ireland, which by the Company, but also greenhouse gas emissions in the generated 1,950 MWh in 2015. Furthermore, the Kerry supply chain, including transportation of employees, raw Plant’s woodchip biomass boiler (maximum output of 1.8 materials purchasing, product distribution, and waste disposal. MW) also used 35,927 GJ of heat. These two initiatives Recognizing these social implications, we started reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 3,307 tons. efforts in fiscal 2011 to ascertain our greenhouse gas In Japan, we have installed photovoltaic panel systems emissions associated with employee commuting, use of at the Tsukuba Research Center and the Kashima R&D transportation systems on business trips in Japan, and Center. In fiscal 2015, those systems together generated 79 transportation of products and wastes. Going forward, we MWh of electricity, reducing our greenhouse gas emissions intend to continue taking effective steps to expand the by 44 tons. reporting boundary. Given that Astellas’ plants in Japan are not suitably located for wind power generation, we will consider Monitoring Status of Greenhouse Gas Emissions introducing other forms of renewable energy in the country. Scope 3 Other indirect emissions Upstream activities Astellas’ overseas plants are taking initiatives to designate Purchased goods Capital goods and purchase electricity generated from renewable energy and services 99,871 tons 96,296 tons such as wind and hydroelectric power. Of the electricity purchased in fiscal 2015, renewable energy comprised Fueland energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 28,400 tons 20,590 MWh at the Norman Plant, 12,956 MWh at the Transportation and distribution*1 Meppel Plant, 6,525 MWh at the Dublin Plant, and 6,382 Raw materials Plant Warehouse MWh at the Kerry Plant. transported Distribution by tanker trucks Warehouse warehouse Wholesaler 220 tons 247 tons 1,030 tons 2,682 tons Waste generated Business travel Initiatives for Resource Recycling in operations (aircraft use) 3,600 tons 32,578 tons Astellas seeks to contribute solutions to the social issues Commuting Commuting Commuting involved in establishing a recycling-oriented society. We (Train) (Bus) (Car) 692 tons 135 tons 2,345 tons have therefore been striving to reduce water withdrawal and landfill waste. As a result, we were able to achieve our numerical targets for these items whose final target year is Scope 2*2*3 Scope 1*2 Direct emissions Indirect emissions fiscal 2015. Looking ahead, we have set water resources productivity, which is defined as net sales divided by water resources withdrawn, as an enhancement target, and we 69,775 tons 98,500 tons 127,797 tons will work to achieve this target. Sales fleets (total) 28,725 tons Amount of Water Withdrawal Japan: all facilities excl. sales branches/Overseas: all five production facilities Scope 3 Other indirect emissions Downstream activities Overseas: tap water Japan: ground water Japan: industrial-use water Japan: tap water Ratio to FY2005 level Use of products sold End-of-life treatment of sold products (thousand m3) (%) No emissions 100 807 tons 20,000 Target 100 *1 Product shipments are handled by outside contractors. 77.2 76.3 80.0 *2 Global basis (Japan: all business premises and sales fleets / Overseas: 73.7 75.2 75.1 all production facilities, sales fleets, principal offices, R&D centers 13,468 and sales affiliates) 10,774 *3 Emissions refer to actual emissions. 10,000 9,923 10,127 10,117 10,396 10,269 50 Using Renewable Energy The direct use of renewable energy such as solar and wind 0 0 power is the most effective way of mitigating climate change. 2006.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2016.3 73 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Environmental Action Plan, we have decided to continue Initiatives for Biodiversity our activities without revising the Biodiversity Index target. Astellas works to preserve biodiversity by proactively * For details on the calculation method, please visit the following website: reducing the impact of its business activities in all fields on http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/environment/biodiversity_sub_02.html the ecosystem. At the same time, we actively contribute to the creation of a society that coexists with the natural Biodiversity Index world, enabling the preservation of biodiversity and the Ratio to FY2005 level sustainable use of the benefits of healthy ecosystems. Astellas has created a Biodiversity Index* by assessing 4.00 Target the three main factors responsible for the deterioration of 3.18 3.00 biodiversity, namely environmental pollution, resource 3.00 2.68 consumption and climate change. Going forward, we will 2.27 continue improving in each category while working toward 2.00 1.93 1.97 achieving the target set for fiscal 2020, which is three times the fiscal 2005 level. 1.00 1.00 The Biodiversity Index for fiscal 2015 was 3.18 times that of fiscal 2005, achieving the target that was revised in 0 the previous fiscal year. The denominator components such 2006.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2021.3 as pollution load and resource consumption declined, in addition to a decrease in greenhouse gas emissions due to a revision of calculation guidelines. At the same time, the For further information on Astellas’ environmental activities, numerator of net sales increased in fiscal 2015. As a result, please visit the following website: the overall Biodiversity Index improved 0.50 points from WEB http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/environment/ the previous year. Since we only recently revised the Message from Environmental Management We were included in the CDP* Climate Disclosure Leadership Index 2015 in recognition of a perfect disclosure score for climate change information. Astellas has been included for the first time in the Climate regarding the value of disclosing environmental Disclosure Leadership Index 2015 issued by the CDP, in performance in a unified fashion, along with recognition of its especially good score on the disclosure standardizing methods for consistency of calculations of information related to climate change. and organizing the systems and work-flow that actually Corporations operating internationally are perform the calculations. The single-minded cooperation increasingly expected to provide transparent and of Astellas members in a variety of roles across more forthcoming disclosure of information on environment, than 40 countries in all of these areas resulted in a high social, and governance (ESG) policies, and Astellas is no quality of disclosure that has earned us a high exception. In particular, many institutional investors evaluation. place great emphasis on measures taken in response to I believe that these proactive climate change, of which the evaluation offered by CDP actions will be the motivation for is one of the most important. facing changing environmental Aiming to continuously improve disclosure quality, issues and meeting stakeholders’ Astellas has worked to advance the networking of expectations. information gathering responsibilities by developing a shared awareness among members in various countries Takashi Kurihara, Ph.D. * CDP: An international nonprofit organization providing the only Manager global system for corporations and municipalities to measure, General Affairs disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 74 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Ethics & Compliance Astellas believes that acting in accordance with the highest exchanging information and opinions with relevant ethical standards, which includes obeying the letter and divisions on each issue. As our business expands globally, spirit of the law, is the cornerstone of all its activities. we continue to enhance global alignment and collaboration Accordingly, the Astellas Charter of Corporate Conduct between functional lines, and maintain consistently high expresses the Company’s business philosophy in terms of standards of compliance in everything we do. specific corporate behavior, and is shared globally. In To reinforce compliant operations globally, in April addition, the Astellas Group Code of Conduct is a 2016 the legal and compliance functions were divided common global code for all officers and employees around structurally in Japan, the Americas, and EMEA, and a the world, requiring them to conform to laws and separate compliance function was established in Asia & regulations and maintain high ethical standards. Oceania. The new organization is named Ethics & Astellas promotes compliance and acts in accordance Compliance. Furthermore, we built a global compliance with the highest ethical standards through the development, framework in which the regional compliance functions implementation and continuous enhancement of policies, report to the the Head of Ethics & Compliance. processes, and our global compliance structures and Astellas is committed to helping each employee to thereby maintains the trust of society and enhances conduct business with the highest integrity, and in an enterprise value. ethical and legal manner. We continuously work to nurture a culture where everyone feels comfortable raising concerns without fear of retaliation. Promoting Compliance Globally Structure to Promote Ethics and Compliance Initiative Promoting Compliance Astellas has maintained a robust compliance structure that includes a Chief Compliance Officer and Global Compliance Revised Code of Conduct Committee comprising regional compliance heads in the In June 2016 we revised and enhanced the Astellas Global Americas, EMEA, Japan, and Asia & Oceania. Under the Code of Conduct to make it easier to understand for all Global Compliance Committee, Astellas also has a Steering employees and formulated the Astellas Group Code of Committee that maintains close coordination globally to Conduct to apply uniformly throughout the world. resolve compliance issues and an Advisory Council for Global Compliance Structure (as of April 2016) Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) Head of Ethics & Compliance Global Compliance Committee Steering Committee Americas (North EMEA (Europe, the Japan Asia & Oceania America,Central America Middle East and Africa) Advisory Council and South America) Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Compliance Committee 75 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Global Policy Development Helpline for Employees In fiscal 2015, representatives from each region formed Astellas has external helplines in each region, which enable global task teams to address issues identified and formulated employees to report and receive advice on how to react in as part of our Global Compliance Initiatives for 2015. Each the event they discover actual or suspected misconduct. task team formulated global policies regarding compliance, These helplines are available in employees’ local languages. including anti-harassment, data privacy, and medical affairs In many countries, an external helpline has also been put and commercial activities. into place, and employees also receive training on how to use the helplines. Compliance Training Astellas fosters an environment that encourages Training based on plans developed by our global task employees to use the helplines. There is a strict policy of teams nurtures a compliance mindset among all non-retaliation against those who raise a concern or report employees. In the anti-harassment training, case studies a suspected compliance breach in good faith, even if the about sexual harassment and power harassment are concern or report is not substantiated. included to further promote understanding and prevention In Japan, a separate sexual harassment helpline is also of harassment. Data privacy training provides points to available. note when employees process personal information in In fiscal 2015, our helplines received consultation business operations. requests in each region. Matters raised included potential harassment and promotional code violations. In response, Tone from Top Management to Raise Employee we conducted thorough investigations and took Awareness appropriate actions. In fiscal 2015, ethics and compliance messages were delivered to employees through various means in order to enhance their ethics and compliance awareness. For example, information is delivered by email and on an in-house website in Japan and in Asia & Oceania. In the Americas, information bulletins were issued throughout the year. In EMEA, a compliance week was established to provide a concentrated communication of information. Global Compliance Initiative for 2015 Financial Information Human Transfers of Value Anti-bribery Medical Affairs and Global Policy Development Commercial Activities Policies Astellas Group Code of Conduct Protection of Confidential Information Transparency Control Record Information Process Anti-bribery and Management External Funding Data Privacy Conflicts of Interest Training and Communication Social Media Anti-harassment Issue Management Program Issues and Investigations Global Investigation Process Third Parties Vendor Compliance Management Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 76 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility To foster deeper understand around this issue among Delivering Appropriate Medical and Product employees, Astellas implements a training program on Information anti-corruption and anti-bribery. In fiscal 2015, this In April 2016, Astellas implemented the Global Policy on training was attended by approximately 3,000 employees in Medical Affairs and Commercial Activities. The establishment Japan, 4,500 in the United States, 1,300 in EMEA, and of this policy reflects Astellas’ continuing commitment to 2,200 in Asia & Oceania. conducting business throughout the world with high ethical standards and in compliance with applicable local laws, rules, regulations, codes and guidelines. Addressing Third-Party Risk To respond to the needs of all stakeholders, including Astellas has established guidelines designed to prevent patients, ethical collaboration and interaction in medical bribery occurring through third parties in each region and affairs and commercial activities complies with all globally, and based on these guidelines, conducted due regulations to advance understanding and appropriate use diligence screenings of key third parties in the Americas, of Astellas products. Astellas is committed to providing Europe, and Asia. Screening of third parties will be appropriate scientific and medical information in continued in fiscal 2016. compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, codes and guidelines in all areas. Commitment to Fair Competition Except in cases where the legal department has confirmed Anti-bribery/Anti-corruption Initiatives beforehand that there is no legal issue with doing so, As business has become increasingly globalized, countries Astellas does not agree with its competitors regarding sales around the world have been stepping up their response to conditions, such as prices, sales plans and strategies, and corruption and bribery. Enforcement authorities have market and customer shares. In addition, when talking to prosecuted cases involving direct corruption and bribery as competitors, we avoid any conversation concerning these well as cases involving bribery that occurred through the topics, as it might be construed to reflect such an actions of a business partner or third-party agent. Astellas agreement even when there is none. If a competitor brings is continuing to strengthen its compliance awareness to up these subjects in conversation, we refuse to discuss it, prevent corruption not only at Astellas but also at third end the conversation immediately and unequivocally, and parties with whom we conduct business. report the incident to the legal department. In fiscal 2015, there were no incidences of government authorities taking legal action against Astellas for Policies, Procedures, and Training for Preventing anti-competitive, anti-trust, or monopolistic practices, or Corruption of authorities imposing significant fines or other sanctions As a system to prevent bribery, Astellas has established the for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Astellas Group Code of Conduct, which sets forth rules to prevent bribery and corruption. Furthermore, Astellas has a Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy that For further information on Astellas’ ethics and compliance elaborates on these rules globally and in each region. By activities, please visit the following website: establishing and implementing these rules, Astellas is WEB http://www.astellas.com/en/corporate/ working to ensure that bribery and corruption are not part of how we conduct our business. compliance/ 77 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Message from the Head of Ethics & Compliance We promote a high standard of ethics and compliance in every country where we do business. I’m very proud and honored to lead Astellas’ new any local laws, regulations, and codes of practice. Ethics & Compliance organization, which was set up A number of global compliance programs are in April 2016. currently in the planning phase, and we have just As a new global function, we will provide launched a global compliance initiative called Integrity leadership, tools, and resources to our employees to help in Action. This program provides enhanced compliance them put integrity and compliance at the forefront of resources and works to establish a corporate culture everything we do at Astellas. We are independent of the where our leaders and employees act as the voice and business functions, but have an important role as a model of integrity as true compliance champions. Our strategic business partner to help our people be message is that employees who show integrity in the successful the right way. The establishment of Ethics & workplace not only understand how to do things right, Compliance is a substantial investment in sustaining our but also practice it in everything they do and they take success for many years to come and continuing to responsibility, act ethically, and lead by example. This maintain the trust of our stakeholders. helps to reinforce the culture of compliance at Astellas. Strong senior leaders for ethics and compliance Finally, even prior to becoming a new organization, have been appointed in each of our regions—the we worked very hard throughout the past year with our Americas, EMEA, Japan, and Asia & Oceania. Our new internal stakeholders to revise and enhance the Astellas organization also includes a global lead for Anti-bribery Global Code of Conduct. Our revised Astellas Group and Anti-corruption, in recognition of the vital role of a Code of Conduct replaces all regional and local codes of globally integrated anti-bribery program to tackle this conduct. It embodies our commitment to operating issue in a global organization. ethically and with integrity toward improving the health Astellas operates in about 50 countries with varying of people around the world and provides a basis for us laws, regulations, and codes of practice, and we want to to make the right choices and take the right actions. ensure that we uphold Astellas’ high standards in each country. We also recognize that we rely upon third parties in a number of countries, and that they pose a risk of non-compliance. Our role is to support these vendors and help them to maintain the high ethical standards of Astellas. We have also begun to set up a system to help us ensure that we provide a global standard for all of our companies with policies, processes, training, monitoring tools, and resources. Our Ethics & Compliance Catherine Wertjes professionals in place locally will help to inculcate our Senior Vice President, global standards, while ensuring we can comply with Head of Ethics & Compliance Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 78 3 Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Dialogue with Stakeholders Understanding the expectations and demands of patients and other diverse stakeholders is vital to increasing enterprise value. Astellas therefore uses various opportunities to communicate with stakeholders such as patients, healthcare professionals, employees, and shareholders and investors. Main Opportunities for Communication with Stakeholders Patients and • Provision of medical information through Business • Supplier surveys based on Astellas Business Healthcare MRs Partners Partner Code of Conduct Professionals • Responding to product inquiries • Regular dialogue between management • Roundtable talks with neighboring residents Local Employees and employees and local government bodies Communities • Compliance helplines • Support of volunteer activities by employees • General Shareholders’ Meeting • Exchange of opinions with government agencies Shareholders • Review of business results Other • Participation in various external activities such and Investors • Regular investor update on management as economic groups and industry associations plans, R&D plans and others For details, please visit the following website: WEB http://www.astellas.com/en/csr/communication/ Dialogue with Patients Reaffirming our commitment through the second annual Patient Advocacy Summit In April 2016, Astellas hosted its second annual The day prior to the summit, Astellas also Patient Advocacy Summit—entitled Changing convened the inaugural meeting of a new Patient Tomorrow Together: Partnering to Improve Patients’ Advocates Advisory Committee. Comprised of Lives – in Washington D.C. A cornerstone of our approximately a dozen cross-therapeutic advocacy evolving stakeholder engagement program in the leaders, the committee serves as a resource for Americas, the event brought together nearly 150 Astellas to better understand the priorities and participants, including 105 patient advocates collaborative opportunities within the patient representing more than 90 groups from the U.S. and community, and to gain feedback on Astellas’ efforts Canada. Attendees represented a wide range of to best reflect patient’s engagement and voices therapeutic areas (including various forms of cancer, throughout our business. urologic health, kidney health, transplants, heart disease, infectious disease, arthritis and rare diseases), as well as advocates with a broader focus on R&D and access to quality care. Issues addressed included the importance of reflecting patient priorities in the development of quality measures and value assessment frameworks, and “best practice” insights from patient advocacy leaders. Astellas leadership members also shared some of the many ways we strive to deliver value in the medicines we develop, the services we provide and our presence in the communities where we work and live. The summit helps Astellas build and strengthen relationships with advocates who share a passion for improving and saving the lives of patients. Annual Patient Advocacy Summit 79 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 4 Corporate Governance Further Enhancing the Effectiveness of Corporate Governance as a Foundation for Sustained Growth in Corporate Value Considering the expectations and demands of shareholders and other stakeholders, Astellas is working to develop a corporate governance system that ensures the transparency, appropriateness and agility of management. Astellas is currently taking concrete steps including appointing a majority of outside members to the Audit & Supervisory Board, in addition to the Board of Directors. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 80 4 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance * The Company has laid out its basic views and guidelines on corporate Basic Approach and Corporate Governance System* governance in the Corporate Governance Guidelines, which is published on the Company’s website. The Company’s raison d'être is to contribute to improving the https://www.astellas.com/en/corporate/pdf/governance_guideline_en.pdf health of people around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products. The Company aims to sustainably enhance enterprise value by being chosen and trusted by all stakeholders. With this business Directors and the Board of Directors philosophy, we work to ensure and strengthen the effectiveness Directors are elected at the Annual Shareholders Meeting for of corporate governance from the following perspectives: a term of office of one year. The Board of Directors meets 1) Ensuring transparency, appropriateness and agility of once per month, as a general rule, and is chaired by the management and Director and Chairman (when the Director and Chairman of 2) Fulfillment of our fiduciary duties and accountability to the Board is unable to fulfill his/her duties due to accident or shareholders and appropriate collaboration with all vacancy of the post, another Director, in the order prescribed stakeholders. in the Board of Directors Policy, shall assume the role). The Company’s corporate governance system is The Board of Directors mainly performs an oversight summarized below. function over business execution and also makes decisions The Company adopts the organizational structure of a on important business execution matters. It thereby “Company with an Audit & Supervisory Board.” Outside ensures that management is transparent, appropriate, and Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board agile. The Board has an appropriate number of Directors, in Members constitute the majority of the Board of Directors consideration of diversity and balance from the perspectives and the Audit & Supervisory Board, respectively. of expertise and experience. The Board has a majority of The Board of Directors principally serves the oversight outside Directors to enable it to make decisions from a wider function of business execution and also makes decisions perspective and oversee business execution objectively. on important business execution. As of the close of the 2016 Annual Shareholders As for the framework for business execution, the Meeting, Astellas’ Board of Directors comprises six Company establishes the Executive Committee and the Directors, with a majority of four being outside Directors. Japan Management Committee for discussing important The four outside Directors meet the criteria of the Tokyo matters, and also appoints Executive Officers who are Stock Exchange for independent Directors as well as the responsible for their respective assigned departments or Company’s own criteria for independence* of outside functions. The responsibility and authority for the Directors. They are therefore independent Directors who business execution by these committees, the President have no risk of a conflict of interest with general and CEO and the Executive Officers are clearly set out in shareholders. Each outside Director has a specific area of the Corporate Decision Authority Policy. expertise, such as business management, law, or medicine. As advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, the They participate in decision-making at Board of Directors Company established the Nomination Committee and meetings by making use of their wide-ranging experience the Compensation Committee, each of which are and expertise and oversee business execution from an composed of a majority of outside Directors. independent standpoint. Through the implementation of self-assessment by Corporate Governance System General Shareholders’ Meeting Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Audit & Audit Nomination Committee Supervisory Board Board of Directors Compensation Committee Audit Proposal/Report Appointment/Dismissal Accounting Auditor Business execution (Coordination) President Executive Vice President Executive Committee Japan Management Committee Election/ Internal Dismissal Auditing Department Proposal/Report Direction/Supervision Officers responsible for each function/Corporate Executives/Functional Heads Internal audit Report Business execution/Direction/Supervision Divisions 81 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data each Director and other means, the Board of Directors will received by Directors, Executive Officers and others, and analyze and evaluate the overall effectiveness of the Board reports the results to the Board of Directors of Directors and disclose a summary of the results every year. This is to further enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board of Directors. * The Company’s independence standards for outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members and the outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members are publicized on our Audit & Supervisory Board corporate website. https://www.astellas.com/en/corporate/pdf/inde_std_outside_en.pdf Astellas uses the Audit & Supervisory Board Member system. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members are elected at the Annual Shareholders Meeting for a term of office of four years. As a general rule, the Audit & Nomination Committee and Compensation Supervisory Board meets once per month. Committee The Audit & Supervisory Board Members contribute The Company has established a Nomination Committee and to the establishment of an effective corporate governance Compensation Committee as advisory bodies to the Board of system by auditing the Directors’ performance of their Directors in order to improve the transparency and objectivity duties. The Audit & Supervisory Board is the only of the deliberation process regarding election and dismissal of discussion and decision-making body for forming Directors, etc. and remuneration system. Each committee is opinions regarding the audits by Audit & Supervisory chaired by an outside Director with outside Directors Board Members. The Audit & Supervisory Board, where comprising a majority of the members. necessary, provides its opinions to Directors or the Board (Role of the Nomination Committee) of Directors. However, resolutions of the Audit & Discusses matters concerning the election and dismissal of Supervisory Board do not obstruct the execution by each Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and Audit & Supervisory Board Member of their authority. the appointment and removal of Executive Officers and As of the close of the Annual Shareholders Meeting, the others, and reports the results to the Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board comprises five members, with a (Role of the Compensation Committee) majority of three outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Discusses matters concerning remuneration to be to further enhance the independence and neutrality of the Expected Role of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Attendance at Meetings of the Board of Directors and Position Name Expected Role Audit & Supervisory Board During Fiscal 2015 Outside Yutaka Yutaka Kase has been engaged in corporate management as a business manager of a general trading Directors Kase company, and has abundant global experience and extensive insight. Yutaka Kase currently plays a key role as an outside Director for management of the Company from an independent standpoint. The 15/15 times Company is confident that he will draw on his abundant experience of corporate management in management of the Company in the future as well. Hironobu After successively holding important posts such as Public Prosecutor at the Supreme Public Prosecutors Office, Yasuda Hironobu Yasuda has been engaged in corporate legal affairs as an attorney-at-law, and has abundant expertise and experience. Hironobu Yasuda currently plays a key role as an outside Director for management of the 15/15 times Company from an independent standpoint as an attorney-at-law. The Company is confident that he will draw on his abundant specialized knowledge and experience in management of the Company in the future as well. Etsuko Etsuko Okajima has been engaged in corporate management as a business manager of a human Okajima resources consulting company, and has abundant management experience and extensive insight. Etsuko Okajima currently plays a key role as an outside Director for management of the Company from 15/15 times an independent standpoint. The Company is confident that she will draw on her abundant experience of corporate management in management of the Company in the future as well. Yoshiharu Yoshiharu Aizawa has been engaged in medical treatment while successively holding important posts at Kitasato Aizawa University as a medical scientist, and has abundant specialized knowledge and experience. Yoshiharu Aizawa currently plays a key role as an outside Director for management of the Company from an independent 12/12 times standpoint. The Company is confident that Yoshiharu Aizawa will draw on his abundant specialized knowledge and experience as a medical scientist in management of the Company in the future as well. Outside Toshiko Toshiko Oka has been engaged in corporate management as a business manager of a management 15/15 Board of Audit & Oka consulting firm, and has abundant management experience and extensive insight. Toshiko Oka currently Directors meetings plays a key role as an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member from an independent standpoint. The Supervisory Company is confident that she will draw on her abundant experience in corporate management in auditing 13/13 Audit & Supervisory Board the Company in the future as well. Board meetings Members Hitoshi After successively holding important posts such as Public Prosecutor at the Tokyo District Public 11/12 Board of Kanamori Prosecutors Office, Hitoshi Kanamori has been engaged in corporate legal affairs as an attorney-at-law, Directors meetings and has abundant expertise and experience. Hitoshi Kanamori currently plays a key role as an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member from an independent standpoint. The Company is confident that he 10/10 Audit & Supervisory will draw on his abundant experience as an attorney-at-law in auditing the Company in the future as well. Board meetings Noriyuki With many years of experience as a certified public accountant, Noriyuki Uematsu has thorough Uematsu knowledge of corporate consulting and auditing, and is also engaged in corporate management as a Inaugurated business manager of a consulting company relating to business accounting and tax accounting services. The Company is confident that Noriyuki Uematsu will draw on his abundant specialized knowledge and in June 2016 experience in auditing the Company from an independent standpoint. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 82 4 Corporate Governance auditing system. The three outside Audit & Supervisory Board Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members in Fiscal 2015 (¥ million) Members meet the criteria of the Tokyo Stock Exchange for independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members as well as Total Type of remuneration amount the Company’s own criteria for independence of outside Audit Category of Basic Stock Stock options remuremuBonus remuas stock-linked remuneration & Supervisory Board Members. They are therefore neration neration neration plan independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members who have Directors no risk of a conflict of interest with general shareholders. (excluding outside 647 258 249 115 25 Directors): 3 Each outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member has a Audit & Supervisory Board specific area of expertise, such as finance, accounting, legal Members (excluding outside Audit & 88 88 – – – and business management. They draw on their specific Supervisory Board Members): 2 expertise and extensive experience to audit the Directors’ Outside Directors and performance of duties from an independent standpoint. The outside Audit & 81 81 – – – Supervisory Board Company assigns fulltime staff members to assist the Audit Members: 8 & Supervisory Board Members in carrying out their duties The total amount of remuneration shown here is the amount paid as to ensure that the Audit & Supervisory Board Members’ remuneration for the performance of duties during fiscal 2015, and includes the amount paid to one outside Director who retired during fiscal 2015. audits are effective. The function of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members is enhanced through cooperation with the Accounting Auditors and the Internal Auditing Department. Invigorating the Annual Shareholders Meeting and Smooth Exercise of Voting Rights The Company recognizes the Annual Shareholders Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Meeting as an important forum for constructive dialogue Supervisory Board Members with shareholders. We have taken the following measures Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory to invigorate the meeting for shareholders and smooth the Board Members is designed to enable the Company to processes of exercising voting rights. recruit and retain talented individuals, and to make the The Annual Shareholders Meeting is held in June each remuneration levels and structures fully commensurate year on a date chosen to avoid dates where meetings of with the responsibilities of the position. The Company has other companies are concentrated. improved the objectivity of decisions on remuneration The convocation notice is dispatched three weeks prior to levels through measures such as the use of survey data the meeting date, and published before dispatch on from specialist third-party companies. Timely Disclosure Network (TDnet) provided by the Remuneration for internal Directors is fundamentally Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Company’s website. based upon contributions to sustainable improvements in To enhance the environment for exercising voting rights, business performance and enterprise value, and are we utilize an electronic voting platform. composed of a fixed base salary, bonuses, and stock An English translation of the convocation notice is remuneration*. The Company appropriately links posted on the Company’s website together with the remuneration with business performance. Remuneration Japanese version. for outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (including outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) comprises only a fixed base salary. Remuneration for each Director is determined by Enhancing the Management Structure resolution of the Board of Directors within a total ceiling The Company establishes its global management structure amount approved by the Annual Shareholders Meeting, and is working to strengthen it. while remuneration for each Audit & Supervisory Board The Company has established the Executive Committee, Member is determined through deliberations of the Audit chaired by the Representative Director, President and CEO, & Supervisory Board Members within a total ceiling for discussing important matters regarding management amount approved by the Annual Shareholders Meeting. of the entire Group, and the Japan Management Through the deliberations of the Compensation Committee, Committee, chaired by the Executive Vice President, for the Company enhances the transparency and objectivity of discussing important matters regarding the administration the deliberation process for remuneration for Directors. of Astellas and its Group companies in Japan. * In fiscal 2015, Astellas introduced a performance-linked stock To build a management system capable of making compensation scheme. Following the introduction of this new plan, no prompt and appropriate decisions, the Company has a more stock options under the previous stock-linked compensation plan will be issued from fiscal 2015. “matrix management” structure. It consists of a functional 83 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data axis and a regional axis, in which the Drug Discovery Payment Research, Medical, Development, and Technology Divisions amount are managed globally according to their functions, and the 1. Accounting Auditor’s remuneration for fiscal 2015 ¥168 million Sales & Marketing Divisions are managed regionally. In April 2015, the Marketing Strategy function, which 2. Total amount of cash and other material benefits payable to the Accounting Auditor by the Company ¥168 million was formerly under the control of Product & Portfolio and its subsidiaries Strategy, was changed to be placed directly under the Representative Director, President and CEO. Global Business Development was reorganized and the functions of in-licensing and out-licensing products and identifying Measures to Improve the Internal Control System and negotiating business partnerships were concentrated The Company will further develop and enhance systems, in Business Development of the Company. In addition, in such as the system to improve efficient performance of terms of major IT functions in Japan, Americas and duties, the risk management system, the system for EMEA, a global system has been put in place which reports compliance with laws and other matters, and the internal to Information Systems of the Company. audit system. We are also promoting systems and an We have established the Global Compliance environment for ensuring that audits by Audit & Committee which discusses global compliance policies and Supervisory Board Members are carried out effectively. plans. Furthermore, in April 2016, the Company Through these efforts, the Company is working to ensure established a global compliance function under which that the entire Group’s business is duly executed. compliance functions for each region report to the head of Details on this system of internal controls are Ethics & Compliance. The Company also appointed people available on the Company’s website, and in the reports responsible for compliance around the world and concerning corporate governance submitted to the stock strengthen the system on an ongoing basis. exchanges, etc. Other committees established within the Company include a CSR Committee, which discusses policies and plans for important activities in fulfilling the Company’s social responsibilities (environment, health and safety, Timely, Appropriate Information Disclosure and Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders social contribution activities, and so forth), a Corporate Disclosure Committee, which discusses matters related to The Company strives to ensure timely, appropriate, and our policy for disclosure of corporate information, and a fair disclosure of information to all stakeholders, including Global Benefit Risk Committee, which discusses product customers, shareholders, and society. We also conduct risk-benefit information and policies to address this proactive dialogue with stakeholders and strive to ensure information. To manage risk on a global basis, we have that the opinions they share with us are reflected properly also established a Global Risk Management Office as an in our corporate activities. administrative liaison for coordinating risk management This commitment to disclosure and dialogue helps us around the world. This office is coordinating the global to improve our transparency as a corporation, and to build monitoring of risk and developing optimal risk and maintain trust with our stakeholders. The Company management solutions for the Company. has published its Disclosure Policy*, which was formulated in line with these basic commitments, and has also established the Corporate Disclosure Committee to promote and manage information disclosure activities. Accounting Audit In addition, the Company established a dedicated Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC serves as the Company’s in-house department for investor relations (IR) and has Accounting Auditor. The Accounting Auditor and the appointed an Executive Officer with responsibility for Company’s Audit & Supervisory Board Members maintain supervising dialogue with shareholders overall and for IR. close cooperation by meeting several times a year, as well Their role is to hold individual interviews with as discussing their annual audit plans and the results of shareholders and other investors, as well as briefing audits, and sharing important audit information. meetings and other events, in order to further enhance Furthermore, to ensure the reliability of financial constructive dialogue with shareholders and other reporting, the Company has established and is operating investors, as well as other market participants. an internal control system for financial reporting that * The Company’s Disclosure Policy is published on its website. complies with standards generally accepted, and we assess https://www.astellas.com/en/corporate/comp_policy/ the effectiveness of the system in a fair manner. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 84 4 Corporate Governance Profile of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Representative Director, President and CEO Hironobu Yasuda Hiroko Sakai Yoshihiko Hatanaka 1978: Public Prosecutor, Tokyo District Public 1983: Joined the Company 1980: Joined Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Prosecutors Office 2012: Vice President of Clinical and Research Quality 2003: Director of Corporate Planning, Fujisawa 2004: Public Prosecutor, Tokyo High Public Assurance, QA, RA and Pharmacovigilance Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Prosecutors Office Department of the Company 2005: Vice President of Corporate Planning, Corporate 2005: Chief Appeals Judge (Director of Tokyo Regional 2014: Vice President of Clinical and Research Quality Strategy Division of the Company Tax Tribunal) Assurance of the Company 2005: Corporate Executive and Vice President of 2009: Chief Prosecutor, Yamaguchi District Public 2016: Assistant to President & CEO of the Company Corporate Planning, Corporate Strategy of the Prosecutors Office 2016: Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company 2010: Public Prosecutor, Supreme Public Prosecutors Company (present post) 2006: Corporate Executive of the Company and Office President & CEO, Astellas US LLC and President 2010: Registered as an attorney-at-law (Dai-ichi Tokyo Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members & CEO, Astellas Pharma US, Inc. Bar Association) 2008: Senior Corporate Executive of the Company and 2012: Partner, Seiryo Law Office (present post) Toshiko Oka President & CEO, Astellas US LLC and President 2013: Director of the Company (present post) 1986: Joined Tohmatsu Touche Ross Consulting & CEO, Astellas Pharma US, Inc. Limited (currently ABeam Consulting Ltd.) 2015: Outside Director and Audit and Supervisory 2009: Senior Corporate Executive of the Company, Committee Member, Remixpoint, Inc. 2000: Joined Asahi Arthur Andersen Limited Corporate Strategy and Corporate Finance (CFO (present post) 2002: Principal, Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting Co., Ltd. & CSTO) 2016: Independent Auditor, Takata Corporation (currently ABeam Consulting Ltd.) 2011: Representative Director, President & CEO of the (present post) 2005: President and Representative Director, ABeam Company (present post) Consulting Ltd. (currently PwC Advisory LLC) Representative Director and Etsuko Okajima 2008: Outside Director, Netyear Group Corporation (present post) Executive Vice President 1989: Joined Mitsubishi Corporation 2014: Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the 2001: Joined McKinsey & Company, Inc., Japan Company (present post) Yoshirou Miyokawa 2002: Joined GLOBIS Management Bank, Inc. 2015: Outside Corporate Auditor, HAPPINET 1975: Joined the Company 2004: Executive Officer, GLOBIS Corporation CORPORATION (present post) 2003: Vice President of Business Process Reengineering 2005: President and Representative Director, GLOBIS 2016: Chief Executive Officer, of the Company Management Bank, Inc. PricewaterhouseCoopers Deals Advisory LLC 2005: Vice President of Post-Merger Integration 2007: Established ProNova Inc. President and (currently PwC Advisory LLC) Operation of the Company Representative Director, ProNova Inc. 2016: Partner, PwC Advisory LLC 2005: Corporate Executive and Vice President of (present post) 2016: Outside Director, Hitachi Metals, Ltd. Post-Merger Integration Operation of the 2014: Director of the Company (present post) (present post) Company 2014: Outside Director, MARUI GROUP CO., LTD 2016: Outside Director, Mitsubishi Corporation 2005: Corporate Executive and Vice President of (present post) (present post) Business Innovation of the Company 2015: External Director, SEPTENI HOLDINGS CO., LTD. 2016: CEO, Oka & Company Ltd. (present post) 2006: Corporate Executive and Vice President of (present post) Human Resources, Corporate Administration Division of the Company 2016: Outside Director, Link and Motivation Inc. Hitoshi Kanamori (present post) 2007: Corporate Executive and Vice President of 1984: Public Prosecutor, Tokyo District Public Human Resources of the Company Prosecutors Office 2008: Corporate Executive of the Company, Corporate Yoshiharu Aizawa, M.D., Ph.D. 1985: Public Prosecutor, Yamagata District Public Administration (CAO) 1975: Fellow, Department of Internal Medicine, School Prosecutors Office 2008: Senior Corporate Executive of the Company, of Medicine, Keio University 1988: Public Prosecutor, Niigata District Public Corporate Administration (CAO) 1980: Assistant Professor, Department of Preventive Prosecutors Office 2011: Executive Vice President and Senior Corporate Medicine and Public Health, School of Medicine, 1990: Public Prosecutor, Tokyo District Public Executive of the Company, Corporate Kitasato University Prosecutors Office Administration (CAO) 1983: Associate Professor, Department of Preventive 1992: Registered as an attorney-at-law (Tokyo Bar 2013: Representative Director, Executive Vice Medicine and Public Health, School of Medicine, Association) President of the Company, Corporate Kitasato University 1993: Partner, SANNO LAW OFFICE (present post) Administration and Compliance (CAO & CCO) 1994: Professor, Department of Preventive Medicine (present post) and Public Health, School of Medicine, Kitasato 2005: Visiting Professor, University of Tsukuba Law University School Outside Directors 2004: Chairperson of School of Medicine, Kitasato 2015: Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the University Company (present post) Yutaka Kase 2006: Dean of School of Medicine, Kitasato University 1970: Joined Nissho Iwai Corporation 2009: Vice President, Kitasato University Noriyuki Uematsu 2001: Executive Officer, Nissho Iwai Corporation 2010: Executive Trustee, The Kitasato Institute 1985: Joined Tohmatsu & Aoki Audit Corporation 2003: Managing Executive Officer and Director, Nissho 2012: Professor Emeritus, Kitasato University 1997: Joined Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting Co., Ltd. Iwai Corporation (present post) (current ABeam Consulting Ltd.) 2004: Senior Managing Executive Officer and 2015: Director of the Company (Present post) 1999: Global Partner for manufacturing industry and Representative Director, Sojitz Corporation Managing Director in Kyushu area, Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting Co., Ltd. (current ABeam 2004: Executive Vice President and Representative Audit & Supervisory Board Members Consulting Ltd.) Director, Sojitz Corporation Tomokazu Fujisawa 2003: Joined DENTSU INC. 2007: President and Representative Director, Sojitz Corporation 2008: Established Uematsu & Co. Managing Director, 1984: Joined Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Uematsu & Co. (present post) 2012: Chairman and Representative Director, Sojitz 1999: Director of Planning, Medical Supply Business, Corporation (present post) 2011: President & Representative Director, SU Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Consultant Co., Ltd. (present post) 2013: Director of the Company (present post) 2006: Assistant to Senior Vice President, Corporate 2012: Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, 2016: Outside Director, JAC Recruitment Co., Ltd. Finance & Accounting and Project Leader of NJK Corporation (present post) (present post) J-SOX Project of the Company 2015: Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, 2016: Outside Director, SEKISUI CHEMICAL CO., LTD. 2007: Project Leader of J-SOX Project of the Company Kamakura Shinsho, Ltd. (present post) 2013: Vice President of Internal Auditing of the 2016: Outside Director and Audit & Supervisory Company Committee Member, Kamakura Shinsho, Ltd. 2014: Assistant to President & CEO of the Company (present post) 2014: Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the 2016: Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present post) Company (present post) 85 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Messages from Outside Officers The role of outside Directors is set to become more prominent following the formulation of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code. Outside officers are expected to ask many questions from varied perspectives at Board of Directors meetings to help stimulate active discussion of issues in reviewing resolutions. I believe the duty of a Director is to understand the tabled proposals and, having accepted them, define my position for agreement or disagreement on clear grounds. In the Board of Directors meetings I strive to check on various aspects such as risk management, including compliance, and the decision-making process. I also strive to actively provide opinions and ask questions. My aim is to contribute to an even more dynamic Astellas Board of Directors to improve transparency and ensure sound business management. Yutaka Kase Outside Director Primarily my role is to study issues for board deliberation from an independent position and to express my views using a risk management perspective, based on my years of experience as a legal professional in handling various legal issues. Since 2015, Astellas has created opportunities for outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members to exchange opinions and share information in line with the Corporate Governance Code. This has further enhanced the corporate governance system in Astellas. Through this role, I hope to play an even more active part in helping Astellas contribute to improving the health of people around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products. Hironobu Yasuda Outside Director Innovation must be sustained and destructive if Astellas is to realize its business philosophy of contributing toward improving the health of people around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products as an R&D-led global pharmaceutical company. Drawing on my experience as a strategic HR consultant advising more than 200 companies a year on how to develop management leadership and handle business succession issues, as an outside Director, I hope to contribute to further improvements in corporate governance by helping Astellas accelerate its efforts to create a corporate culture and environment that enables its employees to continue to generate innovation with a sense of urgency. Etsuko Okajima Outside Director Comprised of six Directors, four of whom are outside Directors, the Board of Directors oversees management from perspectives that are both diverse and broad-ranging. Continued development of effective, safe new drugs requires employees to have a highly ethical perspective and shared goals. They also need to have faith in the Company’s management and a real passion for the Company. The management team therefore needs to work ceaselessly on improving the organization and developing an environment that is conducive to good work. I will use my experience in researching, educating, and implementing industrial health policies at the university, as well as my involvement in the administration of the medical faculty and the university, to supervise and support management execution at Astellas. I aim to help Astellas to ensure and promote the health of people around the world, and to conduct transparent management that meets shareholders’ expectations. Yoshiharu Aizawa, M.D., Ph.D. Outside Director Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 86 4 Corporate Governance The true value of corporate governance can be seen in its execution. Astellas is among the top-ranking companies in Japan in terms of its corporate governance, which is focused on ensuring that management is always based on integrity, transparency and a highly ethical perspective. I have seen many companies in 30 years as a business consultant. Drawing on this experience from an independent position, I hope to contribute to better corporate governance and sustained growth in enterprise value at Astellas by offering a neutral and objective perspective—the perspective of common sense. Toshiko Oka Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Precise judgment is required for pharmaceutical companies to develop safe, effective new medicines amid international competition. My feeling is that the management of Astellas aims to conduct management that is rational and fast-paced. I believe firmly in the importance of even stronger corporate governance to support an accelerated business approach. In my second year in the job, I have a better understanding of the pharmaceutical industry. I will seek to contribute to improved corporate governance at Astellas by expressing my opinions freely, based on my experience as a public prosecutor and lawyer. Hitoshi Kanamori Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member I have served in this role since June 2016. The Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board at Astellas both engage in extensive debate on issues, and I think the Company’s corporate governance systems function at a high level. Astellas remains focused on its mission to contribute toward improving the health of people around the world through the provision of innovative and reliable pharmaceutical products. Amid calls for even greater transparency in the future, Astellas aims to contribute to the world by working constantly to reinforce corporate governance. In my lengthy career as a CPA, I have audited many manufacturers and other companies, and have also provided consulting services related to financial accounting. I hope to apply my experience outside of the pharmaceutical industry to help Astellas strengthen governance and build sustainable enterprise value for the medium and long terms. Noriyuki Uematsu Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member 87 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 5 Financial Information and Data 89 11-Year Financial Summary 91 Management’s Discussion and Analysis 98 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 103 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 152 Independent Auditor’s Report 153 Investor Information 154 Corporate Data/Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 88 5 Financial Information and Data 11-Year Financial Summary Astellas has adopted the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), effective from fiscal 2013 (March 2014). Results for each category and earnings per share are presented on a core basis for the fiscal years since March 2014. (¥ billion) 2006.3 2007.3 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 J-GAAP J-GAAP J-GAAP J-GAAP J-GAAP For the year Sales ¥879.4 ¥920.6 ¥972.6 ¥965.7 ¥974.9 Cost of sales 273.0 284.1 279.3 264.4 289.2 SG&A expenses*2 413.3 446.0 417.3 450.9 499.2 R&D expenses*2 142.1 167.9 134.5 159.1 195.6 R&D ratio (%) 16.2 18.2 13.8 16.5 20.1 Operating income/profit 193.0 190.5 275.9 250.4 186.4 Operating margin (%) 22.0 20.7 28.4 25.9 19.1 Net income/Profit for the year 103.7 131.3 177.4 171.0 122.3 At year-end Total assets 1,584.5 1,470.7 1,439.2 1,348.4 1,364.2 Total net assets/Total equity 1,216.9 1,099.0 1,110.9 1,030.2 1,053.9 (¥) Per share data*3 Net income/Profit for the year ¥183.88 ¥244.07 ¥349.89 ¥356.11 ¥261.84 Total net assets/Total equity 2,179.44 2,135.34 2,228.34 2,189.26 2,278.77 Dividends 70.00 80.00 110.00 120.00 125.00 Major indicators ROE (%) 8.8 11.3 16.1 16.0 11.7 DOE (%) 3.3 3.7 5.0 5.4 5.6 Equity ratio (%) 76.8 74.7 77.1 76.3 77.1 Free cash flows (¥ billion, US$ million) 52.5 200.4 178.5 168.8 118.6 Average exchange rate (US$/¥) 113 117 114 101 93 (€/¥) 138 150 162 143 131 *1 US dollars have been converted at the rate of ¥113 to US$1, the approximate exchange rate on March 31, 2016. *2 SG&A expenses under J-GAAP (from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2012) include R&D expenses. *3 The Company conducted a stock split of common stock at a ratio of 5 for 1 with an effective date of April 1, 2014. Net income/profit for the year per share and total net assets/total equity per share are calculated based on the number of shares issued after the stock split (excluding treasury shares) on the assumption that the stock split was conducted at the beginning of fiscal 2012. Moreover, the number of shares outstanding has also been calculated on the assumption that the stock split was conducted at the beginning of fiscal 2012. 89 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data (¥ billion) (US$ million)*1 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2016.3 J-GAAP J-GAAP J-GAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS ¥953.9 ¥969.4 ¥1,005.6 ¥1,139.9 ¥1,247.3 ¥1,372.7 $12,148 296.0 318.6 324.1 330.6 333.2 335.6 2,970 538.8 519.2 527.6 397.0 452.5 500.4 4,428 217.3 189.8 182.0 191.5 206.6 225.7 1,997 22.8 19.6 18.1 16.8 16.6 16.4 — 119.2 131.5 153.9 186.3 216.5 267.5 2,367 12.5 13.6 15.3 16.3 17.4 19.5 — 67.7 78.2 82.9 132.8 153.2 198.8 1,759 1,335.1 1,400.6 1,445.6 1,653.1 1,793.6 1,799.3 15,923 1,021.1 1,018.1 1,062.0 1,268.5 1,317.9 1,259.2 11,143 (¥) (US$) ¥146.49 ¥169.38 ¥36.08 ¥59.11 ¥69.37 ¥92.12 $0.82 2,207.70 2,200.64 469.92 568.53 600.93 592.58 5.24 125.00 125.00 130.00 135.00 30.00 32.00 0.28 6.5 7.7 8.0 7.4 10.5 15.0 — 5.6 5.7 5.7 5.0 5.1 5.4 — 76.4 72.6 73.3 76.7 73.5 70.0 — (142.0) 146.7 95.5 187.4 116.2 166.7 1,475 86 79 83 100 110 120 — 113 109 107 134 139 133 — Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 90 5 Financial Information and Data Management’s Discussion and Analysis Sales Overview of the Year Ended In fiscal 2015, consolidated sales increased 10.1% year on March 31, 2016 (Fiscal 2015) year to ¥1,372.7 billion. In its consolidated operating results (core basis) for fiscal In addition to XTANDI for the treatment of prostate 2015 Astellas posted increases in sales, core operating profit cancer, combined sales of overactive bladder (OAB) and core profit for the year. treatments Vesicare and Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA grew. Additionally, sales of products including Prograf, an Consolidated Financial Results (Core Basis) immunosuppressant, increased. (¥ billion) Sales by Region 2015.3 2016.3 (¥ billion) Sales ¥1,247.3 ¥1,372.7 2015.3 2016.3 Operating profit 216.5 267.5 Consolidated ¥1,247.3 ¥1,372.7 Profit for the year 153.2 198.8 Japan 498.7 497.2 The Company discloses financial results on a core basis as Americas 361.0 455.1 an indicator of its recurring profitability. Certain items EMEA 313.3 329.3 reported in financial results on a full basis that are deemed Asia & Oceania 74.2 91.1 to be non-recurring items by the Company are excluded as Note: Sales by geographical area are calculated according to the location non-core items from these financial results on a core basis. of sellers. These adjusted items include impairment losses, gain (loss) on sales of property, plant and equipment, restructuring Reference Review of Operations by Therapeutic Area P41 costs, loss on disaster, a large amount of losses on Review of Global Operations P47 compensation or settlement of litigation and other legal Sales of Main Products by Region P51 disputes, and other items that the Company judges should be excluded. Cost of Sales and Gross Profit Foreign Exchange Impact for Fiscal 2015 Cost of sales increased 0.7% to ¥335.6 billion. The cost of The exchange rates for the yen in fiscal 2015 are shown in sales ratio fell 2.3 percentage points in fiscal 2015, to 24.4%, the table below. Movements in the rates led to a ¥26.1 mainly due to changes in the product mix. billion increase in the value of sales and an ¥9.5 billion Gross profit increased by 13.5%, to ¥1,037.1 billion, increase in core operating profit. due to growing sales, as well as a decrease in the cost of sales ratio. Foreign Exchange Rates (Average) (¥) Cost of Sales and Gross Profit 2015.3 2016.3 (¥ billion) US$1 ¥110 ¥120 2015.3 2016.3 €1 139 133 Sales ¥1,247.3 ¥1,372.7 Cost of sales 333.2 335.6 Fluctuation in Foreign Exchange Rates from April to March Cost of sales ratio (%) 26.7 24.4 Gross profit 914.1 1,037.1 2015.3 2016.3 Gross profit ratio (%) 73.3 75.6 US$1 ¥17 ¥7 (Weakening of yen) (Strengthening of yen) €1 ¥11 ¥3 (Strengthening of yen) (Strengthening of yen) 91 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Operating Profit (Core Basis) Expenses, Research and Development (R&D) As a result of the above mentioned factors, core operating Expenses and Amortisation of Intangible Assets profit increased 23.5%, to ¥267.5 billion. The operating SG&A expenses increased 10.6% to ¥500.4 billion, which margin increased 2.1 percentage points to 19.5%. was partly due to increased expenditures for co-promotion of XTANDI in the U.S., in addition to the foreign exchange Operating Profit (Core Basis) rate impact. (¥ billion) R&D expenses rose by 9.2% to ¥225.7 billion, which 2015.3 2016.3 was partly due to increased expenses in line with progress Sales ¥1,247.3 ¥1,372.7 on a development project, in addition to the foreign exchange rate impact. The ratio of R&D expenses to sales Operating profit 216.5 267.5 fell 0.2 of a percentage point to 16.4%. Operating margin (%) 17.4 19.5 Amortisation of intangible assets was ¥42.4 billion, up 9.6% year on year. SG&A Expenses, R&D Expenses and Profit for the Year (Core Basis) Amortisation of Intangible Assets Core profit for the year increased by 29.7% to ¥198.8 (¥ billion) billion. 2015.3 2016.3 Basic core earnings per share increased by 32.8% SG&A expenses ¥452.5 ¥500.4 year-on-year to ¥92.12. SG&A ratio (%) 36.3 36.5 Advertising and sales promotional expenses 138.5 169.1 Personnel expenses 178.1 186.1 Other 136.0 145.1 R&D expenses 206.6 225.7 R&D ratio (%) 16.6 16.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 38.7 42.4 Reconciliation of Full Basis to Core Basis (¥ billion) Account item 2015.3 2016.3 Full basis Adjustment Core basis Full basis Adjustment Core basis Sales ¥1,247.3 — ¥1,247.3 ¥1,372.7 — ¥1,372.7 Cost of sales 333.2 — 333.2 335.6 — 335.6 Gross profit 914.1 — 914.1 1,037.1 — 1,037.1 SG&A expenses 452.5 — 452.5 500.4 — 500.4 R&D expenses 206.6 — 206.6 225.7 — 225.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 38.7 — 38.7 42.4 — 42.4 Share of profits (losses) of associates 0.2 — and joint ventures — 0.2 (1.2) (1.2) Other income*1 12.5 (12.5) — 1.7 (1.7) — Other expense*1 43.3 (43.3) — 20.2 (20.2) — Operating profit 185.7 30.8 216.5 249.0 18.5 267.5 Finance income*2 7.1 (5.1) 1.9 14.4 (12.3) 2.1 Finance expense*2 3.1 (2.7) 0.4 1.6 (0.6) 1.0 Profit before tax 189.7 28.4 218.1 261.8 6.8 268.6 Income tax expense 53.8 11.0 64.8 68.1 1.7 69.8 Profit for the year 135.9 17.4 153.2 193.7 5.1 198.8 *1 “Other income” and “other expense” are excluded from core results. “Other income” and “other expense” include gain (loss) on sale and disposal of property, plant and equipment, impairment losses for other intangible assets, loss on restructuring and foreign exchange gains (losses), etc. *2 Gain (loss) on sale of available-for-sale (AFS) financial assets and impairment losses on AFS financial assets included in “finance income” and “finance expense” are excluded from core results as non-core items. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 92 5 Financial Information and Data Profit for the Year (Core Basis) Initiatives to Optimize the Allocation of Resources (¥ billion) Astellas is working to optimize the allocation of resources 2015.3 2016.3 continuously. In fiscal 2015, Astellas took the following initiatives to optimize the allocation of resources. Profit before tax ¥218.1 ¥268.6 In October 2015, Astellas succeeded the manufacturing Income tax expense 64.8 69.8 and marketing approval for suxamethonium muscle Profit for the year 153.2 198.8 relaxant to Maruishi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Ratio of profit for the year to 12.3 14.5 sales (%) Additionally, in October 2015, Astellas entered into an agreement with MicroBiopharm Japan Co., Ltd. (MBJ) to transfer the business of the Kiyosu Plant (Aichi), one of Consolidated Financial Results (Full Basis) Astellas’ manufacturing sites, to MBJ. In April 2016, the In its consolidated operating results on a full basis for fiscal business of the Kiyosu Plant was transferred to MBJ. 2015, Astellas posted increases in sales, operating profit, Moreover, the Company entered into an agreement profit before tax and profit for the year. with TOA EIYO LTD. (TOA EIYO) to succeed the Various items totaling ¥20.2 billion were recorded in manufacturing and marketing approval for Cibenol for the “other expense.” These included items excluded from core treatment of arrhythmia to TOA EIYO. In April 2016, results, such as impairment losses for property, plant and Astellas succeeded this approval to TOA EIYO. equipment, and net foreign exchange losses. In addition, In November 2015, Astellas entered into an Asset gain on sales of available-for-sale financial assets of ¥12.3 Purchase Agreement to transfer its global dermatology billion was recorded in “finance income.” “Other expense” business to LEO Pharma A/S (Denmark). In April 2016, and gain on sales of available-for-sale financial assets in the Astellas transferred this business to LEO Pharma A/S. previous fiscal year were ¥43.3 billion and ¥5.1 billion, respectively. Business Combinations Consolidated Financial Results (Full Basis) With respect to “Creating Innovation,” Astellas is (¥ billion) enhancing capabilities to deliver innovative medicines in 2015.3 2016.3 existing therapeutic areas and continuously pursuing new opportunities in terms of new therapeutic areas and Sales ¥1,247.3 ¥1,372.7 utilizing new technologies and modalities. Astellas selected Operating profit 185.7 249.0 muscle diseases and ophthalmology as focused disease Profit before tax 189.7 261.8 areas for research and is promoting drug discovery Profit for the year 135.9 193.7 research in earnest in those areas. Furthermore, Astellas invests proactively in regenerative medicine, particularly in cell therapy. Status of R&D As part of these efforts, in February 2016, Astellas Astellas aims to achieve sustained growth over the medium acquired Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (“Ocata”)*, through a and long terms through the early and ongoing discovery of tender offer to purchase all issued and outstanding shares a stream of innovative and useful new drugs in therapeutic of common stock in cash. Ocata is a clinical stage areas where a high degree of unmet medical needs exist. To biotechnology company focused on the development and this end, Astellas actively works on enhancing its ability to commercialization of new therapies in the field of create innovation as a strategic priority. In fiscal 2015, regenerative medicine in ophthalmology. Ocata has an Astellas continued to enter into joint research agreements advanced technology that can establish fully-differentiated with various research institutions in order to tap into cells from pluripotent stem cells. Ocata also has strengths external sources of innovation. In addition, Astellas made in clinical studies for cell therapy. Through this acquisition, progress on many fronts, including regulatory approvals Astellas aims to contribute to ophthalmic therapy, which for multiple projects in clinical development. has a high level of unmet medical needs, based on a cell Reference R&D Topics During the Year P37 therapy approach. * The company was renamed as Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine in May 2016. 93 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Operating Profit and Profit for the Year (Core Basis) Consolidated Forecasts for the Year Ending March Although we forecast a fall in the cost of sales ratio as a result 31, 2017 (Fiscal 2016) (Announced in May 2016) of changes in the product mix and other factors, gross The Company’s consolidated business forecasts for fiscal profit is anticipated to decrease owing to a decrease in sales. 2016 are presented on a core basis in the table below. Looking at SG&A expenses, although selling expenses related to co-promotion of XTANDI in the U.S., among Fiscal 2016 Forecasts (Core Basis) other expenses, are projected to increase, the ratio of SG&A (¥ billion) expenses to sales is expected to remain mostly unchanged 2017.3 from fiscal 2015 based on continuing efforts to streamline 2016.3 (Forecasts) expenses, as well as the foreign exchange rate impact, Sales ¥1,372.7 ¥1,350.0 which will have the effect of reducing expenses. Operating profit 267.5 270.0 We project a 2.4% increase in R&D expenses to ¥231.0 Profit for the year 198.8 199.0 billion, with a ratio of R&D expenses to sales of 17.1% (compared with 16.4% in fiscal 2015). Foreign Exchange Rates (Average) In addition to the above, we are anticipating the impact of an increase in core operating profit due to the (¥) transfer of the global dermatology business. 2017.3 As a result, we forecast a 1.0% year-on-year increase in 2016.3 (Forecasts) core operating profit to ¥270.0 billion. Core profit for the US$1 ¥120 ¥110 year is expected to increase 0.1% year on year to ¥199.0 €1 133 125 billion. Basic core earnings per share is forecasted to increase 1.7% year on year to ¥93.65. We project a decrease in sales, and increases in core operating profit and core profit for the year, compared with fiscal 2015. We assume the yen will strengthen against the U.S. dollar and the euro compared with fiscal 2015, and we Number of Employees expect foreign exchange factors to have a ¥71.7 billion As of March 31, 2016, Astellas worldwide employed 17,217 negative impact on sales and a ¥22.3 billion negative people, a year-on-year increase of 104. The total number of impact on core operating profit. Medical Representatives (MRs) was approximately 6,000. In Japan, the number of employees was 7,056, down 185 from the previous fiscal year-end. In the Americas, the Sales regional head count was 3,062 employees, up 87 from the In fiscal 2016, we forecast a 1.7% year-on-year decrease in previous fiscal year-end. In EMEA, we had 4,726 employees, sales to ¥1,350.0 billion. Negative impacts due to the up 98 year on year. In Asia and Oceania, we had 2,373 foreign exchange rate impact as well as the NHI drug price employees, up 104 from the previous fiscal year-end. revision in Japan enforced in April 2016 are anticipated. In addition to anticipated continuous global sales growth for Number of Employees by Region XTANDI, our growth driver, global sales of OAB (persons) treatments including Vesicare are forecasted to grow 2015.3 2016.3 steadily based on the growth of Total 17,113 17,217 Betanis/Myrbetriq/BETMIGA. The impact on sales from the transfer of the global dermatology business Japan 7,241 7,056 implemented in April 2016 is anticipated to be immaterial. Americas 2,975 3,062 Reference Review of Global Operations P47 EMEA 4,628 4,726 Sales of Main Products by Region P51 Asia & Oceania 2,269 2,373 Number of MRs (persons) 2015.3 2016.3 Total (Global) 6,400 6,000 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 94 5 Financial Information and Data strategic investment opportunities, while also supplying Assets, Liabilities and Equity working capital and funding capital expenditures. An overview of the consolidated statement of financial As outlined in the section on business risks, Astellas’ position as of March 31, 2016 and the main changes from operations face a varied set of risks that are particular to the end of the previous fiscal year are shown below. the ethical pharmaceutical business. The Group’s financial policy is to maintain a healthy balance sheet at all times so that it can finance smoothly at low costs, particularly in the Assets event that funding requirements exceed Astellas’ internal Total assets as of March 31, 2016 amounted to ¥1,799.3 funding capacity in the course of developing business. billion, up ¥5.8 billion from a year earlier. Non-current assets increased ¥74.2 billion, to ¥901.8 billion at the fiscal year-end. Other intangible assets were ¥339.2 billion, up ¥43.4 billion from the previous fiscal Cash Flows year-end. Current assets decreased ¥68.4 billion, to ¥897.5 Cash Flows from Operating Activities billion at the fiscal year-end. Cash and cash equivalents Net cash flows from operating activities amounted to were ¥360.0 billion, down ¥36.4 billion from the previous ¥313.7 billion, an increase of ¥126.1 billion in year-on-year fiscal year-end. terms. The main components included proceeds from the transfer of the global dermatology business of ¥88.2 billion. Equity Total equity was ¥1,259.2 billion, a decrease of ¥58.7 billion Cash Flows from Investing Activities from a year earlier. Net cash flows used in investing activities totaled ¥147.1 While profit for the year stood at ¥193.7 billion, the billion, up ¥75.6 billion from the previous fiscal year. While Company paid ¥69.6 billion in dividends of surplus and purchases of property, plant and equipment used cash of acquired ¥120.1 billion in treasury shares. ¥33.5 billion, purchase of intangible assets used cash of The Company cancelled treasury shares worth ¥49.6 ¥84.6 billion, and purchase of shares of subsidiaries due to billion (38 million shares) on May 29, 2015. acquisition of Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. used cash of ¥42.7 billion, while proceeds from sales of available-for-sale financial assets provided cash of ¥16.7 billion. Liabilities Total liabilities as of March 31, 2016 amounted to ¥540.1 billion, up ¥64.5 billion from a year earlier. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Total non-current liabilities rose ¥72.0 billion to Net cash flows used in financing activities totaled ¥193.5 ¥126.8 billion. Current liabilities decreased ¥7.5 billion to billion, up ¥72.4 billion from the previous fiscal year. ¥413.4 billion. Dividends paid to owners of the parent totaled ¥69.6 Due mainly to the recording of deferred income billion, an increase in outflow of ¥7.5 billion year on year. related to the transfer of the global dermatology business, Other outflows included cash of ¥120.1 billion used for the other non-current liabilities increased by ¥58.4 billion to acquisition of Astellas’ own shares. ¥77.6 billion and other current liabilities increased by ¥27.7 As a result of the above, the balance of cash and cash billion to ¥121.1 billion from a year earlier. equivalents as of March 31, 2016 amounted to ¥360.0 billion, a decrease of ¥36.4 billion compared with the previous fiscal year-end. Liquidity and Financing Astellas is strengthening its global business foundations with a focus on the strategic initiatives of “maximizing the product value,” “creating innovation,” and “pursuing operational excellence.” In addition, Astellas will actively introduce new products and otherwise pursue strategic business investment opportunities to further reinforce its product lineup. In regard to the liquidity of funds, liquidity is maintained to enable Astellas to target a certain amount of 95 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Common Stock Capital Expenditures Astellas made capital expenditures with the aim of Common Stock reinforcing its manufacturing capabilities (including the (thousands of shares) construction of the new formulation facilities of the Yaizu 2015.3 2016.3 Technology Center of Astellas Pharma Tech Co., Ltd., a Total number of issued shares* 2,259,823 2,221,823 production subsidiary) and reshaping of the research base. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2015 totaled ¥34.0 billion, up Treasury shares* 66,681 96,844 11.2% year on year (accrual basis). In fiscal 2016, capital expenditures are forecast to Treasury Shares decrease 6.0% to ¥32.0 billion. 2015.3 2016.3 Number of shares bought 38,310 68,000 Earnings per Share, Dividends and Equity back* thousand thousand Attributable to Owners of the Parent Acquisition cost ¥58.2 ¥119.3 billion billion Cancellation of treasury 25,000 38,000 shares* thousand thousand Per Share Data * Excludes purchases of shares constituting less than a trading unit (¥) 2015.3 2016.3 As a part of profit distribution to its shareholders and as measures of its capital policy, the Company implemented Earnings per share acquisition of its own shares from the stock market, Basic ¥61.50 ¥89.75 purchasing 68 million shares, worth ¥119.3 billion, during Diluted 61.40 89.62 the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. Basic (core basis) 69.37 92.12 Furthermore, the Company canceled 68 million shares Dividends 30.00 32.00 of its treasury stock in June 2016. Equity per share attributable to 600.93 592.58 owners of the parent ROE and DOE Policy on Shareholder Returns Return on equity (ROE) was 15.0%, up 4.5 percentage Astellas is working to boost shareholder returns through points from fiscal 2014. The DOE ratio was 5.4%, up 0.3 of sustained growth in enterprise value. a percentage point from fiscal 2014. While prioritizing the re-investment of funds in the business to foster growth, Astellas strives to achieve stable and sustained growth in dividends, based on mediumto long-term consolidated earnings growth and taking the dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent (DOE) ratio into consideration. Furthermore, Astellas will flexibly purchase treasury stock as necessary to improve capital efficiency and the level of return to shareholders. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 96 5 Financial Information and Data violations may still be substantial. The Astellas Group’s Business Risks business results are also subject to the outcome of litigation The main risks that could significantly impact the business undertaken by the Astellas Group to protect patents where results and financial position of the Astellas Group are infringement has occurred. outlined below. While the Astellas Group strives to ensure that its actions do not infringe the IP rights of other parties, there is a risk of litigation in the event of any inadvertent Inherent Uncertainties in Pharmaceutical R&D violations. Such litigation could also impact the Astellas In general, the probability of discovering a promising Group’s business results significantly. compound through drug discovery research is not high. Further, it takes a large amount of investments and a great deal of time to successfully launch a new product after Risks Relating to Product Side Effects and Safety discovery of a new compound. However, it may be Any problems arising due to serious side effects or other necessary to discontinue clinical development if the safety issues that are caused by the Astellas Group’s effectiveness of a drug is not proven as initially expected, or products could impact the Astellas Group’s business results if safety issues arise. In addition, pharmaceuticals are significantly. subject to legal restrictions in each country, so that authorization from local regulatory authorities is a prerequisite for a product launch in each country. It is Environment-Related Risks difficult to accurately foresee if and when approvals for new The Astellas Group is careful to observe laws and products can be obtained. regulations relating to environmental or health and safety The Astellas Group’s R&D activities are subject to issues and has instituted internal standards that aim to these inherent risks. exceed most statutory requirements. Despite such precautions, the costs involved in the unlikely event of a business-related incident causing a serious breach of Sales-Related Risk compliance in this area could impact the Astellas Group’s The pharmaceutical industry operates in a highly business results significantly. competitive environment characterized by rapid technological innovation. The Astellas Group faces fierce competition from drug makers and generics manufacturers Foreign Exchange Rate Fluctuations based in Japan or overseas. The launch of competitive The Astellas Group’s business results and financial position products by rivals could impact the Astellas Group’s are subject to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations due business results significantly. to the Astellas Group’s extensive international operations. In addition to the risks outlined above, the Astellas Group is exposed to a wide range of business-related risks, Intellectual Property (IP) Risk including but not limited to (1) general commercial The Astellas Group’s ethical pharmaceuticals business litigation, (2) delays or suspension of manufacturing benefits from the protection of many patents. Although the activities due to natural disasters or other factors, and (3) Astellas Group manages IP rights properly and is vigilant partial dependence on licensing or sales agreements against third-party violation of such rights, the adverse relating to pharmaceuticals developed by other companies. impact on the Astellas Group’s business results of actual IP 97 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Consolidated Financial Statements Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Income For the year ended 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2015 2016 2016 Sales 6 ¥1,247,259 ¥1,372,706 $12,148 Cost of sales (333,197) (335,596) (2,970) Gross profit 914,062 1,037,110 9,178 Selling, general and administrative expenses (452,522) (500,359) (4,428) Research and development expenses (206,594) (225,665) (1,997) Amortisation of intangible assets 17 (38,664) (42,387) (375) Share of profits (losses) of associates and joint ventures 217 (1,243) (11) Other income 7 12,503 1,689 15 Other expense 8 (43,339) (20,159) (178) Operating profit 185,663 248,986 2,203 Finance income 10 7,097 14,411 128 Finance expense 11 (3,078) (1,627) (14) Profit before tax 189,683 261,770 2,317 Income tax expense 12 (53,827) (68,083) (603) Profit for the year ¥ 135,856 ¥ 193,687 $ 1,714 Profit attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥ 135,856 ¥ 193,687 $ 1,714 (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Earnings per share Basic 13 ¥ 61.50 ¥ 89.75 $ 0.79 Diluted 13 61.40 89.62 0.79 Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income For the year ended 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2015 2016 2016 Profit for the year ¥135,856 ¥193,687 $1,714 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (7,874) (6,276) (56) Subtotal (7,874) (6,276) (56) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Foreign currency translation adjustments 14 29,645 (45,172) (400) Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets 14 11,872 (11,358) (101) Subtotal 41,517 (56,529) (500) Other comprehensive income, net of tax 33,643 (62,806) (556) Total comprehensive income ¥169,499 ¥130,881 $1,158 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥169,499 ¥130,881 $1,158 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 98 5 Financial Information and Data Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Financial Position As of 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2015 2016 2016 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 15 ¥ 202,869 ¥ 200,955 $ 1,778 Goodwill 16 136,337 150,660 1,333 Other intangible assets 17 295,844 339,202 3,002 Trade and other receivables 22 15,588 24,103 213 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2,007 2,435 22 Deferred tax assets 18 51,199 80,252 710 Other financial assets 19 110,091 89,424 791 Other non-current assets 20 13,685 14,769 131 Total non-current assets 827,621 901,801 7,981 Current assets Inventories 21 156,907 161,691 1,431 Trade and other receivables 22 332,923 327,599 2,899 Income tax receivable 6,918 16,403 145 Other financial assets 19 59,908 14,394 127 Other current assets 20 12,732 17,221 152 Cash and cash equivalents 23 396,430 360,030 3,186 Subtotal 965,819 897,337 7,941 Assets held for sale 24 139 200 2 Total current assets 965,958 897,537 7,943 Total assets ¥1,793,578 ¥1,799,338 $15,923 99 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2015 2016 2016 Equity and liabilities Equity Share capital 25 ¥ 103,001 ¥ 103,001 $ 912 Capital surplus 25 176,822 176,903 1,566 Treasury shares 25 (86,997) (157,111) (1,390) Retained earnings 905,083 973,054 8,611 Other components of equity 25 220,007 163,363 1,446 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,317,916 1,259,209 11,143 Total equity 1,317,916 1,259,209 11,143 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 32 90 1,599 14 Deferred tax liabilities 18 38 — — Retirement benefit liabilities 28 30,059 39,797 352 Provisions 29 4,817 7,083 63 Other financial liabilities 30 626 722 6 Other non-current liabilities 31 19,142 77,569 686 Total non-current liabilities 54,771 126,769 1,122 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 32 226,602 181,559 1,607 Income tax payable 14,124 19,312 171 Provisions 29 85,423 89,858 795 Other financial liabilities 30 1,339 1,505 13 Other current liabilities 31 93,403 121,126 1,072 Total current liabilities 420,890 413,359 3,658 Total liabilities 475,662 540,129 4,780 Total equity and liabilities ¥1,793,578 ¥1,799,338 $15,923 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 100 5 Financial Information and Data Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Fair value Foreign currency movements on Remeasurements Subscription translation available-for-sale of defined benefit Note Share capital Capital surplus Treasury shares Retained earnings rights to shares adjustments financial assets plans Total Total Total equity As of 1 April 2014 ¥103,001 ¥176,822 ¥ (54,535) ¥864,830 ¥2,110 ¥147,660 ¥28,588 ¥ — ¥178,359 ¥1,268,476 ¥1,268,476 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 135,856 — — — — — 135,856 135,856 Other comprehensive income — — — — — 29,645 11,872 (7,874) 33,643 33,643 33,643 Total comprehensive income — — — 135,856 — 29,645 11,872 (7,874) 33,643 169,499 169,499 Transactions with owners of the parent Acquisition of treasury shares 25 — — (58,229) — — — — — — (58,229) (58,229) Disposals of treasury shares 25 — — 369 (185) (176) — — — (176) 8 8 Cancellation of treasury shares 25 — — 25,398 (25,398) — — — — — — — Dividends 26 — — — (62,146) — — — — — (62,146) (62,146) Share-based payments 27 — — — — 307 — — — 307 307 307 Transfers — — — (7,874) — — — 7,874 7,874 — — Total transactions with owners — — (32,462) (95,603) 131 — — 7,874 8,005 (120,059) (120,059) of the parent As of 31 March 2015 103,001 176,822 (86,997) 905,083 2,241 177,306 40,461 — 220,007 1,317,916 1,317,916 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 193,687 — — — — — 193,687 193,687 Other comprehensive income — — — — — (45,172) (11,358) (6,276) (62,806) (62,806) (62,806) Total comprehensive income — — — 193,687 — (45,172) (11,358) (6,276) (62,806) 130,881 130,881 Transactions with owners of the parent Acquisition of treasury shares 25 — — (120,127) — — — — — — (120,127) (120,127) Disposals of treasury shares 25 — — 436 (248) (187) — — — (187) 1 1 Cancellation of treasury shares 25 — — 49,577 (49,577) — — — — — — — Dividends 26 — — — (69,615) — — — — — (69,615) (69,615) Share-based payments 27 — 81 — — 73 — — — 73 154 154 Transfers — — — (6,276) — — — 6,276 6,276 — — Total transactions with owners — 81 (70,114) (125,717) (115) — — 6,276 6,161 (189,588) (189,588) of the parent As of 31 March 2016 ¥103,001 ¥176,903 ¥(157,111) ¥973,054 ¥2,126 ¥132,134 ¥29,103 ¥ — ¥163,363 ¥1,259,209 ¥1,259,209 (Millions of U.S. dollars) Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Fair value Foreign currency movements on Remeasurements Subscription translation available-for-sale of defined benefit Note Share capital Capital surplus Treasury shares Retained earnings rights to shares adjustments financial assets plans Total Total Total equity As of 31 March 2015 $912 $1,565 $ (770) $8,010 $20 $1,569 $358 $— $1,947 $11,663 $11,663 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 1,714 — — — — — 1,714 1,714 Other comprehensive income — — — — — (400) (101) (56) (556) (556) (556) Total comprehensive income — — — 1,714 — (400) (101) (56) (556) 1,158 1,158 Transactions with owners of the parent Acquisition of treasury shares 25 — — (1,063) — — — — — — (1,063) (1,063) Disposals of treasury shares 25 — — 4 (2) (2) — — — (2) 0 0 Cancellation of treasury shares 25 — — 439 (439) — — — — — — — Dividends 26 — — — (616) — — — — — (616) (616) Share-based payments 27 — 1 — — 1 — — — 1 1 1 Transfers — — — (56) — — — 56 56 — — Total transactions with owners — 1 (620) (1,113) (1) — — 56 55 (1,678) (1,678) of the parent As of 31 March 2016 $912 $1,566 $(1,390) $8,611 $19 $1,169 $258 $— $1,446 $11,143 $11,143 101 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) (Millions of U.S. dollars) Note 2015 2016 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax ¥189,683 ¥261,770 $2,317 Depreciation and amortisation 65,474 69,188 612 Impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses 10,329 9,310 82 Finance income and expense (4,019) (12,784) (113) (Increase) decrease in inventories (18,150) (11,873) (105) (Increase) decrease in trade and other receivables 3,912 (15,649) (138) Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables 31,756 (32,391) (287) Other (23,048) 136,578 1,209 Cash generated from operations 255,937 404,149 3,577 Income tax paid (68,251) (90,412) (800) Net cash flows from operating activities 187,686 313,737 2,776 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment (24,159) (33,512) (297) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 5,450 1,753 16 Purchase of intangible assets (57,007) (84,605) (749) Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets (3,583) (749) (7) Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale financial assets 9,739 16,747 148 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 37 — (42,653) (377) Interest and dividends received 2,291 2,797 25 Other (4,207) (6,827) (60) Net cash flows used in investing activities (71,476) (147,050) (1,301) Cash flows from financing activities Acquisition of treasury shares 25 (58,229) (120,127) (1,063) Dividends paid to owners of the parent 26 (62,146) (69,615) (616) Other (744) (3,736) (33) Net cash flows used in financing activities (121,118) (193,478) (1,712) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 9,966 (9,609) (85) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5,057 (36,401) (322) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 23 391,374 396,430 3,508 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 23 ¥396,430 ¥360,030 $3,186 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 102 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Astellas Pharma Inc. and Subsidiaries For the year ended 31 March 2016 1. Reporting Entity Astellas Pharma Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, Also, shares of the Company are publicly traded on the the “Group”) are engaged in the manufacture and sales Tokyo Stock Exchange (First Section). of pharmaceutical products. The parent company of the The Group’s consolidated financial statements for the Group, Astellas Pharma Inc. (the “Company”), is year ended 31 March 2016 were authorised for issue on incorporated in Japan, and the registered address of 20 June 2016 by Yoshihiko Hatanaka, Representative headquarters and principal business offices are available Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, and on the Company’s website (http://www.astellas.com/en/). Yasumasa Masuda, Senior Corporate Executive and Chief Financial Officer. 2. Basis of Preparation (1) Compliance with IFRS presented in U.S. dollars by translating Japanese yen The consolidated financial statements of the Group have amounts at the exchange rate of ¥113 to U.S. $1, the been prepared in accordance with International Financial approximate rate of exchange at the end of 31 March 2016. Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. Such translations should not be construed as representations that the Japanese yen amounts could be converted into U.S. (2) Basis of measurement dollars at the above or any other rate. The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for financial (4) New or amended IFRS standards and instruments measured at fair value. interpretations not yet adopted The following is a list of new or amended IFRS standards (3) Presentation currency and interpretations that the Group has not adopted among The Group’s consolidated financial statements are those issued by the date of the approval of the Group’s presented in Japanese yen, which is also the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Also, the effects on the functional currency, and figures are rounded to the nearest Group due to the application of the standards or million yen, except as otherwise indicated. interpretations listed below are still under consideration and For the convenience of readers outside Japan, the cannot be estimated at this time. accompanying consolidated financial statements are also Effective date The Group’s application (fiscal years date IFRSs beginning on or after) (fiscal year ending) Summaries of new or amended IFRS standards and interpretations IFRS 9 Financial 1 January 2018 31 March 2019 Amendments related to classification and measurement of financial Instruments assets and financial liabilities, impairment, and hedge accounting IFRS 15 Revenue from 1 January 2018 31 March 2019 Comprehensive framework for revenue recognition Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 31 March 2020 Amendments related to accounting treatment for leases 103 3. Significant Accounting Policies The significant accounting policies of the Group are applied The following accounting standard is newly applied by continuously to all periods indicated in the consolidated the Group from the fiscal year ended 31 March 2016. The financial statements, except for the amended standard listed standard does not have a material impact on the Group’s below. consolidated financial statements. IFRS Summary of amended IFRS standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits Clarification of accounting for contributions by employees or third parties (1) Basis of consolidation revenue and expenses, in relation to its interest in the (i) Subsidiaries joint operation. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The  Joint venture—when the Group has rights only to the net Group controls an entity when the Group has power over assets of the arrangement, it accounts for its interest in the entity, is exposed to, or has rights, to variable returns the joint venture using the equity method in the same from its involvement with the entity, and has the ability to way as associates. affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which (2) Business combinations control is transferred to the Group, and they are Business combinations are accounted for using the deconsolidated from the date on which the Group loses acquisition method. control. The consideration transferred is measured at fair value All intragroup assets and liabilities, transactions and and calculated as the aggregate of the fair values of the unrealised gains or losses arising from intragroup assets transferred, liabilities assumed, and the equity transactions are eliminated on consolidation. interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred also includes any assets or liabilities resulting (ii) Associates from a contingent consideration arrangement. Associates are entities over which the Group has The identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities and significant influence on their financial and operating contingent liabilities assumed that meet the recognition policies but does not have control or joint control. If the principles of IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” are Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting power of measured at their acquisition-date fair values, except: an entity, it is presumed that the Group has significant  Deferred tax assets or liabilities, liabilities (or assets, if influence over the entity. The Group accounts for any) related to employee benefits, and liabilities related investments in associates using the equity method. to share-based payment transactions are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 “Income Taxes”, (iii) Joint arrangements IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”, and IFRS 2 “Share-based A joint arrangement is an arrangement in which the Group Payment”, respectively; and has joint control. Joint control is the contractually agreed  Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only for sale are measured in accordance with IFRS 5 “Nonwhen decisions about the activities that significantly affect current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued the returns of the arrangement require the unanimous Operations”. consent of the parties sharing control. Joint arrangements The excess of the aggregate of the consideration in which the Group has an interest are classified and transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling accounted for as follows: interest in the acquiree over the acquisition-date fair value  Joint operation—when the Group has rights to the assets of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as and obligations for the liabilities relating to an goodwill. If the excess is negative, then a gain from a arrangement, it accounts for each of its assets, liabilities, 104 bargain purchase is immediately recognised in profit or Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all loss. of the following conditions have been satisfied, namely, Acquisition-related costs incurred in connection with the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the business combinations, such as finder’s fees and advisory goods have been transferred to the buyers, the Group fees, are expensed when incurred. retains neither continuing managerial involvement nor effective control over the goods sold, it is probable that (3) Foreign currency translation the economic benefits will flow to the Group, and the (i) Functional and presentation currency amount of revenue and costs associated with the The financial statements of an entity of the Group are transaction can be reliably measured. Therefore, revenue prepared using the functional currency of the entity. The is usually recognised at the time of delivery of goods to consolidated financial statements of the Group are customers. Sales discounts, charge-backs and other rebates presented in Japanese yen, which is the functional are recognised as accounts payable, provisions or as currency of the Company. deductions from accounts receivable. (ii) Transactions in foreign currencies (ii) Royalty income Foreign currency transactions are translated into the Some of the Group’s revenues are generated from the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at agreements under which third parties have been granted the dates of the transactions or an approximation of the rights to produce or market products or rights to use rate. technologies. Royalty income is recognised on an accrual At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are agreement. Revenue associated with milestone agreements translated into the functional currency using the exchange is recognised upon achievement of the milestones defined rates at the closing date and exchange differences arising in the respective agreements. Upfront payments and from translation are recognised in profit or loss. license fees received for agreements where the rights or obligations still exist are initially recognised as deferred (iii) Foreign operations income and then recognised in income as earned over the Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated period of the development collaboration or the into Japanese yen using the exchange rate at the end of manufacturing obligation. fiscal year. Income and expenses are translated into Japanese yen using the average exchange rate for the (5) Research and development expenses period. Expenditure on research and development of an internal Exchange differences arising on translating the project is fully expensed as “Research and development financial statements of foreign operations are recognised expenses” in the consolidated statement of income when in other comprehensive income. On the disposal of the incurred. interest in a foreign operation, the cumulative amount of Internally generated development expenses are the exchange differences is reclassified to profit or loss. recognised as an intangible asset only if the capitalisation criteria under IAS 38 are satisfied. Therefore, internal (4) Sales expenditure incurred for ongoing internal development (i) Sale of goods projects is not capitalised until marketing approval is Sales are measured at the fair value of the consideration obtained from the regulatory authorities in a major market, received or receivable, less discounts, charge-backs and which is considered the time at which the criteria of other rebates, excluding sales taxes and value added taxes. capitalisation under IAS 38 are met. Also, the Group recognises the sales amount of In addition to the Group’s internal research and transactions in which the Group is acting as an agent on a development activities, the Group has entered into net basis. research and development collaboration agreements with 105 some alliance partners. The expenses and income against which the deductible temporary differences can associated with the settlement of the expenditure incurred be utilised. for the research and development collaboration activities  taxable temporary differences associated with are accounted for as research and development expenses investments in subsidiaries, associates, and interests in on an accrual basis in the same way as research and joint arrangements when the Group is able to control the development expenses incurred within the Group. timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not (6) Finance income and finance expense reverse in the foreseeable future. Finance income mainly comprises interest income, Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is dividend income, and gain on sales of financial probable that taxable profits will be available against instruments. Interest income is recognised using the which deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses, effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised and unused tax credits can be utilised. when the right to receive payment is established. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are Financial expenses mainly comprise interest expense, measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the fees, loss on sales of financial instruments, and period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, impairment losses for financial assets. based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the fiscal year. (7) Income tax Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset Income tax expense is comprised of current and deferred if the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset taxes, and recognised in profit or loss, except for taxes current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and they related to business combinations and to items that are are related to income taxes levied by the same taxation recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in authority on either the same taxable entity or different equity. taxable entities which intend to settle current tax assets Current taxes are calculated at the amount expected to and current tax liabilities on a net basis. be paid to or recovered from the taxation authority by applying the statutory tax rate and tax laws enacted or (8) Earnings per share substantially enacted at the end of the fiscal year. Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are for the year attributable to owners of the parent by the recognised for temporary differences between the carrying weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding amounts of certain assets or liabilities in the consolidated during the year, adjusting treasury shares. For the purpose statement of financial position and their tax base. of calculating diluted earnings per share, profit for the However, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not year attributable to owners of the parent and the weighted recognised for: average number of shares outstanding, adjusting treasury  taxable temporary differences arising from the initial shares, is calculated for the effects of all dilutive potential recognition of goodwill. ordinary shares.  taxable or deductible temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a (9) Property, plant and equipment transaction other than a business combination that Property, plant, and equipment is measured by using the affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax cost model and is stated at cost less accumulated loss). depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost  deductible temporary differences associated with of items of property, plant and equipment includes costs investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in directly attributable to the acquisition and the initial joint arrangements when it is not probable that the estimate of costs of dismantling and removing the items temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable and restoring the site on which they are located. future or there will not be sufficient taxable profits 106 Costs incurred after initial recognition are recognised as Under operating lease transactions, lease payments are an asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the future economic benefits associated with the asset will lease term. flow to the Group and its cost can be reliably measured. The Group determines whether an arrangement is, or Costs of day-to-day servicing for items of property, plant contains a lease, based on the substance of the and equipment, such as repairs and maintenance, expensed arrangement at the date of commencement of the lease. when incurred. The substance of the arrangement is determined based on When an item of property, plant and equipment has a the following factors: significant component, such component is accounted for (a) whether the fulfillment of the arrangement is as a separate item of property, plant and equipment. dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and, Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use. (b) whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the The depreciable amount of items of property, plant and asset. equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each component. The depreciable (11) Goodwill amount of an asset is determined by deducting its residual Measurement of goodwill on initial recognition is value from its cost. described in “(2) Business combinations”. After initial recognition, goodwill is carried at cost less any The estimated useful lives of major classes of property, accumulated impairment losses. plant and equipment are as follows: Impairment of goodwill is described in “(13) Buildings and structures 2 to 60 years Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, Machinery and vehicles 2 to 20 years and other intangible assets”. Tools, furniture and fixtures 2 to 20 years (12) Other intangible assets The useful lives, residual values, and depreciation Other intangible assets are identifiable non-monetary methods of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at assets without physical substance, other than goodwill, the end of fiscal year, and changed, if any. including patents and technologies, marketing rights, and in-process research and development (IPR&D) acquired in (10) Leases a business combination or acquired separately. Leases are classified as finance leases whenever Other intangible assets acquired separately are substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to measured at cost upon initial recognition, and those ownership of an asset are transferred to the Group. All acquired in a business combination are measured at fair other leases are classified as operating leases. value at the acquisition date. After initial recognition, the Under finance lease transactions, leased assets and Group applies the cost model and other intangible assets lease obligations are initially recognised at the lower of are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and the fair value of the leased property or the present value of accumulated impairment losses. the minimum lease payments, each determined at the Other intangible assets are amortised over their inception of the lease. Leased assets are depreciated on a estimated useful lives (2-25 years) on a straight-line basis straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful beginning at the time when they are available for use. lives or lease terms. Minimum lease payments made under Amortisation of other intangible assets acquired through finance leases are allocated to finance expense and the business combinations or through the in-licensing of repayment amount of the lease obligations. The finance products or technologies is presented in the consolidated expense is allocated to each period during the lease term statement of income under “Amortisation of intangible so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the assets”. The estimated useful life of other intangible assets remaining balance of liabilities. is the shorter of the period of legal protection or its economic life, and it is also regularly reviewed. 107 Among rights related to products or research and in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to development through the in-licensing of products or the present value using a discount rate that reflects the technologies or acquired through business combinations, time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. those that are still in the research and development stage The discount rate used for calculating the recoverable or have not yet obtained marketing approval from the amount is set at a rate appropriate to each geographical regulatory authorities are recognised under “Other area of operations. intangible assets” as IPR&D. If the recoverable amount of an asset or a cashSubsequent expenditure, including initial upfront and generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the milestone payments to the third parties, on an acquired carrying amount of the asset or the cash-generating unit is IPR&D is capitalised if, and only if, it is probable that the reduced to its recoverable amount, and the reduction is expected future economic benefits that are attributable to recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss. the asset will flow to the Group and the asset is identifiable. (ii) Impairment of goodwill An intangible asset recognised as IPR&D is not Goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating units, amortised because it is not yet available for use, but or groups of cash-generating units, that is expected to instead, it is tested for impairment whenever there is an benefit from the synergies of the business combination, indication of impairment or at least on an annual basis and it is tested for impairment annually and whenever irrespective of whether there is any indication. there is an indication that the cash-generating unit may be Once marketing approval from the regulatory impaired. If, at the time of the impairment test, the authorities is obtained and the asset is available for use, recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is less than IPR&D is transferred to “Patents and technologies” or its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the cash“Marketing rights” and amortisation begins from that time generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount, and on a straight-line basis over its useful life. the reduction is recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss. (13) Impairment of property, plant and equipment, Impairment loss is allocated to reduce the carrying goodwill, and other intangible assets amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating (i) Impairment of property, plant and equipment and unit or group of cash-generating units and then to the other other intangible assets assets on a pro rata basis of the carrying amount of each At the end of each quarter, the Group assesses whether asset in the cash-generating unit or group of cashthere is any indication that its property, plant and generating units. equipment and other intangible assets may be impaired. If there is an indication of impairment, the recoverable (iii) Reversal of impairment loss amount of the asset is estimated. Other intangible assets At the end of each quarter, the Group assesses whether not yet available for use or with indefinite useful lives are there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised tested for impairment annually irrespective of whether in prior years for other intangible assets may no longer there is any indication of impairment. exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable recoverable amount of the asset or the cash-generating amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the unit is estimated. If the recoverable amount of the asset or recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the cash-generating unit is greater than its carrying amount, the asset belongs. A cash-generating unit is the smallest a reversal of an impairment loss is recognised, to the identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows extent the increased carrying amount does not exceed the that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other lower of the recoverable amount or the carrying amount assets or groups of assets. (net of depreciation or amortisation) that would have been The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less determined had no impairment loss been recognised in costs of disposal and value in use. In measuring the value prior years. 108 Any impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not Interest income using the effective interest method is reversed in a subsequent period. recognised in profit or loss. (c) Loans and receivables (14) Financial instruments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable (i) Initial recognition payments not quoted in an active market are classified as Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on loans and receivables. the trade date when the Group becomes a party to the Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables contractual provisions of the instrument. are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at method, less any impairment loss. Amortisation incurred fair value at initial recognition. Transaction costs directly under the effective interest method is recognised in profit attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or or loss. issuance of financial liabilities, other than financial assets (d) Available-for-sale financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss (“financial Non-derivative financial assets designated as availableassets at FVTPL”) and financial liabilities measured at fair for-sale financial assets or not classified as FVTPL, heldvalue through profit or loss (“financial liabilities at to-maturity investments or loans and receivables are FVTPL”), are added to the fair value of the financial classified as available-for-sale financial assets. assets or deducted from the fair value of financial Subsequent to initial recognition, available-for-sale liabilities on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly financial assets are measured at fair value, and any gain or attributable to the acquisition of financial assets at FVTPL loss resulting from changes in fair value is recognised in and financial liabilities at FVTPL are recognised in profit other comprehensive income. Dividends on available-foror loss. sale financial assets are recognised in profit or loss. When available-for-sale financial assets are derecognised or (ii) Non-derivative financial assets determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss that Non-derivative financial assets are classified into had been recognised in other comprehensive income is “financial assets at FVTPL”, “held-to-maturity reclassified to profit or loss. investments”, “loans and receivables” and “available-forsale financial assets”. The classification is determined (iii) Impairment of financial assets other than FVTPL based on the nature and purpose of the financial assets at Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed the time of initial recognition. for any objective evidence of impairment at the end of (a) Financial assets at FVTPL each quarter. Financial assets are impaired when there is The Group classifies financial assets as FVTPL when the objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or financial assets are either held for trading or designated as more events that occurred after the initial recognition of FVTPL at initial recognition. the financial assets and these events have adversely Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value, affected the estimated future cash flows of the financial and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value, assets that can be reliably estimated. dividends, and interest income are recognised in profit or Objective evidence of impairment of financial assets loss. includes: (b) Held-to-maturity investments  significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor; Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable  breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments and fixed maturity dates that the Group has the interest or principal payments; positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified  probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or as held-to-maturity investments. other financial reorganisation; or Subsequent to initial recognition, held-to-maturity  disappearance of an active market for the financial investments are measured at amortised cost using the assets. effective interest method, less any impairment loss. 109 In the case of equity instruments classified as available(vi) Derivatives for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value The Group is engaged in derivative transactions and of the equity instrument below its cost would be mainly uses foreign exchange forward contracts to considered as objective evidence of impairment. manage its exposure to risks from changes in foreign The Group assesses the existence of objective evidence exchange rates. of impairment for loans and receivables and held-toDerivatives are initially recognised at fair value of the maturity financial assets, individually for separately date when the derivative contracts are entered into and are significant assets or collectively for assets with no subsequently measured at their fair values at the end of individual significance. When there is objective evidence each quarter. of impairment on those financial assets, the difference Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value in profit or loss, except for the following. If the hedging of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial relationship qualifies for hedge accounting, the gain or asset’s original effective interest rate is recognised in loss on the hedging instrument of cash flow hedges or profit or loss as an impairment loss. hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation that are The impairment loss for loans and receivables are determined to be effective hedges are recognised in other recognised through the allowance for doubtful accounts, comprehensive income. The amounts that had been and the carrying amount of a loan and receivable is written recognised in other comprehensive income for cash flow off against the allowance account when it is subsequently hedges and hedges of a net investment in a foreign considered uncollectible. When an event occurring after operation shall be reclassified from equity to profit or loss the impairment was recognised causes the amount of the in the same period or periods during which the hedged impairment loss to decrease, a reversal of the impairment items affect profit or loss and on the disposal or partial loss is recognised in profit or loss. disposal of the foreign operation, respectively. When there is objective evidence that an available-forFinancial assets and financial liabilities arising from sale financial asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that derivatives are classified as either financial assets at had been recognised in other comprehensive income is FVTPL or financial liabilities at FVTPL. transferred to profit or loss. Any subsequent recovery in the fair value of impaired equity instruments classified as (15) Cash and cash equivalents available-for-sale financial assets is recognised in other Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, comprehensive income. demand deposits, and highly liquid short-term investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of (iv) Derecognition of financial assets acquisition which are subject to an insignificant risk of When the contractual rights with respect to the cash flows changes in value. from a financial asset expire or the contractual rights to receive the cash flows from a financial asset have been (16) Inventories transferred and substantially all the risks and rewards of Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net ownership of the financial asset are transferred, the Group realisable value. The cost of inventories includes costs of derecognises the financial asset. purchase, costs of conversion and all other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and (v) Non-derivative financial liabilities condition. Net realisable value is calculated as the The Group measures non-derivative financial liabilities at estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business amortised cost using the effective interest method after less the estimated costs of completion and estimated costs initial recognition. necessary to sell. Cost of inventories is calculated mainly The Group derecognises financial liabilities when using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. obligations are fulfilled or when obligations are discharged, cancelled, or expired. 110 (17) Assets held for sale (ii) Cash-settled share-based payment plan Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as Under the cash-settled share-based payment plan, services “Assets held for sale” if their carrying amounts will be received are measured at the fair value of the liabilities recovered principally through a sale transaction rather incurred and recognised as expenses over the vesting than through continuing use. To be classified as assets period, with a corresponding increase in liabilities. Until held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate the liabilities are settled, the fair value of liabilities are sale in its present condition, and the sale must be highly remeasured at the end of each quarter and at the settlement probable. Specifically, management of the Group must date, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or have a firm commitment to execute the plan to sell the loss. asset and the sale is expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification, as a general rule. (20) Employee benefits Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their (i) Retirement benefits carrying amounts and fair values less costs to sell, and The Group operates defined benefit and defined they are not depreciated or amortised while they are contribution retirement plans for its employees. classified as held for sale. (a) Defined benefit plans Net defined benefit assets or liabilities are calculated as (18) Equity the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the (i) Ordinary shares fair value of plan assets and they are recognised in the Proceeds from the issuance of ordinary shares by the consolidated statement of financial position as assets or Company are included in share capital and capital surplus. liabilities. The defined benefit obligation is calculated by Transaction costs of issuing ordinary shares (net of tax) using the projected unit credit method. The present value are deducted from capital surplus. of the defined benefit obligation is calculated by the expected future payments using discount rate. The (ii) Treasury shares discount rate is determined by reference to market yield When the Company reacquires its own ordinary shares, on high-quality corporate bonds having maturity terms the amount of the consideration paid including transaction consistent with the estimated term of the related pension costs is deducted from equity. When the Company sells obligations. treasury shares, the difference between the carrying Service cost and net interest expense (income) on the amount and the consideration received from the sale is net defined benefit liabilities (assets) are recognised in recognised in equity. profit or loss. Actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets, (19) Share-based payment excluding amounts included in net interest, and any The Group operates an equity-settled share-based payment change in the effect of the asset ceiling are recognised plan and a cash-settled share-based payment plan as shareimmediately in other comprehensive income under based payment plans. “Remeasurements of defined benefit plans”, and transferred from other components of equity to retained (i) Equity-settled share-based payment plan earnings immediately. Under the equity-settled share-based payment plan, (b) Defined contribution plans services received are measured at the fair value of the Contributions paid for defined contribution plans are equity instruments at the grant date, and are recognised as expensed in the period in which the employees provide the expenses from the grant date over the vesting period, with related service. a corresponding increase in equity. (ii) Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are expensed when the related service is provided. Bonus accrual is recognised as 111 a liability when the Group has present legal or expenditures expected to be required to settle the constructive obligations resulting from past service obligations. rendered by the employees and reliable estimates of the obligations can be made. (22) Government grants Government grants are recognised and measured at fair (21) Provisions value, if there is reasonable assurance that the Group will Provisions are recognised when the Group has present comply with the conditions attached to them and that the legal or constructive obligations as a result of past events, grants will be received. Government grants that are it is probable that outflows of resources embodying intended to compensate for specific costs are recognised economic benefits will be required to settle the obligations, as income in the period in which the Group recognises the and reliable estimates of the obligations can be made. corresponding expenses. Government grants related to When the effect of the time value of money is material, assets are recognised as deferred income and then provisions are measured at the present value of the recognised in profit over the expected useful life of the relevant asset on a regular basis. 4. Significant Accounting Estimates, Judgments and Assumptions The preparation of the consolidated financial statements Estimates and underlying assumptions representing a requires management of the Group to make estimates, significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the judgments and assumptions that affect the application of carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next fiscal accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, year are as follows: liabilities, income, and expenses.  Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill Given their nature, actual results may differ from those and other intangible assets (Notes 15, 16 and 17) estimates.  Provisions (Note 29) The estimates and underlying assumptions are  Retirement benefits (Note 28) reviewed on an ongoing basis, and the effects resulting  Recoverability of deferred tax assets (Note 18) from revisions of accounting estimates are recognised in  Income tax expense (Note 12) the period in which the estimates are revised and in future  Financial assets measured at fair value which have no periods affected by the revision. market price in active markets (Note 33) 112 5. Segment Information The main activities of the Group are the manufacture and operating segments. Therefore, the Group has a single sale of pharmaceutical products, and there are no separate reporting segment, “Pharmaceutical”. Information about products and services Sales by type of product and service are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 XTANDI ¥ 137,189 ¥ 252,075 Prograf 194,712 203,556 Vesicare 135,241 135,638 Other 780,118 781,438 Total ¥1,247,259 ¥1,372,706 Information about geographical areas Sales and non-current assets by geographical areas are as follows: Sales by geographical areas (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Japan ¥ 488,363 ¥ 489,969 Americas 358,196 452,697 U.S.A. (included in Americas) 334,178 429,518 EMEA 320,973 334,572 Asia and Oceania 79,728 95,467 Total ¥1,247,259 ¥1,372,706 (Note) 1. Sales by geographical areas are categorised by country or areas based on the geographical location of customers. 2. Sales to the Middle East and Africa, previously included within “Asia, Oceania and other”, are now classified in “EMEA” to better reflect association with structure of the Group. The amounts of Fiscal year ended 31 March 2015 are also reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. Non-current assets by geographical areas (Property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Japan ¥308,426 ¥370,894 Americas 286,413 281,544 U.S.A. (included in Americas) 286,100 281,311 EMEA 35,729 34,505 Asia and Oceania 4,481 3,874 Total ¥635,050 ¥690,817 (Note) Non-current assets located in the Middle East and Africa, previously included within “Asia, Oceania and other”, are now classified in “EMEA” to better reflect association with structure of the Group. The amounts of Fiscal year ended 31 March 2015 are also reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. 113 Information about major customers External customer that accounts for 10% or more of consolidated sales of the Group is as follows: (Millions of yen) Segment 2015 2016 McKesson Corporation Pharmaceutical ¥126,308 ¥156,245 6. Sales The breakdown of sales is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Sales of pharmaceutical products ¥1,176,769 ¥1,314,247 Royalty income 36,564 24,560 Other 33,926 33,899 Total sales ¥1,247,259 ¥1,372,706 7. Other Income The breakdown of other income is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Gain on sales of property, plant and equipment ¥ 1,420 ¥ 306 Gain on settlement of defined benefit plan as post-employment benefits 8,017 ― Other 3,066 1,384 Total other income ¥12,503 ¥1,689 (Note) “Gain on settlement of defined benefit plan as post-employment benefits” for the year ended 31 March 2015 was due to a change in the post-employment benefits of a subsidiary in the Netherlands, from a defined benefit plan to a defined contribution plan. 114 8. Other Expense The breakdown of other expense is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Loss on sales and disposal of property, plant and equipment ¥ 1,213 ¥ 743 Impairment losses for property, plant and equipment 580 8,837 Impairment losses for other intangible assets 9,749 681 Restructuring costs 11,501 ― Litigation costs 16,236 2,322 Net foreign exchange losses 3,568 6,996 Other 493 580 Total other expense ¥43,339 ¥20,159 (Note) 1. The main item of “Impairment losses for property, plant and equipment” for the year ended 31 March 2016 was due to the closure of the Kashima R&D Center (Osaka Prefecture). 2. “Impairment losses for other intangible assets” for the year ended 31 March 2015 was principally due to the discontinuation of development activities for projects. 3. “Restructuring costs” for the year ended 31 March 2015 was mainly due to the implementation of an early retirement incentive program for employees of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries. 4. The main item of “Litigation costs” for the years ended 31 March 2015 and 2016 were due to the Prograf litigation involving a U.S. subsidiary. 5. The amount of Net foreign exchange losses includes foreign exchange losses resulting from foreign exchange forward contracts (¥19,749 million for the year ended 31 March 2015, and ¥9,585 million for the year ended 31 March 2016). 9. Employee Benefit Expenses The breakdown of employee benefit expenses is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Rewards and salaries ¥147,449 ¥154,695 Bonuses 54,495 58,069 Social security and welfare expenses 29,211 32,290 Retirement benefit expenses—Defined contribution plan 13,479 14,934 Retirement benefit expenses—Defined benefit plan 8,462 6,611 Restructuring and termination benefits 12,920 3,792 Other employee benefit expenses 3,114 2,684 Total employee benefit expenses ¥269,130 ¥273,075 (Note) 1. Employee benefit expenses are included in “Cost of sales”, “Selling, general and administrative expenses”, “Research and development expenses” and “Other expense” in the consolidated statement of income. 2. “Retirement benefit expenses—Defined benefit plan” for the year ended 31 March 2015 do not include “Gain on settlement of defined benefit plan as postemployment benefits” recognised in “Other income.” 115 10. Finance Income The breakdown of finance income is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Interest income Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 715 ¥ 785 Other 89 200 Dividend income Available-for-sale financial assets 1,136 1,067 Gain on sales Available-for-sale financial assets 5,150 12,278 Other 7 19 Other ― 61 Total finance income ¥7,097 ¥14,411 11. Finance Expense The breakdown of finance expense is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Impairment losses Available-for-sale financial assets ¥2,610 ¥ 370 Other 468 1,257 Total finance expense ¥3,078 ¥1,627 12. Income Tax Expense The breakdown of income tax expense recognised in profit or loss is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Current income tax expense ¥64,877 ¥85,402 Deferred income tax expense (11,051) (17,319) Income tax expense reported in the consolidated statement of income ¥53,827 ¥68,083 (Note) Deferred income tax expense increased by ¥1,647 million and ¥1,627 million for the year ended 31 March 2015 and 2016, respectively, due to the effect of changes in the tax rate in Japan. 116 Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Tax benefit Tax benefit Before tax (expense) Net of tax Before tax (expense) Net of tax Remeasurements of defined benefit plans ¥ (8,864) ¥ 990 ¥ (7,874) ¥ (9,714) ¥ 3,437 ¥ (6,276) Foreign currency translation adjustments 29,645 ― 29,645 (45,172) － (45,172) Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets 15,696 (3,824) 11,872 (17,933) 6,575 (11,358) Total other comprehensive income ¥36,478 ¥(2,834) ¥33,643 ¥(72,818) ¥10,012 ¥(62,806) Reconciliation of effective tax rate The Company is subject mainly to corporate tax, were 35.3% and 32.8%, respectively. Foreign subsidiaries inhabitant tax, and enterprise tax on its income and the are subject to income taxes on their income in their effective statutory tax rates calculated based on those respective countries of domicile. taxes for the fiscal years ended 31 March 2015 and 2016 2015 2016 Effective statutory tax rate 35.3% 32.8% Tax credit for research and development expenses (4.1) (3.6) Non-deductible expenses 4.2 2.5 Difference in tax rates applied to foreign subsidiaries (9.5) (5.2) Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries 1.1 0.9 Effect of change in tax rate in Japan 0.9 0.6 Other 0.5 (2.0) Actual tax rate 28.4% 26.0% 117 13. Earnings per Share The basis of calculation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share is as follows: (Millions of yen, except as otherwise indicated) 2015 2016 Basis of calculating basic earnings per share Profit attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 135,856 ¥ 193,687 Profit not attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent ― ― Profit used to calculate basic earnings per share 135,856 193,687 Weighted average number of shares during the year (Thousands of shares) 2,209,080 2,158,131 Basis of calculating diluted earnings per share Profit used to calculate basic earnings per share ¥ 135,856 ¥ 193,687 Adjustment ― ― Profit used to calculate diluted earnings per share 135,856 193,687 Weighted average number of shares during the year (Thousands of shares) 2,209,080 2,158,131 Subscription rights to shares (Thousands of shares) 3,406 3,175 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares during the year (Thousands of shares) 2,212,486 2,161,306 Earnings per share (attributable to owners of the parent): Basic (Yen) ¥ 61.50 ¥ 89.75 Diluted (Yen) 61.40 89.62 14. Other Comprehensive Income Reclassification adjustments of other comprehensive income are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Foreign currency translation adjustments Amount arising during the year ¥29,645 ¥(45,172) Reclassification adjustment ― ― Subtotal 29,645 (45,172) Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets Amount arising during the year 18,326 (6,012) Reclassification adjustment (2,630) (11,920) Subtotal 15,696 (17,933) Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss before tax effect 45,341 (63,104) Tax effect (3,824) 6,575 Other comprehensive income that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss, net of tax ¥41,517 ¥(56,529) 118 15. Property, Plant and Equipment Movement of cost, accumulated depreciation and impairment losses for property, plant and equipment The movement of property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 March 2015 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Buildings Tools, and Machinery furniture and Construction structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2014 ¥187,614 ¥ 151,699 ¥ 82,974 ¥18,728 ¥ 9,023 ¥ 450,039 Acquisitions 3,264 3,180 3,838 ― 20,315 30,598 Disposals (1,618) (5,481) (5,119) (34) (15) (12,268) Reclassification from construction in progress 2,039 2,580 466 ― (5,085) ― Reclassification to assets held for sale ― (313) (2) ― ― (314) Other 4,498 (1,537) 402 154 555 4,073 Balance at 31 March 2015 195,798 150,128 82,560 18,848 24,793 472,127 Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2014 (73,584) (117,979) (67,025) ― ― (258,588) Depreciation (7,417) (8,295) (5,610) ― ― (21,322) Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) (338) (597) (3) (306) (53) (1,297) Disposals 1,158 5,220 4,889 ― ― 11,267 Reclassification to assets held for sale ― 174 1 ― ― 175 Other (590) 1,041 60 ― (5) 506 Balance at 31 March 2015 (80,771) (120,435) (67,688) (306) (58) (269,258) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2014 114,030 33,721 15,950 18,728 9,023 191,451 Balance at 31 March 2015 ¥115,027 ¥ 29,693 ¥ 14,872 ¥18,543 ¥24,735 ¥ 202,869 (Note) “Other” mainly includes exchange differences. 119 The movement of property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 March 2016 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Buildings Tools, and Machinery furniture and Construction structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2015 ¥195,798 ¥ 150,128 ¥ 82,560 ¥18,848 ¥ 24,793 ¥ 472,127 Acquisitions 10,347 4,989 5,966 ― 12,725 34,027 Business combinations 38 109 4 ― ― 151 Disposals (1,038) (2,928) (7,767) (704) (114) (12,550) Reclassification from construction in progress 10,541 6,827 685 398 (18,451) ― Reclassification to assets held for sale (883) (2,569) (1,527) (331) ― (5,310) Other (3,638) (2,506) (687) (188) (829) (7,849) Balance at 31 March 2016 211,164 154,051 79,235 18,023 18,124 480,597 Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2015 (80,771) (120,435) (67,688) (306) (58) (269,258) Depreciation (7,360) (8,412) (5,180) ― ― (20,952) Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) (7,174) (1,240) 91 (305) ― (8,629) Disposals 817 2,591 7,380 306 ― 11,094 Reclassification to assets held for sale 883 2,394 1,156 305 ― 4,740 Other 1,188 1,742 430 ― 4 3,364 Balance at 31 March 2016 (92,416) (123,360) (63,811) ― (54) (279,642) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2015 115,027 29,693 14,872 18,543 24,735 202,869 Balance at 31 March 2016 ¥118,748 ¥ 30,691 ¥ 15,423 ¥18,023 ¥ 18,069 ¥ 200,955 (Note) 1. The increase due to business combinations reflected the acquisition of Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (The company name was changed to Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine in May 2016.) For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combination”. 2. “Other” mainly includes exchange differences. The Group recognised impairment losses (or reversal of for the year ended 31 March 2015. impairment losses) of ¥1,297 million for the year ended 31 Impairment losses (or reversal of impairment losses) March 2015 and ¥8,629 million for the year ended 31 of ¥8,629 million for the year ended 31 March 2016 March 2016, and they are mainly included in “Other mainly resulted from the closure of the Kashima R&D expense” in the consolidated statement of income. Center (Osaka Prefecture) owned by the Company. The The Group recognised ¥1,297 million of impairment assets, including buildings, are planned to be disposed of, losses (or reversal of impairment losses) for land, and the recoverable amount is therefore deemed to be zero. buildings and structures, machinery and vehicles, etc. 120 The carrying amounts of the assets held under finance leases included in “Property, plant and equipment” are as follows: (Millions of yen) Machinery and Tools, furniture and vehicles fixtures Total Balance at 1 April 2014 ¥ 0 ¥1,146 ¥1,146 Balance at 31 March 2015 ¥ ― ¥ 991 ¥ 991 Balance at 31 March 2016 ¥95 ¥1,133 ¥1,228 16. Goodwill The movement of cost and accumulated impairment losses for goodwill is as follows: (Millions of yen) Accumulated Cost impairment losses Carrying amount Balance at 1 April 2014 ¥116,766 ¥― ¥116,766 Exchange differences 19,571 ― 19,571 Balance at 31 March 2015 136,337 ― 136,337 Business combinations 24,332 ― 24,332 Exchange differences (10,009) ― (10,009) Balance at 31 March 2016 ¥150,660 ¥― ¥150,660 (Note) The increase due to business combinations reflected the acquisition of Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (The company name was changed to Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine in May 2016.) For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combination”. Goodwill recognised in the consolidated statement of The Group uses a weighted average cost of capital financial position mainly resulted from the acquisition of (WACC) determined for each geographical area as a OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2010 and Ocata Therapeutics, discount rate. The after-tax WACC used for the Inc. in the year ended 31 March 2016. impairment test is 8.0% and the pre-tax WACC 13.1%. The Group, in principle, regards the geographical Also, a growth rate of 2.0% is reflected in calculating business units, which are managed for internal reporting the terminal value after the three-year business plan. The purposes, as cash-generating units. growth rate reflects the status of the country and the For the years ended 31 March 2015 and 2016, industry to which the cash-generating unit belongs. goodwill is allocated to the Americas cash-generating unit, The value in use sufficiently exceeds the carrying and the carrying amount of goodwill was ¥136,337 amount of the cash-generating unit. Therefore, even if the million and ¥150,660 million, respectively. For the key assumptions used in the calculation of the value in use impairment test, the value in use, which is calculated fluctuate within a reasonable range, the Group assumes based on the three-year business plan approved at the that the possibility that the value in use will be lower than board of directors meeting, is used as the recoverable the carrying amount is remote. amount. 121 17. Other Intangible Assets Movement of cost, accumulated amortisation and impairment losses for other intangible assets The movement of other intangible assets for the year ended 31 March 2015 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Patents and Marketing technologies rights IPR&D Software Other Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2014 ¥ 253,511 ¥ 85,321 ¥ 97,408 ¥ 32,821 ¥ 385 ¥ 469,447 Acquisitions 25,634 157 22,169 5,847 5 53,812 Disposals (35) ― (11,517) (3,080) (97) (14,729) Reclassification 9,481 ― (9,481) ― ― ― Other 26,809 2,646 114 540 104 30,214 Balance at 31 March 2015 315,401 88,125 98,693 36,128 396 538,743 Accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2014 (100,526) (51,691) (18,220) (18,674) (215) (189,327) Amortisation (27,906) (10,758) ― (5,463) (26) (44,152) Impairment losses (277) ― (8,876) (596) ― (9,749) Disposals 35 ― 11,517 3,036 84 14,671 Other (11,981) (1,350) (14) (902) (96) (14,342) Balance at 31 March 2015 (140,655) (63,799) (15,593) (22,600) (253) (242,899) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2014 152,985 33,630 79,188 14,147 170 280,120 Balance at 31 March 2015 ¥ 174,746 ¥ 24,326 ¥ 83,100 ¥ 13,528 ¥ 144 ¥ 295,844 (Note) “Other” mainly includes exchange differences. 122 The movement of other intangible assets for the year ended 31 March 2016 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Patents and Marketing technologies rights IPR&D Software Other Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2015 ¥ 315,401 ¥ 88,125 ¥ 98,693 ¥ 36,128 ¥ 396 ¥ 538,743 Acquisitions 31,848 15 39,742 9,123 2 80,730 Business combinations ― ― 17,456 ― ― 17,456 Disposals ― (30,288) ― (769) (7) (31,064) Reclassification 5,926 ― (5,926) ― ― ― Other (11,804) (770) (1,149) (785) (72) (14,580) Balance at 31 March 2016 341,371 57,081 148,816 43,697 319 591,285 Accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses Balance at 1 April 2015 (140,655) (63,799) (15,593) (22,600) (253) (242,899) Amortisation (32,775) (9,612) ― (5,825) (25) (48,236) Impairment losses ― ― (680) ― (1) (681) Disposals ― 30,288 ― 664 6 30,959 Other 7,237 629 14 829 64 8,774 Balance at 31 March 2016 (166,192) (42,493) (16,258) (26,931) (208) (252,083) Carrying amounts Balance at 1 April 2015 174,746 24,326 83,100 13,528 144 295,844 Balance at 31 March 2016 ¥ 175,179 ¥ 14,588 ¥132,558 ¥ 16,766 ¥ 111 ¥ 339,202 (Note) 1. The increase due to business combinations mainly reflected the acquisition of Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (The company name was changed to Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine in May 2016.) For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combination”. 2. “Other” mainly includes exchange differences. Amortisation of other intangible assets related to the rights assets”. of product or research and development arising from inImpairment losses for other intangible assets are licensing agreements is recognised in the consolidated recognised in the consolidated statement of income under statement of income under “Amortisation of intangible “Other expense”. Impairment test and impairment losses for other intangible assets For the intangible assets other than goodwill, the Group For the year ended 31 March 2015, impairment losses assesses the necessity of impairment by individual asset. recognised for other intangible assets were ¥9,749 million, Also, intangible assets not yet being amortised are tested and the details of the main items are as follows: for impairment annually whether or not there is any Impairment losses of ¥9,153 million were mainly indication of impairment. For the impairment test, the recognised due to the discontinuation of development value in use is mainly used as the recoverable amount. activities for IPR&Ds. This is mainly due to the right of The discount rate is calculated based on the WACC, and termination exercised by the Company regarding the the range of post-tax discount rate used for the calculation license agreement on a beta-secretase inhibitor (Alzheimer of the value in use is 6.0% to 9.0%, and that of pre-tax dementia) with CoMentis, Inc. in the U.S. The Company discount rate is 8.2% to 13.6%. recognised an impairment loss deeming the recoverable As a result of the impairment test, the Group amount as zero. recognised the following impairment losses for the years For the year ended 31 March 2016, impairment losses ended 31 March 2015 and 2016. recognised for other intangible assets were ¥681 million 123 due to the discontinuation of development activities for IPR&Ds. Significant intangible assets Significant intangible assets recognised in the FibroGen, Inc. The carrying amounts of those intangible consolidated statement of financial position are mainly assets were ¥48,240 million, ¥90,770 million, and ¥50,565 composed of the acquired license related to research and million, respectively, as of 31 March 2015 and ¥73,532 development of enzalutamide (XTANDI) through the million, ¥65,003 million and ¥50,565 million, respectively, license agreement with Medivation, Inc., the rights related as of 31 March 2016. The remaining amortisation period to “Tarceva” resulting from the acquisition of OSI of intangible assets associated with the marketed products Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2010 and the acquired license is mainly 3 to 13 years, and the intangible assets not yet related to the research and development of being amortised are tested for impairment annually. YM311/roxadustat through the license agreement with 18. Deferred Taxes The breakdown and movement of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows: For the year ended 31 March 2015 (Millions of yen) Recognised in other As of 1 Recognised in comprehensive As of 31 April 2014 profit or loss income Other March 2015 Available-for-sale financial assets ¥(14,050) ¥ 451 ¥(3,824) ¥ 0 ¥(17,423) Retirement benefit assets and liabilities 8,172 (2,004) 990 (165) 6,993 Property, plant and equipment 4,877 (3,328) ― (225) 1,324 Intangible assets (49,940) 5,320 ― (4,638) (49,257) Accrued expenses 24,483 1,841 ― 2,735 29,059 Inventories 43,363 6,211 ― (303) 49,272 Tax loss carry-forwards 4,668 (1,039) ― (76) 3,554 Other 23,954 3,598 ― 89 27,641 Total ¥ 45,527 ¥11,051 ¥(2,834) ¥(2,581) ¥ 51,162 124 For the year ended 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) Recognised in other As of 1 Recognised in comprehensive Business As of 31 April 2015 profit or loss income combinations Other March 2016 Available-for-sale financial assets ¥(17,423) ¥ (207) ¥ 6,575 ¥ ― ¥ (12) ¥(11,067) Retirement benefit assets and liabilities 6,993 77 3,437 ― (59) 10,448 Property, plant and equipment 1,324 1,042 ― (12) 152 2,506 Intangible assets (49,257) 4,608 ― (5,089) 1,718 (48,020) Accrued expenses 29,059 (2,157) ― ― (1,110) 25,792 Inventories 49,272 3,321 ― ― (477) 52,116 Tax loss carry-forwards 3,554 (2,583) ― 8,179 (513) 8,637 Other 27,641 13,217 ― 90 (1,108) 39,841 Total ¥ 51,162 ¥17,319 ¥10,012 ¥ 3,167 ¥(1,408) ¥ 80,252 (Note) The increase due to business combinations mainly reflected the acquisition of Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (The company name was changed to Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine in May 2016.) For details on this business combination, please refer to Note “37. Business Combination”. Deductible temporary differences, tax loss carry-forwards, and unused tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Deductible temporary differences ¥31,630 ¥33,600 Tax loss carry-forwards 5,198 6,330 Unused tax credits 1,268 1,877 Total ¥38,096 ¥41,808 The expiration date and amount of tax loss carry-forwards for which no deferred tax asset is recognised are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Year 1 ¥ 99 ¥ 180 Year 2 192 68 Year 3 72 630 Year 4 65 158 Year 5 or later 4,771 5,295 Total ¥5,198 ¥6,330 125 19. Other Financial Assets The breakdown of other financial assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Other financial assets (non-current) Financial assets at FVTPL ¥ 6,466 ¥ 8,092 Loans and other financial assets 10,923 11,528 Allowance for doubtful accounts (14) (52) Available-for-sale financial assets 92,717 69,856 Total other financial assets (non-current) 110,091 89,424 Other financial assets (current) Financial assets at FVTPL ― 290 Loans and other financial assets 59,908 14,104 Total other financial assets (current) 59,908 14,394 Total other financial assets ¥169,999 ¥103,818 20. Other Assets The breakdown of other assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Other non-current assets Long-term prepaid expenses ¥10,307 ¥12,145 Retirement benefit assets 2,544 1,784 Other 834 840 Total other non-current assets 13,685 14,769 Other current assets Prepaid expenses 8,132 10,213 Other 4,600 7,008 Total other current assets ¥12,732 ¥17,221 126 21. Inventories The breakdown of inventories is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Raw materials and supplies ¥ 28,243 ¥ 28,165 Work in progress 13,165 14,239 Merchandise and finished goods 115,499 119,287 Total ¥156,907 ¥161,691 The carrying amounts of inventories are measured at the respectively. lower of cost and net realisable value. The write-down of inventories recognised as an The cost of inventories recognised as an expense in expense for the years ended 31 March 2015 and 2016 “Cost of sales” for the years ended 31 March 2015 and amounted to ¥5,094 million and ¥3,912 million, 2016 amounted to ¥305,075 million and ¥288,841 million, respectively. 22. Trade and Other Receivables The breakdown of trade and other receivables is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Notes and accounts receivable ¥317,858 ¥313,099 Other accounts receivable 33,148 41,423 Allowance for doubtful accounts (2,495) (2,820) Total trade and other receivables 348,511 351,702 Non-current assets 15,588 24,103 Current assets ¥332,923 ¥327,599 23. Cash and Cash Equivalents The breakdown of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Cash and deposits ¥348,343 ¥346,879 Short-term investments (cash equivalents) 48,087 13,151 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of financial position ¥396,430 ¥360,030 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows 396,430 360,030 127 24. Assets Held for Sale The breakdown of assets held for sale is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Assets Property, plant and equipment ¥139 ¥200 Total ¥139 ¥200 25. Equity and Other Components of Equity (1) Share capital and capital surplus The movement of the number of issued shares and share capital is as follows: (Millions of yen) Number of Number of ordinary authorised shares issued shares Share capital Capital surplus (Thousands of shares) (Thousands of shares) (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) As of 1 April 2014 2,000,000 456,964 ¥103,001 ¥176,822 Increase 7,000,000 1,827,858 ― ― Decrease ― (25,000) ― ― As of 31 March 2015 9,000,000 2,259,823 103,001 176,822 Increase ― ― ― 81 Decrease ― (38,000) ― ― As of 31 March 2016 9,000,000 2,221,823 ¥103,001 ¥176,903 (Note) 1. Decrease in the number of ordinary issued shares during the year ended 31 March 2015 and 2016 resulted from the cancellation of treasury shares. 2. Increase in the number of authorised shares and ordinary issued shares for the year ended 31 March 2015 resulted from the five-for-one share split with an effective date of 1 April 2014. (2) Treasury shares The movement of treasury shares is as follows: Number of shares Amount (Thousands of shares) (Millions of yen) As of 1 April 2014 10,736 ¥ 54,535 Increase 81,269 58,229 Decrease (25,323) (25,767) As of 31 March 2015 66,681 86,997 Increase 68,445 120,127 Decrease (38,282) (50,013) As of 31 March 2016 96,844 ¥157,111 (Note) The increase in the number of treasury shares during the year ended 31 March 2015 includes an increase of 42,945,000 shares due to the five-for-one share split with an effective date of 1 April 2014. 128 (3) Other components of equity Subscription rights to shares The Company had adopted share option plans through the year ended 31 March 2015, and has issued subscription rights to shares under the former Commercial Code and the Companies Act of Japan. Contract conditions and amounts are described in Note “27. Share-based Payment”. Foreign currency translation adjustments This is a foreign currency translation difference that occurred when consolidating the financial statements of foreign operations denominated in foreign currencies. Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets This is a valuation difference between the fair value and acquisition cost of available-for-sale financial assets, which are measured at fair values. 26. Dividends For the year ended 31 March 2015 (1) Dividends paid Amount of Dividends Class of dividends per share Resolution shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of Ordinary 31 March 19 June shareholders held on 18 June 2014 shares ¥31,236 ¥70.00 2014 2014 Board of directors meeting Ordinary 30 September 1 December held on 31 October 2014 shares 30,910 14.00 2014 2014 (Note) The Company completed a five-for-one share split with an effective date of 1 April 2014. “Dividends per share” whose record date is on or before 31 March 2014 shows the actual amount of dividends paid before the share split. (2) Dividends whose record date is in the fiscal year ended 31 March 2015 but whose effective date is in the following fiscal year are as follows: Amount of Dividends Class of dividends per share Resolution shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of Ordinary 31 March 18 June shareholders held on 17 June 2015 shares ¥35,090 ¥16.00 2015 2015 129 For the year ended 31 March 2016 (1) Dividends paid Amount of Dividends Class of dividends per share Resolution shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of Ordinary 31 March 18 June shareholders held on 17 June 2015 shares ¥35,090 ¥16.00 2015 2015 Board of directors meeting held on Ordinary 30 September 1 December 30 October 2015 shares 34,532 16.00 2015 2015 (Note) The amount of dividends approved by resolution of the board of directors meeting on 30 October 2015 includes dividends of ¥7 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. (2) Dividends whose record date is in the fiscal year ended 31 March 2016 but whose effective date is in the following fiscal year are as follows: Amount of Dividends Class of dividends per share Resolution shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Ordinary general meeting of Ordinary 31 March 21 June shareholders held on 20 June 2016 shares ¥34,007 ¥16.00 2016 2016 (Note) The amount of dividends above includes dividends of ¥7 million corresponding to the Company’s shares held in the executive compensation BIP trust. 27. Share-based Payment (1) Share option plans (i) Outline of share option plans The Company had adopted share option plans through the board of directors meeting. year ended 31 March 2015, and has granted share options Holders of subscription rights to shares can exercise to directors and corporate executives of the Company. The their share subscription rights only from the day following purpose of share option plans is to improve the sensitivity the date of resignation from their position as director or to the share price and the Group’s financial results and corporate executive of the Company. also increase the value of the Group by motivating the Share options not exercised during the exercise period members to whom share options are granted. defined in the allocation contract will be forfeited. After obtaining approval at the meeting of The Company accounts for those share option plans as shareholders, share options are granted as subscription equity-settled share-based payment transactions. rights to shares to individuals approved at the Company’s 130 (ii) Expenses recognised in the consolidated statement of income (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Total expenses recognised for share options granted ¥307 ¥73 (iii) Movement of the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise price 2015 2016 Weighted Weighted average exercise Number of average exercise Number of price (Yen) shares price (Yen) shares Outstanding, beginning of the period ¥ 3 3,402,000 ¥1 3,305,400 Granted 1 226,900 ― ― Exercised 25 (323,500) 1 (282,500) Forfeited or expired ― ― ― ― Outstanding, end of the period 1 3,305,400 1 3,022,900 Options exercisable, end of the period ¥ 1 3,248,675 ¥1 3,022,900 (Note) 1. The number of share options is presented as the number of underlying shares. 2. The weighted average share prices of share options at the time of exercise during the years ended 31 March 2015 and 2016 are ¥1,695 and ¥1,675, respectively. (iv) Expiration dates and exercise prices of share options outstanding at the end of the period Expiration Exercise price Number of shares date per share (Yen) 2015 2016 Granted on August 2005 24 June 2025 ¥1 66,500 46,000 Granted on February 2007 27 June 2026 1 143,500 123,500 Granted on August 2007 26 June 2027 1 200,000 169,500 Granted on September 2008 24 June 2028 1 221,500 173,000 Granted on July 2009 23 June 2029 1 397,000 348,500 Granted on July 2010 23 June 2030 1 531,500 489,000 Granted on July 2011 20 June 2031 1 577,500 557,500 Granted on July 2012 20 June 2032 1 587,500 557,500 Granted on July 2013 19 June 2033 1 353,500 331,500 Granted on July 2014 18 June 2034 1 226,900 226,900 Total ― 3,305,400 3,022,900 (Note) There are vesting conditions in which share subscription rights are vested according to the service record over approximately one year from the grant date of the share option to the vesting date. 131 (v) Measurement approach for fair value of share options granted during the period The weighted average fair value of share options granted during the period is determined using the binominal model based on the following assumptions. 2015 2016 Share price at the grant date 1,359 yen ― Expected volatility (Note 1) 29.8% ― Expected average period until the earliest exercisable date (Note 2) 3 years ― Expected dividend (Note 3) 27 yen/share ― Risk-free rate (Note 4) 1.4% ― (Note) 1. Estimated by taking into account the actual share prices for the past 20 years. 2. Estimated based on the service records and term of office. 3. Calculated based on the latest dividends paid. 4. Based on the yield of government bonds corresponding to the exercise period (20 years). (2) Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme (i) Outline of the Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme From the fiscal year ended 31 March 2016, the Group has of attainment of the medium-term management targets. introduced a Performance-linked Stock Compensation The Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme Scheme for directors and corporate executives (excluding under which the Company’s shares are delivered from the outside directors) for the purpose of increasing their BIP Trust is accounted for as an equity-settled share-based awareness of contributing to the sustainable growth in payment transaction. business results and corporate value. In addition, the Company will provide cash benefits The Scheme employs a framework referred to as the determined based on stock price of the Company to executive compensation BIP (Board Incentive Plan) trust corporate executives residing overseas based on the level (hereinafter the “BIP Trust”) for directors and corporate of attainment of the medium-term management targets. executives other than those residing overseas. The BIP The Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme that Trust acquires the Company’s shares and delivers those provides cash benefits from the Company is accounted for shares to directors and other executives based on the level as a cash-settled share-based payment transaction. (ii) Expenses recognised in the consolidated statement of income (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Total expenses recognised for the Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme ¥― ¥88 132 (iii) Measurement approach for the fair value of the Company’s shares granted during the period based on the Performance-linked Stock Compensation Scheme The weighted average fair value of the Company’s shares granted during the period is calculated based on the following assumptions. 2015 2016 Share price at the grant date ― 1,695.5 yen Vesting period (Note 1) ― 3 years Expected annual divided (Note 2) ― 32 yen/share Discount rate (Note 3) ― 0.0% Weighted average fair value ― 1,600 yen (Note) 1. Refers to the number of years from the grant date until the shares are delivered. 2. Calculated based on the latest dividends paid. 3. Based on the yield of government bonds corresponding to the vesting period. 28. Retirement Benefits The Group, excluding a part of foreign subsidiaries, offers plans offered, the defined benefit plan adopted in Japan is post-employment benefits such as defined benefit plans a major one, accounting for approximately 80% of the and defined contribution plans. Among the defined benefit total defined benefit obligations. (i) Defined benefit plan adopted in Japan as post-employment benefit The Company and its domestic subsidiaries offer of duties about management of the funds. corporate pension plans and retirement lump-sum payment Contributions of the employer are made monthly and plans as defined benefit plans. also determined as 4.0% of standard salary, which is The benefits of the defined benefit plan are determined calculated based on the estimate of the points granted based on the base compensation calculated by during a year to each participant. When the plan assets are accumulated points earned by the time of retirement and lower than the minimum funding standard at the end of the promised rate of return based on the yield of 10-year period, the employer will make additional contributions. government bonds. Also, the option of receiving benefits Defined benefit plans are exposed to actuarial risks. in the form of a pension is available for plan participants The Astellas Corporate Pension Fund assigns staff with with 15 years or more enrollments. professional knowledge and expertise about the Defined benefit plans are administered by the Astellas composition of plan asset to determine the asset mix ratio Corporate Pension Fund. Directors of the pension fund are and manages risks by monitoring on a quarterly basis. jointly liable for damages to the fund due to their neglect 133 (ii) Defined benefit plans of overseas subsidiaries as post-employment benefits Among foreign subsidiaries, ones located in the United due to a change of post-employment benefits of a Kingdom, Germany, Ireland, and some other countries subsidiary in the Netherlands, from a defined benefit plan offer defined benefit plans as post-employment benefits. to a defined contribution plan, in February 2015. The major defined benefit plan offered by overseas Consequently, an ¥8,017 million gain on settlement was subsidiaries as post-employment benefits as of 31 March recognised in the consolidated statement of income for the 2014, specifically the one adopted in the Netherlands, was year ended 31 March 2015. settled during the year ended 31 March 2015. This was Assets and liabilities of defined benefit plans recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: As of 31 March 2015 (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Present value of defined benefit obligations ¥ 117,128 ¥ 33,950 ¥ 151,078 ¥2,938 Fair value of plan assets (116,457) (10,044) (126,501) ― Funded status 671 23,906 24,577 2,938 Effect of the asset ceiling ― ― ― ― Net defined benefit liability (asset) ¥ 671 ¥ 23,906 ¥ 24,577 ¥2,938 Amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position Assets (other non-current assets) ¥ (2,544) ¥ ― ¥ (2,544) ¥ ― Liabilities (retirement benefit liabilities) 3,215 23,906 27,121 2,938 As of 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Present value of defined benefit obligations ¥ 125,717 ¥31,128 ¥ 156,845 ¥2,788 Fair value of plan assets (111,799) (9,820) (121,620) ― Net defined benefit liability (asset) ¥ 13,918 ¥21,308 ¥ 35,226 ¥2,788 Amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position Assets (other non-current assets) ¥ (1,784) ¥ ― ¥ (1,784) ¥ ― Liabilities (retirement benefit liabilities) 15,702 21,308 37,010 2,788 134 The movement of the present value of defined benefit obligations is as follows: (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Balance at 1 April 2014 ¥117,862 ¥ 57,182 ¥175,044 ¥ 2,959 Current service cost 4,869 1,955 6,824 380 Interest cost 1,211 1,878 3,088 87 Remeasurements of defined benefit obligations -actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions ― 25 25 (1,110) -actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 2,633 25,660 28,293 (51) -other (337) (486) (823) (141) Past service cost, and gains and losses arising from settlements ― (49,046) (49,046) 586 Contributions to the plan by plan participants ― 487 487 ― Payments from the plan (9,109) (1,329) (10,438) (78) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates ― (2,377) (2,377) 306 Balance at 31 March 2015 117,128 33,950 151,078 2,938 Current service cost 4,687 1,165 5,852 284 Interest cost 1,009 622 1,630 65 Remeasurements of defined benefit obligations -actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 2,033 (180) 1,853 (3) -actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 6,543 (2,760) 3,784 (173) -other 257 217 474 (31) Past service cost, and gains and losses arising from settlements ― (12) (12) ― Contributions to the plan by plan participants ― 83 83 ― Payments from the plan (5,940) (1,041) (6,981) (87) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates ― (916) (916) (204) Balance at 31 March 2016 ¥125,717 ¥ 31,128 ¥156,845 ¥ 2,788 135 The movement of fair value of plan assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Balance at 1 April 2014 ¥111,719 ¥ 39,904 ¥151,623 ¥― Interest income 1,149 1,326 2,475 ― Remeasurements of the fair value of the plan assets -return on plan assets 8,008 9,310 17,318 ― -actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (187) (19) (205) ― Contributions to the plan -by employer 3,022 1,704 4,726 ― -by plan participants ― 487 487 ― Payments from the plan (7,254) (670) (7,924) ― Losses arising from settlements and curtailments ― (40,993) (40,993) ― Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates ― (1,005) (1,005) ― Balance at 31 March 2015 116,457 10,044 126,501 ― Interest income 1,002 206 1,208 ― Remeasurements of the fair value of the plan assets -return on plan assets (2,777) (510) (3,287) ― -actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (487) (36) (523) ― Contributions to the plan -by employer 2,758 719 3,477 ― -by plan participants ― 83 83 ― Payments from the plan (5,154) (394) (5,548) ― Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates ― (291) (291) ― Balance at 31 March 2016 ¥111,799 ¥ 9,820 ¥121,620 ¥― The Group expects to contribute ¥3,668 million to its defined benefit plans in the fiscal year ending 31 March 2017. 136 The movement of the effect of the asset ceiling is as follows: (Millions of yen) Pension and lump-sum payment Japan Overseas Total Other Balance at 1 April 2014 ¥― ¥ 220 ¥ 220 ¥― Interest income ― 7 7 ― Remeasurements Changes in the effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the asset ceiling ― (217) (217) ― Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates, etc. ― (10) (10) ― Balance at 31 March 2015 ¥― ¥ ― ¥ ― ¥― The breakdown of the fair value of plan assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Japan Equity ¥ 31,877 ¥ 22,508 Bonds 43,675 37,104 Cash and other investments 40,905 52,188 Total 116,457 111,799 Overseas Equity 4,723 4,277 Bonds 2,622 2,381 Cash and other investments 2,698 3,161 Total 10,044 9,820 Total fair value of plan assets ¥126,501 ¥121,620 (i) Japanese plan assets Equity comprises mainly investment trust funds and it is and they are categorised as Level 2 within the fair value categorised as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. The hierarchy. Cash and other investments include alternative fair values of bonds are measured using quoted prices for investments. identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, (ii) Overseas plan assets Equity is mainly composed of investments with quoted of bonds are measured using quoted prices for identical or prices in active markets or with measured value using similar assets in markets that are not active, and they are quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that categorised as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. are not active, and they are mainly categorised as Level 1 Cash and other investments include alternative or Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. The fair values investments. 137 Significant actuarial assumptions and sensitivity analysis for each significant actuarial assumption are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Discount rate (%) Japan 0.8%-0.9% 0.4%-0.5% Overseas 1.5%-3.2% 1.5%-3.4% A 0.5% increase or decrease in the discount rate as are held constant. In practice, changes in some of the significant actuarial assumption would lead to a ¥11,077 assumptions may occur in a correlated manner. When million decrease and ¥12,535 million increase, calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit respectively, in the defined benefit obligation. obligations, the same method has been applied as The sensitivity analysis does not consider correlations calculating the defined benefit obligations recognised in between assumptions, assuming that all other assumptions the consolidated statement of financial position. The weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligations is as follows: 2015 2016 Japan 12.7 years 13.1 years Overseas 19.6 years 19.4 years 29. Provisions The movement of provisions for the year ended 31 March 2015 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Trade-related Asset retirement provisions obligations Other Total Balance at 1 April 2014 ¥ 61,404 ¥2,113 ¥ 7,154 ¥ 70,671 Increase during the year 73,773 261 7,022 81,057 Decrease due to intended use (55,635) (385) (4,719) (60,739) Reversal during the year (8,890) (23) (1,029) (9,943) Other 8,454 (20) 761 9,195 Balance at 31 March 2015 79,107 1,946 9,188 90,241 Non-current 2,117 1,945 756 4,817 Current 76,990 1 8,432 85,423 Total provisions ¥ 79,107 ¥1,946 ¥ 9,188 ¥ 90,241 138 The movement of provisions for the year ended 31 March 2016 is as follows: (Millions of yen) Trade-related Asset retirement provisions obligations Other Total Balance at 1 April 2015 ¥ 79,107 ¥1,946 ¥ 9,188 ¥ 90,241 Increase during the year 79,850 45 5,122 85,016 Decrease due to intended use (60,614) (35) (1,512) (62,162) Reversal during the year (10,889) ― (653) (11,542) Other (3,922) (8) (683) (4,612) Balance at 31 March 2016 83,531 1,948 11,462 96,941 Non-current 4,582 1,948 553 7,083 Current 78,949 ― 10,909 89,858 Total provisions ¥ 83,531 ¥1,948 ¥11,462 ¥ 96,941 Details of provisions are as follows: (i) Trade-related provisions The Group recognises provisions for expenditures based on the conditions of contracts and past experience. expected to be incurred after the end of the period related The outflow of economic benefits is expected within to sales rebates, discounts, Medicare and Medicaid of the one year from the end of the reporting period. United States, and other price adjustments to customers, (ii) Asset retirement obligations The Group recognises asset retirement obligations based The outflow of economic benefits is expected after one on past performance in order to provide for the restoration year from the end of the reporting period. of rented offices. 30. Other Financial Liabilities The breakdown of other financial liabilities is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Other financial liabilities (non-current) Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Finance lease liabilities ¥ 626 ¥ 722 Total other financial liabilities (non-current) ¥ 626 ¥ 722 Other financial liabilities (current) Financial liabilities at FVTPL ¥ 373 ¥ 351 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Finance lease liabilities 365 505 Other 600 649 Total other financial liabilities (current) ¥1,339 ¥1,505 Total other financial liabilities ¥1,965 ¥2,227 139 The maturity and the present value of finance lease liabilities are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Minimum lease payments Not later than one year ¥365 ¥ 505 Later than one year and not later than five years 616 719 Later than five years 10 3 Present value of finance lease liabilities ¥991 ¥1,226 31. Other Liabilities The breakdown of other liabilities is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Other non-current liabilities Other long-term employee benefits ¥14,018 ¥ 15,316 Deferred income 4,182 61,689 Other 942 564 Total other non-current liabilities ¥19,142 ¥ 77,569 Other current liabilities Accrued bonuses ¥30,155 ¥ 30,199 Accrued paid absences 9,890 10,517 Other accrued expenses 46,059 46,804 Deferred income 329 28,779 Other 6,971 4,827 Total other current liabilities ¥93,403 ¥121,126 (Note) Deferred income under other non-current liabilities and deferred income under other current liabilities include those of ¥57,787 million and ¥28,411 million, respectively, recognised in connection with the transfer of the global dermatology business to LEO Pharma A/S. 32. Trade and Other Payables The breakdown of trade and other payables is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Accounts payable—trade ¥108,137 ¥110,852 Other payables 118,554 72,305 Total trade and other payables ¥226,692 ¥183,157 Non-current ¥ 90 ¥ 1,599 Current 226,602 181,559 140 33. Financial Instruments (1) Capital management The Group’s capital management principle is to maintain The Group monitors financial indicators in order to an optimal capital structure by improving capital maintain an optimal capital structure. Credit ratings are efficiency and ensuring sound and flexible financial monitored for financial soundness and flexibility, and so is conditions in order to achieve sustained improvement in return on equity attributable to owners of the parent the enterprise value, which will lead to improved return to (ROE) for capital efficiency. shareholders. The Group is not subject to material capital regulation. (2) Classification of financial assets and financial liabilities The breakdown of financial assets and financial liabilities is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL ¥ 6,466 ¥ 8,382 Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables 348,511 351,702 Loans and other financial assets 70,817 25,579 Available-for-sale financial assets 92,717 69,856 Cash and cash equivalents 396,430 360,030 Total financial assets ¥914,941 ¥815,549 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL ¥ 373 ¥ 351 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Trade and other payables 226,692 183,157 Other 1,591 1,875 Total financial liabilities ¥228,656 ¥185,384 (Note) 1. Financial assets at FVTPL, loans and other financial assets, and available-for-sale financial assets are included in “Other financial assets” in the consolidated statement of financial position. 2. Financial liabilities at FVTPL and “Other” of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are included in “Other financial liabilities” in the consolidated statement of financial position. (3) Financial risk management policy The Group is exposed to financial risks such as credit risks, The Group limits the use of derivatives to transactions liquidity risks, and foreign exchange risks in operating for the purpose of hedging financial risks and does not use businesses, and it manages risks based on its policy to derivatives for speculation purposes. mitigate them. (i) Credit risk (a) Credit risk management the financial condition of the customer and monitoring the Receivables, such as trade receivables, resulting from the trade receivables balance. Also, the Group reviews business activities of the Group are exposed to the collectability of trade receivables depending on the credit customer’s credit risk. This risk is managed by grasping 141 conditions of customers and recognises an allowance for amount of trade receivables due from those four doubtful accounts as necessary. wholesalers are ¥130,148 million at 31 March 2015 and Securities held by the Group are exposed to the ¥121,505 million at 31 March 2016. issuer’s credit risk, and deposits are exposed to the credit (c) Maximum exposure to credit risk risk of banks. Also, derivative transactions that the Group Other than guaranteed obligations, the Group’s maximum conducts in order to hedge financial risks are exposed to exposure to credit risks without taking into account any the credit risk of the financial institutions which are collateral held or other credit enhancements is the carrying counterparties of those transactions. In regard to securities amount of financial instruments less impairment losses in transactions and deposit transactions in fund management, the consolidated statement of financial position. The the Group only deals with banks and issuers with certain Group’s maximum exposure to credit risks of guaranteed credit ratings and manages investments within the defined obligations as of 31 March 2015 and 2016 were ¥1,537 period and credit limit, in accordance with Global Cash million and ¥1,379 million, respectively. Investment Policy. In addition, regarding derivative (d) Collateral transactions, the Group only deals with financial The Group has securities and deposits received as institutions with certain credit ratings in accordance with collateral for certain trade receivables and other Astellas Global Treasury Policy. receivables. The carrying amount of securities held as (b) Concentrations of credit risk collateral is ¥1,478 million at 31 March 2016 (¥1,353 In Japan, like other pharmaceutical companies, the Group million at 31 March 2015), and the carrying amount of sells its products through a small number of wholesalers. deposits received is ¥85 million at 31 March 2016 (¥85 Sales to the four largest wholesalers amounted to million at 31 March 2015). approximately 75% of the Group’s sales in Japan, and the The analysis of aging of financial assets that are past due but not impaired is as follows: (Millions of yen) Past due but not impaired Neither past Between three Between six Allowance for due nor Within three months and six months and one doubtful impaired months months year Over one year accounts Total Balance at 31 March 2015 Trade and other receivables ¥325,640 ¥20,291 ¥1,590 ¥1,478 ¥1,950 ¥(2,438) ¥348,511 Loans and other financial assets 70,817 ― ― ― ― ― 70,817 Total ¥396,457 ¥20,291 ¥1,590 ¥1,478 ¥1,950 ¥(2,438) ¥419,328 Balance at 31 March 2016 Trade and other receivables ¥331,749 ¥17,740 ¥2,080 ¥1,889 ¥ 934 ¥(2,689) ¥351,702 Loans and other financial assets 25,572 1 ― 6 ― ― 25,579 Total ¥357,321 ¥17,740 ¥2,080 ¥1,895 ¥ 934 ¥(2,689) ¥377,281 142 Financial assets that are individually determined to be impaired are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Trade and other receivables (gross) ¥ 57 ¥ 132 Allowance for doubtful accounts (57) (132) Trade and other receivables (net) ¥ ― ¥ ― Loans and other financial assets (gross) ¥ 14 ¥ 52 Allowance for doubtful accounts (14) (52) Loans and other financial assets (net) ¥ ― ¥ ― The movement of the allowance for doubtful accounts is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Balance at the beginning of the year ¥1,717 ¥2,509 Increase during the year 1,395 477 Decrease due to intended use (3) (7) Reversal during the year (530) (33) Other (69) (74) Balance at the end of the year ¥2,509 ¥2,873 (ii) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk management financial obligations and respond flexibly to strategic The Group is exposed to liquidity risk that the Group investment opportunities. Also, the balance is reported might have difficulty settling financial obligations. monthly to a Senior Corporate Executive (i.e., Chief However, the Group is maintaining the liquidity on hand Financial Officer). that enables the Group to meet the expected repayment of Financial liabilities by maturity date are as follows: As of 31 March 2015 (Millions of yen) Between six Between one Between two Carrying Contractual Within six months and one year and two years and five amount cash flows months year years years Over five years Financial liabilities at FVTPL Foreign exchange forward contracts ¥ 373 ¥ 373 ¥ ― ¥373 ¥ ― ¥ ― ¥ ― Subtotal 373 373 ― 373 ― ― ― Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Trade and other payables 226,692 226,766 226,659 17 36 54 ― Other 1,591 1,591 795 170 287 329 10 Subtotal 228,283 228,358 227,455 187 323 383 10 Total ¥228,656 ¥228,731 ¥227,455 ¥561 ¥323 ¥383 ¥10 143 As of 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) Between six Between one Between two Contractual cash Within six months and one year and two years and five Carrying amount flows months year years years Over five years Financial liabilities at FVTPL Foreign exchange forward contracts ¥ 351 ¥ 351 ¥ ― ¥ 351 ¥ ― ¥ ― ¥― Subtotal 351 351 ― 351 ― ― ― Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Trade and other payables 183,157 183,157 181,107 452 112 1,486 ― Other 1,875 1,875 911 242 308 411 3 Subtotal 185,033 185,033 182,018 694 420 1,897 3 Total ¥185,384 ¥185,384 ¥182,018 ¥1,045 ¥420 ¥1,897 ¥3 (iii) Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk management denominated in foreign currencies. Also, the balance of The Group operates globally and the Group’s business derivative transactions is reported monthly to a Senior results and financial position are exposed to foreign Corporate Executive (Chief Financial Officer). exchange risks. Foreign exchange sensitivity analysis The Group’s long-term basic policy is to mitigate the The financial impact on profit before tax for the years foreign exchange risks by controlling the amount of the ended 31 March 2015 and 2016 in the case of a 10% Group’s net assets denominated in foreign currencies to appreciation in Japanese yen, which is the Company’s the level corresponding to the business scale of respective functional currency, against the U.S. dollar and euro is as area. In the short term, the Group uses derivatives such as follows. foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the impact Also, it is based on the assumption that currencies of exchange rate fluctuations arising from import and other than the ones used for the calculation do not export transactions fluctuate and other change factors are held constant. (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Profit before tax U.S. dollar ¥ (847) ¥ (190) Euro (1,274) (7,912) (Note) The above negative amounts represent the negative impact on profit before tax in the event of a 10% appreciation in Japanese yen. (4) Fair values of financial instruments (i) Fair value calculation of financial instruments Financial assets at FVTPL Loans and receivables Financial assets at FVTPL comprise mainly debt securities The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the and foreign exchange forward contracts. The fair value of short period of settlement terms. those financial instruments is measured based on prices provided by counterparty financial institutions. 144 Available-for-sale financial assets Financial liabilities at FVTPL The fair value of marketable securities is based on quoted Financial liabilities at FVTPL comprise foreign exchange market prices at the end of the period. The fair value of forward contracts. The fair value is measured based on unquoted equity shares is measured mainly based on the prices provided by counterparty financial institutions. discounted future cash flows. Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Cash and cash equivalents Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost comprise The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the trade and other payables and other financial liabilities. The short maturities of the instruments. carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short period of settlement terms. (ii) Financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis Fair value hierarchy – Level 3: Fair value measured using significant The levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: unobservable inputs for the assets or liabilities. – Level 1: Fair value measured using quoted prices The level of the fair value hierarchy is determined (unadjusted) in active markets for identical based on the lowest level of significant input used for the assets or liabilities; measurement of fair value. – Level 2: Fair value measured using inputs other than The Group accounts for transfers between levels of the quoted prices included within Level 1 that are fair value hierarchy as if they occurred at the end of each observable for the assets or liabilities, either quarter. directly or indirectly; and The breakdown of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy, is as follows: As of 31 March 2015 (Millions of yen) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL Other ¥ ― ¥5,715 ¥ 750 ¥ 6,466 Subtotal ― 5,715 750 6,466 Available-for-sale financial assets Quoted equity shares 76,596 ― ― 76,596 Unquoted equity shares ― ― 15,520 15,520 Other equity securities ― ― 601 601 Subtotal 76,596 ― 16,121 92,717 Total financial assets 76,596 5,715 16,871 99,182 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL Foreign exchange forward contracts ― 373 ― 373 Subtotal ― 373 ― 373 Total financial liabilities ¥ ― ¥ 373 ¥ ― ¥ 373 (Note) Financial assets at FVTPL and available-for-sale financial assets, and financial liabilities at FVTPL are included in “Other financial assets” and “Other financial liabilities” in the consolidated statement of financial position, respectively. 145 As of 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Financial assets at FVTPL Foreign exchange forward contracts ¥ ― ¥ 290 ¥ ― ¥ 290 Other ― 6,087 2,005 8,092 Subtotal ― 6,377 2,005 8,382 Available-for-sale financial assets Quoted equity shares 55,995 ― ― 55,995 Unquoted equity shares ― ― 13,861 13,861 Other equity securities ― ― 0 0 Subtotal 55,995 ― 13,861 69,856 Total financial assets 55,995 6,377 15,866 78,238 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL Foreign exchange forward contracts ― 351 ― 351 Subtotal ― 351 ― 351 Total financial liabilities ¥ ― ¥ 351 ¥ ― ¥ 351 (Note) Financial assets at FVTPL and available-for-sale financial assets, and financial liabilities at FVTPL are included in “Other financial assets” and “Other financial liabilities” in the consolidated statement of financial position, respectively. The movement of fair value of financial assets categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy is as follows: As of 31 March 2015 (Millions of yen) Financial assets Available-for-sale at FVTPL financial assets Total Balance at the beginning of the year ¥ ― ¥24,609 ¥24,609 Realised or unrealised gains (losses) Recognised in profit or loss (Note 1) (27) (2,213) (2,240) Recognised in other comprehensive income ― 2,531 2,531 Purchases, issues, sales, and settlements Purchases 772 2,533 3,305 Sales ― (2,108) (2,108) Transfers to/from Level 3 (Note 2) ― (9,704) (9,704) Other 5 473 478 Balance at the end of the year ¥750 ¥16,121 ¥16,871 Gains or losses recognised during the year in profit or loss attributable to the change in unrealised gains or losses relating to those assets held at the end of the period (Note 1) ¥ (27) ¥ (2,217) ¥ (2,244) (Note) 1. Those are included in “Finance income” and “Finance expense” of the consolidated statement of income. 2. Those financial assets were transferred from Level 3, since a significant input that affects measurement of fair value became observable. 146 As of 31 March 2016 (Millions of yen) Financial assets Available-for-sale at FVTPL financial assets Total Balance at the beginning of the year ¥ 750 ¥16,121 ¥16,871 Realised or unrealised gains (losses) Recognised in profit or loss (Note 1) (153) 240 87 Recognised in other comprehensive income ― (1,024) (1,024) Purchases, issues, sales, and settlements Purchases 1,408 744 2,152 Sales (1) (664) (664) Transfers to Investments in associates and joint ventures ― (576) (576) Transfers to/from Level 3 (Note 2) ― (657) (657) Other ― (322) (322) Balance at the end of the year ¥2,005 ¥13,861 ¥15,866 Gains or losses recognised during the year in profit or loss attributable to the change in unrealised gains or losses relating to those assets held at the end of the period (Note 1) ¥ (151) ¥ ― ¥ (151) (Note) 1. Those are included in “Finance income” and “Finance expense” of the consolidated statement of income. 2. Those financial assets were transferred from Level 3, since a significant input that affects measurement of fair value became observable. The financial assets categorised within Level 3 are decrease if the WACC capital were higher. composed mainly of unquoted equity shares. The fair value of unquoted equity shares is measured The fair value of significant unquoted equity shares is by relevant departments of the Company and each Group measured using discounted future cash flows. The fair company in accordance with the Group accounting policy value of unquoted equity shares is categorised within every quarter. The results with evidences of changes in Level 3 because unobservable inputs such as estimates of fair value are reported to a superior and, if necessary, to future net operating profit after tax and WACC are used the Executive Committee as well. for the measurement. The WACC used for the In regards to financial instruments categorised within measurement of fair value depends on region or industry. Level 3, there would be no significant change in fair value In the years ended 31 March 2015 and 2016, the WACC when one or more of the unobservable inputs is changed used for measurement was between 6.0% and 8.0%, and to reflect reasonably possible alternative assumptions. 8.0%, respectively. Generally, the fair value would 147 34. Operating Leases Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Not later than one year ¥13,091 ¥13,017 Later than one year and not later than five years 30,717 26,850 Later than five years 3,756 2,349 Total ¥47,564 ¥42,217 Future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Future minimum sublease payments expected to be received ¥2,951 ¥2,286 Minimum lease payments and sublease payments received recognised as expenses are as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Minimum lease payments ¥18,191 ¥17,634 Sublease payments received (205) (229) Total ¥17,987 ¥17,405 The Group leases buildings, vehicles and other assets of purchase options, and escalation clauses. In addition, under operating leases. there are no material restrictions imposed by the lease The significant leasing arrangements have terms of arrangements. renewal, but there exist no contingent rents payable, terms 35. Commitments The breakdown of commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets is as follows: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Intangible assets Research and development milestone payments ¥238,025 ¥251,978 Sales milestone payments 173,665 153,833 Total ¥411,691 ¥405,812 Property, plant and equipment ¥ 20,676 ¥ 8,715 Commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets The Group has entered into research and development “Research and development milestone payments” collaborations and in-license agreements of products and represent obligations to pay the amount set out in an technologies with a number of third parties. These individual contract agreement upon achievement of a agreements may require the Group to make milestone milestone determined according to the stage of research payments upon the achievement of agreed objectives or and development. when certain conditions are met as defined in the “Sales milestone payments” represent obligations to agreements. pay the amount set out in an individual contract agreement 148 upon achievement of a milestone determined according to Since the achievement of the conditions for payment is the target of sales. highly uncertain, it is unlikely that they will all fall due The amounts shown in the table above represent the and the amounts of the actual payments may vary maximum payments to be made when all milestones are considerably from those stated in the table. achieved, and they are undiscounted and not risk adjusted. 36. Related Party Transactions (1) Major companies the Group controls A list of major companies the Group controls is presented in “Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates”. (2) Compensation of key management personnel The table below shows, by the type, the compensation of key management personnel: (Millions of yen) 2015 2016 Rewards and salaries ¥1,255 ¥1,253 Share-based payment 183 98 Other 292 420 Total compensation ¥1,731 ¥1,771 Key management personnel consist of 22 people (20 during 2015) including Directors, Corporate Audit & Supervisory Board Members and members of the Executive Committee. 37. Business Combination For the year ended 31 March 2016 (1) Outline of business combination (i) Name and business description of the acquiree Name of the acquiree: Ocata Therapeutics, Inc. (“Ocata”) (The company name was changed to Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine in May 2016.) Business description: Research and development of new therapies for ophthalmic diseases in the field of regenerative medicine (ii) Acquisition date 10 February 2016 (iii) Percentage of voting equity interests acquired 100% (iv) Acquisition method Tender offer to purchase all issued and outstanding shares of common stock in cash 149 (v) Primary reasons for the business combination The Group strives to create a solid and resilient continuity new therapies in the field of regenerative medicine. Ocata of growth over the midto long-term through the pursuit has an advanced technology that can establish fullyof the three main strategies of Strategic Plan 2015-2017 differentiated cells from pluripotent stem cells. Ocata also (“the Strategic Plan”) – “Maximizing Product Value,” has strengths in clinical studies for cell therapy. “Creating Innovation” and “Pursuing Operational The acquisition of Ocata represents the coming Excellence.” Especially in “Creating Innovation,” the together of two companies with significant Group recognises the importance of advancing into new accomplishments and a shared commitment to develop opportunities in addition to enhancing capabilities to innovative therapies that address the unmet medical needs deliver innovative medicines. The Group added muscle of patients suffering from severe ophthalmic diseases. The diseases and ophthalmology to its focused disease areas acquisition also represents a step toward achieving the for research and is promoting drug discovery research in Strategic Plan. Further, acquiring Ocata will enable the those areas. Further, the Group invests proactively in Group to establish a presence in ophthalmology and a regenerative medicine, particularly in cell therapy and leading position in cell therapy. Strategic rationale behind next-generation vaccines as initiatives involving new the acquisition: technologies and new modalities.  Establish a presence in ophthalmology Ocata is a clinical stage biotechnology company  Establish a leading position in cell therapy by focused on the development and commercialization of obtaining Ocata’s world-class capability (2) The fair values of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and purchase consideration transferred as at the date of the acquisition (Millions of yen) Property, plant and equipment ¥ 151 Other intangible assets 17,456 Deferred tax assets 3,167 Cash and cash equivalents 1,084 Other assets 41 Other liabilities (2,494) Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (net) 19,405 Goodwill 24,332 Total 43,737 Fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥43,737 Certain items above reflect provisional amounts based on Goodwill mainly comprises the value of expected reasonable information obtained at the end of the fiscal synergies arising from the acquisition and future economic year as the purchase price allocation is incomplete. benefits, which is not separately recognised. (3) Cash flow information (Millions of yen) Fair value of purchase consideration transferred ¥43,737 Cash and cash equivalents held by the acquiree (1,084) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired ¥42,653 150 (4) Acquisition-related costs Acquisition-related costs: ¥939 million Acquisition-related costs were recognised in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of income. (5) Effect on the consolidated statement of income (i) Profit (loss) before tax of the acquiree since the acquisition date included in the consolidated statement of income: ¥(638) million (ii) Profit (loss) before tax of the combined entity for the fiscal year ended 31 March 2016 assuming the acquisition date had been at the beginning of the fiscal year (unaudited): ¥(5,357) million Note: This effect is calculated based on the business results of Ocata from 1 April 2015 to the acquisition date. 38. Contingent Liabilities Legal Proceedings The Group is involved in various claims and legal of delaying the approval of generic tacrolimus by the U.S proceedings of a nature considered common to the Food and Drug Administration, thereby injuring the pharmaceutical industry. These proceedings are generally plaintiffs. In June 2011, the U.S. Judicial Panel on Multirelated to product liability claims, competition and District Litigation ordered that the cases be consolidated antitrust law, intellectual property matters, employment before the U.S. District Court for the District of claims, and government investigations. In general, since Massachusetts. litigation and other legal proceedings contain many In January 2015, APUS settled all claims brought uncertainties and complex factors, it is often not possible against it by the direct purchaser plaintiffs. to make reliable judgment regarding the possibility of In February 2016, APUS reached a settlement with the losses nor to estimate expected financial effect if these indirect purchaser plaintiffs, which is pending Court matters are decided in a manner that is adverse to the approval. Group. In these cases, disclosures would be made as appropriate, but no provision would be made by the Group. Tarceva Government Investigation In November 2011, OSI Pharmaceuticals, LLC, one of the Prograf Litigation Company’s indirect U.S. subsidiaries, received a subpoena Astellas Pharma US, Inc. (APUS), one of the Company’s from the U.S. Department of Justice, represented by the indirect U.S. subsidiaries, was named as a defendant in U.S. Attorney’s Office in San Francisco, California, 2011 in several separate lawsuits brought by plaintiffs in requesting documents and other information concerning various federal courts on behalf of themselves and the promotion, marketing, and sale of Tarceva in the U.S. proposed classes of all direct and indirect purchasers of In June 2016, OSI Pharmaceuticals, LLC entered into a Prograf. These lawsuits involve allegations that under the civil settlement agreement with the U.S. government and federal antitrust laws and various state laws, APUS the states that resolves this matter. misused the Citizen Petition process for the sole purpose 39. Events after the Reporting Period Not applicable 151 152 5 Financial Information and Data Investor Information Common Stock (as of March 31, 2016) Transfer Agent for Common Stock in Japan Authorized: 9,000,000,000 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Issued: 2,221,823,175 1-4-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8233, Japan (including 96,404,912 treasury stock) Number of shareholders: 104,166 Major Shareholders (as of March 31, 2016) Shares owned Percentage of total common (Thousand shares) shares outstanding The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 137,328 6.46 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 117,296 5.51 State Street Bank and Trust Company 115,303 5.42 Nippon Life Insurance Company 64,486 3.03 The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 44,408 2.08 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385632 41,936 1.97 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385147 39,888 1.87 State Street Bank West Client Treaty 505234 34,674 1.63 JP Morgan Chase Bank 380055 33,103 1.55 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 7) 30,329 1.42 Notes: Shares owned are rounded down to the nearest thousand shares, while the percentage of total common shares outstanding is rounded down to two decimal places. The Company holds 96,404 thousand shares of treasury stock, but it is not included in the above list of major shareholders. Breakdown of Shareholders (as of March 31, 2016) Other companies 3.4% Treasury stock 4.3% Securities companies 3.9% Individuals and others 8.6% Foreign companies and others 48.5% Financial institutions 31.3% 153 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Corporate Data Company Name Founded Astellas Pharma Inc. 1923 Head Office Professional Institution Affiliation 2-5-1, Nihonbashi-Honcho, Chuo-ku, International Federation of Pharmaceutical Tokyo 103-8411, Japan Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) TEL: +81-3-3244-3000 http://www.astellas.com/en/ Stock Exchange Listing Tokyo (Securities Code: 4503) Capital (as of March 31, 2016) ¥103,001 million Independent Auditors Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Representative Hibiya Kokusai Building, 2-2-3 Uchisaiwai-cho, Yoshihiko Hatanaka Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0011, Japan Representative Director, President and CEO Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates (as of July 2016) Astellas is a group of companies engaged solely in the pharmaceutical business. The Group consists of 96 companies, which include Astellas Pharma Inc., 86 consolidated subsidiaries and 9 affiliates accounted for by the equity method. Major Group companies are listed as follows: Japan Manufacturing Base Astellas Pharma Tech Co., Ltd. R&D Bases Astellas Research Technologies Co., Ltd. Astellas Analytical Science Laboratories, Inc. Other Astellas Business Service Co., Ltd. Astellas Learning Institute Co., Ltd. Astellas Marketing and Sales Support Co., Ltd. Amgen Astellas BioPharma K.K. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 154 5 Financial Information and Data Americas Sales Bases Holding Company in North America Astellas Pharma Ges.m.b.H (Austria) Astellas US Holding, Inc. Astellas Pharma B.V. (Belgium) 1 Astellas Way, Northbrook, IL 60062-6111, U.S.A. Astellas Pharma s.r.o. (Czech Republic) Regional Headquarters Astellas Pharma A/S (Denmark) Astellas US LLC Astellas Pharma S.A.S. (France) 1 Astellas Way, Northbrook, IL 60062-6111, U.S.A. Astellas Pharma GmbH (Germany) TEL: +1-800-888-7704 Astellas Pharmaceuticals AEBE (Greece) Astellas Pharma Kft. (Hungary) R&D Bases Astellas Pharma Co., Limited (Ireland) Astellas Pharma Global Development, Inc. Astellas Pharma S.p.A. (Italy) Agensys, Inc. Astellas Pharma B.V. (Netherlands) Astellas Research Institute of America LLC Astellas Pharma International B.V. (Netherlands) Astellas Institute for Regenerative Medicine Astellas Pharma Sp. zo.o. (Poland) Manufacturing Bases Astellas Farma Limitada (Portugal) Astellas Pharma Technologies, Inc.* ZAO Astellas Pharma (Russia) Astellas US Technologies, Inc. Astellas Pharma d.o.o. (Slovenia) Sales Bases Astellas Pharma (Proprietary), Ltd. (South Africa) Astellas Pharma US, Inc. Astellas Pharma S.A. (Spain) Astellas Pharma Canada, Inc. (Canada) Astellas Pharma A.G. (Switzerland) Astellas Farma Brasil Importaçáo e Distribuiçáo de Astellas Pharma ilaç Ticaret ve Sanayi A.S. (Turkey) Medicamentos Ltda. (Brazil) Astellas Pharma DMCC (United Arab Emirates) Astellas Farma Columbia S.A.S (Columbia) Astellas Pharma Ltd. (United Kingdom) Other Asia & Oceania Astellas Venture Management LLC Note: All subsidiaries for which no country has been indicated are located Sales and Other Bases in the U.S. Astellas Pharma China, Inc. * Astellas Pharma Technologies, Inc. was transferred to Avara Norman (Sales and manufacturing, China) Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. on August 4, 2016. Astellas Pharma Hong Kong Co., Ltd. (Hong Kong) Astellas Pharma Taiwan, Inc. (Taiwan) EMEA Astellas Pharma Korea, Inc. (Korea) Holding Company in EMEA Astellas Pharma Philippines, Inc. (Philippines) Astellas B.V. Astellas Pharma (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) Sylviusweg 62, 2333, BE Leiden, The Netherlands P.T. Astellas Pharma Indonesia (Indonesia) TEL: +31-71-5455745 Astellas Pharma India Private Limited (India) Regional Headquarters (Astellas EMEA Operations) Astellas Pharma Australia Pty Ltd. (Australia) Astellas Pharma Europe Ltd. Astellas Pharma Singapore Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) 2000 Hillswood Drive, Chertsey, Surrey, KT16 0RS, U.K. Astellas Pharma Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia) TEL: +44-203-379-8000 R&D and Manufacturing Bases Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. (R&D and manufacturing, Netherlands) Astellas Ireland Co., Limited (Development and manufacturing, Ireland) 155 Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 About Astellas 2 Our Strategy 3 Performance Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Governance 5 Financial Information and Data Inclusion in SRI Indexes Astellas is included as a constituent stock in the following global socially responsible investment (SRI) indexes. Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index (DJSI Asia Pacific), the Asia Pacific version of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) FTSE4Good Index, an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. Astellas Pharma Inc. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 156 Astellas Pharma Inc. 2-5-1, Nihonbashi-Honcho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8411, Japan http://www.astellas.com/en/ Please direct inquiries concerning Annual Report 2016 to: Astellas Pharma Inc. Corporate Communications TEL: +81-3-3244-3202 FAX: +81-3-5201-7473 This report is printed with environmentally friendly vegetable-based inks on FSCTM-certified paper made of wood sourced from responsibly managed forests, Issued in August 2016 using a waterless printing process. Printed in Japan
