UNITED NATIONS GOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 SUSTAINABLE IS POWERFUL THROUGH THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS WE ARE KEEPING OUR SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES, SERVICE PROVIDERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS INFORMED ON OUR PROGRESS FOR THE PAST YEAR IN IMPLEMENTING THE UNGC’S PRINCIPLES AND IN SUPPORTING THE UN DEVELOPMENT GOALS CONTENTS 1. INTRODUCTION A. CEO Statement of Support ................................................................................................. 2 B. Responsible Investing at Arabesque ................................................................................ 3 I. Background II. Arabesque Core Values C. Arabesque At A Glance ........................................................................................................ 4 I. Arabesque Group: A Transparent Organization II. Awards or Recognition II. Supporter or Member D. Arabesque Leadership .......................................................................................................... 5 I. Arabesque Board II. Arabesque Advisory Board 2. OUR PROGRESS A. Human Rights ........................................................................................................................... 6 B. Labor Rights ............................................................................................................................... 7 C. Environment ..............................................................................................................................8 D. Anti-corruption......................................................................................................................... 9 3. OUTLOOK A. Future Plans ............................................................................................................................. 10 B. Contact and Feedback......................................................................................................... 10 Appendix A STATEMENT OF SUPPORT OMAR SELIM We take our operational and investment decisions very seriously, and respecting sustainability and CEO ARABESQUE ASSET ESG issues is at the heart of what we do. MANAGEMENT Where certain conditions are met, we undertake proxy voting and shareholder engagement. We have mandated Hermes Equity Ownership Services Limited (HEOS) to perform both services in The world has moved on. There is now an additional accordance with pre-agreed voting policies based dimension to investing—a double bottom line. It is on the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance, no longer good enough for investments to yield a the ICGN Global Corporate Governance return. Today, people should care precisely how Guidelines, and the Hermes Responsible that return is made. The future is very clear: Ownership Principle, which embraces investments need to be sustainable and transparency, communication, corporate culture, responsible. strategy, financial disciplines, structure and risk Arabesque is more than just an idea or concept, it management, stakeholders, environmental and is one of the world’s first asset managers to bring a social issues, and governance. uniquely quantitative approach to sustainable We became signatories to the United Nations investing in order to drive financial Global Compact (UNGC) on the 19th September outperformance. 2013. We offer an asset management service that I am pleased to confirm that we at Arabesque and combines state-of-the-art portfolio management our associated companies reaffirm our support for technology and quantitative models with the values the ten principles of the UNGC in the areas of of the UNGC and the Principles for Responsible Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and AntiInvestment (UN PRI), together with balance sheet Corruption. This is our second annual and business activity screening. Communication on Progress and where applicable The name ‘Arabesque’ represents geometric colors we set out herein our actions to integrate the UNGC and patterns drawn with mathematical equations. It and its principles into our business strategy, culture, reflects what we believe is a pioneering approach and daily operations, along with a measurement of to finance based on the philosophy that outcomes for the past year. Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) We are committed to sharing this information with parameters can be combined with advanced our stakeholders via our website and other primary fundamental and quantitative financial models to channels of communication. create value for all investors. Arabesque is based on the recognition that our Yours sincerely actions have a direct and indirect impact on a wide range of stakeholders, ranging from suppliers, employees, investors, and investee companies to the local communities in which all these entities operate. Omar Selim, CEO 2 RESPONSIBLE INVESTING AT ARABESQUE Arabesque was developed by a leading investment bank from 2011 to 2013 in cooperation with professors from the universities of Stanford, Oxford, Cambridge and Maastricht. The firm was established independently in June 2013 through a management buy-out of all Arabesque-related rights and intellectual property. A strategic research partnership with Fraunhofer Society, a leading German semi-governmental think-tank and shareholder of Arabesque, was entered into in 2014. Arabesque Group companies are based onshore with full legal and financial accountability. Arabesque Asset Management Ltd is based in the UK and is regulated by the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Arabesque Asset Management Ltd (Germany) is based in Frankfurt and focuses on research, advisory, and distribution. Arabesque’s investment funds are transparent and domiciled in Luxembourg, a highly regulated environment and our funds are UCITS IV compliant. Arabesque offers bespoke investment formats and managed accounts are available at the request of clients. For further information, please refer to our website at www.arabesque.com. ARABESQUE CORE VALUES Group and individual integrity lies at the heart of our core values: 1. Responsible investment We do not invest in companies found in severe violation of any of the UNGC principles, and we favor companies exhibiting superior ESG/sustainability performance 2. Responsible to our stakeholders We act responsibly towards our suppliers, employees and investors 3. Responsible to the environment We seek to minimize any adverse impact our actions might have on the environment 3 ARABESQUE AT A GLANCE ARABESQUE GROUP – A TRANSPARENT ORGANIZATION AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Arabesque’s contribution to responsible investing has been widely recognized: • Arabesque Systematic fund has been awarded Germany’s most prestigious finance award, the ‘Golden Bull’, as the Most Innovative Fund 2015 • ‘ESG Manager of the Year’ at the Global Investor ISF 30th Anniversary Awards, 2016 • Winner of the ‘Best Thought Leadership Paper on Sustainable Investing’ award at the Sustainable Investment Awards 2015 SUPPORTER OR MEMBER 4 ARABESQUE LEADERSHIP ARABESQUE BOARD • Non-Executive Chairman: Professor Robert G. Eccles of Harvard Business School • Vice Chairman: Georg Kell, founder and former Executive Director of the UN Global Compact • Non-Executive Director (designate): Barbara J. Krumsiek, President & CEO Calvert Investments, 1997-2014 ARABESQUE ADVISORY BOARD Our Advisory Board members are industry leaders and leading academics: Sustainability: • Professor Robert Bauer, Director, ECCE, Maastricht University • Colin Melvin, CEO, Hermes Equity Ownership • Professor Tensie Whelan, NYU • Professor Gordon Clark, Director SSEE, Oxford University • Michael Jantzi, CEO, Sustainalytics • Mohamed Donia, CEO, IdealRatings • Professor George Serafeim, Harvard Business School Quantitative: • Professor Michael Griebel, Director, SCAI, Fraunhofer Institute • Professor David Tuckett, Director, Centre for the Study of Decision-Making Uncertainty, UCL 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The aim of this communication on progress is to provide our key stakeholders and other interested parties an update on how we are working to meet the 10 key principles that form the basis of the UN Global Compact. It sets out our plans going forward in the four main areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS ARABESQUE’S POSITION Arabesque complies with all applicable laws and regulations and respects and supports the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and principles 1 and 2 of the UN Global Compact. PRACTICAL ACTIONS Arabesque takes Human Rights issues very seriously and has published a Statement on Human Rights (Statement) which specifically addresses the two principles of the UN Global Compact. Please see Appendix A for current Statement. Principle 1: The operations of Arabesque Group are governed by the Arabesque Statement on Human PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should Rights in order to ensure that principles 1 and 2 of the support and respect the protection UN Global Compact are fully respected, supported and of internationally proclaimed that we are not complicit in any Human Rights abuses. human rights PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should Principle 2: Arabesque aims to avoid direct, beneficial make sure that they are not and silent complicity of human rights. We continuously complicit in human rights abuses strive to ensure we are not complicit in any human rights abuses. In compliance with our Statement on Human Rights, we expect and require our business partners and suppliers to adhere to good Human Rights practices. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME We are pleased to report that we have never been subject to any investigation, legal proceedings, or any incident involving Human Rights abuses. 6 LABOUR STANDARDS ARABESQUE’S POSITION Arabesque fully endorses the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the UN Global Compact. Each Arabesque employee is bound to uphold these fundamentally important principles. PRACTICAL ACTIONS Principle 3: Arabesque personnel are free to associate and organize themselves collectively in accordance with local laws, if they choose to do so. Principle 4: All Arabesque staff work on a contractual PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should basis with a strong element of alignment of interest in uphold the freedom of association the success of the business. We do not tolerate forced and the effective recognition of the or compulsory labour within our own business or within right to collective bargaining that of our business partners. PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should Principle 5: We have a zero tolerance policy towards uphold the elimination of all forms child labour. We do not employ children and we would not accept it if any of our suppliers or partners were to of forced and compulsory labour violate this principle. PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should Principle 6: We take a strict approach to employment uphold the effective abolition of and occupation discrimination of any kind and our child labour company policy prohibits discrimination on grounds such as race, gender, religion, political opinion, PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should nationality, age, disability, and sexual orientation. We uphold the elimination of would not accept it if any of our business partners were discrimination in respect of to disregard Principle 6 of the UN Global Compact. In employment and occupation fact, personal integrity is one of the three key components in our hiring and evaluation process, and we value individuals who are respectful of other races, religions, nationalities, and backgrounds. Arabesque’s business model operates with a flat hierarchy. The CEO and Chairman both have an ‘open-door’ policy where each member of staff is able to directly file a complaint in relation to discrimination, without fear of repercussion. Alternatively every employee has the right to file a complaint to the Group’s General Counsel and Head of Compliance on an anonymous basis. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME We encourage diversity and our staff consists of 15 different nationalities including American, European, Middle Eastern, and Asian. We have an above industry average of female staff. In June 2014, we became members of the International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN) and are active members of the network. The Arabesque partnership is fully cognizant of ICGN’s best practice guidance and adopt the ICGN Global Governance Principles which includes embodying high standards of business ethics and overseeing the implementation of codes of conduct which engender a corporate culture of integrity. We are pleased to report that we have never been subject to any investigation, legal proceedings, or any incident involving a breach of any employment or labour rights. 7 ENVIRONMENT ARABESQUE’S POSITION Arabesque is fully supportive of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. Although our line of business is not resource intensive, we strive to improve our efficiency and minimize any negative impact our business might have on the environment. PRACTICAL ACTIONS Principle 7: Arabesque is cognizant of the effect of greenhouse gases on global warming and is supportive of initiatives that lead to the reduction of the emission of greenhouse gases. Specifically, Arabesque is a member of the Carbon Disclosure Project and supports disclosure to improve the management of environmental risks. Principle 8: We continuously strive to minimize our PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should impact on the environment, and are conscious of our support a precautionary approach carbon footprint and aim to reduce it where possible. to environmental challenges We avoid unnecessary employee and business travel. PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Principle 9: Arabesque strives to adopt environmentally greater environmental responsibility sound technologies and become a paperless business. Where possible, printing is avoided and information is PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should stored and scanned electronically which has led to a encourage the development and reduction in the use of paper. We also separate waste diffusion of environmentally friendly and recycle all recyclable materials where possible. technologies MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME We are proud to announce that in 2015, all staff travel was either by train or in economy class aircraft. We are pleased to report that we have not had any environmental incidents at any of our offices since our incorporation. 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION ARABESQUE’S POSITION Arabesque is fully supportive of the United Nations Convention against Corruption and is strongly opposed to, and does not tolerate, any form of corrupt business practices, bribery, extortion, and all forms of dishonesty. PRACTICAL ACTIONS Principle 10: As a UK regulated asset manager, we are fully cognizant of, and compliant with, UK anti-corruption and anti-bribery rules. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires all authorized firms to have in place policies and processes which prevent corruption and bribery and to conduct their business with integrity. Our partnership agreement governs the business conduct of our employees. All employees are required to work with the utmost level of integrity. We PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should highly value personal integrity, and rely on it as one of the work against corruption in all its three key components in our hiring and on-going forms, including extortion and evaluation process. bribery Furthermore Arabesque is a member of ICGN and fully supports its mission to inspire and promote effective standards of corporate governance to advance efficient markets and economies worldwide. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME We are pleased to report that we have not had any legal proceedings or any events related to corruption or bribery. 9 FUTURE PLANS ARABESQUE’S POSITION Values lie at the heart of what we do, and we are fully committed to advancing the UN Global Compact’s principles and in complying with and promoting the UN PRI. We aim to implement the following steps in relation to our core values: • Responsible investment. We will publish our second UN PRI report in 2017 and look forward to highlighting our progress in implementing the six Principles in the report. • Responsible to investee companies. Where applicable, we aim to report on our proxy voting and shareholder engagement activities in 2017. Owing to confidentiality issues, these results will only be shared with our shareholders. • Responsible to our stakeholders. We will continue to implement and promote all 10 UN GC principles with our suppliers, employees, investors, investee companies, and the local communities in which all these entities operate. • Responsible to the environment. We aim to improve and develop our policies around environmental management. CONTACT AND FEEDBACK If you would like to find out more information, have any questions, or would like to provide any additional feedback on this Communication on Progress, please address your request to the contact person below. Company Name Arabesque Asset Management Limited Contact Address 68 Brook Street, London W1K 5DZ Contact Person Andreas Feiner (Head of ESG Research and Advisory) Contact Email andreas.feiner@arabesque.com June 2016 10 APPENDIX A ARABESQUE STATEMENT ON HUMAN RIGHTS This human rights statement sets out the Arabesque group’s (the “Group”) policy on, and expectation of partners, personnel, business partners, and other parties linked to the Group’s operations, products, and/or services with regard to, human rights. The Group offers an asset management service combining, inter alia, portfolio management technology and quantitative models with the values of the United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) and the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI). The Group strongly supports, and is fully committed to, respecting the following international human rights standards: 1. Universal Declaration of Human Rights 2. International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 3. International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights 4. International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work THE GROUP Group companies are located in the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany. These countries ratify and embed within their national laws the above human rights standards, and each company within the Group complies strictly with the national laws in the jurisdiction within which it operates. PARTNERS AND PERSONNEL The Group’s operations are governed by its partnership agreement, which explicitly references respect for the values of the UN Global Compact including principles 1 and 2 relating to the respect and support of human rights and avoiding complicity with human rights abuses. Each employee is required to respect these values and be cognizant of any potential abuses. The Group provides for labour and work place rights which comply with human rights standards. The Group does not employ child labour and does not use forced labour. The Group provides for the right to equal pay for equal work, just and favourable remuneration, freedom to associate, right to form and join trade unions, right to rest and leisure, periodic holidays with pay, and reasonable limitations on working hours. The Group respects all religious observances and practices. Respect for privacy is taken into account in the Group’s infrastructure by providing an Information Technology (IT) environment which offers the appropriate standards of data privacy. BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SERVICE PROVIDERS The Group operates within the financial services sector and its business partners and supply counterparties are predominantly research firms and service providers within the financial 11 APPENDIX A services sector. The Group evaluates each business partner and service provider to ensure the partner lives up to appropriate standards of integrity and sound business practices. INVESTORS, COMMUNITY, SOCIETY, AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS The Group is founded on the principle that investments which favour good environmental, social, and corporate governance provide positive performance and returns. The Group’s investment and selection process complies with the values of the UN Global Compact. THE GROUP APPROACH TO HUMAN RIGHTS The Group is committed to supporting human rights through its research and engagement with universities, institutions, and governmental organizations. The Group is a member and supporter of various organizations which respect and support human rights, and is constantly engaged in discussions with stakeholders in order to progress and secure the promotion of international human rights standards. Please see link for full list. By way of example, the Group is a signatory to the UN PRI and is member of the International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN). 12
