AVAILABILITY DURABILITY FUNCTION DESIGN Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 Workwear with a point of view Nybo Workwear A/S (hereafter Nybo Workwear) is a About our CSR report family owned company. This means that we are owned The purpose of our CSR reporting is to provide a comby real people that have a daily involvement in the comprehensive picture to our stakeholders on our CSR perpany. this has a huge impact on the way we run our formance in 2015. Our CSR report form at the same business and implement our values. It is of utmost imtime the obligatory Communication on Progress (COP) portance to us to value both responsibility and a solid report to UN Global Compact. bottom line equally. The report covers our three locations: our headquarter in Viborg, Denmark and our two production facilities in We work with corporate social responsibility because of Dobele and Jelgava, Latvia. four main reasons: 1. We believe that we must behave decently in During 2015 Nybo Workwear A/S acquired a production relation to other people our own employees, facility in Asia with manufacturing in Laos and design our suppliers’ employees, our customers, their and administration in Bangkok, Thailand. The company customers and others we meet on our way. was acquired from the founder of the company, a Dane 2. We believe that we must focus on our environwho had run the business for more than 5 years. The ment and nature we have a responsibility to process of receiving the BSCI standard is currently onpass it on in good condition for future generagoing. Activities under NYBO Asia is under Danish mantions. agement. As for all other NYBO facilities, CSR will also 3. We believe that decent behaviour and sound be important for NYBO Asia. A key focus is the wellbeing business are interdependent. of the workforce and therefore high standards in living 4. We appreciate that many of our customers conditions is available as well as medical assistance and focus on CSR and place high demands on us. guidance is being offered to the workforce on site. These requirements we would like to meet. In order to ensure a transparent, balanced and reasonable presentation of our CSR performance, we are inContinued support to Global Compact spired by general accepted reporting principles: Global Nybo Workwear has been supporting the UN Global Reporting Initiative (www.gri.com). Compact since 2010. Together with our core values, these 10 principles form the basis for our holistic apAs we will continue our strategic and systematic work proach to CSR. with CSR, any constructive comment for further improvements are highly appreciated. In 2014, we have conducted a structured process aiming at integrating CSR further into our business strategy. We We hope you will enjoy reading it! have looked deeper into our potential risks and identified our most significant stakeholder. Furthermore, we have conducted a self-assessment of process and materials in order to prioritize those CSR activities that create most value to both our business and the society around us. These priorities are reflected in our report. We are constantly setting new targets for improvement, _____________________ and in 2016 we will further strengthen our partnership Lars Husted Dall with our suppliers in Asia with the goal of enhancing reCEO, Nybo Workwear A/S sponsibility in our supply chain. 02 csr report 2015 Company values Dynamics Credibility In order to retain a solid platform in a changeable Honesty and credibility must be our guidelines in world we want to be an innovative, dynamic, and everything we do. efficient company that inspires customers and colleagues in our industry. Quality Durable products is a key demand from our Passion customers. We must adapt the highest possible standards of quality within all our activties. With equal parts competence, persistence, and enthusiasm we wish to deliver profitable solutions for the mutual benefit of our customers and ourselves. csr report 2015 03 Purchase A trustful partnership is the key to responsible sourcing We understand purchase as all sourcing activities reWHAT we said in 2015 lated to procurement and supplier management at • All European suppliers with a purchase of more Nybo Workwear. than 500.000 DKK must sign the FairFashion Code of Conduct as an integrated part of the Nybo Workwear has main suppliers of textile distributed contract with Nybo Workwear. in Europe and Asia. Our European suppliers are all subAsian suppliers with a purchase of more than ject to strict European legislation and control. We have 100.000 DKK are obliged to sign the FairFash chosen to conduct an assessment of our Asian suppliion Code of Conduct as an integrated part of ers in order to ensure the highest possible level of CSR. their contract as well as fill in the Nybo Work Consequently, our key supplier in India holds a SA8000 wear – self-assessment. certification and in 2014 – Fair Wear. WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2015 Our focus is therefore still to cooperate with our suppli• All suppliers have conducted the Nybo Workers in China in order to ensure that they live up to our wear self-assessment if they are not certified high standards concerning human rights, labour rights with SA 8000 or ISO 26000/DS49001. and environmental issues as well as quality and stable • Our existing suppliers all live up to our high delivery. standards for quality and responsibility. • We have not had any situations where Policies and strategies a supplier has failed in our cooperation. Our ambition is to do business with suppliers who meet the same high standards with regards to quality, WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2016 ethics, environment and security of supplies as we do • All European suppliers with a purchase of more ourselves. We only source from international recogthan 500.000 DKK must sign the FairFashion nized suppliers. Code of Conduct as an integrated part of the contract with Nybo Workwear. We believe that we achieve the best results through • Asian suppliers with a purchase of more than trustful partnerships striving for improvement in re100.000 DKK are obliged to sign the FairFashion gards to human right, labour rights and environmental Code of Conduct as an integrated part of their issues. Therefore, we are convinced that it is through contract as well as fill in the Nybo Workwear a long-term partnership with our key suppliers that we self-assessment. achieve the best results. Regular visits in the places of • In 2016 we will cancel the cooperation with two production guarantee observance of the agreed condisuppliers and then concentrate on our new protions. duction facility in Laos and our supplier in India. Nybo Workwear is a member of the trade association • During 2015 Nybo Workwear A/S acquired a “Danish Fashion and Textile” that has developed a reproduction facility in Asia with manufacturing in cognized code of conduct targeting suppliers named Laos and design and administration in Bangkok, FairFashion. Our goal is to ensure that our suppliers live Thailand. The process of receiving the BSCI up to the standards similar to FairFashion. standard is currently ongoing and will hopefully be finished in 2016. 04 csr report 2015 1 2 Product High quality in everything we do We understand “solutions” as our full assortment of As there have come more restrictions on demands products, processes, customer relations, and sales and of EU-Ecolabel, our two suppliers has chosen to marketing activities. stop with the certification. Pr. 1.7.15 – it was only 16% of our products which had abovementioned As a textile company our main impact on society is recertifications. lated to the quality and content of the products we sell. • Our Tencel collec¬tions which has started up It means that our focus is constantly on environmentally in 2011/12 is still of a very high interest as the friendly fabrics and accessories we use in our products. customers ask for new and more sustainable products. In 2015 we have again launched more Policies and strategies collections in different blends where Tencel is a Since the foundation of Nybo Workwear we have strived part of it instead of cotton. towards high quality in everything we do. We believe • We have launched a new collection Nature that is that quality and responsibility are interrelated. a collection of upper parts made of regenerated We also believe that we have an obligation to develop polyester and organic cotton. innovative and environmentally friendly products, • Regenerated polyester is made of e.g. old dumped which will be a benefit for all involved. plastic bottles found in nature or at landfill sites. Nybo Workwear works only with experienced and inIn contrast to the production of traditional polyesternational recognized sub-suppliers of raw material ter, no oil is used in the production of regenerated for industrial washable products. All specifications of polyester and therefore the consumption of enfabrics and accessories are determined and controlled ergy and the CO2 emissions are profoundly less. according to international standards regarding quality, Organic cotton protects the environment because environmental requirements and healthy working conno pesticides are used in the production. A proditions. A continuous follow-up takes place regarding duction without pesticides naturally also contribthe fulfilment of the agreed demands and arrangeutes to improved living and working conditions of ments. the cotton farmers. In our catalogues and on the web, we clearly indicate • In 2015 our use of air freight have been at a unwhich certificates relate to each product. It assists our satisfactory high level. We have chosen to use aircustomers in making a responsible choice. freight as our turnover has increased compared to 2014 and have focused to have articles on stock. WHATWHAT we said in 2015 IS NEXT FOR 2015 • continue We•will We to live uptotolive will continue customers’ ourup demands to our customers’ What is next for 2016 concerning demands concerning and environmental social irresponsible environmental and social • We will continue to live up to our customers’ productsirresponsible and processes. products and processes. • demands concerning environmental and social ir• We•will Wecontinue to contribute will continue to contribute to newand to new innovative inresponsible products and processes. novative friendly environmentally solutions within and environmentally friendly acfabrics,solu• We will continue to contribute to new innovative cessories, andwithin tions finished products. fabrics, accessories, and finished and sustainable solutions within fabrics, accessor• We willproducts. still focus on our transport and follow our ies, and finished products and be a frontrunner in • footprint carbon within We will still focus onactivity this our transport andand our seaair follow the work wear business. freight from Far Eastfootprint our carbon suppliers.within this activity our • We can see that more suppliers are going for STeP seaand air freight from Far East suppliers. environmental certification and expect that 1-2 WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2015 suppliers will have this in mid 2016 which means • 97% of WHAT the rawWE material in our standard IN 2015 products is ACHIEVED that we again will achieve a higher level of certiOeko• –Tex 97% 100ofcertified. the raw material in our standard fied products. • 73% of products our totalisstandard Oeko –Texproducts is certified with 100 certified. • We will still focus on our transport and follow our • 73% or EU-Ecolabel of bluesign our totalpr. 31.6.15.products is certified standard carbon footprint within this activity our seaand with EU-Ecolabel or bluesign pr. 31.6.15. As As air freight from Far East suppliers. • We will focus on having less suppliers and gather more products at the existing suppliers. 06 csr report 2015 Nybo Workwear’s garments meet the following standards ISO 15797 EU-Ecolabel As one of the first in our industry, we use the inIn our assortment, you will find products that are terna¬tional test standard ISO 15797. A careful EU-Ecolabel certified, the European environmental selection of raw material guarantee that Nybo label, which is the guarantee of an environmentally products meet the requirements of industrial washfriendly production. This label is awarded only to ing. clothing, which is analyzed from cradle-to-cradle. Oeko-Tex Standard 100 They have to meet strict demands to water conIf possible, we strive to buy fabrics and accessor¬ies sumption and use of chemicals. that are Oeko-Tex Standard 100-certified. The Unfortunately there has been increased demands scheme is the most common labelling for textiles for use of organic cotton in the production of fabrics in the world. The system checks content of harmful and our suppliers cannot achieve this compared to substances in textiles, and minimize the risk of user the demands of the market so this means that 2 of exposure to hazardous substances our main suppliers did not continue to have it and bluesign Standard therefore we do not have this certification since July A number of our products are based on fabrics, 2015. which have achieved certification, by bluesign STeP Standard. This ensures that production takes place This is the new environmental certification. It is a with the utmost consideration for resource utilizaguarantee of an environmentally and sustainable tion, negative im¬pact on air and water, health and product from start to end – the whole production consumer protec¬tion. process and social working conditions. It is handled by the OEKO-TEX Association. Nybo frontrunner in sustainable work wear Nybo Workwear do not just want to be a manufacturer of light work wear. We also want to be an innovative frontrunner of sustainability and ecology. Therefore, we are proud to present our very first sustainable collection: Nature. Nature is a collection of upper parts made of regenerated polyester and organic cotton. Nature is available in three nice and discrete colors, which indicate purity, freshness and healthiness thereby supporting the good qualities of the sustainable fabric. Regenerated polyester is made of e.g. old dumped plastic bottles found in nature or at landfill sites. In contrast to the production of traditional polyester, no oil is used in the production of regenerated polyester and therefore the consumption of energy and the CO2 emissions are profoundly less. Organic cotton protects the environment because no pesticides are used in the production. A production without pesticides naturally also contributes to improved living and working conditions of the cotton farmers. With Nature, the user does not only get a high quality product. He also gets a product produced under sustainable and resource-saving conditions and the user actively supports a production with a good conscience and takes responsibility for our common future. At Nybo Workwear, we believe that sustainability is imperative in the future production of work wear and we have now taken the first step. csr report 2015 07 Process Environmental precautions from the very beginning We perceive “process” as all the internalized activities What we achieved in 2015 across our own company value chain, including pro• Our wind turbine has produced much more energy duc¬tion, logistics, properties and utilities. than 2014 and we have used quite much of the energy for our own consumption. In the latest years, Our facility in Viborg, Denmark is home of our adminwe have bought very small figures of energy. Unistration and stock. Our environmental challenges are fortunately, we have had the opinion that this was mainly related to our production facilities in Latvia. As the facts, but were informed by the public supplier a textile, producing company our main task is to proof energy mid 2016 that we had not been connecduce high quality work wear, which means that we have ted correct to the public power plant. Therefore, it very limited envir¬onmental issues related to hazardous means that our purchase will be much higher than waste and our wa¬ter consumption. the latest years and first in 2016 we will know the exact level. Policies and strategies • We have in 2015 also invested in new IT equipment, We consider ourselves as an integrated part of our which also be a part of a reduction in the future. com¬mon environment. In spite of our modest size and • In our facility in Latvia, we have invested more in LED po¬sition as a minor Danish player, we are determined light in our production, which has given less energy to demonstrate our will to contribute to the preservaconsumption also in 2015. tion of our environment and resources. • Our water consumption has increased with 14,96%. In 1980, we decided to set up a wind turbine at our This is not satisfied as we have made a new structure facil¬ity in Denmark and thus become self-sufficient in for washing test – though we had to test more of our elec¬tricity. Our wind turbine produces about 47,000 new collections. kWh annually. We consume the majority internally, and • We brought 61,47 tons of material back to full rethe surplus we market to the local power plant. cycling in 2015. It is more than 2014 as we have We continue our recycling project of paper and plastic produced more garments in Latvia and have reused in cooperation with Zala Josta Ltd., which a Latvian commore carton boxes in Denmark. pany is caring for a clean Latvia. We collect and sor¬t • In Denmark, we donated more than 300 kg of clothall waste: fabric, paper, cartons and plastic for recycling. ing to the Danish Red Cross in their campaign “Smid Our systematic work with recycling has given us the Zala tøjet”. We have collected the clothing among emJosta certificate, which certifies that our production site ployees and our sample department. “Sia Nybo Dobele” is environmentally friendly. We have • We have joined a non-profitable movement against a special focus on the end-to-end handling of cardboard food waste in Denmark. It is called “Stop Wasting boxes, as this is our main packaging consumption. All Food” and will be at the 30-35 biggest festivals in boxes are sorted, cleaned, pressed and recycled. Denmark and collect the huge amounts of surplus In Viborg, we sort all waste as: paper, cartons and plastic food and distribute it to people who needs it. In Viand sell it for recycling. borg we have an arrangement that the surplus of food we have every day, can be offered to different What we said What we saidin 2015 in 2015 department of the company every week and we do • • want We We to continue want to continue our energy reducingreducing ourconsumption: energy connot throw away the waste but it is used. • We have invested in IT equipment with lower energy sumption: • We haveininvested consumption beginning ofequipment in IT 2015, whichwith hope will we lower enWhat is next for 2016 makeergy an effect on the total consumption use of energy. in beginning of 2015, which we • We still want to continue reducing our energy con• Our aim hope willreduce is to oureffect make an the total useby wateronconsumption of3% energy. sumption in Denmark and Latvia. • Our aim is to reduce our water consumption by 3% • We will continue to be acitive in “Stop Wasting Food” and “Smid tøjet” and donate clothes to this organisations. • Our aim is to reduce our water consumption by 4% total. 08 csr report 2015 Environmental key figures Denmark (Viborg) 2015 Latvia (Dobele) Total Electricity purchased 43.683 kWh 206.130 kWh 249.813 kWh Wind turbine – pro47.387 kWh 47.387 kWh duced Electricity used of own 38.203 kWh 38.203 kWh production Wind turbine energy 9.184 kWh 9.184 kWh sold Gas 24.216 m3 8.460 m3 32.676 m3 Water consumption 154 m3 875 m3 1.029 m3 Recycling 9.36 tons 52,11 tons 61,47 tons 1 2 csr report 2015 09 People Good working conditions are key to success We understand people as all activities related to man¬aWhat we achieved in 2015 ging and developing our employees. This includes a safe and healthy working environment, leadership and com• We continued our English language training in pliance with Nybo Workwear ‘s Code of Conduct. Latvia for 6 people and 10 people had different Nybo Workwear employs 204 persons – 35 are working courses in DK. at the headquarter in Denmark and 169 are working at • Continued systematic employee development our two production facilities in Latvia. dialogues for all employees in Denmark and all We are proud to have a very high length of employment managers in Latvia. – both in Latvia and Denmark. • Increased systematic documentation on health We will implement our new production facility in Laos and safety issues in both Denmark and Latvia. In and administration office in Bangkok in the 2016 report. Viborg we had a very low sick-leave at 1,6% in Latvia 8,2% which is a little lower than 2014 in Policies and strategies Latvia and same in DK. We want to offer a desirable, developing and challen¬• Continued our cooperation with Viborg Muni¬ging place of work that is able to attract and retain cipality to include socially vulnerable citizens qual¬ity-minded, well-qualified and passionate employinto our company. In 2015, we have 3 persons ees. We believe that our employees are the most imemployed on special terms. portant key to success. • We have planned to have follow-up course in We respect and live up to the national labour market first aid and use of defibrillator in February and laws in Denmark and Latvia including minimum wages, March in 2016. health and safety, working hours etc. All conditions • We have made overviews of contact persons for re¬garding employees are described in detail in our all staff in case of accidents or sickness. Hand¬book for personnel. This is handed out to all em• We have not had any situations with any corployees and kept up-dated with all new guidelines for ruption. the com¬pany. With this, we go further than the rather strict laws of labour and employee rights in Denmark What’s next for 2016 and Latvia and we implement additional training, • We continuously focus on improvements conhealth in¬surance and personnel celebrations. cerning health and safety among our em¬ployees. Our ambition is to have a stable workforce What we What said weinsaid2015in 2015 that cares about each other and Nybo as an • We•wantWe want continuously continuously to focustoonfocus on improvement improvement attractive place to work. The concern for our concerning health health concerning and safetyand safety amongamong our em-our ememployees has always been at the heart of the ployees.ployees. Our ambition Our ambition is to growis in to agrow in a responsresponsible Nybo Work¬wear company spirit. In 2015, Nybo manner ible withmanner respectwithfor respect for the well-being the well-being of our of Laos was established and therefore Laos will employees. employees. our The concernThe for concern our employeesfor ourhas employhave our attention in all CSR aspects in 2016. ees has always been always at the heartbeen the heart atNybo of the of the Nybo Work¬wear • We want to improve our data management on companyWork¬wear spirit. company spirit. CSR to cover both Denmark, Latvia and Laos • We•haveWe have zero zero tolerance tolerance when to when it comes corrup-to corit comes with same monthly KPI structure. tion. ruption. • Establish continues improvements through dia• We• will We willthe offer offer the employees employees in Denmark a fola folin Denmark log with the employees regarding sickness and low-upincourse low-up course in first first aid and aid useand use of defibrillator. of defibrillator. physical work environment. • We have zero tolerance when it comes to corWhat we achieved in 2015 ruption. • We will offer the employees in Denmark a follow-up course in first aid and use of defibrillator. 010 csr report 2015 Key figures regarding employees Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Total Employees 35 169 204 Blue collar 6 143 149 White collar 29 26 55 Sick leave (%) 1,6 8,2 Injuries 0 2 2 Employee Development 35 26 71 Dialogue Employees received 10 6 16 training Employees on spec. terms 3 0 3 csr report 2015 011 CSR Performance at Nybo Workwear A/S Subject Objective Result Global Compact GRI Page Purchase Implementing Supplier Code of All suppliers of fabrics and Completed All principles General 4, 6,7 Conduct sewing sign supplier Code of Conduct. Number of suppliers that has All major suppliers in Completed All principles General 4, 6,7 undergone screening Asia must conduct our REACH-Directive self-assessment. All suppliers has to docuCompleted All principles 4, 6,7 ment that they live up to REACH Directive Product Development of environmental Our collection of envir9 5 and friendly products onmental friendly Tencel customers products is still of very much interest from our customers and more collections in different blends has been launched in 2015. We have launched a new collection Nature which is a collection of upper parts made of regenerated polyester and organic cotton. Product and customers Develop95% of our products is 97 % 9 PR3 5 ment of environmental friendly Oeko-Tex certified 73% until 31.6.15 products Certifications: Oeko-Tex 70% of our products is 16% after 1.7.15 Standard 100, Eco-Label, Bluesign, certificed with EU Eco-laStep, ISO 15797 bel/Bluesign/ Step Process Electricity consumption 43.683 kWh See notes on page 8 7 EN3 8 Initiatives to reduce electricity Efficient use of windmill 9.184 kWh – 88% better 7,8 EN5 8 consumption than 2014 Total water consumption Maintain 2014 level 13,3% increase Gas 32.676 m3 14,4% reduction Recycling 61,47 tons 2,2% increase EN2 8 People Diversity of workforce Blue collar: 149 1,2, 6 LA1 9 and White collar: 55 society Employee development Access to English language 6 employees 1,2 LA10 9 training-LV Courses DK 10 employees Access to labour unions All employees 100 % 1,2,3 LA4 9 Collective bargaining All blue collar workers 100 % LA 4 Wage level Observe and respect 100 % 1,2,3 LA4 9 national labour marked laws regarding minimum wage level Staff compensation Pensions, health insurance, 1,2 LA3 9 compensation on sick leave, pregnancy etc. Health and safety: 1. Zero injuries Pensions, health in1,2 LA7 9 1. Rates of injury 2. Improve health prosur¬ance, compensation on 2. Health programs grams sick leave, pregnancy etc. 3. Sick leave 3. Reduction of sick leaves 1. 2 incidents during 2015 4. National laws on OHS 4. Observe and respect 2. Health insurance, national labour marked canteen, massage, . laws on OHS 3. DK: 1,6%; Latvia: 8,2% 4. 100 % Number of employees on special Contribute to an inclusive 3 employees on special 1,2, 6 LA13 9 terms labour marked terms Implementation of Code of Nybo Workwear’s comConduct panies in Denmark and Latvia must sign our Code of Conduct and Global Compact 012 csr report 2015 Nybo Workwear A/S in brief Company name Nybo Workwear A/S Address Industrivej 24 26 8800 Viborg DK-8800 Viborg Phone +45 8727 3000 E-mail: info@nybo.com CVR nr.: 36 74 51 18 Locations of operations Nybo Workwear A/S is headquartered in Viborg, Denmark. We have two production facilities in Latvia. The company is represented on all North European markets. Our customers consist of laundries and dealers of work wear. Number of employees 2015 204 Contact person Helle Nybo Holmberg Purchasing Manager, Owner +45 87273006 hnh@nybo.com About Nybo Workwear A/S Margit and Peder Nybo Jensen established Nybo Workwear A/S in 1962. The company is a family owned business. The management team consists of the next generation of the Nybo family together with Lars Husted Dall appointed as CEO in 2015. Nybo Workwear A/S offers a broad assortment of fashionable work wear for users within Health & Care, Gastronomy & Catering, and Light Industry. Our solutions are available through industrial laundries and dealers throughout Northern Europe. We are acknowledged purveyor to H. M. The Queen of Denmark as the only work wear supplier in Denmark. . Awards and certifications www.nybo.com | info@nybo.com | +45 87 27 30 00 DESIGN FUNCTION DURABILITY AVAILABILITY www.nybo.com | info@nybo.com | +45 87 27 30 00
