Connecting the Future 2015 Sustainability Report Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. Report Profile Every year since 2008, Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (“Huawei”, “the company”, or “we”) has voluntarily released sustainability reports and disclosed our sustainability performance so that the public can better understand the strategy, approach, and implementation of our sustainability efforts. Doing so helps us be more sustainable and facilitate communication, awareness, and interaction with our stakeholders and the public. This report covers all entities that Huawei either has control of, or a significant influence over, in terms of financial and operational policies. The scope of the entities covered in this report is consistent with the scope of organizations discussed in the Huawei Annual Report 2015. Unless otherwise specified, this report describes the economic, environmental, and social performance of Huawei and its subsidiaries worldwide during the January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 reporting period. All data contained herein is derived from Huawei’s official documents and statistical reports. This report is prepared in accordance with the Core Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Huawei engaged TÜV Rheinland, an external assurance provider, to verify the reliability, fairness, and transparency of this report and to issue an independent verification report (see Appendix IV). 2015 Sustainability Report Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. As an independent record of sustainability, this report is published online and in print in both Chinese and English in August 2016. (The previous report was published in June 2015.) The 2015 Sustainability Report can be viewed and obtained at www.huawei.com. We would like to thank all stakeholders for sharing their feedback and recommendations as we strive to continuously improve our sustainability performance and this report. For any report-related questions or suggestions, please contact: Tel: +86-(0)755-28780808 E-mail: sustainability@huawei.com Contents 01 Sustainability Management Corporate Profile 12 Connecting the Future 02 Sustainability Strategy 16 Message from the Chairwoman 03 Risks and Opportunities 17 Message from the Chairman of the 04 Managing Sustainability 18 Corporate Sustainable Development Stakeholder Engagement 22 (CSD) Committee 02 Sustainable Operations Overview of Huawei’s Sustainability 06 Operational Compliance 28 Initiatives in 2015 Caring for Employees 30 Sustainability Awards and Honors 08 Health and Safety First 35 Reducing Our Environmental Impact 41 Appendix I: 2016 Sustainability Goals 94 Sustainable Supplier Ecosystem 47 Appendix II: GRI Index 95 Appendix III: Terms and 102 Sustainable Products and Abbreviations 03 Services Appendix IV: Verification Statement 104 Cyber Security and Privacy Protection 56 Green Products and Services 60 Safe Products 69 04 Sustainable World Bridging the Digital Divide 74 Supporting Network Stability 81 Contributing to a Greener World 83 Supporting Local Communities 86 Connecting the Future Like air and water, connectivity has become so pervasive that it is weaving its way into every aspect of our lives. A Better Connected World is taking shape – it is destined to profoundly influence every individual, organization, and industry. Connectivity is everywhere: between businesses, between people, between people and things, between things, and even between people’s emotions. Enhanced connectivity will change the world for the better, allowing individuals to better sense and seize opportunities. However, the road ahead is beset with challenges. With a growing global population, deepening urbanization, and increasing resource consumption, we are faced with a worrying dilemma: How can we do more with less to be sustainable? As a key player in the information and communications technology (ICT) industry, Huawei leverages connectivity-based ICT technologies – such as cloud computing, 5G, and the Internet of Things (IoT) – to drive global sustainability and build a Better Connected World. Our innovative ICT technologies bring people closer together and reunite the separated, no matter where they are. Our ICT technologies also create considerable business opportunities, deliver efficiency gains, and move the industry forward. Huawei’s vision for sustainability is to Connect the Future. In the future, we will bridge the digital divide with communications technologies; honor our responsibilities to support network stability and security; deliver innovative technologies to make our world greener; devote ourselves to employee care and well-being; build harmonious communities and make dreams come true; and partner with industry players to achieve shared success. We stand ready to collaborate with all our stakeholders to establish a robust business ecosystem and build a Better Connected World. 02 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Message from the Chairwoman in 85 key countries to ensure that we abide by all applicable laws and regulations. Dedicated employees are at the heart of everything we do. In our commitment to develop local ICT talent, we have increased the percentage of local hires to 72% in our offices outside China. We provide our outstanding employees with a solid platform for realizing their full potential, while creating more jobs in local communities and boosting local economic growth. Last year, we also established a mature network security assurance system. This system includes contingency plans for 10 potential emergency scenarios, such as earthquakes and war, with procedures that help customers rapidly restore networks and ensure stable network operations. Huawei is an active player in the ICT industry. We are fortunate in that we can leverage our own ICT expertise to improve competitiveness and efficiency—and do so in a responsible, sustainable way. We will continue to work with all sectors of society to embrace the world of new opportunities that sustainable development brings, while promoting socioeconomic growth and improving the environment in which we live. As the world prepares itself for the sweeping changes of Information and communications technology drives digitization, we must remain open and collaborative to traditional industries forward and serves as a catalyst for maximize the value of connections. Economies are going their development. As the fourth industrial revolution takes digital, and it’s no longer practical to forge ahead alone; hold, new innovations and disruptive technologies will boost instead, we must carefully position ourselves and grow that development to a whole new level. More companies are together as a thriving ecosystem. Moving forward, we will starting to look beyond capital gains, exploring how they can remain focused and continue to patiently invest in the future, benefit from participation in a sound industrial ecosystem. applying ourselves to the pursuit of momentous technological This has driven our transition from an industrial civilization breakthroughs. Our ultimate goal is to enable full connectivity to one that thrives as an ecological community. Against this between people and people, people and things, and between backdrop, sustainability is not only a recurring theme in things and things, and in doing so create a more sustainable, global social and economic activities, but a matter of strategy. better connected future. At Huawei, we have built our sustainability management system around the needs of our customers and other stakeholders. We are constantly improving our approach, striding forward with clear direction and a common goal. We provide quality ICT products, solutions, and services to thousands of businesses and governments, and billions of people. To date, we have deployed more than 1,500 networks in over 170 countries and regions. We have redoubled our Sun Yafang efforts to reinforce compliance systems in our subsidiaries Chairwoman of the Board outside China, appointing and training compliance officers Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 03 Message from the Chairman of the Corporate Sustainable Development (CSD) Committee In 2015, our employee localization ratio outside China reached 72%, and our investment in global employee benefits exceeded US$1.4 billion, up over 25% year-onyear. Through technological and management improvements, we saved 44.3 million kWh of electricity, with our energy consumption per unit of sales revenue dropping by more than 10% year-on-year. Our in-house solar power stations generated 20 million kWh of electricity, reducing CO 2 emissions by approximately 18,000 tons. As part of our efforts to more effectively manage the supply chain, we refined our conflict minerals management strategy, investigated 977 suppliers concerning their use of conflict minerals, and followed responsible procurement practices. Occupational health and safety has long been our focus. In this regard, we have established a corporate-level global safety incident ownership mechanism, and adopted a range of measures to mitigate and eliminate risks. In 2015, we extensively deployed the On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) system to manage driver behavior in regional projects. This system produced positive results, including ICT is crucial for human progress in modern society. It a n a w a rd f ro m Vo d a f o n e t h a t re c o g n i z e d o u r b e s t is clear that connectivity-centered ICT technologies are practices for driving safety management. catalyzing transformation in every industry. In addition to boosting business efficiency and enriching people’s lives, ICT is transforming society in a way that creates economic Sustainable Products and opportunities, protects the environment, and makes our Solutions world more sustainable. In the Internet era, cyber security and user privacy are key In 2015, we remained focused on our Pipe Strategy and industry concerns. We emphasize that our commitment to achieved strong growth in all our business segments. cyber security will never be outweighed by the consideration Nevertheless, business growth is not our only goal, as we of commercial interests. We continuously optimize our are equally committed to fulfilling our corporate social approach to managing cyber security and user privacy, and responsibilities and pursuing sustainable development. In have created an end-to-end assurance system. Our ongoing short, we aim to build a Better Connected World. To this efforts have paid off: In 2015, we received the Transparency end, we place great emphasis on sustainable operations, Award for cyber security from the governments of four cities provide customers with sustainable products, solutions, in Lower Saxony, Germany. Another example of external and services, and collaborate with partners to create a recognition is the 10-Year Excellence in Information Security robust business ecosystem. Testing Award from the International Computer Security Association Labs. Sustainable Operations We have integrated eco-design and circular economy Operating with integrity and compliance is one of our practices into the entire product lifecycle, and created our key focus areas. We always live up to our core value of circular economy business model, including the cradle to inspiring dedication and take good care of our employees. cradle practices for sustainable resource use. At the product To minimize the environmental impact of our operations, design stage, we aim to maximize product lifespan and we are exploring ways to save energy and cut emissions, ensure easy take-back, maintenance, recycling, and reuse. a n d i n t ro d u c i n g c l e a n a n d re n e w a b l e e n e r g i e s . To Our design approach also adopts the lifecycle assessment build a more sustainable supplier ecosystem, we have methodology to help us select recyclable or compostable comprehensively embedded sustainability requirements materials, thus minimizing material use. Thanks to these into our procurement strategies, processes, and supplier measures, in 2015 we reduced the rate of waste sent to management. landfills to 2.03%. In China and Malaysia, we set up an online device recycling system that allows our consumers to 04 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World trade in their old phones and receive subsidies on new ones. This system complements our existing Global Green Recycling Work Priorities for 2016 Program, which comprises 444 recycling stations across 23 countries and regions. With a global presence, Huawei faces diverse business situations in local countries and regions where it operates. We have also obtained leading environmental certifications Technology is advancing at a lightning pace; so is the way for certain of our products, which demonstrate their strong it is used. Our stakeholders are placing increasingly high environmental credentials. In 2015, six Huawei phones were requirements on us. These trends are bringing us face to certified based on the UL110 standard, and five of them face with tremendous challenges. However, with challenges (e.g., the P8 and Mate8) achieved the highest level (Platinum) also come opportunities. These are both key driving forces UL110 certification. Our entire range of campus network behind our management improvements, and we strive to turn switches were certified with the Green Product Mark of TÜV them into competitive advantages. In 2016, we will focus our Rheinland. efforts on the following priorities: Sustainable World Bridging the digital divide to enable information access for more people; In 2015, we connected millions of people to high-speed Implementing end-to-end practices for cyber security and networks in both developed (e.g., Canada) and developing user privacy protection, and supporting network stability (e.g., Sri Lanka) countries. In Kenya, we launched a new during major events and natural disasters worldwide; initiative to improve the affordability of smartphones by enabling people with low incomes to purchase phones on O p t i m i z i n g o u r e c o d e s i g n s k i l l s t o p ro v i d e m o re installment. In Ethiopia, our Desktop Cloud Solution helped energy-efficient products and solutions; over 50,000 students learn more efficiently with the aid of ICT technologies. To support innovation and developers Implementing our circular economy strategy and expanding globally, we launched the Developer Enablement Plan with the Global Green Recycling Program; US$1 billion of funding, technology platforms, and other support. We also expanded Seeds for the Future, our CSR Continuing the supplier energy conservation and emissions flagship program, to 67 countries and regions. So far, this reduction program to build a greener supply chain; program has benefited more than 15,000 students and increased local people’s engagement in the digital society. Rolling out social contribution activities around the world; We also responded quickly to the 8.1-magnitude earthquake Enhancing communication with customers, governments, i n N e p a l t o re s t o re k e y b a s e s t a t i o n s a t h o s p i t a l s , industry players, and other key stakeholders; and government agencies, disaster relief centers, and embassies within 24 hours after the disaster. We provided essential Conducting a sustainability maturity assessment to drive communications services to emergency services and local continuous improvements in all our business domains. victims, and maintained stable equipment operations during peak hours. Throughout the year, we ensured reliable We are an ambitious company and we view sustainability communication for nearly 3 billion people worldwide, and as key to our survival and development. We are striving to supported network stability during more than 130 major integrate sustainability into everything we do, and empower events and natural disasters. all employees to contribute as much to Huawei’s sustainable development as they can. I’m thankful to our employees We made tremendous progress in increasing the energy for their efforts, and to our stakeholders for their ongoing efficiency of our communications products and data centers, support. with major improvements in battery storage and energy management technologies. For example, we reduced the Huawei stands ready to collaborate with other industry power usage effectiveness (PUE) of data centers to 1.45. If players to make tremendous breakthroughs. I look forward to natural cooling is used, this number can be further reduced greater success in 2016. to 1.2, ranking among the best in the industry. We expanded our ICT solutions for solar power stations to improve their efficiency. Our smart photovoltaic (PV) solution is able to reduce over 9 million tons of CO2 emissions every year. Kevin Tao Chairman of the CSD Committee Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 05 Overview of Huawei’s Sustainability Initiatives in 2015 3 billion 1,500 Deployed products and solutions in over 170 Supported the stability of over 1,500 countries and regions to serve nearly 3 billion customer networks people white paper 130 Supported network stability during over Launched our first white paper on bridging the 130 major events and natural disasters digital divide to support digital enablement worldwide 50,000 Provided network access for Ethiopian students ETSI ICT Hosted the fifth meeting of the ETSI Cyber Security Technical Committee Received the Transparency Provided ICT technologies for governments and the energy, transportation, and finance industries to boo st Award efficiency for cyber security from the German government 06 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World 23 countries 72% Expanded the Global Green Recycling Ensured an employee localization ratio of Program to recycle used mobile phones in 23 countries 72% outside China 40,000 tons 1.4 billion Reduced 40,000 tons of CO2 emissions via Invested over US$1.4 billion in employee benefits managerial and technological improvements 977 2.03% Investigated 977 suppliers about their use of conflict minerals Reduced the rate of waste sent to landfills 67 countries to 2.03% via a circular economy model + 72,000 tons Rolled out the CSR flagship program Seeds for the Future in 67 countries and regions Worked with suppliers to reduce over 72,000 tons of CO2 emissions Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 07 Sustainability Awards and Honors Huawei’s Sustainability Awards and Honors in 2015 Name of Award Awarding Body Gold Award at the BT Better Future Supplier Forum (BFSF) British Telecom (BT) 2015 Extraordinary Contribution to Project Spring Award and Vodafone 10 Years Partnership Award Award for Excellence in Compliance to ABC & SCP Telenor India EcoVadis CSR Gold Rating EcoVadis Product Innovation Leadership Award in Frost & Sullivan Telecom Energy Solutions 08 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Name of Award Awarding Body Annual Green Technology Award Informa Telecoms 2015 Evergreen Award for GoldenBee the Huawei 2014 Sustainability Report Transparency Award for Cyber Security Governments of four cities in Lower Saxony, Germany International Computer Security Association Labs 10-Year Excellence in Information Security Testing Award (ICSA Labs) No. 1 in the ranking of the Top 500 Enterprises for China Company Evaluation Committee and CSR in China Tsinghua School of Humanities and Social Sciences Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 09 01 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management 1.1 Corporate Profile Who is Huawei? Huawei is a leading global information and communications technology (ICT) solutions provider. Driven by responsible operations, ongoing innovation, and open collaboration, we have established a competitive ICT portfolio of end-to-end solutions in telecom and enterprise networks, devices, and cloud computing. Our ICT solutions, products, and services are used in more than 170 countries and regions, serving over one-third of the world’s population. With more than 170,000 employees, Huawei is committed to enabling the future information society, and building a Better Connected World. What Do We Offer the World? We create value for our customers. Together with telecom carriers, Huawei has built over 1,500 networks, helping over one-third of the world’s population connect to the Internet. Together with our enterprise customers, we employ agile enterprise networks, including open cloud networks, to drive efficient operations and agile innovation across domains such as safe cities, finance, transportation, and energy. With our smart devices and smartphones, we are improving people’s digital experience in work, life, and entertainment. We promote industry development. Huawei advocates openness, collaboration, and shared success. Through joint innovation with our partners and peers we are expanding the value of information and communication technology to establish a robust and symbiotic industry ecosystem. Huawei actively participates in over 300 standards organizations, industry associations, and open source communities, having submitted over 43,000 proposals to drive standardization and pave the way for more effective collaboration. We have joined forces with industry partners to innovate in emerging domains like cloud computing, software-defined networking (SDN), network functions virtualization (NFV), and 5G. Together, we are promoting ongoing, collaborative industry development. We boost economic growth. Huawei generates tax revenues, boosts employment, and stimulates the development of the ICT value chain in the countries where we operate. Perhaps more importantly, we deliver innovative ICT solutions that drive the digital transformation of all industries, thereby fostering economic growth and greatly improving the quality of people’s lives. We drive sustainable development. As a responsible corporate citizen, Huawei has made significant contributions to bridging the digital divide. We are keenly aware of the importance of telecommunications in emergency response situations: Facing Ebola-affected areas in West Africa, nuclear contamination after the Japanese tsunami, and the massive earthquake that struck Sichuan, China, we hold fast in disaster zones to help restore communications networks and ensure the reliable operation of critical telecom equipment. To further promote sustainability, we are developing the next generation of ICT talent through our global Seeds for the Future program, with which we give university students the opportunity to visit China, receive training, and gain first-hand experience in the ICT industry. We provide dedicated employees with a strong growth platform. Inspiring dedication is one of Huawei’s core values, and it manifests itself in many ways. We assess employees and select managers based on their results, as well as the extent of their responsibilities. We provide our teams with a global development platform, giving young team members the opportunity to shoulder greater responsibilities and accelerate their career development. In this way, we have enabled more than 170,000 employees to yield ample returns for their individual efforts, and gain memorable life experience. 12 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World What Do We Stand for? Our Value Propositions For the past 28 years, hundreds of thousands of Huawei The convergence of ICT technologies continues to accelerate. employees have maintained an unwavering focus on our core New technologies, particularly cloud computing and businesses, refusing to cut corners or pursue other forms of Big Data, are becoming key enablers of ICT innovation short-sighted opportunism. With a solid, practical approach to and development. These new innovations are not only everything we do, we have invested patiently, amassing the longreshaping the CT industry, but also creating enormous term, focused efforts that lead to great moments of technological business opportunities through the convergence of IT and breakthroughs. Our ability to maintain this strategic focus boils CT. In response to these revolutionary changes, Huawei down to our core values of staying customer-centric, inspiring continues innovating based on customer needs and leading dedication, persevering, and growing by self-reflection. technologies. Through open partnerships, Huawei focuses on providing future-oriented information pipes to build a The digital era has been generous. We will make the most of the Better Connected World and continuously create value for historic opportunities it has given us, and boldly forge ahead to customers and society. Huawei aims to become a strategic build a Better Connected World. partner that assists carriers in their future transformations, a leader in providing enterprise ICT infrastructure, and a top smart device brand preferred and trusted by consumers. Building a Better Connected World Ubiquitous Broadband Agile Innovation Inspired Experience  biquitous networks with a superior user U One-stop ICT infrastructure Consumer centricity; a top smart device experience  daptation to vertical industry A brand preferred and trusted by consumers  nablement of customers’ transformation E requirements Innovative premium products towards Internetized operations Smooth migration via hybrid clouds Device-cloud synergy that provides Integration of content, applications, and P  rompt identification of business a superior user experience under all development resources worldwide opportunities via Big Data scenarios Staying customer-centric; continuously innovating based on customer needs and leading technologies; building ecosystems with partners for shared success Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 13 Sustainability Management Business Review 2015 In 2015, Huawei achieved significant results due to its focus 395,009 on the pipe strategy. The company achieved sustainable growth in the carrier, enterprise, and consumer businesses. Annual revenue totaled CNY395,009 million (approximately CNY million US$60,839 million), a 37.1% increase over the previous year. Annual revenue totaled CNY395,009 million (approximately US$60,839 million), a 37.1% increase over the previous year Five-Year Financial Highlights Cash flow from Revenue Operating profit operating activities CAGR: 18% CAGR: 25% CAGR: 29% CNY Million CNY Million CNY Million 395,009 49,315 400000 50000 50000 45,786 350000 41,755 40000 40000 300000 288,197 34,205 239,025 250000 220,198 30000 29,128 30000 203,929 24,969 200000 20,658 22,554 20000 18,796 , 20000 17,826 150000 100000 10000 10000 50000 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Year 2015 Revenue Performance by Region Americas Others 9,800 38,976 CNY Million 2015 2014 YoY 75.1% 26.4% China 167,690 108,674 54.3% Asia EMEA 128,016 100,674 27.2% Pacific China 50,527 167,690 Asia Pacific 50,527 42,409 19.1% 19.1% 54.3% Americas 38,976 30,844 26.4% Others 9,800 5,596 75.1% Total 395,009 288,197 37.1% EMEA 128,016 27.2% 14 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Corporate Governance By staying customer-centric and inspiring dedication, we have sustained long-term growth by continuously improving our corporate governance structure, organizations, processes, and appraisal systems. Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Independent Auditor Supervisory Board Executive Committee Human Resources Strategy & Finance Committee Development Audit Committee Committee Committee CEO/Rotating CEOs Group Functions Corporate Strategy Cyber Security & Human Resources Finance Quality, BP & IT User Privacy Protection Development Marketing Joint Committee Engineering Ethics & PR & GR Legal Affairs Internal Audit of Regions Inspection Compliance 2012 Laboratories Chief Supply Chain Officer (Supply Chain, Purchase, Products & Carrier Enterprise Consumer Manufacturing) Solutions BG BG BG Huawei University Huawei Internal Service Regional Organizations (Regions and Representative Offices) Shareholders Supervisory Board Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (the “Company” Pursuant to the requirements of the Company Law of or “Huawei”) is a private company wholly owned by its the People’s Republic of China, Huawei has established a employees. Huawei’s shareholders are the Union of Huawei Supervisory Board. The key responsibilities of the Supervisory Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (the “Union”) and Mr. Ren Board include overseeing internal and external compliance, Zhengfei. examining the company’s financial and operational status, monitoring the responsibility fulfillment of BOD members and Through the Union, the company implements an Employee senior management, as well as the standardization of BOD Shareholding Scheme (the “Scheme”), which involved 79,563 operations. Members of the Supervisory Board attend BOD employees as of December 31, 2015. The Scheme effectively meetings as non-voting participants. aligns employee contributions with the company’s long-term development, fostering Huawei’s continued success. Rotating CEOs Huawei implements the rotating CEO system under the BOD’s Mr. Ren Zhengfei is the individual shareholder of the company leadership. As the primary owner of the company’s operations and also participates in the Scheme. As of December 31, and crisis management during the tenure, the Rotating and 2015, Mr. Ren’s investment accounts for nearly 1.4% of the Acting CEO is responsible for the company’s survival and company’s total share capital. development. Board of Directors and Committees The Rotating and Acting CEO convenes and chairs the The Board of Directors (BOD) is the decision-making body for company’s EMT meetings. During routine management corporate strategy and management. The BOD guides and decision making, the Rotating and Acting CEO promptly oversees the overall business operations and makes decisions notifies BOD and Supervisory Board members of responsibility on significant issues regarding strategy and operations. The fulfillment. BOD has established the Human Resources Committee, the Finance Committee, the Strategy & Development Committee, For more information about Huawei’s corporate governance, and the Audit Committee to assist and support BOD see the Corporate Governance Report section in the Huawei operations. Annual Report 2015. http://www.huawei.com/en/about-huawei/annual-report Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 15 Sustainability Management 1.2 Sustainability Strategy Huawei’s role is to responsibly build a Better Connected World. We will accomplish this by fulfilling our sustainability vision – bridging the digital divide and promoting the harmonious and sustainable development of the economy, the environment, and society. Our approach is based on operating with integrity and legal compliance, cooperating with stakeholders, contributing to a positive business environment, and, above all, serving our customers and sharing benefits with society. Our sustainability strategy has been prepared to achieve our vision and integrate sustainability firmly into our company, so it is aligned with our corporate business strategies. It is based on our materiality assessment (see page 23 for details) and identifies the key challenges we face across our entire value chain. Sustainability Strategy Huawei provides people across all geographic areas with easy access to voice communications services. Huawei ensures ubiquitous broadband for all and promotes future-oriented ICT technologies to address global challenges. Bridging the Huawei establishes training centers and launches joint teaching initiatives to develop local talent, Digital Divide transfer knowledge, and increase people’s engagement in the digital society. Huawei provides customized ICT applications and solutions that meet individual, corporate, and regional needs to improve economic performance, quality of life, productivity, and competitiveness. Supporting network stability and security, especially at critical times (e.g., earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters and emergencies), is our highest priority and comes ahead of our own commercial interests. Supporting Stable By fully considering service continuity and network resilience, Huawei continuously innovates to enhance the robustness and protection capabilities of our products. Huawei supports and Secure Network product testing, verification, and certification by independent parties to provide customers with Operations and internationally recognized security assurance approaches. Huawei maintains openness and Protecting User transparency by proactively communicating and cooperating with stakeholders, and complying with applicable security standards, laws, and regulations. We emphasize the protection of user privacy, Privacy and have collaborated with industry partners to adopt recognized methodologies and practices and integrate privacy protection into our day-to-day business activities. Huawei incorporates green concepts into product planning, design, R&D, manufacturing, delivery, and O&M. Through continuous technological innovation, Huawei boosts resource utilization efficiency to provide customers with world-leading green and energy-efficient products and solutions. Huawei is dedicated to improving resource utilization efficiency in our offices, production facilities, logistics centers, and labs to minimize waste and greenhouse gas emissions and become a role model for environmentally friendly operations. Promoting Huawei continuously ensures that our products meet environmental protection Environmental requirements, and requires that our partners operate in compliance with green Protection regulations. By being closely involved in business activities, we promote energy conservation and emissions reduction in the supply chain to improve our overall competitiveness in the industry ecosystem. Huawei has rolled out a wide variety of green integrated ICT solutions to help industries conserve energy and reduce emissions. Huawei is an active player in promoting a resource-conserving, environmentally friendly, and low-carbon society. Huawei provides employees with varied career paths based on their particular skill sets to help them realize their individual value. Huawei enthusiastically contributes to the communities and countries in which we operate. Huawei adheres to business ethics, opposing corruption, dumping, and monopolies. We operate with integrity and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Seeking Win-Win Huawei focuses on sustainability risk management during our operating activities and service processes. We have gradually become a sustainability leader, not just in the ICT Development industry, but also throughout the world. Huawei works closely with suppliers to develop standards and benchmarks. We have shifted our focus from risk management to efficiency management, and have taken a leading position in sustainability in the industry ecosystem. 16 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World 1.3 Risks and Opportunities Every year, we establish a dedicated work team to analyze stakeholder requirements and sustainability trends, conduct industry benchmarking, and record compliance results. Following this, the team systematically identifies and evaluates sustainability risks and opportunities in all business domains, determines the severity of risks and the priority of opportunities, and devises response measures. By comprehensively identifying sustainability risks and opportunities, we are able to obtain important references for our annual strategic plans, and develop appropriate targets and work plans to minimize our sustainability risks and maximize contributions to Huawei’s sustainable development. The following table lists sustainability risks and opportunities identified in 2015 as well as our responses. Item Risk and Opportunity Response Risk: Major challenges caused by complexities in the global Establish an operational compliance system legal environment for operational compliance Opportunity: Provide people with skills, incomes, and fulfilling Provide training, career opportunities, and a supportive careers workplace Risk: Manufacturing and installation of products can be Ensure safe operations for employees and subcontractors dangerous Sustainable Risk: Using non-renewable resources creates negative Reduce the use of energy, water, and other resources, Operations environmental impacts, including climate change increase the use of renewable energy, and promote the circular economy Risk: Suppliers may fail to fulfill their social responsibilities Incorporate sustainability requirements into our procurement processes and practices Opportunity: Improve suppliers’ economic, environmental, Work with suppliers to increase their capacity regarding and social performance, and create jobs sustainability management Risk: Risks of cyber security and user privacy reduce the Ensure user privacy and the security of products and demand for ICT or the use of ICT solutions from end to end Risk: Network energy consumption grows as a result of more Provide energy-efficient products and solutions to cut the connections and higher bandwidth needs energy consumption of equipment, sites, and networks Sustainable Risk: Negative environmental or social impacts (e.g., climate Emphasize products’ resource efficiency, durability, change and waste) result from the use of components with recyclability, and reusability at the design and packaging Products and low energy efficiency, non-renewable resources, and toxic stages; take back, reuse, and recycle products; minimize Solutions materials the environmental impact during product manufacturing, transportation, and use Risk: Products may harm users’ health and safety Comply with product safety standards, and continuously innovate to provide customers and consumers with safe products and services Opportunity: 1 billion people are unconnected Deploy networks to connect individuals Opportunity: 4 billion people are offline Deploy broadband networks and devices to provide Internet access Risk: Lack of ICT talent Nurture local professionals to increase people’s engagement in the digital society Opportunity: Drive efficiency improvements and social Provide customized ICT applications and solutions for Sustainable progress through the application of ICT individuals, businesses, and governments World Opportunity: Use ICT solutions to reduce our society’s use of Develop energy-efficient solutions that enable individuals, non-renewable resources communities, and industries to conserve resources and lower emissions Risk: Natural disasters and excessive demands on networks Maintain network stability wherever possible and restore can render networks unusable networks as soon as possible Opportunity: Improve communities Roll out social contribution activities to contribute to local communities Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 17 Sustainability Management 1.4 Managing Sustainability Organization In 2010, Huawei established the Corporate Sustainable Development Committee (CSD Committee), which comprises over 20 members from research & development (R&D), manufacturing, procurement, human resources (HR), and delivery. The organization is responsible for implementing the company’s sustainability strategy, making decisions on critical issues, and resolving cross-departmental problems. It also sets forward-looking goals that Huawei uses to guide future actions. At the beginning of every year, the committee reviews the sustainability strategy, including its business plan and strategic plan, to ensure it remains focused and reflects our strategic goals, as well as internal and external business environments. It also meets once a quarter to assess sustainability performance and coordinate efforts to ensure that all sustainability initiatives are on track. The CSD Committee is chaired by Mr. Kevin Tao, President of the Quality, Business Process & IT Management Department, and Chief Sustainability Officer. Mr. Tao reports directly to Huawei’s rotating CEOs. Management System Huawei has established a sustainability management system based on standards such as ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 (as well as SA8000 in Huawei’s Consumer Business Group [BG]), and adopted the ISO26000 standard to refine the sustainability management system. We have also put in place sustainability policies and processes in all business areas. The sustainability management system, policies, and processes allow us to systematically plan, implement, monitor, and improve sustainability initiatives and make our businesses more sustainable. In 2015, we continued rolling out processes to systemically plan, implement, monitor, and improve our sustainability efforts, and integrate sustainability requirements into business operations. We also conducted a comprehensive assessment to review the maturity of our sustainability management. Through the assessment, we are able to continuously improve our sustainability management capabilities by identifying weaknesses and pain points and finding directions for improvement. Management Priorities As our business continues to grow, the opportunities and impacts resulting from our operations and products have increased. To address this, in 2015 we defined the following management priorities to strengthen our sustainability management system and reduce negative social and environmental impact. Sustainability Management Organizational Customer focus Culture standards system maturity capacity Continue to work closely Strengthen our Undertake a Roll out the Launch an internal with our customers sustainability standards comprehensive maturity Sustainability Golden knowledge sharing and consistently meet and incorporate them assessment to review Seeds training program platform for their expectations into our sustainability the implementation to improve the expertise employees; implement for collaboration, strategy. and performance of departments. Step sustainability-themed innovation, and of our sustainability up efforts to build our publicity events, and transparency. management system. sustainability leadership distribute sustainability/ through various environment, health, activities. and safety (EHS) awards to recognize internal best practices. 18 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Sustainability Standards We have formulated sustainability standards based on the ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility, international standards and norms, and applicable laws and regulations. These standards are used to create our maturity assessment framework and drive performance improvement within our sustainability management system. The standards apply to all Huawei employees, suppliers, and subcontractors. They define expectations and accountability at every level, and clarify the processes and requirements that everyone is required to follow. Sustainability Maturity Assessment (SMA) In 2015, we refined our sustainability maturity Business assessment mechanism and tools in accordance with objectives and results industry-leading assessment practices while considering (Weight: 40%) our business characteristics. We also conducted the first comprehensive assessment covering all business domains and departments. The assessment included eight Business processes and capabilities dimensions: strategy and policy; risk management; KPIs (Weight: 40%) and priorities; organization and staff; baselines; process integration; monitoring and reporting; and stakeholder communication. Basic business support This systematic maturity assessment shed light on how (Weight: 20%) well our sustainability management system had been implemented in different domains and departments. Through this, we have identified our weaknesses and pain SMA Model points, explored directions for improvement, continuously improved business capabilities, and moved closer to our strategic sustainability goals. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 19 Sustainability Management “Golden Seeds” of Sustainability In 2015, we continued to roll out the Sustainability Initiatives launched in 2015 included the Sustainability Golden Seeds Program to provide customized training, Trends Forum, EHS Leadership Training, special training high-level forums, and workshops. These initiatives on GRI and AA1000 standards, and onsite courses helped our departments develop sustainability capacity, on defensive driving and manufacturing safety. These nurture sustainability professionals, and create a leading training sessions contributed greatly to the company’s sustainability-focused culture. overall capacity and leadership in sustainability. Sustainability Trends Forum EHS Leadership Training Granting Awards to Foster a Sustainability-focused Culture In 2015, we organized a global sustainability/EHS awards Three types of awards were included in the campaign: campaign. This campaign served several purposes: inspiring all organization, project, and individual awards. departments, teams, and staff to focus on sustainability and Award-winning teams were given both recognition and EHS management; embedding management requirements in monetary incentives. The campaign garnered a positive business activities; and encouraging all employees – especially response and participation across the company. It served sustainability and EHS professionals – to improve their as a platform to share best practices in sustainability/ awareness and expertise. EHS management, publicize role models from whom business departments can learn, and drive management improvements. The campaign also inspired employees to actively engage in sustainability/EHS management and foster a positive culture. Huawei Sustainability/EHS Awarding Ceremony 20 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Sustainability Objectives To guide our sustainability efforts, we have set both annual and midto long-term objectives. In the following sections of this report, we disclose our 2015 performance and major objectives in 2016, which were set based on our strategy workshops and analysis. The following table displays our performance in 2015: Item 2015 Objective Performance Progress Launch the Bridging the Digital Divide Achieved Approved and launched the program flagship program Released the white paper Digital Enablement: Release a white paper on bridging the digital Achieved Bridging the Digital Divide to Connect People divide and Society in Hong Kong in November 2015 Successfully supported network stability Ensure 100% network stability during major Achieved during 138 major events and natural disasters events (including natural disasters) worldwide Reduce the energy consumption per unit of Increased the energy efficiency of core traffic of core routers, wireless base stations, Achieved routers, wireless base stations, and servers by Sustainability Strategy Execution and servers by 15% 25%, 20%, and 28% respectively Decrease GHG emissions per unit of sales Decreased GHG emissions per unit of sales Achieved revenue by 2% revenue by 13.8% Ensure that at least one device product can Passed the UL110 Platinum green certification Achieved pass the UL110 Platinum green certification for five mobile phones Ensure that no more than 2.25% of waste Achieved Reduced the landfill rate of waste to 2.03% goes to landfills Expand the Supplier Energy Conservation and Involved 35 suppliers in the program and Emissions Reduction Program to cover 30 Achieved avoided 72,000 tons of CO2 emissions suppliers Roll out the Seeds for the Future program in Implemented the program in 67 countries Achieved 45 countries and regions and regions worldwide Host the Huawei Global Supplier Hosted the 7th Huawei Global Supplier Achieved Sustainability Conference Sustainability Conference in September 2015 Developed and implemented the plan to Conduct onsite audits on all the 73 mediumAchieved conduct onsite audits on all mediumand and high-priority suppliers high-priority suppliers Undertook a maturity assessment to Assess the maturity of the sustainability Management Achieved identify strengths and weaknesses and gave management system recommendations to each business unit System Provide sustainability training and improve Provided five Sustainability Golden Seeds Achieved sustainability capabilities training sessions Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 21 Sustainability Management 1.5 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement is at the core of our sustainability management efforts. We work closely with our stakeholders, listen to their needs, and use them as key inputs for management improvements. We have established the Stakeholder Engagement Management Process to engage with stakeholders through a broad range of activities, such as holding individual meetings, attending or organizing events, contributing to or publishing research reports, and participating in working groups and pilot projects. Several examples are listed below: We pride ourselves on being customer-centric and proactively engage with our customers regularly. Our Public Affairs and Communications Department, Legal Affairs Department, and Standardization & Industry Department regularly engage with governmental and intergovernmental bodies and community groups, while participating in hundreds of specific industry standards bodies and associations. Our HR, Procurement, Finance, and Corporate Communications Departments regularly engage with key stakeholders (i.e., employees, suppliers, financial institutions, and the media) and have specific strategies for doing so. From all these activities, we seek to understand stakeholders’ expectations, requirements, and suggestions. Following this, we adjust our sustainability goals and actions accordingly to ensure we respond rapidly and effectively. Stakeholder Group Engagement Approaches and Activities Customer satisfaction surveys Customer meetings Huawei Fan Club for consumers Participation in audits, surveys, and collaborative projects on sustainability (e.g., the BT Customers/Consumers Better Future Supplier Forum [BFSF]) Meetings with employee representatives Employee surveys (e.g., organizational climate survey) Employees Manager feedback processes Supplier meetings and audits Supplier contracts and questionnaires Supplier training sessions and conferences (e.g., annual Huawei Global Supplier Suppliers Sustainability Conference) Meetings on government policies Inputs to government standards and consultations Governmental and inter-governmental conferences Governments Participation in government projects (e.g., Shenzhen Greener Supply Chain Pilot Project) Industry forums and working groups (e.g., the UN’s ITU, GeSI, and QuEST Forum) Standards workshops Industry/Standards Publication of research reports Associations Participation in community projects Attending conferences organized by NGOs and inviting them to attend our conferences Meetings on specific issues of mutual concern NGOs and Communities Responding to requests for information Individual meetings and interviews Specific events for the media and opinion leaders in key markets Inviting the media and opinion leaders to attend our events Media and Opinion Leaders Engagement through social media Joint research projects (e.g., 5G project with the University of Surrey) and technical collaboration Participation in events (e.g., “Climate Change – The Implications for Asia” by Chatham Research Institutes/Academia House) 22 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World We have identified areas for further focus, while in no way reducing our attention to existing stakeholder engagement activities. These include: Being more proactive when Deepening our relationships Expanding our engagement with engaging with stakeholders on with academic institutions and the sustainability community. We cyber security and privacy due to the developer community. We seek proactively to learn from the rapid changes in this field, have established our European others’ best practices, share as well as diverse regulations Research Institute to manage our our experiences, and identify around the world. We regularly growing array of European R&D opportunities to collaborate engage with legal experts, facilities, and hired new staff to closely. Therefore, we have attend events, and talk to engage with academia in key been more active in engaging specific stakeholders about this countries. We have launched with sustainability experts, topic. new initiatives to engage with participating in external events, the developer community. and organizing our own events. Material Issues (“Materiality”) Assessment By identifying our material issues, we are able to focus our efforts for improvement and optimize our sustainability management. To assess our material issues, we specify which issues affect our business and which issues are important to our stakeholders. The result is a matrix that displays the issues of highest concern to stakeholders (vertical axis) and to our own business (horizontal axis). Based on the overall rankings from the survey reports of multiple stakeholders, we determine the priority of issues on the vertical axis. Based on risk analysis (led by in-house experts), strategy alignment, and maturity assessment results, we then determine the priority of issues on the horizontal axis. High Reducing energy consumption and Supply chain carbon footprint sustainability management Green products and services Employee health and safety Workforce diversification A c t i v e l y re s p o n d i n g t o cyber security challenges Broadband inclusion for all Level of Stakeholder Concern Resource efficiency and circular economy ICT applications Social contributions and charity Product safety Nurturing ICT Business ethics and professionals integrity Supporting network Communications for all stability Employee training and development Sustainability management system Low Impact on Huawei High Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 23 Sustainability Management Stakeholder Engagement Activities Every year, Huawei hosts various sustainability-related events – particularly sustainability conferences and workshops – to engage stakeholders. In 2015, Huawei representatives spoke at over 10 conferences on sustainability around the world, including Indonesia, South Africa, Singapore, and the US. We also organized several of our own events to engage with the sustainability community. The following are examples of sustainability-related events held in 2015. Huawei Sustainability Conference On June 4, 2015, Huawei and CSR Europe co-hosted a Audit Cooperation (JAC). Other speakers included sustainability conference themed The Future of Supply Chains: representatives from Arcelor Mittal, HP, Philips, DHL, AIM From Compliance to Innovation. More than 150 stakeholders Progress, and the EICC. from business, politics, and development communities attended the conference. The conference focused on three themes related to sustainable supply chains: best practices from businesses, EU policies, and sector-wide initiatives. The event featured speeches from a member of the European Parliament; a principal advisor on EU CSR Strategy; head of procurement at BT; and corporate responsibility director at Deutsche Telekom, founding member of the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) and the Joint Huawei Sustainability Conference Sustainability Salon In December 2015, Huawei organized our first sustainability salon with the theme of Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals: Innovation and Collaboration for Amplified Impact. We brought together more than 30 sustainability experts from business and development communities from all over Asia, and discussed how to set priorities and create solutions to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and implement new models and new approaches for amplified impact. Participants included the UN Development Programme, Asian Development Bank, UPM, Coca-Cola, CJ Corporation, BASF, Deutsche Telekom, Intel, DHL, Globe Telecom, German Embassy, Dutch Consulate, Huawei Sustainability Salon BSR, CSR Asia, and the Japan Philanthropic Association. Bridging the Digital Divide Workshop In 2015, we launched a research program to identify how a breakfast briefing with the European Commission to to bridge the digital divide and achieve digital enablement. analyze the latest situation in Europe alongside Huawei’s More than 100 interviews took place across 11 countries. research findings. We also held a focus group discussion with participants from industries of 10 countries. Subsequent events were organized to share the project’s findings with relevant stakeholders in London and Brussels. Around 30 participants from the telecom industry and development community participated in a three-hour workshop co-organized by Huawei and the GSMA in London. The workshop focused on new business models that could bridge the digital divide and allow digital inclusion. We also systematically shared our ideas regarding the challenges and solutions to bridging the digital divide. In Brussels, 15 Bridging the Digital Divide Workshop members of the European Parliament and their staff attended 24 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World What Do Huawei’s Customers Think of Our Sustainability Performance Interview with Brigitte Dumont, Orange What do you think of Huawei’s sustainability performance in 2015 and why? Huawei is a faithful partner in our efforts to discuss and develop the CSR standard and support the Orange 2020 strategic plan. By implementing high-standard CSR practices in its own supply chain and also by offering and working out with Orange the innovative and CSR caring solutions, Huawei has demonstrated that CSR could be an accelerator of business and responsible growth is a reality. Please comment on any specific initiatives where Huawei has worked Brigitte Dumont, Orange closely with you. One of the most important illustrations of Huawei’s high commitment is the implementation of “zero watt @ zero load” approach in energy saving. Huawei and Orange have started to work together since 2013 and have reaffirmed in 2015 our will to boost our cooperation to invent and build high energy efficiency telecommunications networks by 2020. This partnership will accelerate the implementation of high energy-efficient solutions in Orange’s infrastructure to achieve our 2020 objective of reducing CO2 emissions per customer usage by 50%. This innovative approach in research and development of ecosystems will assist society in energy and environmental transition. We highly appreciate Huawei’s active support for the worldwide CSR alliance of telecom operators (JAC, Joint Audit Cooperation) and OSI (Observatoire Social International). We are confident that we will pursue this collaboration on a wider and deeper basis in the future. Participation in Sustainability Initiatives Huawei is a member of multiple sustainability organizations and initiatives, where we learn from and share best practices, explore areas for future cooperation, drive standardization, and collaborate with peers to improve sustainability performance across the industry. We have joined the following sustainability-related organizations: UN Global Compact, GeSI, UN Broadband Commission, CSR Europe, QuEST Forum, and Business for Social Responsibility (BSR). UN Global Compact Global e-Sustainability Initiative UN Broadband Commission CSR Europe QuEST Forum Business for Social Responsibility Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 25 02 Sustainable Operations Sustainable Operations 2.1 Operational Compliance Context Approach Operational compliance is crucial to companies’ Adherence to business ethics, international conventions, survival; it can also drive their long-term, healthy and laws and regulation is the cornerstone of Huawei’s d e v e l o p m e n t , a n d c re a t e e c o n o m i c b e n e f i t s . operational compliance worldwide. This reflects our However, some companies are too concer ned unwavering commitment to integrity. We advocate fair with profits, and do not abide by applicable laws competition, ensure trade compliance, protect intellectual and regulations. This type of behavior causes property rights, and oppose bribery and corruption. We severe harm to themselves and society at large. have benchmarked ourselves against leading industry Operational compliance is vital to long-term practices, embedded compliance requirements into our business development and social progress, and thus corporate policies, regulations, and processes, and set up necessitates effective regulation and attention. professional teams to manage compliance. Compliance Management 122 countries presented a total of 235 compliance reports to local supervisory organizations, thereby achieving operational Operational compliance is always our first priority, and compliance and aligning their compliance management goals compliance requirements have been integrated into our with Huawei’s operational compliance strategy. routine operations. In key areas such as trade compliance (export controls) and cyber security, we have established a compliance management system in accordance with industry standards that has been scrutinized by third-party auditors. To The Goal of Huawei’s Operational ensure compliance, we hold frequent talks with government Compliance Strategy agencies, and obtain the necessary approvals and licenses. To enhance our transparency and earn trust from stakeholders, Establish comprehensive operational compliance we maintain routine communication with them. Together, we management systems at both our HQ and in regional have created a favorable business environment and defined offices, and ensure the standardized application of full compliance as a baseline. the systems in routine operations to sustain Huawei’s long-term development. The Legal Affairs Department provides legal guidance on building a global compliance system, trade compliance, IPR protection, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, and HR management. The department also conducts issue Trade Compliance identification and evaluation, specifies compliance We conform to the trade laws and regulations of the requirements, and releases warnings about internal and countries and regions in which we operate. Through external legal risks. This helps other departments ensure legal policies, organizations, processes, systems, and tools, we compliance throughout their operations. have embedded compliance requirements into the business activities of all functional departments. We have also Building a Global Compliance System established an end-to-end Internal Compliance Program (ICP), In 2015, we stepped up efforts to establish effective which was been highly praised by authoritative third parties compliance systems in subsidiaries outside China. In terms of during assessments and audits. The ICP has gone a long way organization, we appointed and trained compliance officers toward mitigating the import and export control risks faced in 85 key countries. In terms of business management, we by our business units. engaged professional consultants to manage compliance risks based on feasible methodologies. As a result, our We keep a close watch on changes in international trends, subsidiaries ensured effective compliance management remain sensitive to compliance issues, and promptly and process and results. In addition, we established supervisory effectively identify compliance risks in key countries and organizations in subsidiaries outside China to systematically regions. We also engage in regular communication with oversee operational compliance. In 2015, our subsidiaries in government authorities, industry peers, and partners. 28 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Protecting Intellectual Property Rights OpenStack, Linaro, OASIS, and CCSA. We submitted more than 5,400 proposals in 2015, with the total number Huawei respects the intellectual property rights (IPR) of exceeding 43,000. others, complies with international IPR laws, and resolves IPR issues through negotiation, cross-licensing, and product In 2015, we ranked first in terms of invention patents in cooperation in an open, positive, and friendly manner. China, 9th in Europe, and 23rd in the US. We also employ legal means to protect ourselves against malicious infringements on our IPR. Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption Huawei is one of the world’s largest patent holders and Integrity is at the heart of our operations, and we have zero investors in R&D, so protecting IPR is in our best interest. tolerance for bribery or corruption. We have launched various activities to increase employees’ awareness of ethics and As of December 31, 2015, we had filed 52,550 patent legal compliance. For example, all employees are required to applications in China and 30,613 outside China, with a total understand and sign our Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs), of 50,377 granted. and pass an online test on the subject every year. To enhance our positive influence on suppliers, we have included strong ethical provisions in all contracts with suppliers, and require 50,377 them to understand and sign the Honesty and Integrity Agreement. In addition, we have established complaint channels through which employees and other parties can report unethical and illegal behavior. patents worldwide as of December 31, 2015 Business Conduct Guidelines The BCGs include regulations on the general business 52,550 conduct that all Huawei employees must abide by. All new hires must learn and sign these guidelines. Public channels for lodging complaints and patent applications in China reporting violations: E-mail: BCGcomplain@huawei.com Tel: +86 (0)755 2856 2338 Huawei had become a member of over 300 standards Huawei strictly protects the information and legal o r g a n i z a t i o n s , i n d u s t r y a l l i a n c e s , a n d o p e n s o u rc e rights of whistleblowers who report BCG violations communities, holding more than 280 important positions. under their own names. We forbid any attempts – We are also a board member of IEEE-SA, ETSI, WFA, TMF, direct or indirect – to obstruct, suppress, retaliate or discriminate against whistleblowers. 99.4% of employees studied and signed the BCGs in 2015 Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 29 Sustainable Operations 2.2 Caring for Employees Context Approach In the information society, which is teeming with Employees are the backbone of our sustainability rapid change and opportunities, ingenuity is of drive, and an important factor in maintaining our increasing importance to social transformation and competitiveness and industry leadership. development. Competition between businesses is escalating: What matters to a company’s competitive We c o n s i s t e n t l y p r i o r i t i z e t h e w e l l b e i n g o f o u r edge is not merely its market presence, technology or employees. To this end, we have created a safe and knowledge base. Talent is a new differentiator. How healthy working environment. Our incentive policy to build a caring workplace and effectively select, attaches equal importance to monetary and nondeploy, develop, and retain talented employees so monetary incentives, providing timely and reasonable they can unlock their full potential are key issues rewards to dedicated employees. As Huawei continues confronting every company. to grow, we have emphasized the career development of our employees, offering them varied career paths to help them realize their individual value. Workforce Diversification Others 11.4% As of December 31, 2015, Huawei employed approximately 170,000 staff in various business segments Supply worldwide. In total, 45% of our employees were involved 7.8% 170,000 in R&D. Marketing & R&D Solutions 45.0% staff in various 9.2% business segments In total, worldwide 45% of our employees were involved in R&D Services 20.2% Sales 6.4% Hailing from many different countries, races, and ethnicities, our 170,000 employees form a diverse family. They come from 163 countries and regions around the world. In China alone, our employees are from 39 ethnic groups. We have developed and launched many diversification initiatives in areas such as nationality, gender, age, race, and religion. Ratio of female employees to male employees Over 50 (2013-2015) 1.5% % 90 78.9% 79.3% 79.8% Below 30 80 70 33.2% Age range of 60 employees in 50 Male 2015 40 30 Female 21.1% 20.7% 20.2% 20 10 30-50 0 65.3% 2013 2014 2015 Year 30 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World As Huawei operates in the ICT industry and the majority of our employees come 8.0% from technical backgrounds, there is a relatively low ratio of female employees. As part of our efforts to address this issue, we strictly obey all applicable international conventions, as well as local laws and regulations, to ensure gender equality in Women made up employment and prohibit job discrimination based on gender. As a result, the of our management team ratio of female employees has remained stable over the past three years. We also prioritize the selection of female managers – we have adopted a female manager development plan that gives female employees priority for promotion when they have the same qualifications as their male counterparts. In 2015, women made up The localization rate of non8.0% of our management team. Of our 17 board members, 4 are women. managerial employees reached As a global company, we actively recruit staff from all over the world to accelerate workforce localization. Hiring local employees enables us to better understand the unique culture of each country and region where we operate, while boosting local 72% employment and economic growth. In 2015, Huawei employed over 34,000 staff in countries outside China, with a localization rate of 72% for non-managerial employees and 17.7% for middle and senior managers. Developing Employee Skills In 2015, total attendance at training Training is about more than just sharpening employees’ skills – it also helps sessions exceeded 1.12 them develop, realize their individual value, and contribute to the company’s business growth. Training also facilitates communication between the company and employees and between employees and management, helping to create the million cohesion essential to developing an outstanding corporate culture. To help employees grow and realize their individual value, we have offered ample and equal opportunities for training and promotion. In 2015, total attendance at training sessions exceeded 1.12 million, with each employee spending an average of 31.06 hours on training. Total attendance at e-Learning training sessions from 2013 to 2015 We have established an e-Learning platform to allow employees to access online (Unit: million) training courses anytime, anywhere. The platform keeps employees up to date with 8 the latest practical skills, allowing them to develop personal competence and keep 7 6.54 pace with the knowledge economy. 6 4.92 5 The e-Learning platform offers a variety of high-quality training courses. Its 4 interactive training model makes training efficient and interesting. In 2015, 3.32 3 attendance for e-Learning training sessions totaled 6.54 million. 2 1 We value individual development and encourage employees to chart their own 0 careers according to their abilities and interests. We provide employees with 2013 2014 2015 Year two career development paths: managerial and professional. Our effective performance management system inspires managers at all levels to pay more attention to employee growth and development. We have also explored different ways to improve how we manage employee performance, helping employees to grow together with the company. In 2015, all employees received a performance appraisal and career development assessment. In line with talent needs and corporate policies, we have accelerated the promotion of outstanding employees, helping them realize their career aspirations. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 31 Sustainable Operations Compensation and Benefits One of Huawei’s core values is Inspiring Dedication. We We have implemented an effective employee benefits encourage employees to develop their expertise, and at system, which acts as an umbrella to protect our employees. the same time we help them realize their individual value. Employee benefits include three parts: social insurance, We provide both monetary and non-monetary incentives to commercial insurance, and medical assistance. Apart from promote employee well-being. mandatory insurance plans, we offer every employee global accident insurance, critical illness insurance, life insurance, At Huawei, we have implemented a competitive medical insurance, and business travel insurance, as well compensation system. We have established long-term as other forms of commercial insurance. We have also partnerships with consultancies (e.g., the Hay Group, Mercer, implemented medical assistance mechanisms to protect and Aon Hewitt), regularly surveyed compensation data, and our employees under special circumstances. By combining promptly adjusted employee compensation based on survey these three types of employee benefits, we are able to offer results, corporate performance, and individual performance. sufficient benefits to spare employees from troubles and There is no gender bias in our compensation standards. difficulties. We employ a “Contribute and Share” bonus distribution system, which links employee bonuses to corporate, departmental, and individual performance. In line with our corporate compensation policy, we have reviewed the bonus Medical assistance distribution plan each year and revised it as necessary. In 2015, we continued implementing the Time-based Unit Plan (TUP) worldwide, granting time-based units to employees Commercial insurance so they can share in the benefits of Huawei’s growth. This long-term incentive mechanism aligns employees’ personal Social insurance contributions with the company’s long-term development, thus allowing for Huawei’s continuing success. Investment in global employee benefits from 2012 to 2015 Our investment in global employee benefits in (CNY1 billion) 10 2015 exceeded 9.24 1.4 8 7.39 6.30 US$ billion 6 5.81 (CNY9.24 billion), an increase of 25% year-on-year. 4 2 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 Year 32 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Natural disasters, critical illnesses, and deteriorating safety situations in certain regions have considerable implications for employee health and safety. Huawei regards employee safety as a top priority, at all times and under all circumstances. We convey this principle to our employees, and have collaborated with international insurance companies and emergency rescue institutions to offer 24/7 employee healthcare services all over the world. In the event of an emergency, we waste no time in rapidly taking action. For employees suffering from critical illnesses or accidental injuries, we help them and their families address financial concerns and mental pressures. Employee care is an integral part of our corporate obligations. Taking Rapid Response Measures to Protect Employee Health and Safety On April 25, 2015, a devastating earthquake with a magnitude During the disaster relief period, all our local employees of 8.1 on the Richter scale struck Kathmandu, the capital of remained in good health, and no one was infected with Nepal. The earthquake caused a great number of fatalities and cholera, measles, or respiratory infectious diseases. Thus, injuries and left several buildings in ruins. our employees were able to effectively support local disaster relief and network recovery efforts. In the aftermath of the earthquake, we took a series of measures to guard against potential epidemics that could compromise employee health. For example, we provided medical supplies for healthcare and epidemic prevention, and offered professional onsite medical support to local employees. We also enlisted International SOS doctors to provide three-week onsite healthcare services to employees in our Kathmandu-based Huawei Nepal Project Camp. Additional actions were taken to prevent epidemics and diseases, such as managing drinking water; ensuring a healthy living environment and personal hygiene (e.g., requiring everyone to use disinfectant for when washing hands); taking protective measures for employees and vehicles going out of the camp; and monitoring, in real time, International SOS doctor giving a training course on first aid the health and day-to-day changes in temperature of employees who continued to work onsite after the disaster. Creating a Relaxing and Efficient Working Environment Industry research shows that organizational climate is critical to find the right work-life balance. Every year we organize a to an organization’s performance. A positive working climate series of activities, including “Family Day”, “3+1”, and the can boost organizational performance, and allows employees “Charity Fun Run”. These activities encourage managers at all to feel cared for, respected, and trusted. Accordingly, levels to devote themselves to employee care. Our employees employees are better able to contribute to the organization’s are also inspired to take care of others, remain optimistic, and productivity. A positive working climate can also reduce spread positive energy to change the workplace for the better. employee turnover and safety incidents, and inspire passion across the organization. We have regularly organized organizational climate surveys, employee interviews, and open discussions to better Huawei believes in creating a workplace where employees understand employees’ opinions and requirements. Following can enjoy both work and life. To this end, we have created an this, we have been able to identify and analyze issues’ efficient, relaxing, caring working environment, which gives root causes, and design constructive solutions to improve employees a strong sense of happiness and inspires them management and elevate employee engagement. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 33 Sustainable Operations Expanding the “3+1” Program Overseas The “3+1” program encourages employees to make a friend, participate in a sports activity, take up a hobby, and read a thought-provoking book. First launched in China in 2009, this program aims to raise health awareness, both physically and mentally, through various entertainment and sports activities every year. It calls on employees to care for themselves and others, and to develop healthy habits at work and in life. In 2015, we expanded the program to more countries and regions, including India, the South Pacific, and Southeast Plank challenge of the “3+1” program Africa. Approximately 130,000 employees joined the initiative. Creating a Favorable Workplace As a global company with a presence in over 170 countries We strictly prohibit the use of child labor, and have effective and regions, Huawei has built a global value chain with polices and preventative measures in place to prevent the the best resources from around the world. In every country recruitment and use of child labor. We also require the same and region, we operate in compliance with local laws and of our suppliers and conduct regular audits to ensure their regulations, and share value with our global partners and compliance. customers. When executing corporate HR management policies, as well as developing and implementing local We respect employees’ legal rights with regard to freedom regulations, we always keep in mind local laws, regulations, of association and collective bargaining. In our China HQ and industry standards. We also give special consideration to and overseas subsidiaries, we have established or joined local customs and conventions. labor union organizations, and signed or endorsed collective agreements. Our local subsidiaries abide by local laws We have placed significant emphasis on the management and regulations on labor unions, and have formed close and development of local hires. In addition to boosting relationships with labor bureaus, employer associations, and the operating efficiency of our local offices, we support consultancies. We never prevent employees from participating local communities by creating jobs and paying taxes. in the legal activities of registered labor unions so long as Through smooth communication, we have enhanced mutual participation is voluntary and is not in violation of local laws. understanding between Huawei and local governments, the media, and other external stakeholders. Our goal is to O u r E m p l o y e e R e l a t i o n s h i p D e p a r t m e n t h a s c re a t e d become an innovative enabler of the information society and smooth communication channels to collect and understand a collaborative industry contributor. employees’ opinions and suggestions. Employees can file complaints through the following channels: complaint hotline When recruiting, promoting or setting compensation for of the Committee of Ethics and Compliance (CEC); BCGs employees, we never discriminate against our employees violation hotline; HR services complaint and suggestion on the basis of race, gender, nationality, age, pregnancy, hotline; grievance mailbox for performance appraisals; and or disability. We prohibit the use of forced, bonded, or complaint mailbox for procurement. indentured labor. Moreover, we have enacted detailed, equitable regulations covering each major phase of an employee’s relationship with the company, including recruitment, employment, and exit. No incidents of forced labor have taken place over the course of Huawei’s history. 34 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World 2.3 Health and Safety First Context Approach In recent years, safety has attracted increasing attention In all countries and regions where we operate, we from gover nments, the media, non-gover nmental have implemented effective management system, and organizations (NGOs), and industry organizations. established a corporate-level global safety incident Safety regulations and standards have been constantly ownership mechanism. In addition, we have developed enhanced. Nevertheless, health and safety incidents show and enforced the EHS Absolute Rules, strengthened no signs of abating, and safety remains a major challenge managers’ involvement in onsite projects, and built a as companies pursue higher levels of sustainability. Every positive safety-first culture. These actions have minimized ICT company should emphasize both operational safety safety risks and protected the health and safety of our and the safety of employees and subcontractors working employees, subcontractors, and other partners. in high-risk scenarios during project delivery. We have assigned great importance to operational safety, and developed a highly efficient safety management system in all areas of operations, including building a safety-first culture, manufacturing safety, working environment safety, fire control safety, food safety, road traffic safety, and engineering delivery safety. Employee health and safety is at the core of our operations. We have established the OHSAS18001 management system, enforced safety management requirements in all countries and regions where we operate, and implemented comprehensive safety management systems, processes, and regulations to build a strong safety-first culture. Our management practices cover all aspects of employee safety: safety management systems, manufacturing safety, working environment safety, road traffic safety, and engineering delivery safety. These practices have effectively safeguarded our employees, subcontractors, and other stakeholders. Implementing the EHS Absolute Rules to Minimize EHS Incidents Research by third parties reveals that the majority of safety best practices (e.g., Vodafone), customer requirements, incidents are a direct result of dangerous behavior. It thus and applicable laws and regulations. makes sense to minimize dangerous behavior in order to effectively reduce EHS incidents. By disseminating information, providing training, and integrating business processes, we have promoted We have evaluated our business scenarios and EHS risks, the rules on a global scale. These rules have been and analyzed our EHS incidents and cases as well as turned into EHS Management Redline requirements, those of peers. Following this, we have established the and all employees are required to comply with them. EHS Absolute Rules at different levels (e.g., engineering Following these measures, we have managed to minimize delivery, administrative service, capital construction, R&D, dangerous behavior and, more importantly, the number manufacturing, and corporate) in accordance with industry of EHS incidents. Huawei’s EHS Absolute Rules No drunk or No blocking of No dangerous No unauthorized fatigued driving fire apparatus work without entry into or speeding access roads qualification dangerous areas Fall protection for Wear a seat belt Safety training for all working at height when driving or riding in a vehicle Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 35 Sustainable Operations Drawing Competition: “Being Safe” – As Seen by Our Children In August 2015, our New Zealand Representative Office held This event garnered much interest from local staff and an EHS drawing competition themed “Being Safe” – As Seen their families, as evidenced by the flood of submissions by Our Children. reflecting how children view safety. The winning entries were turned into a calendar and distributed to all staff The competition was open to the children (under the age of as a Christmas gift. As a result of this event, local 18) of all employees in New Zealand. Participants submitted employees and their families learned more about safety a drawing which reflected the theme “Being Safe” (e.g., at issues, both at work and in life, and enhanced their own home, at work, during sports, on the road). safety awareness. Selected entries Manufacturing Safety At Huawei, the core goal of manufacturing safety is ensuring employee health and safety anytime, anywhere. In 2015, we ensured a high level of manufacturing safety, with no major manufacturing incidents occurring throughout the year. Last year, our Manufacturing Department refined its manufacturing safety management by developing and releasing 31 rules, regulations, and technical specifications. One example is the Baselines for Safety Design (Design for Serviceability) for the Manufacturing Department. To systematically attain our manufacturing safety goals, we executed skill improvement projects, and teamed up with external safety consultants and experts to complete a safety improvement project. To strengthen the safety-first culture, we required all employees to sign a statement regarding their safety responsibilities; urged workshop directors and higher-level managers to develop and implement action plans for safety assurance; and launched the Manufacturing Safety Month and safety lectures. These initiatives increased safety awareness, improved the company’s safety leadership, and contributed to our safety-first culture. 36 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Safety Improvement Project with Assistance from DuPont Experts Our Manufacturing Department has optimized its EHS Closed-loop management of safety improvement management by benchmarking itself against leading EHS practices, analyzing gaps, and rolling out multiple improvement projects. We hired leading safety management company DuPont as our End-to-end advisor, who helped us systematically review and optimize management our safety management. As part of this collaboration, we organized three onsite consultant-led coaching sessions and eight training sessions, and trained over 1,000 managers Issue tracking Comprehensive by full-time staff implementation and EHS professionals. Together with DuPont, we identified Use standard spreadsheets to Review implementation and 173 key EHS items for improvement, and introduced calculate statistics and manage embed requirements into industry-leading safety management methodologies, safety in the end-to-end processes to standardize manufacturing process Effective operations including Safety Training Observation Training (STOP), Job communication Safety Analysis (JSA), lock-out and tag-out, and territorial Promptly communicate management. Our EHS initiatives reinforced onsite safety with relevant parties to drive issue resolution management capabilities and laid a solid foundation for future improvements. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 37 Sustainable Operations Working Environment Safety Creating a safe, comfortable working environment to ensure employee health and safety is an ongoing mission. In 2015, we continued launching projects to upgrade water purification systems in our campuses across China as well as modernize offices in hardship regions outside China. Modernizing Office Facilities Outside China In 2015, 34 Huawei representative offices outside China initiated projects to modernize their working environments, and spent over US$100 million on employee health and safety. Specifically, we established standards for improving office environments, safety and fire control, dormitories, canteens, and vehicles. We also released specifications for leased offices as well as regulations on malaria prevention and treatment. In Nigeria, Nepal, Laos, Pakistan, and many other countries, we installed drinking water purification systems, fitness equipment, and sports facilities. New office in a representative office outside China These efforts have been recognized by our employees, who now enjoy greatly modernized work and lives. In 2016, we will continue these initiatives to create a safer and more comfortable environment for our employees, especially those in hardship regions. Fire Control Safety We have continuously implemented a fire control ownership system, organized training sessions and drills, and performed both routine checks and spot checks (e.g., checks on labs and gas use) to promptly identify and eliminate fire risks. In 2015, we released the Guide to Fire Risk Control, and designed a comprehensive approach to prevent fire risks in buildings throughout their lifecycle. We also engaged internal experts and third-party consultants to review our fire control designs, conduct acceptance and testing on fire control facilities, test fire control systems annually, and evaluate management systems. Scores of Huawei campuses (in China) in the 2015 fire control check 100 90.6 90 87.4 87.9 84.4 84.5 85.0 83.8 85.5 80.7 80 70 60 50 Shanghai Nanjing Hangzhou Beijing Langfang Chengdu Dongguan Shenzhen Average 38 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Food Safety We strive to provide our employees with a diverse range of safe, nutritious, and healthy foods. Outside China, we have effectively managed 140 canteens through our Staff Life Management Committee and minimum standards for canteen safety management. In 2015, all overseas canteens completed self-check and issue resolution; 16 national level-A canteens were constructed; and 19 national canteen modernization projects were completed. In China, we increased the variety of foods, urged 17 suppliers to obtain the ISO22000 certification, and adopted video monitoring technology to link our canteens in Shenzhen and Dongguan. Road Traffic Safety In 2015, we continued to optimize our road traffic management system by implementing standards for vehicles and driver qualifications, offering driving safety training, organizing Road Safety Week, and providing incentives to drivers with solid track records. In hardship regions, we bought or upgraded in-house vehicles and rented vehicles (e.g., sports utility vehicles and pickup trucks) based on delivery and onsite operational requirements. We also added in-car emergency kits to better protect our employees. New vehicles for the Ghana Representative Office Driving safety training at the Thailand Representative Office Engineering Delivery Safety Huawei delivers projects and services in over 170 countries and regions around the world, and provides telecom services to hundreds of customers, including those in war-torn and hardship countries and regions. In 2015, our delivery workload increased by 13.9% compared to the previous year. This growth posed huge challenges to delivery safety management. In response, we have set the corporate goal of 0 injuries and 0 fatalities for delivery projects, and adopted effective measures to guarantee delivery safety. For example, we have provided all employees and subcontractors with required safety information, publicity concerning our safety-first culture, training, guidance, working equipment, and incentives. We have assigned safety owners to every delivery project. Any key safety events are reflected in managers’ performance reviews. We have also made continuous efforts to improve our leadership and ensure that safety management tasks are implemented from the top down. Ensuring Systematic, Standardized EHS Management in Delivery Projects Worldwide In 2015, we appointed EHS managers for 16 regional offices and the local representative offices, and released a solution for EHS management maturity assessment. EHS-related performance appraisals were completed in 16 regions to evaluate various issues, including EHS incidents, early warnings, and tracking; manager involvement; EHS Red and Yellow Cards; customers’ EHS complaints; and EHS exam performance. The quantitative appraisal results of regional offices were published internally. This encouraged regional offices to identify management gaps, and contributed to EHS management globally. Quality is a critical factor in the selection and qualification of our suppliers and subcontractors. Our Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) System helps us manage subcontractors’ qualifications and performance. Our Supplier Corrective Action Request (SCSR) System allows us to reward or discipline subcontractors according to their performance. With the iResource System, we can record the skills, qualifications, training, and key events of subcontractors’ employees. These three systems enable us to adopt digital means to efficiently manage subcontractors’ qualifications, selection, training, routine operations, and rewards/discipline. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 39 Sustainable Operations Utilizing EHS Management Tools in Delivery Projects We believe that management tools can help us effectively In 2015, we established a cross-departmental OBD monitor risks at all stages of a delivery project to maximize workgroup and installed the OBD system in 446 new vehicles management efficiency and minimize safety incidents. In used for all projects (12) of Vodafone subsidiaries. We also 2015, we deployed the Smart QC tool and the On-Board released monthly driving behavior monitoring reports, a Diagnostic (OBD) system to manage EHS in delivery projects. practice which has been adopted in 79 countries and regions. These tools produced impressive results. System statistics show that, in 2015, the number of drivers who scored 90 points or higher in their driver behavior In 2015, we developed the Smart QC phone app and assessments increased month by month. No delivery project piloted it in 206 delivery projects around the world. involved any major road accidents throughout the year. We This tool helped us visibly manage and review onsite also actively participated in Vodafone’s quarterly safe driving operations. We will further roll out the app as part of forum. Our case study How Huawei Uses the OBD System in more projects in 2016. Vehicles has been recognized by Vodafone as a best practice for driving safety management. EHS manager: EHS manager: Engineering Store the evidence Support subsequent EHS manager: Identifies a site’s key Customizes EHS check implementation of EHS checks onsite EHS audits and Evaluates site EHS risks and control points for EHS, and points and standards based manager: (check reports, root cause analysis manages risk prevention develops an EHS checklist on business scenarios Assigns site tasks photos, and videos) based on evidence measures from EHS audits Team leader: EHS manager: Checks EHS compliance onsite, Reviews EHS check reports and collects EHS problems, and gives drives improvement timely reports How Smart QC is used Enhancing Communication and Cooperation with Customers to Strengthen EHS Management in Delivery Projects At the 8th Vodafone and Huawei Group EHS Summit in Vodafone fully supported the presented business plan, Shenzhen dated August 19, 2015, Huawei presented the and highly recognized the effort Huawei had put on EHS EHS management business plan for 2016-2018 which will management as well as the significant improvement Huawei not only focus on the traditional high risk areas, but also had made to change from following customer requirements the new risks brought by the new business areas such to having Huawei’s own management system and proactive as the data center, managed service, and fiber optical EHS management practices to protect the lives. Meanwhile, project. We will also focus on the promotion of the EHS Vodafone suggested that Huawei set up the minimum culture as well as the IT solutions for the EHS management requirements on EHS management across all the markets, in such as OBD and Smart QC. order to align the target and realize our EHS objectives. 8th Vodafone and Huawei Group EHS Summit Vodafone representative giving a speech at the EHS Leadership Training Session 40 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World 2.4 Reducing Our Environmental Impact Context Approach Social progress over past centuries has depended heavily Huawei has proactively responded to climate change. on the consumption of natural resources, and this While using ICT technologies to help society reduce pattern has caused serious global pollution and damage energy consumption, we also strive to minimize the to the natural environment. The world is now witnessing direct environmental impact of our operations. We have an increasing number of environmental problems: global decreased our energy consumption and CO2 emissions warming, biodiversity loss, and resource depletion. In through a range of measures. These include introducing the future, the Earth will need to support a growing energy management systems, replacing traditional energy population, more cities, and greater consumption. with renewable energy, and adopting technological and Traditional growth patterns face tremendous challenges managerial approaches to energy conservation. – sustainability will be impossible if old ways of production and consumption are not changed. Energy Management Due to our continued business growth and expansion of construction areas, in 2015 our energy consumption (measured in standard coal) totaled 176,000 tons, an increase Decrease our energy consumption per unit of sales of 18.1% year-on-year. Energy conservation and emissions revenue by 13.8% reductions have been the focus of our green initiatives in recent years. Through a variety of measures, in 2015 we managed to decrease our energy consumption per unit of sales revenue by 13.8% year-on-year. By adopting managerial and technological improvements, our China Region saved year-on-year 44.3 million kWh of electricity, equivalent to a CO2 emissions reduction of approximately 40,000 tons. Strengthening energy management: We set energy Improving electricity metering and management systems: conservation targets, regularly collected and analyzed We built and connected electricity management systems energy statistics, and kept track of energy management in our campuses, and established a nationwide facility tasks and energy conservation projects. We also operations management center in China to monitor and We met our energy organized energy management training programs, and conservation goals by analyze real-time electricity usage in different locations held publicity events to promote the concepts of energy continuing to develop to achieve refined management. conservation and increase awareness. energy management systems, promote technological approaches for energy conservation, and optimize the Optimizing energy management in laboratories: Laboratory P ro m o t i n g t e c h n o l o g i c a l a p p ro a c h e s f o r e n e r g y management of laboratory equipment runs for long periods of time and uses a lot of equipment. conservation projects: We upgraded multiple systems, energy, with their electricity consumption accounting for including lighting systems (e.g., T5 energy-efficient around 40% of Huawei’s total. In 2015, we cut laboratory bulbs, LED bulbs, and light control systems) and air energy usage by replacing legacy direct current power conditioners (e.g., controlling refrigeration stations modules with energy-efficient equipment, deploying by group; cleaning condensers with the power on, and modernizing and connecting building automation automatic switch-off tools, monitoring equipment utilization systems). In 2015, these measures saved 7.3 million efficiency via IT tools, identifying and removing equipment kWh of electricity. that had been idle for a long time, implementing independent control on power branching, and enclosing the hot and cold air conduits within air conditioners. Thanks to these initiatives, we saved 30.4 million kWh of electricity. Huawei’s Energy Consumption Statistics from 2011 to 2015: Energy Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Natural gas 10,000 m3 630 450 423 491 522 Gasoline Ton 1,474 1,543 1,668 390 363 Diesel Ton 67 48 60 46 41 Electricity 10,000 kWh 71,793 86,885 94,082 113,325 134,700 Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 41 Sustainable Operations Cleaning Air Conditioners’ Condensers with the Power on In 2015, we installed cleaning devices for the condensers of 38 air-conditioning chillers in our HQ. These cleaning devices can be used to clean condensers with the power on. This feature decreases the temperature differences during heat transfer, and can thus boost heat transfer efficiency. Empirical data reveals that every 1℃ decrease in condensing temperature translates into a 3% improvement in cooling efficiency, or an annual reduction of around 2 million kWh of electricity. Cleaning devices for air-conditioning condensers Green Buildings In 2015, we began to pilot green building concepts in No. Energy-efficient Technology our Global Compliance and Testing Center (GCTC) at our 1 Sensible heat recovery from the ventilation air Songshan Lake Campus in Guangdong, China. The new 2 Ice storage air conditioning center has been designed and constructed in accordance with world-leading green standards, from site selection 3 Renewable energy (solar power) system and energy and water conservation to material utilization. 4 Permeable paving After conducting energy consumption analysis and 5 Rainwater harvesting system thermal simulation, we applied 13 leading energy-efficient 6 Reclaimed water system technologies at the center (see the following table). 7 Water-efficient irrigation The center is expected to reach the Gold level of the US 8 Water metering based on category Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) and 9 Barrier-free facilities pass China’s Green Building (3-Star) certification. 10 Adjustable outdoor sunshade 11 CO2 concentration monitoring system The new center will consume much less water and electricity 12 Indoor natural light illumination system than our older buildings, and will be less costly to maintain. 13 Dustproof grating at entrances; garbage room Every year, the building is expected to help us save 2,375,000 kWh of electricity, and avoid 1,415.5 tons of CO2 emissions. Water-efficient Reclaimed water system Barrier-free facilities Solar power station irrigation Ice storage air conditioning Natural light illumination system in garages Adjustable outdoor sunshade Sensible heat Rainwater harvesting recovery from the system ventilation air 42 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Managing Greenhouse Gases Huawei’s Greenhouse Gas Policy Greenhouse gas (GHG) management is an integral part of our operations. We have adopted the ISO14064 standard to Set increasingly challenging goals for GHG emissions identify GHG emissions, and have taken concrete steps to reductions, conduct regular internal audits and save energy and reduce emissions. management reviews, and continuously monitor and improve GHG management performance; After quantifying and analyzing our GHG emissions, in 2014 Introduce green concepts at the design phase to we set a goal of reducing the GHG emissions per unit of sales maximize products' energy efficiency and reduce revenue by 10% in five years (compared to 2012). Since then, GHG emissions at the usage stage; we have continuously monitored and improved our GHG Develop a procurement strategy that highlights management performance. To decrease our carbon footprint, safety and green concepts, and strive to influence we have established energy management systems, rolled out suppliers in terms of GHG management; energy conservation projects, and introduced clean energy. Actively reduce resource consumption and promote clean production approaches to lower GHG emissions during operations. GHG Emissions by Type Total Emissions Type of GHG CO2 CH4 N 2O HFCs PFCs SF6 (Unit: Ton) Emissions (t-CO2e) 1,253,496.17 6,266.91 43.59 12,746.08 0.00 0.00 1,272,552.75 Ratio 98.50% 0.49% 0.003% 1.00% 0.00% 0.00% 100.00% Stationary Mobile combustion combustion Fugitive In 2015, our GHG emissions totaled 1,272,553 emissions emissions emissions 0.80% 0.11% 1.90% tons, an increase of approximately 18.7% year-on-year. Proportion of In 2015, our GHG emissions totaled 1,272,553 tons, Each Scope’s GHG an increase of approximately 18.7% year-on-year. Emissions This increase is attributable to two key factors. First, our business grew significantly, with annual revenue t o t a l i n g U S $ 6 0 . 8 b i l l i o n , u p 3 7 % y e a ro n y e a r. Indirect emissions from energy Second, we expanded our construction areas and 97.19% upgraded working facilities in different locations. Note: Scope 1 includes stationary combustion emissions, mobile combustion emissions, and fugitive emissions. Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from energy. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 43 Sustainable Operations Intensity of GHG emissions from 2012 GHG emissions from 2012 to 2015 to 2015 Unit: ton Unit: kg/RMB 1500000 0.005 In 2015, Huawei’s CO2 1,272,553 emissions per unit of 1200000 1,071,833 0.004 0.00383 0.00377 0.00371 0.00322 sales revenue were 900000 843,883 901,084 0.003 0.00322kg, 13.8% lower than in 600000 0.002 300000 0.001 2014. 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 :FBS 2012 2013 2014 2015 :FBS Reducing Carbon Emissions from Manufacturing Green manufacturing Green manufacturing is always at the forefront as we consider how to maximize energy efficiency and minimize our energy use and carbon footprint at the manufacturing Online energy stage. In 2015, we adopted a combination of approaches monitoring system to save 9,639,800 kWh of electricity, equivalent to a CO2 emissions reduction of 9,011 tons. Approaches include increasing employees’ energy awareness, optimizing energy Energy Clean New Optimized management, improving technologies, refining product awareness energy technologies management packaging, redesigning logistics and transportation systems, and introducing clean energy. Awareness promotion Solar panels New air curtains New lamps campaign Green Logistics Fuel consumption and exhaust emissions during transportation are the major sources of logistics-related Green logistics cut our operating expenses (OPEX) and reduce pollution. To realize green logistics, we have analyzed huge energy consumption and pollution. As such, it is an important amounts of data to plan shorter transportation routes part of our end-to-end green strategy. and increase vehicles’ load ratios. In 2015, we adopted the following green logistics measures to reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions from logistics. From air to sea freight Diversified transport Lightweight pallets Multi-packing Where possible, we use Use mixed strategies (sea/ Use lightweight pallets Reduce the number of sea freight, so long as air, air/road, rail/road) that weigh 70% less than small orders to improve we can meet our delivery instead of single transport ordinary pallets the availability of deadlines strategies to shorten containers routes and cut energy use Impact Impact Impact Impact 2,039 tons of materials 1,165 tons of materials Over the year, we carried 303 tons of products (in switched from air freight switched from air freight 275 tons less because of 406 batches) shipped in the to sea freight to mixed transport lightweight pallets empty space in containers used for other orders 44 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Maximizing Resource Efficiency In the face of accelerating socioeconomic progress and and changing the way we use water, we have increased population growth, natural resources are being consumed water utilization and reduced waste. For example, we have faster than they are replenished. If this trend continues, built facilities to recycle and reuse rainwater, wastewater, sustainable development will be impossible. This resource reclaimed water, cooling water, and condensates. We have dilemma is also a major challenge for enterprises: They also effectively managed and maintained water supply have to use resources efficiently to maximize value, increase networks, water facilities, equipment, and appliances to competitiveness, and reduce OPEX. prevent water leakage. Water Resource Management Most of the water we consume in our operations is used for landscaping, canteens, and air-conditioning systems. In recent years, water shortages have increased in severity To reduce water consumption, we have promoted clean for two reasons. First, water resources are in tremendous production technologies and adopted a variety of measures demand but they are not being used responsibly. Second, such as collecting rainwater, recycling cooling water, the accelerating pace of industrialization is leading to severe and buying reclaimed water for cleaning and landscape water pollution. For example, the chemical, printing, dyeing, maintenance on campuses. paper, and electroplating sectors use a high volume of water and produce high emissions. In 2015, we used 7 million m3 of water, an increase of 1.5 million m3 year-on-year. This increase is largely attributable Huawei takes water conservation seriously and has launched to our business growth, larger construction and landscaping water conservation initiatives to better manage our water areas, and use of reverse osmosis water purification systems consumption. By adjusting the proportion of water types on all our campuses across China. Water consumption in Huawei’s China By using reclaimed water for cleaning and landscaping on our Region from 2012 to 2015 Beijing Campus, we managed to reduce the use of ordinary Water consumption municipal water by 80,000 (Unit: 10,000 m3) 800 700 700 m 3. 600 495 548 500 449 For our new building projects in 2015, we deployed 400 rainwater harvesting systems and water reclamation 300 facilities to reuse reclaimed water and increase water utilization efficiency. For example, by using reclaimed 200 water for cleaning and landscaping on our Beijing 100 Campus, we managed to reduce the use of ordinary 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 :FBS municipal water by 80,000 m3. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 45 Sustainable Operations Our effluent discharges come primarily from domestic sewage. Domestic sewage at all of our campuses is sent to municipal wastewater plants for treatment, and is monitored by third parties to ensure compliance with local and national standards. Lowering the Landfill Rate of Waste We obey e-waste laws and regulations in all countries in which we operate. By recycling and reusing as many waste products as possible, we have lowered the landfill rate of waste. Landfill rate of waste from 2012 to 2015 We disposed of 9,692 tons of waste globally, of which 97.97% Landfill rate of waste (%) 4.0 3.5 3.40 3.0 was recycled or reused 2.57 2.5 2.37 2.03 2.0 In 2015, we disposed of 9,692 tons of waste globally, of 1.5 which 97.97% was recycled or reused, and only 2.03% 1.0 ended up in landfills. The landfill process complied with 0.5 environmental regulations. 0.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 :FBS Bringing Together Scrapping Service Providers to Effectively Dispose of E-waste In 2015, we selected leading scrapping service providers in line with our needs and local government requirements. Our close collaboration with these service providers resulted in more effective disposal of e-waste, reduced the rate of waste that went to landfills, and ultimately ensured the green processing of waste. Scrapping in a specific region; Scrapping in Hong Kong; Local scrapping fewer service providers fewer service providers 46 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World 2.5 Sustainable Supplier Ecosystem Context Approach Supply chain sustainability involves a number Sustainability has become an integral part of our of issues, such as labor, health and safety, the procurement activities, processes, and supplier lifecycle e n v i ro n m e n t , b u s i n e s s e t h i c s , a n d m a n a g e m e n t management. While using business opportunities to systems. These issues have been followed closely drive suppliers’ improvements, we have taken effective worldwide and have influence on the sustainability measures to oversee and control their risks. In addition to of the entire industry. We understand that these ensuring legal compliance and satisfying customer needs, issues relate to customers’ and stakeholders’ we have collaborated with suppliers to analyze the root requirements on our products and the production causes of problems, solve problems, explore valuable process throughout the product lifecycle. Supply opportunities, boost procurement efficiency, slash costs, chain sustainability presents both challenges and and enhance competitiveness. Together with industry opportunities. organizations, we have engaged in cross-disciplinary dialogs and cooperation, and participated in industry standards setting. Huawei is now a role model in the industry, setting the trends for sustainability and supporting a more healthy business ecosystem. Sustainability is a basic requirement of our supplier performance appraisals. We redoubled our efforts to train qualification and selection. This means our suppliers must suppliers, gave them the required support, and shared operate in accordance with a sustainability agreement experiences. Our business-driven approach to supplier in addition to applicable laws and regulations. We also management encouraged our suppliers to improve their use procurement quotas to drive suppliers’ continuous sustainability performance. improvement. Better cooperation with governments and NGOs: This In 2015, we launched the Quality First strategy and fully allowed us to increase our supervision of suppliers’ embedded it into our procurement strategy, procurement green practices and transparency. We identified market process, and supplier management. To urge our suppliers to factors that promoted a greener supply chain. To help continuously improve, we adopted the “Top Four Initiative”, suppliers further reduce energy consumption and which aims to achieve IT-based management, promote emissions, we used software from the Institute of Public production automation, develop employee expertise, and and Environmental Affairs (IPE) to regularly query data retain staff in key positions. Sustainability is now a key on 465 key suppliers’ environmental performance. We requirement for our products and production process. In also worked with a certain government agency on a pilot fact, it has become a key element of our product lifecycle, program for a greener supply chain. value chain operations, and strategies for reducing costs and gaining differentiated competitive advantages. By Better management of conflict minerals: In line with emphasizing the business benefits of sustainability, we industry best practices, we analyzed the latest trends have developed our competitive advantage and identified related to the conflict minerals problem, improved our opportunities for customer satisfaction, risk control, efficiency internal management process, and pushed for the use of enhancement, and business innovation. In addition, we smelters certified by the Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative have made continuous improvements by analyzing the cost (CFSI). We investigated 977 suppliers based on the OECD effectiveness of sustainability efforts. Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-affected and High-risk Areas and In 2015, we focused on the following areas as we managed the CFSI conflict mineral questionnaire. supply chain sustainability: Better cooperation with industry players: We participated Better cooperation with customers: Sustainability was in discussing and setting industry standards, and played further embedded into our procurement process. In a leading role in developing the IPC-1401 standard cooperation with our customers, we implemented joint for supply chain sustainability. We also encouraged audits and capability development projects, identified peer cooperation and collaboration with upstream and business opportunities concerning sustainability, and downstream supply chain players, in order to convert best explored innovative practices and business cases relating practices into industry standards and actions. Huawei to sustainability. is a partner of many academic institutions, including the Humboldt University of Berlin (Germany), Waseda Better cooperation with suppliers: Sustainability was University (Japan), Peking University (China), and the assigned greater weight in our supplier qualification and Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 47 Sustainable Operations Supplier Sustainability Management Model New supplier qualification Ann ual risk ran ki ng Number of Number of New te audit and Year Qualified New y collaboratio Industr Onsi e resolution Suppliers Suppliers issu n 2013 38 38 2014 56 56 2015 110 110 ng ini Tra Table 1: New Supplier Qualification ai sa & l cap pr abi ap lity ance build rm ing Perfo New Supplier Qualification Supplier Sustainability Agreement We implement a comprehensive qualification process for all new suppliers, including suppliers’ sustainability systems. In accordance with the Electronic Industry Code This qualification process examines suppliers’ capacity and of Conduct (EICC) and the social responsibility their compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and the guide of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), Supplier Sustainability Agreement. This process includes three Huawei has formulated the Supplier Sustainability stages, in which different departments shortlist, audit, and Agreement, which covers five areas: labor, health review suppliers to ensure fairness throughout the process. and safety, the environment, business ethics, and management systems. Shortlisting phase: Sustainability requirements are one of the minimum conditions that potential suppliers must Huawei requires that all our suppliers sign meet. Those who fail this phase are excluded before the Supplier Sustainability Agreement, and selection begins. this requirement is a prerequisite for supplier qualification, auditing, and performance appraisal. Qualification phase: Onsite audits are performed to assess In addition to applicable laws, regulations, and whether a supplier meets the criteria stipulated in the international standards, our suppliers are required Supplier Sustainability Agreement. The audits include to incorporate sustainability into their product activities such as management interviews, employee and production process, embed sustainability into interviews, document reviews, onsite inspections, and business decision making and daily operations, and third-party information searches. establish effective management systems. These efforts will enable our suppliers to manage risks, Review phase: An expert panel reviews the results work more efficiently, and hone their competitive of the supplier audit. Compliance with sustainability edge. requirements is the precondition for acceptance. Any supplier that fails to meet the standards will not be Huawei reserves the right to inspect or audit accepted. Suppliers are also required to conduct regular suppliers at any time, in order to assess whether internal audits to ensure continued compliance with t h e y m e e t t h e re q u i re m e n t s s p e c i f i e d i n t h e Huawei’s sustainability requirements and make continuous Supplier Sustainability Agreement. We also require improvements. our suppliers to extend the same requirements to their own vendors. 48 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Annual Risk Ranking and Auditing We divide suppliers into different categories to ensure their continued compliance with our sustainability requirements. Every year, we audit suppliers, which combined represent 90% of our procurement value, and assign them one of three priority levels: high, medium, and low. On this basis, a list of suppliers which require particular attention is drawn up. The factors considered during the audits are: the country where a supplier is based; product/material type; potentially high-risk manufacturing processes; business volume and relationships; sustainability performance; environmental risks; and risk management systems. Year Number of Audited Number of High-priority Number of MediumNumber of Low-priority Suppliers Suppliers priority Suppliers Suppliers 2013 735 28 146 561 2014 753 20 67 666 2015 870 14 59 797 Table 2: Supplier Audit Results from 2013 to 2015 Every year, we conduct onsite audits on medium-priority and If we discover a problem during an audit, we help the high-priority suppliers. Before conducting the audits, we involved supplier analyze root causes, identify ways to require suppliers to perform self-checks based on the terms solve it, and take targeted actions using the Check, Root of the Supplier Sustainability Agreement, so as to identify cause, Correct, Prevent, and Evaluate (CRCPE) methodology. their own strengths and weaknesses and create correction All problems are logged in the Supplier Corrective Action plans. During onsite audits, we assess each supplier’s ability Requirement (SCAR) system for follow-up until closure. We to manage its own sustainability, and identify any potential are always ready to help our suppliers improve. problems, particularly high-risk problems and issues regarding management systems and capabilities. Year Number of HighNumber of Mediumpriority Suppliers priority Suppliers Routine audits are a key part of our approach to supplier Audited Audited sustainability management: We focus on using audits to discuss with suppliers’ management teams about their 2013 28 57 buy-in and ownership concerning sustainability, find out 2014 20 67 where problems are, and then solve them and prevent future problems. 2015 14 59 Table 3: Supplier Onsite Audit Results from 2013 to 2015 Typical Problems Discovered during 2015 Supplier Audits Notes: 180 Recent years have seen an increasing awareness of issues surrounding forced 150 145 labor and human trafficking in global 138 supply chains, as demonstrated by the 120 116 California Transparency in Supply Chains 94 Act and the UK Modern Slavery Act. 90 79 Huawei refers to these regulations when 74 66 updating our supplier audit requirements, 60 which have been included in our supplier 43 35 31 training, risk assessments, routine audits, 31 30 and continuous improvement processes. 15 During supplier audits conducted in 0 2015, we discovered no incidents relating to child labor or forced labor, although et y y et y pe or W ns kin te m s af af afet Do rm at g ito io h n & o ur be s a ne nd ys rie sa nd fits pm ls ls ts Fr ee do m ca nt ee ns certain suppliers’ management systems en ntro ica Ch ild of as s o cia ts Ch en an d un de tio n were inadequate in this regard. co ra ge ui em em En pu iscD ni rim tiv in e m tio a lab or Eq Fire ag vir on m en ta lp ea nsu & re s an Po lic ies r ot e ct io n on fo M Bu rc ed lab or sin es co m se th ics Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 49 Sustainable Operations Supplier Performance Management We appraise suppliers’ sustainability performance annually based on onsite audit results and improvements. Performance appraisals cover key factors such In 2015, we restricted the tendering rights or reduced the quotas of as labor, health and safety, the environment, business ethics, and management three systems. Suppliers are classified into four grades (A, B, C, and D) based on their sustainability performance, which represent their performance level in descending order. In 2015, we appraised the performance of 707 suppliers and rated 324, 276, suppliers 104, and 0 as A, B, C, and D, respectively. due to poor sustainability performance. The sustainability performance of each supplier is published internally, and is communicated by our procurement managers to the supplier’s managers to drive continuous improvement. Our amount of business with each supplier depends on their performance, which is also a factor considered in our tendering, supplier selection, portfolio management, and other processes. Suppliers that perform well are given higher procurement quotas and more business opportunities, while the reverse is true for low-performing suppliers. Depending on the situation, we instruct low-performing suppliers to correct existing issues within a specified timeframe and may even terminate business relationships with suppliers that display exceptionally poor performance. In 2015, we restricted the tendering rights or reduced the quotas of three suppliers due to poor sustainability performance. 50 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Supplier Capability Development Sustainability awareness and capability development are crucial to suppliers’ self-management. We provide training and coaching for suppliers as necessary. Suppliers are also encouraged to integrate sustainability into their business models and strategies, view sustainability as the key to reducing business risks, enhance operating efficiency, and develop a competitive edge in cost or differentiation. Additionally, we continuously help suppliers identify opportunities through root cause analysis and cost effectiveness analysis. By benchmarking themselves against industry best practices, suppliers can optimize their sustainability management, and proactively integrate sustainability into their operations. Joint Supplier Capability Improvement Project with a Customer Huawei is a member of Together for Sustainability, a supplier capability improvement program launched by Deutsche Telekom in partnership with three suppliers and an international consultancy. The program encourages participants to integrate sustainability into their businesses, explore improvement opportunities through benchmarking, adopt sustainable approaches for greater management efficiency, and regularly review improvement progress. Through their unwavering efforts to improve capabilities, the three suppliers have made great progress in sustainability management. For example, one of the suppliers has achieved better customer satisfaction, operating efficiency, cost reduction, energy performance, and working environment. Ultimately, the supplier earned an award from Deutsche Telekom. We have made huge progress in sustainability, and our efforts have been recognized by multiple stakeholders. We’d like to thank Huawei’s CSR expert team for their training and instruction. We are delighted to have the chance to work with this professional team. – Supplier’s compliance manager The Huawei Global Supplier Sustainability Conference and Regional Supplier Conferences have been held annually since 2009. At these conferences, Huawei and our stakeholders (e.g., customers and suppliers) share ideas and learn from each other. These conferences are well received as they allow our suppliers to understand the needs of Huawei and our customers, stay updated on industry trends, learn about sustainability best practices, and optimize their sustainability management. Co-building a Learning Supply Chain; Accelerating a Sustainable Ecosystem In September 2015, Huawei held the Global S u p p l i e r S u s t a i n a b i l i t y C o n f e re n c e w i t h t h e theme of “Co-building a learning supply chain; accelerating a sustainable ecosystem.” The event was attended by over 220 guests. Huawei’s Senior Vice President and Chief Supply Officer, Mr. Liang Hua explained the importance of incorporating sustainability thinking into the product lifecycle and value chain. He remarked that throughout each stage, we should encourage suppliers to identify opportunities for improvements that make our products and services more competitive. Mr. Liang also made it clear that suppliers who consistently provide sustainably-made and quality products will Global Supplier Sustainability Conference receive more business opportunities from Huawei. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 51 Sustainable Operations Building a Greener Supply Chain Huawei Green Partner Certification The Huawei Green Partner (HW GP) Program aims to ensure Sustainable green supply chain that no products or parts contain any chemicals banned by law. It requires full compliance with environmental laws, directives, standards, and customer requirements. The program encourages our suppliers to systematically manage their environmental protection efforts and follow green initiatives throughout a product’s lifecycle, from green design to green manufacturing. By controlling the use of restricted Integrating environmental Supporting and learning protection into business and the from peers and suppliers substances from the outset, we have contributed to a greener value chain Taking concerted actions with supply chain. In 2015, Huawei certified 53 suppliers as Green industry peers and customers Partners. Year Number of Certified Suppliers Through factory tours, expert-led training, technical 2013 34 exchanges, and experience sharing, we have encouraged suppliers to embed green requirements into their products 2014 47 and production process; analyze financial results from the perspective of environmental protection; identify 2015 53 opportunities for risk control, efficiency improvements, and Table 4: Number of Certified Suppliers business innovation; and design and implement improvement measures. Industry peers are encouraged to align their Green Choice goals. We also enable upstream and downstream players to share experience, study best practices, and explore Since 2011, Huawei has been a member of the Green Choice new cost-effective ways to increase their expertise in Alliance, which was established by the NGO Institute of Public environmental protection. and Environmental Affairs (IPE). IPE maintains a national database of corporate environmental performance, which Building on the experience of the pilot project over the past can be used for supplier sustainability management. In 2014, two years, we have created a new model (see above) for we began using IPE’s Ferret software to regularly investigate building a sustainable green supply chain. At a project review 465 suppliers’ environmental performance and urge them meeting in 2015, experts from the Greener Supply Chain to improve management. We have required low-performing Pilot Project praised our market-driven approach to building suppliers to solve their issues within a specific period, and a greener supply chain. At green supply chain workshops have regularly provided information about query results and held in Dongguan and Tianjin, in China, we also shared our improvement progress to IPE. On IPE’s 2015 Greening the practices for building a greener supply chain. Our efforts Global Supply Chain – Corporate Information Transparency were recognized by experts in attendance. Index (CITI), Huawei was scored as the leading Chinese company and ranked 7th in the ICT sector. Reducing Supply Chain Carbon Footprint Greener Supply Chain In 2012, we launched a pilot program for supplier energy conservation and emissions reductions. The aim is to The Greener Supply Chain Pilot Project is a pilot initiative encourage suppliers to audit their energy usage, identify between Huawei and the Human Settlements and opportunities to reduce energy use and emissions, align Environment Commission of Shenzhen. In 2015, we expanded with industry-leading practices and business case studies, the pilot project further down our supply chain. Ten of our and develop and implement the energy conservation and suppliers selected several of their own suppliers to join the emissions reduction plan. In 2015, 35 suppliers joined the pilot, and Huawei invited nine other large companies and program, reducing CO2 emissions by over 72,000 tons. their suppliers to participate. Together, we aim to create a learning network that helps build a greener supply chain. CO2 Emissions Year Number of Suppliers Reduction (Ton) On IPE’s 2015 Greening the Global Supply Chain – Corporate Information Transparency Index (CITI), Huawei was scored as the 2013 4 23,839 leading 2014 20 53,652 Chinese company and ranked 7th in 2015 35 72,309 the ICT sector. Table 5: Total CO2 Emissions Avoided by Suppliers 52 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Managing Conflict Minerals We will continue to play an active role in the programs “Conflict minerals” refer to tin, tantalum, tungsten, organized by industry organizations such as GeSI, Association gold, and other minerals that are mined under Connecting Electronics Industries (IPC), and CFSI. Together conditions of armed conflict, notably in the with our customers and suppliers, we will actively seek Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining sustainable solutions to the problem of conflict minerals. countries. The profits from the sale of these minerals finance ongoing armed conflicts in countries where Industry Cooperation they are mined or smelted. The problem of conflict Cooperation with industry players is a key factor when minerals has drawn the attention of the electronics it comes to building a sustainable supply chain. Together industry and other industries. Governments in the with industry players, we keep a close eye on sustainability US and Europe have also passed laws to address opportunities and challenges, hold interdisciplinary dialogs, the problem. The types of conflict minerals and and cooperate with industry organizations. Maintaining a the involved regions are expanding. The problem is consistent understanding, taking coordinated actions, and complex and will only be resolved through collective sharing resources helps us combine our strengths and gain commitment and deep cooperation between leverage on these issues. Ultimately, we can boost industry businesses, governments, and NGOs. competitiveness. Huawei takes the problem of conflict minerals very seriously. In 2014, IPC entrusted Huawei and Flextronics to lead We began to address this problem in 2002, and have released the development of IPC-1401, a standard for supply an open statement to announce that we will not procure or chain sustainability. IPC-1401 uses the CSR criteria of the support the use of conflict minerals. We require all suppliers ISO26000 standard as customer requirements for products to not procure conflict minerals. We also ask our suppliers and production process. IPC-1401 embeds sustainability to cascade this requirement to their suppliers. Through the into procurement processes, and encourages all players in Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI), we have worked with the supply chain to collaborate with each other. In 2015, companies around the world to jointly address this problem, the activities of the IPC-1401 technology group attracted using the CFSI conflict mineral questionnaire and the OECD nearly 150 experts from electronics companies, original Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of equipment manufacturers, electronic component makers, Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas to survey research institutions, and industry associations. The IPC-1401 the supply chain and share results with our customers. In technology group held six technical workshops in Shenzhen, 2015, we teamed up with Ernst & Young to analyze conflict Beijing, Shanghai, and Guangzhou, China. The draft standard mineral trends worldwide, and refined our conflict mineral (open for discussion) has been completed and the final management process and solution on the basis of leading version will be released in 2016. management practices. Huawei has also played a key role in the development of the CSR standard for China’s ICT industry. Based on the Huawei Statement on Conflict Minerals: framework of the ISO9001 management system, the standard http://www.huawei.com/en/about-huawei/declarations/ incorporates CSR requirements into companies’ value chain. statement-on-conflict-minerals It will be released in 2016. In accordance with the OECD Due Diligence Guidance, we evaluated all materials we used, and developed a list of materials and suppliers that involve conflict minerals in 2015. We also used the CFSI conflict mineral questionnaire to investigate 977 suppliers. Following this, we analyzed supplier feedback, developed questionnaire summaries, launched due diligence concerning conflict minerals, and shared investigation results with our customers. We encouraged suppliers to use smelters with the Conflict Free Smelter (CFS) certification, and urged uncertified smelters to become certified. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 53 Sustainable Products and Services 54 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World 03 Sustainable Products and Services Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 55 Sustainable Products and Services 3.1 Cyber Security and Privacy Protection Context Approach With the flourishing of various new technologies Huawei always treats cyber security as an important including cloud computing, virtualization, Big Data, corporate strategy and has implemented an end-to-end IoT, and mobile Internet in recent years, cyberspace global cyber security system. We emphasize that our and the physical world are increasingly converging and commitment to cyber security will never be outweighed connectivity has become a ubiquitous part of our life. by the consideration of commercial interests. This Notwithstanding the tremendous personal, social, and commitment is the guiding principle for our operations. enterprise benefits that we have realized as a result of the digital and broadband revolutions, security threats Similar to our cyber security efforts, Huawei makes are increasing, and vandalism, theft, and disruption are a solemn commitment to the public, governments, ongoing issues. and customers on privacy protection and honors this commitment as part of our corporate social responsibility. Meanwhile, data traffic is continuing to surge with more and We comply with changing local, regional, and more personal data stored and processed in ICT systems. international laws and regulations and take all necessary Whether people like it or not, personal data are collected and measures to boost privacy protection in accordance with used by enterprises and individuals. Complex privacy issues laws and regulations. related to personal data protection continue to emerge. Countries promulgate their own data protection laws which vary from country to country even though cross-national data transfer has become very common. End-to-End Assurance System We have established and implemented an end-to-end and trusted global cyber security assurance system in terms of policy, organization, process, management, technology, and specifications. In this assurance system, we first clarify the overall strategy and governance structure. The Global Cyber Security & User Privacy Protection Committee is the highest organization in Huawei to manage cyber security and privacy protection. We have appointed a Global Cyber Security & Privacy Officer, who reports directly to the CEO. All Huawei’s relevant business units have set up cyber security and privacy protection offices and these also extend to our regional offices. Senior Management Focus on Cyber Security & Privacy Protection If cyber security doesn’t matter to the Board of Directors (BOD) and other senior executives, it doesn’t matter to the staff. The Global Cyber Security & User Privacy Protection Committee is the highest committee in Huawei managing cyber security and privacy protection and is chaired by a Deputy Chairman of Huawei’s BOD. On this Committee sits the main board members and the global process owners, each of whom has a role in ensuring that cyber security requirements are embedded in all processes, policies, and standards and that they are executed effectively. Huawei senior executives have stated Huawei’s position and commitments in cyber security and privacy protection on various occasions. For example, in 2011, Ren Zhengfei, the founder and CEO of Huawei, signed off on the Statement on Establishing a Global Cyber Security Assurance System. (http://www.huawei.com/en/about-huawei/declarations/cyber-security) In the New Year speech of 2015, Ken Hu, the Rotating CEO, stated: “We should enhance cyber security and user privacy protection. Network coverage is now higher than ever. Customers not only require secure and reliable networks, but also secure data storage. Therefore, protecting customers’ information assets and privacy is absolutely critical. No matter what the challenges might be, we must adopt every possible means to provide higher levels of assurance to ensure the secure and stable operations of customer networks. We must make a solemn commitment to the public, governments, and customers regarding cyber security and user privacy protection, and honor this commitment as part of our corporate social responsibility. We will take all necessary measures to boost user privacy protection in accordance with local laws and regulations.” 56 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World To ensure sustained security, our cyber security assurance User privacy protection is high on our priority list. We have system is built on consistent, repeatable, and globally rolleda growing team of privacy experts who have rich experience out processes. We take a built-in approach to cyber security in privacy protection, many of whom have passed the to embed cyber security requirements into business processes International Association of Privacy Professional certification including R&D, manufacturing, service & delivery, procurement, (CIPP). We have a legal team dedicated to global privacy and supply chain. Besides process controls, we have built “many protection, and legal experts and local lawyers worldwide hands” and “many eyes” verification procedures and disciplines who review applicable laws and regulations on an ongoing around an ABC approach – “Assume nothing, Believe no-one, basis. We engage law firms with established reputations and Check everything.” We believe that from an efficiency, and experience in privacy protection. All this work provides effectiveness, and security perspective, the more people who are important inputs to our global privacy compliance policy. By looking, touching, testing, and questioning everything we do, following the path of “laws and regulations –> compliance the better it is for Huawei and the better it is for our customers. policies/requirements –> baseline requirements –> It is something we positively encourage for all vendors. incorporation into processes”, we include these requirements in the processes, standards, and guidelines of our daily People are important assets to companies. However, from a business activities. security perspective they can also be one of the major causes of security issues. Therefore, we continuously carry out large-scale To help business departments identify and mitigate privacy cyber security training programs to help employees understand risks in business activities, Huawei has implemented industry cyber security issues. With the improvement of all employees’ recognized approaches and practices, and introduced the awareness, we have now developed training courses internally Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) methodology recommended and introduced courses from external parties to improve by European and American data protection regulators to employees’ cyber security knowledge and skills for their specific assess privacy risks of business involving personal data. roles. In addition, we have identified cyber security critical This methodology includes the Privacy Impact Assessment positions and enhanced cyber security management during preFramework (PIAF) released by the European Union in 2012, job, on-job, and off-job stages of those critical positions. and consists of the following six steps: identifying the need for a PIA; describing information flows; identifying privacy Meanwhile, we proactively nurture a healthy internal culture and related risks; identifying and evaluating privacy solutions; to ensure every employee, partner, and external advisor obtaining internal approval at different levels; and integrating can accurately understand Huawei’s basic requirements on the PIA outcomes into the project plan. For risks identified by cyber security and privacy protection and strictly implement PIA, we take a close-looped management approach to follow relevant processes and rules. We have also integrated cyber up the risk’s resolution or mitigation. With regard to highsecurity and privacy protection requirements into the BCGs. risk businesses involving personal data, we have established a All employees are required to understand and sign the BCGs management mechanism so that before such a business goes every year. live, it should get the approval of both the Chief Legal Officer and the Global Cyber Security & Privacy Officer to ensure it is The ability to respond effectively to issues and learn lessons legally compliant and its security and privacy risks are under when anything goes wrong is critical. Huawei has established control. a comprehensive vulnerability management system to rapidly discover and respond to customer issues and maintain Throughout the whole lifecycle of data from collection, communication with customers during the resolution process. processing, storage, transfer to its deletion, we follow When things go wrong, being able to quickly identify where it has basic principles in the industry which are “lawful, fair gone wrong, what hardware or software component caused the and transparent”, “limit to the purposes”, “minimum issue, and where else that component is used is crucial to timely data”, “accuracy”, “minimum storage”, “integrity and recovery. We have established a mature system for tracing supply confidentiality”, and “accountability”. Based on those chain components and enhanced security management through principles, we have developed corresponding measures and version control, reverse logistics management, and traceability to adapted those measures to local laws in regions. As a global ensure that virtually every process and component is traceable. company, Huawei needs to transfer and process data across For software incorporated into configuration management, the borders worldwide. We keep a close eye on each country’s affected products and customers can be identified automatically regulations on cross-border data transfer (e.g., unrestricted within one hour of a vulnerability’s disclosure. We have also built transfer, conditional transfer, and prohibited cross-border basic software integrity protection capabilities into our end-totransfer of certain types of personal data). Any Huawei end processes, through the inspection of materials from suppliers, entity that hopes to transfer personal data across borders digital signatures in product versions, integrity protection for gold is required to consult our data protection officer and Legal images, and cloud-based software management in manufacturing Affairs Department in advance. Our corporate regulations and delivery. stipulate that a data transfer agreement that meets the EU requirements must be signed or explicit customer consent To ensure the implementation of the end-to-end system, we must be obtained before personal data is transferred out of have an independent Internal Audit Department conduct the European Economic Area (EEA). The entity that receives cyber security audits each year on business units and regions. personal data must provide sufficient guarantees to ensure The Internal Audit Department has released the audit report privacy. and regularly reports to the Global Cyber Security & User Privacy Protection Committee. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 57 Sustainable Products and Services Communication and Cooperation in an Open and Transparent Manner Cyber security is not a single country or company-specific We also proactively communicate and share our practices in issue. All stakeholders need to recognize that cyber security industry conferences. In September 2015, we sponsored and is a shared global problem requiring risk-based approaches, attended the 6th Global Cyberspace Cooperation Summit best practices, and international cooperation to address held by the EastWest Institute (EWI) in New York. Andy Purdy, the challenge. Taking on an open, transparent, and sincere Huawei US Cyber Security Officer, delivered a keynote speech attitude, Huawei is willing to work with all governments, sharing our cyber security practices and expressing our customers, and partners, encourage mature conversations, attitude toward open and transparent collaboration. As a coand advocate for fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory leader of the Breakthrough Group on Increasing the Global international standards, policies and regulations. Availability and Use of Secure ICT Products and Services, we contributed to cyber security standards with our third white Huawei issues white papers to contribute to industry paper Cyber Security Perspectives: 100 requirements when standards based on our experience and lessons in cyber considering end-to-end cyber security with your technology security. To date, we have released three cyber security white vendors as important input for the Breakthrough Group. papers. The first two white papers systematically introduce our cyber security position and approach, detailed processes, We have received positive feedback and have been widely and practices. The third white paper summarizes cyber recognized by governments, customers, and industry for our security questions Huawei used to be asked by customers efforts in cyber security. In April 2015, Huawei received the into 100 questions that ICT buyers may consider when Transparency Award for cyber security from the governments selecting providers in a bid to raise security levels across all of four cities in Lower Saxony, Germany. This is the first cyber technologies. What’s more, Huawei proactively pushes the security award received by Huawei from governments in development of security standards in standards organizations. Europe. For instance, Huawei is leading the development of security standards in 3GPP. In 2015, 106 of Huawei’s security About 70% of our components come from suppliers. We proposals were adopted by 3GPP, ranking top. 27 of Huawei’s realize that in the face of a global challenge such as cyber proposals were adopted by the security work group of ETSI security, it is not enough if only Huawei does cyber security well. Hence, while consolidating our own cyber security NFV, ranking top. In ONF, Huawei submitted 3 RFC and 15 practices, we also enhance cyber security management security proposals and became the chair of the ONF security by our suppliers. Cyber security is the foundation for our group. September 2015, Andy Purdy, Huawei US Cyber Security Officer, made a keynote speech in the EWI Summit, New York 58 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World cooperation with suppliers. We have established a comprehensive supplier cyber security management system and helped suppliers to improve their capabilities to drive advancements across the entire industry chain. We c o n d u c t re g u l a r s u p p l i e r r i s k assessments, and manage suppliers based on their risk levels. Through our cyber security agreement, we have conveyed our cyber security risks to our suppliers. Suppliers are required to fix the issues found in audits, and to improve their cyber security system and capabilities. To better meet customer requirements, we have established processes for detecting, warning, and responding to vulnerabilities on the supplier side. Communication is also a key method Huawei was granted the Transparency Award for cyber security from the governments of to enhance suppliers’ cyber security four cities in Lower Saxony, Germany in CeBIT awareness. In 2015, we organized training for senior managers of 116 suppliers. In the Global Engineering Provider Conference held in February 2015, we introduced our cyber security requirements and management mechanisms for suppliers. Networks are shifting toward fully-connected services, SDN/NFV-based architecture, and Internetized operations. The emergence of smart lifestyles will bring about more challenges for user privacy protection and cyber security. We will continue to position cyber security and user privacy assurance as a core corporate strategy. We will continue to enhance our cyber security and user privacy protection methods and practices. By relying on our ICT knowledge and expertise in cloud, pipe, and devices, end-to-end security approaches and At the Global Engineering Provider Conference held in Shenzhen in February 2015, expertise, we will continue to support Huawei introduced the cyber security requirements and management mechanism to customers, gover nments, and key suppliers stakeholders so that they can understand the role ICT will play over the coming years, and benefit from our knowledge on security and privacy. We hope that our key concepts of teamwork, openness, and transparency will create more value for customers so that they can better prepare themselves for future challenges and future benefits. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 59 Sustainable Products and Services 3.2 Green Products and Services Context Approach As society continues its rapid development, the number Our approach to environmental protection is based on the of network connections is soaring, leading to enormous circular economy concept, which seeks to improve resource traffic growth and huge bandwidth demand. ICT and energy efficiency and enable the reuse of raw materials, infrastructure is becoming smarter and can offer faster components, and products. At the product design stage, we and smoother connectivity. However, ICT infrastructure aim to maximize product lifespan and ensure easy take-back, and smart devices are consuming increasingly more maintenance, recycling, and reuse. Our design approach energy and resources. The ICT industry is facing the also adopts the lifecycle assessment methodology and tools to help us select recyclable or compostable materials, thus significant challenge of how to maximize the efficiency minimizing material use. We are committed to providing our of networks and minimize energy consumption and customers with green and efficient products and solutions other environmental impacts, without compromising that consume less energy to lower operating expenses network performance and user experience. (OPEX) and carbon emissions. Leading Green ICT Technologies We strive to provide highly efficient and energy-saving In 2015, we implemented the following four initiatives green products and solutions that help customers slash regarding green product design: their operating expenses and carbon emissions. To make this happen, we have embedded green requirements into 1. We developed low-power chips and improved hardware our end-to-end product lifecycle, from development and design, software, and dynamic energy management manufacturing to delivery and operations and maintenance technologies. Consequently, we increased the energy (O&M). All our offerings can meet or exceed applicable laws, efficiency of core routers and wireless base stations by regulations, standards, and customer requirements, allowing 25% and 20%. our customers to enhance their environmental performance. Through continuous technological innovation, we offer energy-efficient solutions for networks, sites, and equipment that enable customers to operate at lower costs and with Increased the energy efficiency of core routers and higher energy efficiency. wireless base stations by We also actively cooperate with customers, industry partners, and universities to develop innovative green technologies. So far, we have led and driven the formulation 25% and 20% of various energy efficiency standards and technical specifications. Our involvement promotes the innovation and development of green ICT technologies, and contributes to our competitiveness and influence in terms of energy conservation and emissions reduction. 60 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Huawei Kirin 950 Chipset: High Performance, Low Energy Consumption, Long Battery Life The Huawei Mate8 smartphone uses the latest Kirin 950 chipset, the world’s first systemon-a-chip (SoC) powered by the 16nm FinFET Plus technology, and ARM’s Cortex A72 architecture and Mali T880 GPU. The new architecture makes the GPU 125% more efficient than the predecessor Kirin 930. Several leading designs translate into a 70% reduction in energy consumption: state-of-the-art heat dissipation, smart temperature control, 6-level heat conduction structure, and DX19 high thermal conductivity alloy. The smartphone’s SmartPower 4.0 system, coupled with the chip-level Heartbeat Agent app, intelligently identifies which scenario the user is in, and then chooses the most suitable power solution to extend battery life. The power-saving firewall can monitor the operating system’s running status in real time to prevent abnormal power consumption. Thanks to these technologies, users can enjoy the excellent performance of the Mate8 without constantly worrying about charging their phones. 2. We conducted research into innovative energy-saving technologies to support future network evolutions: ○ In the 5G domain, we made ground-breaking progress in multiple areas such as networking architecture, spectrum utilization, air interface technology, and base stations. The results were many leading technologies, including new air interface technology and digital radio frequency technology. These technologies can lower end-to-end network costs and boost spectrum efficiency and energy efficiency. ○ Huawei performed exceptionally in China’s 863 Green Network R&D and Demonstration Project. This project focused on researching and developing breakthrough technologies for the evolution and management of end-to-end green network architecture. The results are green networks with high energy efficiency, as well as their evaluation system. Huawei’s involvement contributed to faster industry development and more energy-efficient green networks, which boast a 30% decrease in end-to-end energy consumption compared to traditional networks. ○ In other domains, we worked closely with customers to enhance their energy efficiency and contribute to their goals of energy conservation and carbon emissions reduction. Exploring Innovative Approaches with Customers to Cut Energy Consumption and Emissions In December 2015, Huawei and Orange signed the green ICT infrastructure platform has already been set up at network 2020 agreement in Paris, France. Both companies Huawei’s research laboratories in Shenzhen, China. This reaffirmed their strategic cooperation on energy, with Huawei infrastructure uses Huawei’s latest energy supply solutions offering energy-efficient solutions to help Orange achieve and cooling systems. their energy conservation and emissions reduction goals by 2020. In terms of energy conservation and emissions reduction, Huawei is a long-term strategic partner of Orange, The companies have been working together on improving China Mobile, Vodafone, BT, and many other leading energy design in multiple areas since 2013. This collaboration carriers. In the future, we will expand our partnerships has enabled the design of customer connector cards that with ICT carriers as we seek to boost network energy reduce energy consumption by 50% for ADSL access and efficiency, tap into ICT’s potential as an enabler of energy 70% for fiber optic access. An innovative modular convergent conservation and emissions reduction, and contribute to customers’ goals. This partnership will accelerate the implementation of high energy-efficient solutions in Orange’s infrastructures to achieve our 2020 objective of reducing CO 2 emissions per customer usage by 50%. This innovative approach in research and development of ecosystems will assist society in energy and environmental transition. — Mari-Noëlle Jégo-Laveissière, Senior Executive Vice President of Orange Group Huawei and Orange representatives signing the green ICT network 2020 agreement Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 61 Sustainable Products and Services 3. We provided services to enhance the energy performance of 4. We collaborated with industry peers to develop and customers’ existing networks. Network modernization is an optimize energy efficiency standards. As a member of efficient, cost-effective approach which carriers can adopt to energy efficiency standards teams of ITU, ETSI, and CCSA, cope with rapid business development. Energy conservation we submitted multiple proposals as a major contributor. is one of the key factors needed to push network These proposals involved broadband access, base stations, modernization. In 2015, we helped several customers radio access networks, servers, and NFV. In doing so, we redesign networks according to actual conditions such as boosted the standards’ accuracy and feasibility. We also traffic distribution, networking characteristics, and the power participated in the development of multiple standards, consumption of equipment and infrastructure. Our energy such as ETSI’s energy efficiency evaluation standards for conservation solutions and configuration policies for soft future network evolution, and EISI’s energy efficiency features on equipment were highly feasible and ensured the measurement standards for base stations and networks. networks’ quality of service. Best of Show Award for the Huawei NE5000E Core Router at Interop 2015 The Huawei NE5000E core router is leading the network industry in several areas. Its 128 100GE ports support line rate forwarding. And its multi-frame clustering technology allows smooth capacity expansion to 256 Tbit/s. This elasticity significantly increases the capacity of customers’ backbone network nodes, reducing the need for frequent capacity expansions. The router is a perfect embodiment of end-to-end green design in terms of chips, line cards, software platform, and hardware. Its overall power consumption is the industry’s lowest, below 1 Wh of electricity per 1 Gbit/s of data. It greatly decreases carriers’ energy use and operating expenses, and has thus been hailed as an industry leader. Best of Show Award for the Huawei NE5000E Core Router Product Innovation Leadership Award in Telecom Energy Solutions Our next-generation energy solutions for ICT infrastructure can maximize networks’ energy efficiency, and enable automated, simplified operations management while greatly enhancing the reliability of ICT infrastructure. Our solutions have helped our carrier customers and partners achieve business success and sustainable development. In 2014, Frost & Sullivan presented Huawei with the Product Innovation Leadership Award in Telecom Energy Solutions. In 2015, we received the award again, indicating that our nextgeneration energy solutions have been well received and widely deployed by ICT carriers, and that Huawei has become a leader in eco-design and innovation for communications Huawei presented with the Product Innovation Leadership energy products. Award in Telecom Energy Solutions Lifecycle Assessment (LCA)-based Eco-design We use an eco-design methodology to assess products’ environmental impact throughout their lifecycle, including raw material acquisition, manufacturing, transportation, usage, scrapping, disposal, recycling, and reuse. With a deep understanding of our products’ impact on resources and the environment, we have identified key influencing factors, set improvement targets, and incorporated energy conservation and emissions reduction requirements into our product design and development processes. In this way, our products can achieve higher resource efficiency and environmental performance. In 2015, we drew up internal guidelines on product eco-design and assessment. We also worked closely with industry standards organizations and certification institutions on researching and drafting eco-design standards for ICT products. As part of this, we identified seven key factors for assessing eco-design over the lifecycle of ICT products, and this model was approved by industry bodies such as the China Electronics Standardization Institute (CESI), the China Quality Certification Center (CQC), and 62 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World the China Communications Standards Association (CCSA). Our assessment standards and indicators were incorporated into the General Standards for Assessment of Eco-design in Electrical and Electronic Products and the Technical Standard for Assessment of Eco-design in Optical Network Terminal (ONT) Products. Product Scrapping Raw materials Manufacturing Transportation Usage lifecycle and disposal Reduce raw materials and Reduce energy and resource Energy and resource Reuse and recycling use renewable materials consumption efficiency ○ Easy to disassemble ○ Durability Design ○ Biological materials ○ Hazardous materials ○ Manufacturing eco-design ○ Logistics eco-design ○ Energy conservation of ○ Recycling quality assurance considerations control ○ Packaging eco-design network equipment ○ Efficient cooling ○ Minimization design ○ Lightweight design ○ Efficient energy conservation Eco-design in Huawei’s Optical Network Terminals (ONTs) Designed and optimized based on an eco-design approach, the Huawei HG8010a ONT emits 20.1% less CO2 compared to the HG8010H ONT throughout its lifecycle (five years). This is equivalent to a CO2 emissions reduction of 3.797 kg. Major optimization measures adopted were as follows: Reducing the number of printed circuit boards to 2, and Compact design: product size reduced by 22.3% replacing the radiator with a natural heat dissipation system – CO2 emissions were cut by 0.7 kg over a lifecycle of five years Package size reduced by 16% and weight reduced by 13.7%, equivalent to a CO2 emissions reduction of 0.12 kg and a 28% decrease in transportation costs over a lifecycle of five years ONT LCA analysis & comparison 20 18.98 15.18 15 Notes: Prerequisites of LCA assessment include 9.19 9.48 ○ The ONT’s lifespan is five years 10 8.27 8.23 HG8010H HG8010a ○ The terminal generates 0.758 kg of CO2 5 per 1 kWh of electricity on a low-voltage electricity distribution network 0.28 0.26 0.03 0.01 0 Total Manufacturing Transportation Usage Waste and assembly disposal Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 63 Sustainable Products and Services Use of Renewable Materials To minimize the impact of our product packaging on forests, Huawei has sought FSC® certified packaging for our phones. Bioplastics are made from natural, usually plant-based raw FSC is a supply chain management certification that ensures materials. These renewable resources are very environmentally the materials for our packaging come from well-managed friendly, and they are a substitute for non-renewable oil-based sustainable forests. In 2015, the packaging for many of our materials. Huawei began using bioplastics in our phones in 2013, products was FSC certified, including the P8, P8max, G8, and by 2015 we had extended their use to five different models: Mate S, Mate8, and Honor X2. the P8, Honor 5X, Honor 7i, Mate S, and Mate8 smartphones. The bioplastic front cases of the P8 and Mate8 contain more than 30% castor oil. As inedible oil, castor oil reduces the need for edible oil used in device products, and is also an ideal replacement for nonrenewable materials. Forest Stewardship 30% The bioplastic front cases of the P8 and Mate8 contain Council (FSC) certification on the more than castor oil packaging of the Mate8 smartphone Forest Stewardship Council® The Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) is an independent, non-governmental, non-profit organization committed to promoting responsible forest management worldwide. FSC® certification involves monitoring and review of suppliers by an independent third party to ensure that the forestry, transportation, and processing of timber meets FSC standards. Those standards ensure that the whole process is sustainable and responsible, and protects biodiversity. Management of Hazardous Substances Hazardous substances are substances which pose a potential danger to people, other living things, or the environment. As environmental problems continue to escalate and technologies advance worldwide, 120 115 more and more substances are being banned or their use curtailed. 100 Complying with laws and regulations on hazardous substances is 90 90 not our only goal: We have gone one step further by restricting 80 73 the use of hazardous substances that are not yet outlawed but 60 can significantly affect the environment. Starting in 2016, we plan 45 to invest more than US$75 million each year to restrict the use of 40 32 35 35 six substances in our new mobile phones, tablets, and wearables. 20 These substances include brominated flame retardants, chlorinated 0 flame retardants, PVC, phthalates, antimony trioxide, and beryllium 2012 2013 2014 2015 :FBS and beryllium compounds. We have already ceased using these substances in our flagship phones (the Mate S and Mate8) and in Restricted substances Reported substances our wearable Huawei Watch. In 2015, we published the fifth edition of the Huawei Restricted and reported substances in the Huawei Substance List Substance List, listing 45 restricted substances, to which s p e c i f i c u s a g e re s t r i c t i o n s a p p l y ; a n d 1 1 5 re p o r t e d substances, the use of which must be reported. 64 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Green Product Certification In 2015, over 60 Huawei switches and routers were awarded the TÜV Rheinland Green Product Mark, up 120% from the previous year. TÜV Rheinland and Huawei presented a joint display at CeBIT 2015, and Huawei is the first ICT solutions provider in the world to have an entire range of campus network switches certified with the Green Product Mark. The Green Product Mark is confirmation that Huawei switches are at the forefront of green technology; that Huawei products are leaders in terms of environmental performance, recycling, energy efficiency, regulatory compliance, and minimal carbon footprint; and that Huawei is setting the pace for green operations in the ICT industry. Green Certification: Sustainable Mobile Phones U L 1 1 0 i s a n e n v i ro n m e n t a l s t a n d a rd d e v e l o p e d b y 5X, also received the highest A certificate for green Un derwriters L a bor a t or ie s ( UL ) s pe c if ic a lly t o a sse ss electronic/electrical products from the China Quality sustainability for mobile phones. UL110 certification is one Certification Center (CQC). of the industry’s most recognized green standards. It assesses products in eight areas: sourcing of materials, manufacturing Huawei is able to achieve certification because we and processing, emissions, energy efficiency, health and have built in green design from the beginning. We aim safety, transportation, disposal and recycling, and innovation; to minimize impact and damage to the environment and produces a final certification assessment. In 2015, throughout the entire product lifecycle, from material several Huawei phones achieved the highest level (Platinum) selection and sourcing, processing, transportation, usage, of UL110 certification, including the P8, G8, and Mate8. Six logistics, and distribution, to waste treatment. products, including the Honor 6Plus, P8, T1-821w, and Honor Award for UL110 platinum certification for the Huawei P8 CQC A certificate for the T1-821w Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 65 Sustainable Products and Services Green Packaging Huawei complies strictly with environmental regulations ○ Right and Reduce: These Rs represent Huawei’s smart use across the entire lifecycle of packaging materials, including of technology to design green packaging that responds selection, manufacturing, usage, and disposal. We use to customer needs. We make ongoing reductions to green packaging materials that are reusable, renewable, our packaging, reducing the volume, and using wood and sustainable. Our steel pallet plus high-density cardboard substitutes, transparent packaging, and multi-packs. packaging solution has replaced wooden pallets and plywood crates, cutting our use of forest products. In 2013, Huawei ○ Returnable and Reuse: These Rs explain how Huawei’s was recognized by the Chinese Ministry of Industry and green packaging approach extends to the entire supply Information Technology as a leader in the use of wood chain. Effective reuse extends the lifecycle of packaging substitutes. Since then, we have continuously increased the along the supplier-Huawei-carrier customer chain. use of green packaging to conserve more resources and reduce carbon emissions. ○ Recycle, Recovery, and Degradable: These factors represent Huawei’s resource efficiency in the way it We have implemented the green packaging strategy selects and processes green packaging materials. summarized as “6R1D”: Right Packaging (the core), Reduce, Returnable, Reuse, Recycle, Recovery, and Degradable. ○ Right Packaging: At the core of 6R1D is selection of the right packaging. Choosing the right type of packaging is an expression of Huawei’s commitment to sustainability by “getting it right first time” in every phase of the lifecycle. Green packaging (pieces) Reduced use of timber (m3) In 2015, Huawei shipped 505,000 pieces of green 504,867 83,551 packaging, saving 84,000 m3 of wood and 177,000 tons 247,193 45,717 44,164 of CO2 emissions. 214,882 19,853 93,185 2012 2013 2014 2015 :FBS 2012 2013 2014 2015 :FBS 66 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Circular Economy Resources are the lifeblood of human development. The growing Product Design for the Circular Economy global economy is driving increased competition for resources, Bringing the circular economy concept into product design is sometimes to crisis levels, and the extensive model for economic the starting point for maximizing value recovery and reducing growth has led to resource scarcity and environmental pollution. environmental pollution. Huawei uses a platform-based, This realization has sparked widespread interest in a new circular modular approach to design to extend the working life of economy model. products while still allowing for technological advances and network evolution; to increase reliability, maintainability, and Huawei is committed to comprehensive resource the use of green materials; and to fully realize the value of management, and to using the latest technology to improve every product. resource efficiency. We have incorporated circular economy practices into the entire product lifecycle to create our circular economy business model, including cradle to cradle practices for sustainable resource use. Elements of the Design Approach for the Circular Economy ○ Recyclable design: Use more recyclable materials and secondary raw materials ○ Coatings: Coatings compatible with product recycling processes ○ Design for disassembly: Avoid welds, glue, rivets, and other permanent joins where possible ○ Uniformity of materials: Reduce recycling costs for higher returns ○ Surface mounting: Improve the reusability of PCBs and make materials more recoverable, recyclable, and reusable Business Models for the Circular Economy We have put in place a global management system for returned materials, incorporating the collection, storage, disassembly, testing, repair, and disposal of waste. Every scrapped item is categorized by lifecycle phase and quality, so that we can recover as much of its value as possible. Reusable materials are allocated to our internal reuse channels – such as the R&D, manufacturing, parts, and assets departments – where materials are reused or auctioned off. Non-reusable materials are allocated to the raw material recycling channel, in which certified recycling service providers dismantle and recycle the materials. In 2015, we updated our disposal strategy and process. Rather than destroying optical cables, fiber leads, power supply components, heat sinks, and other waste products and components, we are now auctioning them as scrap, creating a secondary lifecycle and reducing waste. These strategies helped us reduce carbon emissions by 355.7 tons. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 67 Sustainable Products and Services Global Green Recycling Program In 2015, we expanded the Global Green Recycling Program, in which we strive to fulfill our extended producer responsibility by taking back scrapped mobile phones and tablets. As part of our Circular Economy approach, the expanded program provides a channel for our consumers to recycle their e-waste, helping maximize product value and ensure legal disposal. 2015 saw the beginning of the phase 2 program. By the end of 2015, we had 444 recycling stations in 23 countries and regions; 166 of the recycling stations had been added in China, and 102 added in 14 other countries and regions this year. Global distribution of recycling stations (2015) Greece, 2 Finland, 2 Finland, 2 Denmark, 1 Hungary, 1 South Korea, 50 Croatia, 1 Belgium, 11 Slovenia, 1 Denmark, 1 US, postal delivery Serbia, 1 Greece, 2 Hungary, 1 South Korea, 50 Pakistan, 7 Chinese mainland, 165+81 Belgium, 11 Qatar, 1 Croatia, 1 UAE, 3 Saudi Arabia, 3 Oman, 8 India, 36 Serbia, 1 Hong Kong, 1 Thailand, 12 Slovenia, 1 Philippines, 33 Indonesia, 22 Singapore, 1 Singapore, 1 Indonesia, 22 Brazil, postal delivery Pakistan, 7 Chinese mainland, 165 Hong Kong, 1 Australia, 1 US (postal delivery) Brazil (postal delivery) Countries and regions covered in the Countries and regions covered in the phase 2 phase 1 program in 2014 program in 2015 Global distribution of recycling stations (as of end of 2015) Recycling station in Helsinki, Finland Recycling station in Antwerp, Belgium 68 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Phone Trade-in Program In 2015, Huawei’s Consumer Business Group (BG) launched a trade-in program for mobile phones. This program has increased the recycling and reuse rates in China and around the world. The trade-in program is currently available in China and Malaysia. It operates through Vmall online stores, where consumers can trade in their old phones As of the end of 2015, we for new ones. This brings the phone recycling program directly to consumers, had recovered an average of encouraging higher levels of recycling and reuse; and it offers consumers an improved, discounted buying experience. Owing to this program, the environment 4,177 phones every is protected, and sustainable development is guaranteed. month, 40% of which were Huawei phones. As of the end of 2015, we had recovered an average of 4,177 phones every month, 40% of which were Huawei phones. Vmall phone trade-in page for Malaysia Website: http://vmall.trade-in.litong.com/huawei/takeback/startSelectDevice 3.3 Safe Products Context Approach In recent years, ICT technology Huawei has developed strict systems for product safety control, and h a s a d v a n c e d r a p i d l y, a n d m o b i l e enforced strict product safety standards. Our goal is to deliver safe, broadband, smartphones, and wearables dependable products and services to customers and consumers. As are now reshaping the way people work part of this goal, we are committed to researching and innovating and live. ICT products and services are product safety technologies, and adopting best practices. Reducing delivering rich user experience while also electromagnetic radiation remains one of our focus areas, and we have increasing safety challenges. That’s why increased our research into dermatological reactions. We have also users are more concerned about product worked with leading international organizations on the issue of noise safety (e.g., electromagnetic radiation, control, to ensure that our products conform to every noise standard. noise, and allergens) than product And we have adopted a user scenario-based approach to product safety quality. design, thereby ensuring that our products are easy to install, easy to use, and meet all relevant health and safety standards. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 69 Sustainable Products and Services Electromagnetic Radiation Huawei has developed strict standards for controlling electromagnetic radiation levels. Our ongoing research and innovation helps to ensure that our products conform to all legal and technical standards. Base stations are becoming smaller, lighter, and are being installed closer to ground level. In response, we are building additional electromagnetic radiation protection into their design, and carrying out more research and testing. This allows us to deliver both excellent communications services and product safety. We have helped our customers to carry out many electromagnetic surveys of residential areas, and engaged with public concerns over electromagnetic radiation. The widespread adoption of smartphones has also brought forth new challenges in consumer safety. In addition to our base stations, Huawei products for consumers, homes, and enterprises all satisfy the relevant standards for electromagnetic radiation. Dermatological Safety The explosion of new smart devices in recent years has brought consumers a rich range of new experiences, but has also created health and safety challenges. In non-ICT industries, there are existing standards for allergens, such as those for textiles and children’s toys, and EU directives for medical devices. However, in the communications industry, there is not yet a widespread understanding of the issue of allergic reactions, and dermatological worries are particularly acute for wearables and children’s products. We are well aware of the potential risks to health posed by allergic reactions, and are managing the dermatological safety of our products. We have invested in research with the Japanese Dermatological Association and the Japan Medical Association Research Institute (JMARI), which is laying a solid foundation for reducing the risk of allergic reactions. In 2015, we worked with the TÜV SÜD, SGS, and other specialist organizations to develop an allergen standard for smartphone accessories, referencing the standards already available for medical equipment, toys, and textiles. We also developed manufacturing control mechanisms, and established the Huawei Device Anti-allergen Team to set our internal standards for allergens and control processes. We aim to raise awareness of allergy issues within the communications industry, and are working with industry partners to draft standards. We are committed to minimizing the negative impact of communication products on human health and safety. Ergonomics Huawei has a specialist ergonomic design team, which promotes safe product design based on real user scenarios. Ergonomic design is built into every phase of product planning, design, development, and testing, so that our products are adapted to users’ engineering habits and technical needs while reducing health and safety risks at the installation and usage stages. As of the end of 2015, we had collected user scenarios in 25 countries and regions, including major telecom carriers across Europe, North America, Latin America, Africa, and Asia. We increased our focus on Africa, gaining deeper insight into local engineering delivery practices and user habits. With innovative designs based on real user scenarios, we have been able to deliver products that are easy to use, easy to install, and better meet ergonomic requirements. User scenarios analyzed by Huawei globally Number of countries in which user scenarios have been analyzed 120 25 112 25 106 100 95 21 20 19 80 15 60 10 40 20 5 0 0 2013 2014 2015 :FBS 2013 2014 2015 :FBS 70 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Optimizing Ergonomic Design to Prevent Safety Risks The Huawei Distributed Converged Cable Access Platform (D-CCAP) has been developed using the Data over Cable Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS) to integrate into FTTx systems, supporting simplified network roll-out and management. The solution reduces health and safety risks during installation and usage, and ensures a clearer, smoother audiovisual experience for Internet users. The solution has been implemented in 30 countries and regions around the world. Its excellent ergonomic design elements are as follows: ○ Adaptable: The multifunctional installation brackets provide 100% support for installation on cables, in equipment cabinets, on exterior walls, or on simple poles. Such a high degree of adaptability avoids the need for network reconstruction. ○ Pre-assembly: Units to be installed on cables can be pre-assembled, freeing up the hands of the installation engineer. Single engineer installation allows for faster rollout. ○ Modular: One of the common problems faced by customers is that they cannot easily swap out single pieces of equipment, but must remove entire units. The modular design of the D-CCAP solution allows for the easy swapping of equipment by a single engineer, so that equipment can be maintained and upgraded without replacing entire cables. D-CCAP equipment in a ground cabinet in Denmark D-CCAP suspended installation in Malaysia Noise Reduction As part of our commitment to ongoing improvements in product quality, we are always working to decrease product noise levels, thus minimizing our impact on the environment. We have carried out ongoing noise level surveys, and have made significant improvements in the design of many products. For example, at one data center, a noise survey and diagnostic analysis led us to design improvements into the ventilation pipes and sound baffles in the switches. As a result, noise was reduced by 6.5dB (A). We also redesigned the fan housing of a router to achieve a noise reduction of 6dB (A), with no reduction in cooling power. We track the latest developments in noise reduction technology, and have close links with universities and research institutes working on noise control. The Huawei Environmental Acoustics Lab has long been ISO/IEC 17025 certified by both the American Association for Laboratory Accreditation (A2LA) and the China National Accreditation Service for Conformity Assessment (CNAS), and is recognized by major testing and certification organizations such as UL, MET Laboratories, and National Technical Systems (NTS). The lab supports our efforts to measure, locate, and control environmental noise with some of the world’s most advanced noise testing equipment. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 71 Sustainable World 72 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World 04 Sustainable World Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 73 Sustainable World 4.1 Bridging the Digital Divide Context A key concern for the world is whether the growth in ICT is helping to reduce inequality or is increasing it. There is a real fear that those who are offline are falling further behind those with digital technologies. And the gap between economies without the necessary ICT infrastructure, skills or expertise will grow compared to those with. According to the UN, the digital divide is still narrowing but more slowly than before, and it is also rapidly deepening: Less people are getting left behind, but the consequences for those left behind are greater. Approach As an ICT industry player, Huawei is applying our core expertise to bring communications and broadband to all. We also seek to apply ICT to specific sectors and strengthen the overall ICT ecosystem through skills development, local capacity building, and R&D. these remote areas only increase the already high per capita cost of building networks to reach these people. Considering geographical locations and economic situations, often the most appropriate solution is to provide a mobile network which can cost-effectively reach wide areas. In general, mobile networks run on spectrum from 700 MHz up to 2.5 GHz. Those operating at lower frequencies are able to reach further, but offer lower data speeds and are able to handle fewer simultaneous connections. Therefore, a 2G (or 2.5G) network running on lower frequencies is often the most economical approach to providing the unconnected with communications services for the first time, as well as lowspeed access to the Internet. These 2G (or 2.5G) networks can reach low-density populations across wide areas at lower access costs. In 2015, Huawei launched a new white paper entitled Digital Enablement: Bridging the Digital Huawei is working with our customers to install 2G Divide to Connect People and Society. It discussed in networks in some of the remotest and poorest parts detail the challenges of bridging the digital divide, of the world, often powered entirely or partly by solar and provided specific tools and recommendations power. Our innovations have helped customers reduce that we can all use. The report can be read at their CAPEX and OPEX. We intentionally build these www.huawei.com/minisite/digital-enablement networks with our customers so that they can be upgraded with minor hardware and software tweaks at a later date to bring faster broadband speeds as local circumstances (including the availability of spectrum Communications for All resources) change. In 2015, we built many 2G and More than 87% of the world’s population is within reach 2.5G networks in the remote areas of many countries, of a mobile phone signal, but what about the other 13%? including India, Ghana, Azerbaijan, and Jordan, These people usually live in remote, less-developed areas. The allowing more local people to enjoy the convenience of technical difficulties of building and powering networks in mobile communications. 74 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Broadband Inclusion for All As over four billion people are still offline and the rate of Our network solutions seek to reduce the total costs for new Internet users has begun to drop, there exists a real carriers to provide high-speed network connectivity and fear that the benefits of broadband Internet may never enable new business models. This means carriers can continue reach the majority of the world’s population. The problem to invest in building networks and providing services to users. is most severe in many emerging economies with hundreds We provide a full range of solutions including international of millions still out of reach of a signal and often more than submarine networks, backhaul networks, backbone networks, two thirds of citizens offline. The reasons are complex, yet fixed networks, and mobile networks, as well as the software even in developed economies, more than 15% of citizens that enables them all. This includes developing: are still offline. Why? Huawei’s recent white paper, Digital Enablement: Bridging the Digital Divide to Connect People and Society, identified four main reasons, including: Innovative partnerships ○ Availability: Network access is complex as it requires a with governments, high quality network connection, a smart device, and carriers, and other relevant applications or services. partners to make broadband more affordable. ○ Affordability: Network connections, smart devices, and relevant applications and services must be available and affordable for consumers, especially those of lowerincomes. Innovative fixed and wireless technologies that can extend ○ Attitude: Many people are not aware of the benefits of the range of high-speed Innovative software for carriers to networks at lower costs, such generate new revenue streams so broadband Internet, or are unaware of its full potential, as Wireless to the X (see the they can invest in network buildwhile others may be afraid of using it. out. following case study) and G.fast, which can use existing ○ Ability: Using the Internet can also be challenging: Some copper infrastructure to consumers lack the physical ability needed to use a deliver faster speeds. device, are illiterate and unable to read text, or cannot create content or use ICT on a daily basis. In Africa, we have deployed more than 50% of wireless base stations, over 70% of LTE networks, and at least 50,000 km of optical fiber, to provide better telecom connectivity to the continent. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 75 Sustainable World Offering Broadband Access for the First Time to Households in Sri Lanka In March 2015, Huawei announced the commercialization of Broadband penetration rates in Sri Lanka are low, even the Wireless to the X (WTTx) broadband access solution using compared to other South Asian countries. Though mobile LTE-TDD technology. Using only mobile technologies, WTTx phone usage is fairly high, ITU estimates that only 25.8% provides an alternative to a home-based fixed broadband of the population had access to the Internet at the end connection at much lower costs (up to 80% less) and much of 2014. faster deployment (up to 90%). The WTTx solution (with a customized terminal) can be used inside or outside the home In Sri Lanka, the telecom company Dialog began to deploy to turn a mobile signal into a Wi-Fi signal. Its multi-antenna WTTx in 2013 and rapidly expanded it in 2015 with 500 technology allows a fast mobile broadband network to be new base stations reaching numerous households, 80% accessed across a greater coverage radius. of which had never accessed broadband before. After the initial connection fee of US$27, the service costs as little WTTx can enable fast broadband at lower costs for individual as US$4 per month for 5 GB of data and a voice line. users who can access it using any low-cost Wi-Fi-enabled As few users possess a 4G device in Sri Lanka, people smartphone, and connection costs can be shared by all can access broadband using any Wi-Fi-enabled device, household users. WTTx is also an excellent solution for SMEs including more prevalent 3G devices, personal computers, that would otherwise need a fixed broadband solution which and tablets. would be more expensive and slower to roll out. Enabling Mexico Conectado Mexico Conectado is a federal government program rolled ○ The next-generation firewall deployed at each site out by the Ministry of Communication and Transportation, can identify and filter 5 million malicious and illegal which aims to guarantee citizens’ constitutional right to websites, thus securing Internet access and ensuring Internet access. The program, implemented in coordination with state and municipal governments, offers free Internet legal compliance. The firewall can effectively manage access in public places such as schools, hospitals, universities, the traffic of the entire network, ensure that limited governmental offices, and parks. In many areas, it is expected network bandwidth is fully utilized, and offer a better to be a primary means for millions of Mexicans to access the user experience. Internet free of charge. The program will allow people to access knowledge via the Internet, receive better education Mexico Conectado has so far provided more than 65,000 and healthcare remotely, improve the quality of public public Internet hotspots and an additional 35,000 services, and bridge the digital divide. are being installed. A total of 96% of the country’s municipalities now have a public Internet access site and With our ICT expertise, Huawei has worked with the Mexican there are 18 million users annually. government to give more people access to stable, fast, and secure networks. We have so far provided equipment for Huawei looks forward to working with the Mexican 30,000 Internet hotspots (sites) for this program. We have government to expand this initiative in the future, and also provided a safe, reliable, scalable, and easy-to-manage sharing the experience in other countries where it can be solution which can reduce network construction and replicated. maintenance costs. ○ Each site includes two access points (Wi-Fi routers), which provide stable and high-performance wireless Internet access in both indoor and outdoor locations. ○ Mexican users can go through authentication via the next-generation firewall deployed at each site before accessing the Internet. The authentication page is flexibly customized by Huawei’s eSight system back at the HQ A total of 96% of the country’s municipalities now have a public Internet access site and there are 18 million users annually. and stored in a local cache. This can avoid access delays caused by remote authentication. 76 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World ICT Applications ICT has changed the way we work, live, and consume. ICT also delivers efficiency gains and enables flexible resource usage and management. It is a powerful tool that allows businesses to create greater value, innovate new offerings, and stay competitive in the new business environment. ICT has shifted from a support system to a vehicle of value creation. Huawei has promoted the application of ICT in sectors such as education, healthcare, and finance. Our technologies have significantly increased resource utilization efficiency and decreased resource consumption, and are playing a meaningful role in driving forward the sustainable development of society. Huawei helps health institutions to go digital, so as to increase efficiency, re d u c e c o s t s , a n d i m p ro v e h e a l t h outcomes. Our products and solutions enable better storage and analysis of crucial data, and better sharing of scarce health expertise between institutions. H u a w e i ’s m o b i l e m o n e y s o l u t i o n Huawei enables educational allows telecom companies and banks institutions to build highly efficient to provide efficient and cost-effective networks connecting students, financial services to consumers, teachers, and policymakers to each thereby enabling easier purchases, other and to information. These transfers, saving, borrowing, and networks dramatically improve insurance. Access to mobile financial educational efficiency and expand the services can completely change the coverage of high-quality education. lives of around two billion unbanked people. Huawei’s Safe City solution enables Huawei’s connectivity solutions for cities to be safer for their citizens, industries and public sectors enable and helps governments to better increases in productivity. They expand utilize their limited resources to access for individuals, businesses, protect the public. and gover nment institutions while d r a m a t i c a l l y i n c re a s i n g e ff i c i e n c y. Our IoT solution, for example, allows for the tracking and monitoring of items in supply chains, manufacturing processes, or in transit. Analysis of this information brings huge benefits and improvements to users. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 77 Sustainable World Connecting 64 Schools in Ethiopia to Transform Education The Ethiopian government aims to advance ICT-based After the switch to this Desktop Cloud System, education and nurture an ICT-skilled workforce, both of computer usage in these schools increased from 10% to which are crucial to building an information society. In Addis 60% and power consumption has been greatly reduced. Ababa, the Education Bureau runs more than 150 schools and W ith a unified cloud management platform, the aims to use high-quality and effective information systems to Education Bureau’s O&M personnel can easily manage improve ICT-based education. With a full understanding of the all the education resources through a unified portal, government’s needs and long-term strategic plan, Huawei has and remotely monitor and manage the entire network. implemented the Schoolnet project, hoping to evolve it into a This has significantly improved the quality of O&M and benchmark and promote ICT-based education in the country. provided users with high-quality educational resources. Huawei’s solution has significantly improved the ICT For this project, Huawei provided an integrated ICT solution, utilization and management efficiency in 65 schools which included a Cloud Desktop System and software. Unlike covered by this project, and also lowered the schools’ traditional computers with hard drives, Huawei’s Desktop annual operating cost. By the end of 2015, more than Cloud System comprises a small thin client, a monitor, a 50,000 students had benefitted from our solution. We mouse, and a keyboard. The system’s hard drive is stored in a also provided extensive training to those in the schools centralized data center and can be accessed via the cloud. The and in the Education Bureau to manage the system and solution also incorporates software to protect and restore the improve their overall ICT skills. network connection, as well as software to compress image and video data, which reduces bandwidth use. In addition to The project has been recognized by the Minister interacting with others and accessing customized content, of Education as a key initiative that is leading the students can enjoy better video-on-demand services over transformation of education in Ethiopia. low-bandwidth Internet with the help of Huawei’s solution. Students using computers via Huawei’s Desktop Cloud System 78 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Engaging in China’s Largest Telemedicine Initiative In Henan province, China, healthcare resources are distributed year, the hospital provides more than 10,000 remote very unevenly. Many patients waste a great deal of time consultations and 30,000 remote diagnoses. traveling to and from hospitals in different cities, and waiting in queues, which often result in costly delays before receiving With the hospital’s data growing dramatically, it is the right diagnosis and care. becoming increasingly important to effectively handle and apply this data. To meet this need, Huawei has built To address these issues, Huawei has provided a professional a Big Data platform that enables the hospital to store and telemedicine solution, enabling remote consultations and process huge volumes of data. This platform allows the remote diagnoses for patients as well as distance training hospital to access data more quickly and provide more for doctors. In partnership with the First Affiliated Hospital efficient management. It also enables easy and rapid of Zhengzhou University and the Henan Health and Family analysis of data to turn it into critical insights. The result Planning Commission, Huawei has deployed a telemedicine of the project is more effective remote consultations and p latfo rm that c ov e r s hos pit a ls a c ros s t he p ro vi n ce ’s better care for patients. cities, counties, townships, and villages. The system uses high-quality video conferencing systems (also known as Huawei is committed to providing leading telemedicine telepresence systems) to connect the provincial hospital, 18 solutions to address inequalities and inefficiencies in city-level hospitals, 130 county-level hospitals, ambulances healthcare, and is thus working with the First Affiliated throughout the province, and hospitals in townships and Hospital of Zhengzhou University to establish a joint villages which are now in trial operation. The telemedicine innovation center to promote and develop the use platform can offer all nine remote medical services suggested of telemedicine and Big Data so as to improve health in the national telemedicine standards, making it China’s outcomes. largest, most comprehensive telemedicine system. Each Henan Telemedicine Center Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 79 Sustainable World Nurturing ICT Professionals and Transferring Skills Overcoming the digital divide is difficult and requires strong Huawei provides a wide range of ICT training programs efforts from different parts of society. A number of challenges around the world to help students increase skills, find exist in nurturing ICT professionals, transferring skills, and employment, and receive continuous professional training. creating a robust ICT ecosystem. Our training programs include: ○ ICT skills: Many countries – both developing and ○ Our Seeds for the Future program, which provides developed – face a large shortage in skilled ICT workers students from around the world a chance to come to to develop ICT solutions. For example, the European China for one month and increase their understanding of Commission is anticipating a shortage of up to 800,000 Chinese culture and learn about the latest technologies skilled ICT workers by 2020. from Huawei experts. (For more information, see the ○ Ecosystem capacity: With the rapid evolution of Supporting Local Communities section.) technologies, policymakers lack the necessary skills, ○ Our 140 Huawei Authorized Information and Network knowledge, and experience to set the right frameworks Academies (HAINAs) in 13 countries, which have provided and policies to grow a strong ICT industry. highly practical and certifiable training for 4,000 students ○ R&D: A lack of R&D capacity to develop local solutions to (15% are female) in order to bridge the gap between meet local needs. academia and industry. ○ Our 45 training centers, which offer ICT training for our customers and other staff. ○ Our network of Huawei Authorized Learning Partners, which provide professional training solutions in local markets. HAINA in Pakistan Changes Fatima’s Life The Huawei Authorized Information and Network Academy Fatima joined the company and became a training (HAINA) is a non-profit program implemented in collaboration manager. Six other students also joined Huawei after with universities. It aims to promote the development and completing internships. Among these six students, four dissemination of ICT technologies, train professionals, had taken part in the HAINA program. and meet the ICT ecosystem’s long-term need for talent. HAINA partners with educational institutions to provide Students at FAST generally believe that collaboration certifications across three levels (Associate, Professional and between industry and academia is increasingly necessary. Expert) and multiple courses including routing and switching, With the HAINA program, FAST National University transmission, WLAN, security, storage, and cloud computing. functions as a training center for more and more future professionals for Huawei and the broader ICT sector The HAINA network is rapidly expanding. In 2015, Huawei in Pakistan. HAINA has helped them enhance their signed an agreement with UET Lahore and FAST National knowledge and skills, and encouraged them to take an University and set up two HAINAs in Pakistan. We are helping interest and participate in technology innovation. The the universities to provide a cloud computing and Big Data program also helps Pakistan build a talent pool for the course, and we will set up a cloud lab, train professors, ICT industry and enables more Pakistanis to find jobs. provide a curriculum, and also offer training and internships in cloud computing. Fatima Sameeullah, graduating from FAST National University in Islamabad, is one of the 110-plus students participating in the HAINA program in Pakistan. In fall 2015, she took part in the Huawei Certified Network Associate–Unified Communications training as part of our HAINA partnership with FAST. Fatima was selected along with 25 other students to take part in Huawei’s three-month internship program. At the end of 2015, the HAINA program had been operating in Pakistan for one year, and over 30 program participants had already found a job. Following her internship with Huawei, FAST students who participated in the HAINA project 80 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Providing ICT Training to 240,000 Women in Bangladesh In November 2015, Huawei announced a joint initiative to Each special purpose bus will be equipped with 23 provide ICT training for women in rural areas of Bangladesh, workstations with customized learning software and in cooperation with the Ministry of Posts, Telecommunications a computer. MoPT&IT will provide the curriculum and & Information Technology (MoPT&IT) and telecom carrier trainers. This initiative, the first of its kind in Bangladesh, Robi Axiata. This initiative aims to equip women with ICT will contribute to the country’s Vision 2021 initiative and knowledge and skills. will enable rural women to learn about ICT and apply it in their daily lives. Together, we will provide basic ICT training to 240,000 women across 64 districts of the country over the next three years. Six buses, fully equipped with modern ICT training We are extremely happy to be part of this CSR facilities, will be deployed to offer ICT training, with Huawei, project. We think that it is a milestone as it is the first MoPT&IT, and the carrier each providing two buses. Huawei ICT training program especially designed for women who will operate these buses 40 weeks a year, and they will be cannot move from their native locality due to various driven to different places across the country. We will also constraints. provide two or three days of training per person depending on the local situation and the number of participants. ---Huawei Bangladesh CEO 4.2 Supporting Network Stability Context Approach Connectivity is fundamental to modern life. When We have established a mature business continuity networks are down, there are real economic and management (BCM) system that provides a contingency social consequences. In recent years, natural disasters plan for ten typical scenarios (e.g., earthquakes and have struck the planet one after another: the tsunami wars) and allows us to quickly restore customers’ in Indonesia, earthquakes in Wenchuan and Ya’an networks and resume stable operations following critical (China), the Fukushima nuclear leak in Japan, and the emergencies, thus helping safeguard life and property. earthquake in Chile, just to name a few. Every second Even under extreme conditions, our employees will do without connectivity could be the matter of life or their utmost to support network stability. This is the death. During major events (e.g., major sports and responsibility shouldered by each and every Huawei traditional events), growing demand for data and voice employee, and this obligation outweighs our own services results in huge impact on networks. Network commercial interests. reliability and stability will have a direct influence on user experience and loyalty. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 81 Sustainable World Huawei invests heavily in network stability, striving to ensure that everyone is able to communicate, access data, and share information at anytime, anywhere. Specifically, we have established a comprehensive customer network support system that considers a range of factors, including organizational structures, designated personnel, processes, and IT tools. We have established three global and nine regional technical assistance centers. More than 3,900 Huawei technical support engineers provide services worldwide 24/7. In 2015, we ensured smooth communication for nearly 3 billion people worldwide, and supported the stable operations of over 1,500 networks in more than 170 countries and regions. We guaranteed network availability during 138 major events, natural disasters, and special occasions (e.g., the Nepal earthquake, the Asian-African Conference in Indonesia, China Victory Day Parade 2015, Copa America 2015, German Beerfest 2015, and the Hajj in Saudi Arabia). Against All Odds: Restoring Networks After the Nepal Earthquake On April 25, 2015, a devastating earthquake with a support group with employees from our Shenzhen HQ, magnitude of 8.1 rocked Nepal, causing severe damage Southern-East Asia Region, India Representative Office, and many casualties in local communities. Communications and Nepal Office worked closely with the customer to infrastructure in the worst-hit areas was badly damaged. keep voice traffic flowing while we scrambled emergency repairs. As a result, we were able to restore the networks, Despite the risk of aftershocks, engineers in our Nepal help those in the earthquake zone to reach their families, Representative Office ran all the way to the local carrier’s enable rescuers to stay connected, and ensure that the equipment room within 20 minutes after the earthquake. media could report on the disaster and the relief efforts. They knew they had to work with the customer to keep the network operational. Back at the office, Huawei launched a Twenty-four hours after the earthquake, Huawei and the business continuity management mechanism and emergency customer had repaired 40 key base stations at hospitals, response plan, set up a disaster recovery team, issued an gover nment agencies, disaster relief centers, and earthquake alert, and began stocking medical supplies and embassies. Over the next few days, we cut the number other essential items. The supply chain and procurement of non-functional base stations from 30% to below departments swung into action to support our engineers in 6%. Some of our competitors were unable to organize the field. Within 30 hours, the first shipment of emergency effective disaster recovery efforts, so we helped our equipment arrived. customer repair 260 non-Huawei base stations. In areas where the roads were blocked, our engineers were ferried In the aftermath of the earthquake, voice traffic on local by helicopter deep into the earthquake zone to restore networks rose to four times its normal levels, and it remained communications. high over the following week. This placed enormous strain on the already damaged networks. The power grid was Because of these comprehensive measures, local network down, and many base stations did not have enough diesel or equipment was able to perform stably with dramatically other energies to keep their emergency generators running, reduced congestion, even though voice traffic remained so even key stations began failing. We swiftly coordinated high one week after the earthquake. Once again, we all resources (diesel and satellite phones). A joint technical lived up to our commitment with our actions. Huawei engineers restoring communications networks in Distributing supplies to victims the customer’s equipment room 82 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Guaranteeing Connectivity for the Asian-African Conference To celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Bandung Conference, As a result, voice and data traffic peaked several times, leaders from over 100 Asian and African countries and putting great pressure on the local networks and base 25 international organizations attended the Asian-African stations. It was quite difficult to guarantee network security and experience. Conference, which was covered by thousands of reporters. While many festive activities were underway, some involving Our onsite network optimization experts worked with tens of thousands of people and high demand for Internet the customer team to continuously refine our work plan access, network quality and stability were essential. every day based on the developing situations. Through our joint efforts, the customer’s network operated stably Starting two months before the conference, we began during the conference and celebrations, recording zero organizing resources to prepare for network stability network incidents and disruptions. Our efforts ensured a assurance. Specifically, we established a network stability superior communication experience for the government assurance team and assigned over 100 experts and engineers officials and citizens participating in the celebrations. to take part in the extensive and intense preparatory work. This included predicting user behavior and traffic trends; network planning; inspections; developing an emergency response plan jointly with the customer; network deployment and equipment installation; and preparing emergency communications vehicles. During the event, the conference hall in Jakarta saw a 70% increase in 3G traffic, and 4G traffic rose seven-fold above normal levels. The celebrations commemorating the Bandung Conference were the culmination of the event. On April 25, a huge celebration took place on a walking street near the former site of the Bandung Conference. The mayor and tens of thousands of citizens flocked to the site to witness the Huawei network stability assurance room during the festivities and share the moments online or via phone calls. Asian-Africa Conference 4.3 Contributing to a Greener World Context Approach Growing global populations are increasing our use of Huawei is deeply concerned with climate change. We resources, which has led to higher energy consumption are committed to contributing to a low-carbon world and associated carbon emissions. These increased by providing clean energy solutions, and enabling carbon emissions are causing climate change, which will smart cities and industries which produce fewer carbon significantly impact our planet. The Smarter 2030 report emissions. Through these efforts, we aim to make the issued by GeSI in 2015 identified that ICT can decrease world greener. the consumption of scarce resources and reduce global CO2 emissions by 10.71Gt by 2030. Smart Network Energy Solutions In the ICT industry, a large portion of carbon emissions comes from generating the electricity used to power telecom networks (for transmitting information) and data centers (for storing information), though powering devices is also a significant factor. As more and more devices and equipment are connected, they will generate and transmit more information. This will require more network equipment and data centers, with a subsequent increase in the energy usage. To cope with these changes, Huawei has provided and deployed highly energy-efficient products and solutions to reduce carbon emissions. Our highly energy-efficient network energy solutions and clean (solar) energy solutions have helped customers reduce energy consumption. We never cease innovating and we have proactively employed the latest technologies to help customers upgrade their existing energy systems. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 83 Sustainable World Huawei’s Micro-modular Data Center Solution Helps China Unicom Guizhou Cut the PUE of Equipment in a Cloud Center to 1.3 As data usage climbs globally, data centers (DCs) are air-conditioning technology to ensure precision cooling. increasingly using more energy. We have constructed more We have also adopted leading technologies to drive than 660 DCs globally (including over 255 cloud DCs), and energy efficiency improvements in areas such as buildings, reduced their power usage effectiveness (PUE) to 1.45 thanks electric systems, power supply systems, and equipment to our ongoing innovation and efforts over the past years. If rooms. As a result, PUE can be further reduced to 1.3, far natural cooling is used, this number can be further reduced below that of traditional equipment rooms which stays to 1.2, ranking among the best in the industry. between 1.5-1.8. Our micro-modular DC solutions are green, efficient, and particularly useful for on-demand DC deployment. We have deployed micro modules for the China Unicom Guizhou cloud data center, with one micro module cluster integrating 48,000 servers. These modules are powered by uninterruptible power supply systems and use in-row Huawei Helps Telstra Build a Highly Reliable and Efficient Power System As Australia’s largest telecom company and a global Top 20 the upgrade, the power system’s efficiency jumped to carrier, Telstra has 16 million mobile subscribers and 11.2 97.96% (8.7% higher), saving 13,800 kWh of electricity million fixed line subscribers, providing a full portfolio of per site per year, and cutting CO2 emission by 13.75 tons communications products and services. per site per year. While providing high-quality communications services, Telstra also We also reused Telstra’s existing cabinets. With our works to save energy and reduce emissions. Before cooperating ultra-dense energy solution, we saved 20U of space with Huawei, Telstra planned to cut carbon emissions by 62% in existing cabinets that can later be used to house from 2015 to 2017 compared with its 2013 benchmarks. Its communications equipment and remove space constraints power system was old and unreliable, and it was hard to acquire on capacity expansion. spare parts. Energy efficiency was only 89.27% and power consumption was high across the network. As a result, Telstra’s power system was in urgent need of upgrading. As a leading communications energy solutions provider, Huawei is committed to providing our customers with efficient energy solutions. To meet Telstra’s immediate need for energy conservation, emissions reduction, and reliability, we upgraded their power system by deploying rectifier modules with the world’s highest efficiency (98%). After 84 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Clean Energy More telecom sites will appear as network coverage and stable electric grids, we have deployed our solar hybrid capacity worldwide continue to expand. This will inevitably energy solution, which significantly lowers energy use and incur higher carbon emissions. To alleviate this problem, O&M costs for telecom sites. Huawei provides our customers with energy-efficient network energy solutions which consume less energy at telecom sites. Our pioneering smart photovoltaic (PV) plant solution On top of that, we are adopting clean energy solutions, such is based on our two decades of experience in diverse as solar-powered base stations, to minimize carbon emissions. spheres, including digital information, Internet, and PV technologies. Inspired by new concepts such as all digital, With our advanced energy scheduling technologies, we can simplicity, and global and automated O&M, we aim to intelligently schedule the use of solar energy, power grids, construct smart PV power plants that feature efficient stored energy, and diesel for base stations. In addition to electricity generation, smart O&M, and safe and reliable ensuring a sufficient power supply for sites, we have refined operations. PV power plants such as these will allow our power supply structure to prioritize the use of clean customers to enhance their return on investment and use energy and circular energy storage systems. In areas without clean energy on a larger scale worldwide. Contributing to a Low-carbon Society with Huawei’s Smart PV Power Plant Solution Huawei’s latest smart PV solution provides an open platform which is viable under diverse use scenarios such as fishery, subsidence areas, mountainous areas, and agriculture. The solution helps boost electricity generation and results in a 50% increase in O&M efficiency. It can also cut carbon emissions and deliver socioeconomic benefits. Customers can apply the smart PV solution in their farms, without taking up the arable land. The land can thus generate revenue both from the electricity and from agricultural use. Our solution is both energy-efficient and ecologically friendly. Smart PV plant in the UK Greener World Activities Energy Efficiency Summits 2015 for a Greener and Better Connected World In 2015, Huawei embarked on its journey toward green By giving keynote speeches, sharing practices relating to energy and held several Energy Efficiency Summits themed communication energy, and discussing industry trends, “Together Building a Greener and Better Connected World”. attendees explored the key driving forces for sustainable The Melbourne summit held in July 2015 and the Dubai energy and cost saving in the ICT industry. summit held in November 2015 brought together over 200 energy experts from more than 30 carriers, telecom organizations, and analyst institutions. Energy Efficiency Summit Melbourne Energy Efficiency Summit Dubai Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 85 Sustainable World 4.4 Supporting Local Communities Overview of Huawei’s Major Social Contribution Activities in 2015 Countries where the Seeds for the Future program was Countries where the Seeds for the Future program implemented: was implemented: Colombia, Brazil, Mexico, Panama, Ecuador, Venezuela, and G h a n a , A l g e r i a , Tu n i s i a , E g y p t , E t h i o p i a , K e n y a , Canada Zimbabwe, Angola, Morocco, Zambia, Botswana, and Mozambique The US: ○ Partnered with K to College to donate school supplies and South Africa: money to two local schools. ○ Supported the flagship program of the Jano Zuma Foundation, a local charity organization. Mexico: ○ Donated 50 tablets to the HX Cultural School’s library. ○ Donated e-education equipment to the State of Jalisco, ○ Donated money to Adopt-a-School, a non-profit gaining recognition from the Office of the President of organization that supports underprivileged schools. Mexico. ○ Initiated The Bunker Business Incubator to fund medium, small, and micro startups in black communities. Zambia: ○ Donated 50 computers, desks, and chairs to schools in remote areas. Countries where the Seeds for the Future program was ○ Partnered with Zamtel to offer free phones and tablets to implemented: local women through the Women Bank charity program. Denmark, Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, Sweden, Iceland, Norway, France, the UK, Ireland, Poland, Belgium, Mauritania: Bulgaria, Hungary, Macedonia, Austria, Russia, Belarus, ○ Donated 500 tablets to underprivileged students in Romania, and Turkey collaboration with the Fondation Errahma. Mauritius: Turkey: ○ Donated 100 tablets to underprivileged young students ○ Operated a Children’s Summer Camp to allow young kids to through the ICT digital literacy program, launched by the experience Chinese culture. Ministry of Information and Communication Technology. ○ Sponsored the traditional lantern festival to promote Belarus: traditional culture together with the Ministry of Arts and ○ Donated telecom equipment and built a HAINA in Culture. partnership with the State University of Informatics and Radioelectronics (BSUIR) and Belarusian University of Posts and Mozambique: Telecommunications. ○ Donated US$100,000 to help more local people gain access to education. Cameroon: ○ Worked with the Cameroonian Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications to donate computers, food, and other supplies to local orphans and young kids. ○ P a r t n e re d w i t h t h e N e t w o r k o f Wo m e n a n d M e n Associations of the Meyomessi District (RAFHAM) to donate farming and production equipment and tools to underprivileged women to help them get out of poverty. ○ E s t a b l i s h e d t h e t h re e y e a r C a m e ro o n H u a w e i I C T scholarship at the School of Engineering of University of Yaoundé I. Zimbabwe: ○ Sponsored a charity program that extends care to orphans. Papua New Guinea: ○ Donated money to highland areas suffering from high frosts and drought. Country where the Seeds for the Future program was implemented 86 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Countries where the Seeds for the Future program Countries where the Seeds for the Future program was was implemented: implemented: Mongolia, South Korea, Japan, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Kuwait, Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia, the Philippines, Indonesia, Brunei, and Pakistan Bangladesh, Vietnam, Australia, and New Zealand Pakistan: Cambodia: ○ Sponsored the Summer Youth Mandarin Learning program and provided trainers and textbooks. ○ Donated US$200,000 to the Red Cross for local charity programs. ○ Donated telecom equipment to the National Institute of Posts, Kazakhstan: Telecommunications and Information Communication Technology to ○ Built a HAINA. cultivate local ICT professionals. Uzbekistan: Vietnam: ○ Built a HAINA. ○ Partnered with the Vietnam Information Technology Association to hold the 2nd software innovation competition for university students. Kyrgyzstan: ○ Donated disaster relief supplies to the quake-hit Osh State. Myanmar: Azerbaijan: ○ Donated HAINA telecom courses and computers to Thanlyin ○ Partnered with the Nakhchivan University to build a HAINA, Technological University. and donated multiple sets of telecom equipment. ○ Donated emergency rescue funds worth US$400,000 after severe flooding in Myanmar. Saudi Arabia: ○ Established an LTE joint innovation center in collaboration Bangladesh: with the King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology ○ Worked with the government’s ICT Division to hold the first youth ICT (KACST). knowledge competition. Nepal: ○ Donated telecom equipment worth US$600,000 to Thailand: earthquake-hit areas to help restore communications. ○ Made donations to the Chulalongkorn University to contribute to local higher education. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 87 Sustainable World Context Approach Every company, large or small, can contribute to the Huawei is committed to supporting local communities in local community by providing employment, reducing addition to pursuing business development. Leveraging poverty, and fostering an entrepreneurial environment. our ICT expertise and experience, we initiate social Companies enrich local culture, support local healthcare, generate income, and build infrastructure. Today, as contribution projects with governments, customers, and communications technology evolves at a lightning non-profit organizations. These include supporting ICT pace, the ability to access and use information as well innovation and start-ups; facilitating local communities’ as ICT literacy and skills are the keys to narrowing green initiatives, and cultural, sports, and traditional the gaps between different countries and regions. All e v e n t s ; e n a b l i n g I C T t a l e n t e d u c a t i o n ; o ff e r i n g companies, particularly ICT companies, should embrace the opportunities they have to deliver training and support to local charity organizations; and supporting education to local communities, and to support the underprivileged groups. spread of new technologies and talent development. They should expand access to information and other factors that drive economic and social progress, as part of their responsibility to the community. Our social contribution activities fall into four main categories: Global social contribution activities Contributing to Local Promoting Supporting Stable Bridging the Digital Communities, Seeking Environmental and Secure Network Divide Win-Win Development Protection Operations · Seeds for the Future · Bridge the digital divide · Support and organize · Support network program in remote areas environmental programs stability during · Social contribution · Reduce the knowledge emergencies programs divide by facilitating · Provide emergency knowledge transfers communications and restore networks after natural disasters Note: For information on our efforts in supporting network stability, please see “4.2 Supporting Network Stability” Contributing to Local Communities, Seeking Win-Win Development A company receives the support and respect of the local community when it considers the impact of its operations on the community, and takes real action to solve local problems by supporting local culture, caring for underprivileged groups, and supporting education. Huawei fulfills our responsibility as a corporate citizen through our ongoing social contribution programs, and contributes to charitable activities by working with local organizations to support disaster recovery, healthcare, and poverty programs. Together with our partners, we are committed to delivering universal ICT technology and ICT literacy. We help to train future ICT professionals, offer more opportunities for education, and bring more people into the information world. By establishing training centers and educational partnerships around the world, we encourage the development of local ICT professionals, enable knowledge transfer, and increase people’s engagement in the digital society. We are committed to helping build ICT industries in countries where we work, to spur sustainable development for the economy, the environment, and society. 88 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Seeds for the Future Program In 2008, Huawei launched the Seeds for the Future Through this program, we share our ICT expertise, program to nurture ICT professionals in the countries where innovative technologies, and cross-cultural enterprise we operate, facilitate knowledge transfer, and enhance management experience with local communities. In understanding of and interest in the telecom industry. The doing so, we are able to drive knowledge transfer, build program seeks to close the gap between theory and practice, efficient education systems, nurture ICT professionals, help ICT professionals learn what is needed in the industry, and promote the development of local ICT industries. and encourage countries to build national or regional digital communities. It is the flagship program in which we have Our efforts have been highly recognized by national invested the most heavily, and we will continue to invest governments, including the UK, Germany, France, the globally over the long term. Netherlands, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, Nigeria, Russia, Sweden, Kenya, Ghana, and Bulgaria. O v e r t h e p a s t s e v e n y e a r s , t h e p ro g r a m h a s b e e n Acknowledging that our generous knowledge sharing implemented in 67 countries and regions across five efforts are conducive to bridging the digital divide and continents, benefiting over 15,000 students from 150 driving local industry growth, these governments have universities. More than 1,700 university students from expressed their willingness to support the program over around the world have taken a study trip to the Huawei the long term. headquarters, including more than 800 visitors in 2015. Program participants learning about ICT Program participants posing for a group photo Every year, Huawei invites 10 students from each country to come to study at our HQ. We discuss future trends and show them how they can harness new opportunities. The name of the program represents our desire to nurture promising young professionals in every country where Huawei operates. No one can say for sure what the future information society will be like. Some take a negative view, but we at Huawei remain optimistic. We bring together young people of different races who speak different languages. In a few years, they will unleash their potential and contribute to global progress. Huawei is committed to doing its part to shape the future. —Huawei CEO Ren Zhengfei Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 89 Sustainable World Promoting Health of Newborns in Ghana Ghana is an underdeveloped country in West Africa, with an The high-tech NICU has 40 beds, a resource center, a infant mortality rate of 5.23‰, significantly higher than the meeting room, a dispensary, and equipment including global average. Geographical and historical factors have left emergency room beds, incubators, anesthetic machines, the mountainous north of the country much less developed and respirators. It will offer a high standard of care to than the coastal south. In particular, there is a serious lack ill newborns in northern Ghana, and help to reduce the of medical infrastructure and medical professionals in the neonatal mortality rate. It will also serve as a center for northern part of the country. Huawei and the MTN Ghana the training of medical students from the University for Foundation have worked together to improve healthcare for Development Studies. Ghanaians in the north, in particular to provide better care for ill newborns. Huawei and MTN donated a neonatal intensive The gover nor of the Norther n Region said, “The care unit (NICU) to the Tamale Teaching Hospital (TTH), the government of Ghana has always been committed north’s largest hospital. The foundation constructed the unit to helping local hospitals deliver high-quality medical and the beds, and Huawei contributed medical equipment. services, and to offering an excellent business environment in which companies can operate. We On May 7, 2015, the MTN Ghana Foundation and Huawei encourage companies to give back to the Ghanaian handed over the new unit to TTH at its dedication ceremony. community through their social contribution programs, Ghana’s Northern Regional Minister, Alhaji Mohammed and we hope that more companies will accept their social Muniru, the TTH management of the hospital, and the responsibilities as corporate citizens, as MTN and Huawei UNICEF representative in Ghana all spoke at the ceremony. have always done, so that they can grow with Ghana.” The CEO of TTH and the UNICEF representative in Ghana also thanked the MTN Ghana Foundation and Huawei for their generosity. Governor of the Northern Region unveiling the NICU plaque Newborn children being treated at the TTH NICU 90 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Supporting Mexico’s “Para sentirme mejor” Program for Three Years In 2011, Huawei sponsored the Mexican Health Secretariat’s In March 2015, Dr. Pablo Kuri Morales, undersecretary “Para sentirme mejor” program, supporting the procurement for disease prevention and health promotion, presented of breast prostheses and exercise equipment. This program Huawei with a certificate to recognize the social helps Mexican women recover their confidence after a contributions made by Huawei in Mexico. mastectomy, and improve their quality of life. Huawei has sponsored the program for three years, and our contributions have been much appreciated by the Mexican government. The Health Secretariat awarded Huawei with a certificate in recognition of our contributions each year. Health Secretariat presenting Huawei with a certificate in Rogelio Rueda Sánchez (Secretary General of Government thanks for our contributions of the State of Colima) and Dr. Agustin Lara Esqueda (Secretary of Health for the State of Colima) expressing thanks to Huawei along with women who benefited from our donations Bridging the Digital Divide Huawei has always supported ICT education in local communities where we operate. We believe that knowledge of ICT technologies can generate opportunities for communities, and that communications technology has enormous potential to galvanize community development. We contribute to local communities by bridging the digital divide and expanding access to information globally via programs such as local ICT training centers, scholarships, and donations to educational institutions. Building a Multimedia Classroom for a Primary School in Tanzania In September 2015, we donated a multimedia classroom to exposure to electronic learning and the Internet. Huawei Kakuni Primary School in Tanzania. The classroom included donated 100 tablets, which will meet the need for desktop computers, tablets, projectors, a speaker system, modern education in Kakuni Primary School. and other educational equipment, and will support the development of education in the country. Mizengo Pinda, Prime Minister of Tanzania, spoke about the importance of education at the donation ceremony. He described the advances made at Kakuni Primary School, and the circumstances of the donation. The Prime Minister thanked Huawei specifically for our contributions to the modernization of education in Tanzania. At the donation ceremony, Mr. Pinda accepted the multimedia classroom donated by Huawei, and demonstrated the use of Huawei tablets in education in Tanzania. Switching on a tablet, he explained how this device allows teachers to create electronic teaching materials with audio, video, images, and text. This gives the students the chance to go over the materials as many times as they need, solves the problems Prime Minister of Tanzania speaking at the donation of scarce, expensive textbooks, and gives the children early ceremony Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 91 Sustainable World Educational Programs in Russia Boost Local ICT Education Huawei believes that education is a key factor in improving a 3. Huawei signed HAINA agreements with Russia’s most person’s chances in life. Education is the driver of sustainable, renowned institutions: Saint-Petersburg Electrotechnical fair development for any country. That is why our social University (LETI) and Saint Petersburg National Research contribution programs in Russia focus on education and University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and knowledge transfer. Since 2012, we have carried out a Optics (ITMO). The two universities will be provided series of initiatives, including HAINA, Seeds for the Future, with Huawei-equipped labs and HAINAs, and Huawei communications quizzes, and scholarships, to help expand will develop curricula in collaboration with faculty, train ICT education in Russia. lecturers free of charge, and give students opportunities to learn about the most advanced ICT technologies. 1. On September 25, 2015, as part of Moscow’s innovative Huawei is expanding our HAINA program to more Digital October, Huawei hosted the final of our “Honor Cup” universities to improve students’ ICT skills. ICT competition and Education Day event. In attendance at the event were representatives of the Russian Duma, Huawei’s Russia Research Center signed a research the Ministry of Education and Science, Moscow Municipal & development partnership agreement with Moscow Government, educational associations, and the presidents of State University. The combination of Huawei’s global Moscow University, Higher School of Economics, and other R&D platform with renowned educational and research major Russian academies; 250 students and teachers from 21 institutions creates a wonderful synergy between different cities; and nearly 20 media outlets. Vadim Dengin, businesses, academia, and research institutions that will first deputy chairman of the Duma Committee on Information drive joint innovation and co-creation and move the ICT Policy, said in his address, industry forward. Because of Huawei, the smartest people have been brought together here today. Huawei is a leading technology company, and is setting the direction for the industry. More importantly, it is supporting talent development around the world. Their educational programs have a direct impact on the nation’s economic and social development, and on people’s living standards. I have proposed the formation of an ICT talent development project, and will personally be involved in its work. Two of the student competition winners with Huawei representatives Russian educators discussing effective collaboration between educational institutions, the government, and companies 2. Huawei and Russia Business Consulting jointly organized a forum on effective collaboration between educational institutions, the government, and companies. College presidents from Moscow, St. Petersburg, and Tomsk engaged with government officials and representatives from companies on the best ways in which they could work together. Pavel Lanchikov, general director of the Huawei Moscow Training Center, gave Students answering questions in the competition’s final a comprehensive overview of Huawei’s charitable education round program, which was very well-received by both the educators and government representatives. 92 Sustainability Management Sustainable Operations Sustainable Products and Services Sustainable World Promoting Environmental Protection Huawei applies ICT technologies and solutions to improve industry efficiency, cut carbon emissions, and reduce negative environment impacts. At the same time, we proactively work with local communities and partners to roll out green initiatives to promote environmental protection and sustainability. Supporting Environmental Protection in Costa Rica To celebrate the 100th National Tree Day in 2015, Huawei’s machines to students, and posted pictures from the event Costa Rica Representative Office and the Ministry of on her personal Facebook page. Education jointly launched the Cultural Eco green project. As part of this program, we deployed reverse vending machines When addressing participants, the Minister of Education of waste drinking cups at eight education centers in different emphasized the importance of environmental protection cities. The program was well received by the public as it to the future of Costa Rica, and highlighted how an helped young Costa Ricans improve their environmental enhanced environmental awareness among young people awareness and influence their families and friends, thus could positively influence their families and environmental inspiring everyone to contribute to environmental protection. protection. She also acknowledged and thanked Huawei for our contributions to local society, saying, “I’d like to The opening ceremony of the program was held in a thank Huawei for supporting our country’s ICT industry century-old public university in the capital city of San José. and protecting our environment.” Huawei’s environmental Three reverse vending machines were displayed at the event. protection and sustainability concepts have also received The Minister of Education demonstrated how to use the wide acclaim from Costa Rican locals. Students putting bottles back into the reverse vending The Costa Rican Minister of Education with students at machines the event Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 93 Appendix I: 2016 Sustainability Goals No. Strategy 2016 Goals and Initiatives Bridging the Digital 1 Continuously pilot the Digital Divide Flagship Program Divide Supporting Stable Implement an end-to-end cyber security and user privacy protection system that 2 and Secure Network covers design, operations, awareness, and capabilities Operations and Successfully ensure network availability during all major events and natural 3 Protecting User Privacy disasters worldwide Implement product eco-design to promote the circular economy. Optimize design 4 relating to product take-back, recycling, packaging, and weight reduction, and develop design guidelines Launch energy conservation projects to reduce the energy use of manufacturing, 5 laboratories, and data centers. Discuss and define Huawei’s carbon emissions Promoting reduction goal for the next five years Environmental Ensure the green building design solution for the Huawei Global Compliance and 6 Protection Testing Center can become LEED (US) certified Expand the Supplier Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Program to 7 cover all strategic suppliers over the next three to five years Expand the Global Green Cycle Program to cover 31 countries and regions and 8 deploy 700 recycling stations worldwide Conduct audits to review the sustainability performance of new suppliers and 9 mediumand high-priority suppliers, and follow up on their improvement progress Roll out social contribution programs for community support worldwide. 10 Effectively deliver the Seeds for the Future Program to expand its influence Seeking Win-Win Strengthen communication with customers, governments, the media, and 11 Development other key stakeholders to increase their awareness of Huawei’s sustainability performance Optimize the manufacturing safety management system based on DuPont’s 12 standards to enhance security capabilities. Develop leadership in manufacturing safety Optimize the corporate sustainability strategy and integrate it further into the business plans of departments. Step up efforts to develop leadership in 13 sustainability, create a framework for a sustainability-first culture, and roll out Management programs to strengthen the culture System Release regulations on building the sustainability management system and sustainability standards, to ensure sustainability requirements are incorporated 14 into business activities and reinforce the sustainability management systems for different business domains 94 Appendix II: GRI Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES FIRST PART: GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Profile Disclosure Page Disclosure G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 3-5 (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 3-5, 17 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Profile Disclosure Page Disclosure G4-3 Report the name of the organization. 12 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 12 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. The back cover G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 12 countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 15 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, 14 and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 Report the scale of the organization. 14 G4-10 Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. 30 G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining 34 agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 47-53 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the No significant organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. changes G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 16-17 by the organization. G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, 25 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or 25 international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Holds a position on the governance body • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic This refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organizational level. 3. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Profile Disclosure Page Disclosure G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial 14 statements or equivalent documents. b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect 23 Boundaries. b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 95 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 23 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization. 23 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. 23 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous / reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and No significant Aspect Boundaries. changes 4. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Profile Disclosure Page Disclosure G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 22 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 22 engage. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including 22 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 22 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. 5. REPORT PROFILE Profile Disclosure Page Disclosure G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. Inside the front cover G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Inside the front cover G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Inside the front cover G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Inside the front cover G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Inside the front cover G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking 104-105 external assurance for the report. 6. GOVERNANCE Profile Disclosure Page Disclosure G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of 15,18 the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decisionmaking on economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and 15,18 social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or 18 positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance 22-23 body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. 96 G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: 15 • Executive or non-executive • Independence • Tenure on the governance body • Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments • Gender • Membership of under-represented social groups • Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts • Stakeholder representation G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive 15,18 officer (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body 15,18 and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest 15,18 are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders. G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the 18 development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance 18 body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-44 a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s 19 performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. G4-45 a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of 17 economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the 17 organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, 17 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves 18 the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest / governance body. G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated / to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 97 G4-51 a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and / senior executives for the below types of remuneration b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration 32 consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding / remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest/ paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the / organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. 7. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Profile Disclosure Page Disclosure G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 28-29 such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and 29 lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about 29 unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. STANDARD DISCLOSURES SECOND PART: SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH G3.1 DMAs Disclosure Page G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 23 Indicator Economic Page G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 14 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s 17 activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 32 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government / G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 32 at significant locations of operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant 31 locations of operation G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported / G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 88-93 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 50 98 Indicator Environmental Page G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume / G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 67-69 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 41 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 41 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 41 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 41-42 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 60-62 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 45 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 45 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 45 G4-EN11 Generic Disclosures on Management Approach / G4-EN12 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 64 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on / biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with / habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 43 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 43 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 43 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 44 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 41-44 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) / G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions / G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 45-46 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 46 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills No significant spills G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous 46 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and / related habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 60-69 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed 66 by category G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions No fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods 44 and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type / G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 48 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply 52 chain and actions taken G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and / resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 99 Indicator Labor Practices And Decent Work Page G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age 30 group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 31-32 part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender / G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these / are specified in collective agreements G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker 34 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 35-40 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 35-40 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 34 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee 31 category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 31 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 31 reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee 31 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, 32 by significant locations of operation G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 48 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply 49 chain and actions taken G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved / through formal grievance mechanisms Indicator Human Rights Page G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts / that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures 31 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 34 G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of 49 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child 49 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of 49 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights 100% policies or procedures that are relevant to operations G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples No related incidents and actions taken 100 G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human / rights reviews or impact assessments G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 48 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply 49-50 chain and actions taken G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved / through formal grievance mechanisms Indicator Society Page G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 88-93 impact assessments, and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local / communities G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to 29 corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 29 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 29 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary No related contributions G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and / monopoly practices and their outcomes G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions No related fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on 48 society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain 49-50 and actions taken G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved / through formal grievance mechanisms Indicator Product Responsibility Page G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and 70-71 safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary / codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures / for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary No incidents of codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of non-compliance outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 22 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products / G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary No incidents of codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, non-compliance and sponsorship, by type of outcomes G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer 56-57 privacy and losses of customer data G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations No fines concerning the provision and use of products and services Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 101 Appendix III: Terms and Abbreviations Abbreviation Full Name 3G The Third Generation Mobile Communication Technology 4G The Fourth Generation Mobile Communication Technology 5G The Fifth Generation Mobile Communication Technology APP Application BCG Business Conduct Guideline CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CEO Chief Executive Officer CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CSD Corporate Sustainable Development CAGR Compounded Annual Growth Rate CNAS China National Accreditation Service for Conformity Assessment EHS Environment, Health and Safety EICC Electronic Industry Code of Conduct EMT Executive Management Team GDP Gross Domestic Product GHG Greenhouse Gas GeSI Global e-Sustainability Initiative GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSMA Global System for Mobile Communications Association ICT Information and Communications Technology IEC International Electrotechnical Commission IPC Association Connecting Electronics Industries ISO International Standardization Organizations ITU International Telecommunication Union 102 Abbreviation Full Name JAC Joint Audit Cooperation LCA Life Cycle Assessment LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LTE Long Term Evolution LED Light Emitting Diode NGO Non-government organization NFV Network Functions Virtualization OBD On-Board Diagnostic OECD Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development PCB Printed Circuit Board PUE Power Usage Effectiveness SDN Software-Defined Networking TUP Time-based Unit Plan UNGC United Nations Global Compact UPS Uninterruptible Power Supply Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 103 Appendix IV: Verification Statement Independent Assurance Statement Introduction: TÜV Rheinland (Guangdong) Ltd., member of TÜV Rheinland Group, Germany (TÜV , We) has been entrusted by the management of Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (HUAWEI, the Company) to conduct independent assurance of HUAWEI Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 (the Report). All contractual contents for this assurance engagement rest entirely within the responsibility of HUAWEI. Our task was to give a fair and adequate judgment on the HUAWEI Report 2015. The intended users of this assurance statement are stakeholders having relevance to the HUAWEI overall Sustainability Performance and impacts of its business activities during 2015 (January 2015 ~ December 2015). TÜV Rheinland is a global service provider of CSR & Sustainability Services in over 65 countries, having qualified professionals in the field of Corporate Sustainability Assurance, Environment, Social and Stakeholder Engagement. We have maintained complete impartiality and independence during the assurance engagement and were not involved in the preparation of report contents. Assurance Standard: The Independent Assurance was carried out in accordance with AccountAbility, U.K Standard AA 1000 AS (2008) and related standards AA 1000 APS (2008), AA 1000 SES (2015), Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality & Responsiveness, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) , ‘In accordance’-Core” reporting guidelines as per G-4.0 Scope & Type of Assurance: Our Assurance engagement covers the following: • HUAWEI Corporate Sustainability performance as described in the report 2015 in accordance with GRI reporting guidelines and performance indicators and according disclosure on management approach (DMAs) from Economic, Environment & Social category, also defined in Reporting boundaries. • Evaluation of disclosed information in the report as per the Assurance Standards. • Type-1, Moderate as per AA 1000 AS (2008) Limitation: The assurance engagement was carried out at HUAWEI Headquarter at Bantian Longgang, Shenzhen and site visits to major manufacturing unit located at Dongguan within P. R. China (Songshan Lake Factory). The consultations with external stakeholder were not carried out. We have not observed any significant situations to limit our assurance activity. The verification is carried out based on the data and information provided by HUAWEI, assuming they are complete and true. We did not verify the reported financial data as same is verified by another third party in annual report. Assurance Methodology: TÜV has challenged the report contents and assess the process undertaken by HUAWEI from source to aggregate in disclosure of information/data related to Sustainability performance. Our judgment is based on the objective review of reported information as per criteria defined under Assurance standards. Analytical methods and the performance of interviews as well as verification of data, done as random sampling, to verify and validate the correctness of reported data and contents in light of contractual agreement and the factual HUAWEI Corporate Sustainable Development strategy (CSD) as mentioned in the report. Our work included consultation with over 50 HUAWEI representatives including senior management and relevant employees. The approach deemed to be appropriate for the purpose of assurance of the report since all data therein could be verified through original proofs, verified database entries. The Assurance was performed by our multidisciplinary team of experienced professionals in the field of Corporate Sustainability, Environment, Social and Stakeholder Engagement. We are of the opinion that our work offers a sufficient and substantiated basis to enable us to come to a conclusion mentioned below and based on the content of our contract. 104 Positive Observation: We would like to mention some of the positive aspects observed during HUAWEI assurance engagement as below: • HUAWEI integrated and optimized the Sustainable Development Management System (CSD), conducted a more comprehensive and strict assessment to review the maturity of sustainability management. The assessment covered eight dimensions: strategy and policy; risk management; KPIs and priorities; organization and staff; baseline; process integration; monitoring and reporting; and stakeholder communication. • HUAWEI launched project achievement: Digital Enablement: Bridging the Digital Divide to Connect People and Society. Through a series of workshops focused on new business models that could bridge the digital divide and create digital inclusion, HUAWEI systematically described the challenges and solutions to Bridging the Digital Divide. • HUAWEI enhanced cyber security and privacy protection of users, established and implemented an end-to-end and trusted global cyber security assurance system, and introduced the industry recognized Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) methodology to assess privacy risks of business involving personal data. Adherence to AA 1000 principles: Inclusivity: Through a variety of stakeholders’ engagement activities, including organization meeting, releasing study report and participating workgroups and pilot projects, HUAWEI actively understood stakeholders’ expectations and existing issues, and responded timely. For example, HUAWEI and CSR Europe co-hosted a sustainability conference themed The Future of Supply Chains: From Compliance to Innovation. Materiality: HUAWEI identified the material issues related to sustainable development viz. economic, environment & social performance as an outcome of its stakeholder engagement and business priorities and provide balance information in the report. The Corporate Sustainable Development (CSD) strategy is aligned to address identified material issues. Responsiveness: HUAWEI responded to its stakeholders against identified material issues critical to sustainable development through disclosure made in report 2015, including Corporate Sustainable Development strategy, management system and its essential, 2015 sustainability object progress, and stakeholders’ engagement. Conclusion: In conclusion, we can mention that no instances or information came to our attention that would be to the contrary of the statement made below: • HUAWEI Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 meets the requirement of Type-1, Moderate Assurance according to AA1000AS (2008) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) , ‘In accordance’-Core reporting guidelines as per G-4.0 • The Report includes statements and claims that reflects HUAWEI achievements and challenges supported by documentary evidences and internal records • The performance data we found in the report are collected, stored and analyzed in a systematic and professional manner and were plausible. • TÜV Rheinland shall not bear any liability or responsibility to a third party for perception and decision about HUAWEI based on this Assurance Statement. For TÜV Rheinland Group Daniel Pan Lead Verifier Guangzhou, 6th May 2016 Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd.·2015 Sustainability Report 105 2016 2016 2016
