COP report 2015 Hans Følsgaard A/S Content CEO Statement..................... 3 Key events 2015................... 4 Employees............................ 4 Environment......................... 5 Society.................................. 6 Suppliers............................... 7 Key Events 2015 ■ Launch of new sustainable product – the HF manhole ■ The establishment of a new division for renewable energy HF Greentech ■ Videoconference is now a well-established alternative to physical meetings ■ Supplier screening initiated ■ Teambuilding for all employees ■ Free Eye examination for all employees CEO Statement HF’s vision is to be our customers’ Technical Partner Ten years ago, we formulated our strategy The innovative solutions add value for the coming years with the establishment and challenge our employees, who of choice. Working towards our vision and running a of the so-called “Technology Partner” are increasingly exchanging ideas and business, we aim to run a sustainable business and to concept. It has been invaluable to the experiences interprofessionally and it calls create value for our stakeholders, employees, society company. The strength of this concept lies for continuous training of our employees. in a strategy pointing towards modular and In this way, new effective system solutions and the environment. solution oriented products. arise. HF chose to focus on a long-term In 2015, Hans Følsgaard A/S established a cooperation with both customers and new division HF Greentech the purpose of suppliers enabling us to follow projects which is to develop better solutions for the all the way from development through sectors of sustainable energy production, production and to life expectancy in the in particular wind energy. By developing market supporting our customers to the modular system solutions, which draws on fullest before and after the sale. It has the expertise from several of our suppliers, proven to be a very wise policy as we the new division could become a competent managed to maintain an independent life technology partner for the major players in Jørgen Stenberg as a Danish / Nordic distributor of industrial the wind industry and therefore an exciting CEO products – with continuous growth and a and effective new sustainable leg in Hans healthy economy for us and for those of our Følsgaard A/S. suppliers who chose to go with the concept. In our future strategic role, we must process HF joined the UN Global Compact in 2012 the products and deliver solutions that are and we are pleased to confirm our continued easy for the customer to implement. support to the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. The solutions must be based on the qualities that characterize the individual customer, but which also includes the latest and most Yours sincerely efficient technologies from the manufacturer Jørgen Stenberg CEO in terms of performance, communication speeds, interfaces, consumption, efficiency, robustness and long market life – supporting our customers every step of the way. 3 Employees Our employees are our most valuable assets and we treat We allow our employees a high degree of autonomy. Giving our employees the them as such. Our future development depends on them; freedom to manage much of their own work their well-being and job satisfaction are important to us. we get flexible, dedicated and satisfied employees in return. HFs ambition is to always attract and keep the best employees. Thus, HF conducts annual performance appraisal dialogues in order to identify the areas where the employee would like to grow and develop and to ensure a healthy social work environment. Education & Training Our vision is to be our customers’ Technical Partner of choice. Being a Technical Partner, we advise our customers on technical solution and therefore we have a professional responsibility to update our employee’s knowledge. HF acknowledge the need for ongoing education and competency. ■ Annual team-building session with all 2014 2015 employees and team-buildings in each department ■ Employees 67 73 ■ Education of all employees at Addtech’s ■ Administration/Sale/Purchase/Finance 50 56 business school in areas such as group ■ Warehouse 9 9 corporate culture, business acumen and ■ Norway 7 7 presentation and negotiation techniques. ■ Free health insurance – even for our No incidents of involvements in ■ Sweden 1 0 ■ Training at suppliers employee’s children below 21 years labor rights violations have been ■ China 0 1 of age. reported in 2015 Average age in years: 46.5 47,8 Health ■ Free eye examination. Average seniority in years: 8,7 9,2 Healt and safety forms a priority area for ■ Group health & free time insurance Sick absence: 1,82% 3,5% HF. HF has an ambition to focus constantly ■ Company insurance. Male 50 53 on promoting better health and wellbeing ■ Free Massage and coaching Female 17 20 among our employees. 4 Environment A strong intention to safeguard the environment forms HFs main operations consist today of technology sales and distribution and only part of HFs business strategy. The aim is to minimize HFs very limited production. HFs main direct impact on the environment by working to reduce waste, impact on climate is from the handling, CO2 emission and energy and paper consumption. packaging and transportation of finished goods, and business travel. The majority of purchases is from suppliers outside Denmark; ie. from Europe, the US and Asia, necessitating a high transport volume. Activities conducted in HF to safequard environment: ■ Packaging materials used from only reusable & biodegradable products. ■ Temperature sensors control heating in warehouse. ■ We constantly strive to find ways to pack as space saving as possible. 2014: 9% 3.10 1.122,1 kg 70.648,6 Hours ■ Garbage assortment to the utmost. 2015: 3,5% 2.80 1.083,3 kg 68.205,8 Hours ■ Videoconferencing and mobile communications and on-line collaboration tools can make a significant contribution Reduced by Used trees Produced CO2 Equiv. to bulp hour to reducing business-related travel and *) HF has in 2015 developed a Manhole for Laser prints thus CO2-emission. HF has invested in use in the Telecom and Electrical installer the latest video conferencing technomarked, the production and design is logies and unified communications; Lync sustainable in many years to come. in 2015 and this has become a well established alternative to physical meetings. The new Manhole is characterized by its 2014: 139.953 kWh 1.116.667 km 554.624 CO2 /kg ■ We take pride in developing environmenlightweight and ergonomics that prevent 2015: 137.910 kWh 1.070.000 km 588.325 CO2 /kg tally responsible and cost effective injurie and contribute to a safer job site. It solutions – in close cooperation with our is made from recycle material and recycle customers and suppliers. Thus we have in no-confirming parts. It takes up little space 2015 developed a manhole – that is in transit as in inventory due to its ability to adding Economic, Social and stack 4 on one EUR pallet. Emissions in total Electricity consumption Transport driven Environmental value *) resulted from inand from non-renewable by employees in line ■ Renewable Energy in particular wind outbound shipments. energy of service power and green technologies is a HF has neither been sued nor fined or growing market and has lead HF to received any penalties for violation of establish a department to protect and environmental laws or environmental expand this part of our business. regulations 5 Society HF actively supports many worthy causes in the HFs most important positive impact on ■ Donations to schools that help children During the period, HF was not ordered society lies in our contribution to economic locally and abroad, Sunway Foundation to pay any fines because of offences community, thus provide financial support to humanitarian and social growth in the form of jobs which helps the untouchables, the in the form of breaches of laws and organizations and sports associations. and taxpayers. Through our products, homeless, the sick children in India to regulations governing the provision or we also help, for example, to bring live with dignity and Julemærkehjemmet use of products and services. efficiency improvements and to cut energy in Denmark which helps children who consumption. have problems with bullying and social isolation. Examples of social commitment projects in Donations to organizations that help 2015 include: fight cancer Sponsorship for sports clubs and local initiatives 2014: DKK 547.107 2015: DKK 547.072 6 Suppliers We consider ourselves the right-hand man not only for our Hans Følsgaard A/S work with some of the world’s foremost manufacturers of customers but also for our suppliers throughout the world. innovative and market-leading technical products and trade with over 20 countries in Europe, USA and Far East. Our long-standing and close relationship with our partners make the way from manufacturer to customer and vice versa shorter, processing time faster and customized solutions possible and accurate. Our partnerships are long lasting some of them go back 50 and even 60 years and HF works continuously on deepening supplier relationships. Our choice of suppliers is essential for our business and we are very selective. We ensure not only that their products match our customers’ initiated a supplier screening again in 2015. requirements, but also that our suppliers are As we audit selected suppliers based on a socially and environmentally responsible. risk assessment. We encourage our suppliers to sign our The outcome of the audit and supplier code of conduct that support the screenings showed no violations of ten principles of the UN global compact. principles and regulations. As part of these efforts, HF conducted its first supplier self-assessment in 2013 comprising 30 of the company’s largest suppliers, and has decided to screen our suppliers biennially. Consequently, we 7 Hans Følgaard A/S is a subsidiary in the Addtech Group. Designspace.dk 02.2016 Addtech has a Code of Conduct that covers all subsidiaries, and each year a sustainability report is produced to present the results of the CSR work. The reporting complies with the guidelines for Application Level C of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). See Addtechs CSR Report here HF FØLSGAARD HF DANYKO AS THEILGAARDS TORV 1 BARK SILAS VEI 8 DK 4600 KØGE N 4876 GRIMSTAD TEL: +45 4320 8600 TEL: +47 37 090 940 hf@hf.net danyko@hf.net www.hf.net www.hf.net
