FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP 2016 ANNUAL REPORT FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP 2016 at a glance Fristads Kansas Group has a portfolio of leading brands in the European professional wear market, providing work wear for a wide variety of services and industries – from large international conglomerates to small local businesses – across Europe and beyond. TURN OVER Euros 445 M OWN factories 2 EMPLOYEES 2000 + IPOs 3 Suppliers 500 + 2 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO The term “responsibility” originates from the Latin word “respondere”, which means to respond or reply. Today, companies are required more than ever to respond to certain questions: How are they contributing to society and the environment? How do they treat the people who work for and with them? “Taking responsibility means addressing these questions”. At Fristads Kansas Group we are deeply engaged in answering these questions. Consequently, since 2015, we redefined our strategy to address higher challenges moving from Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility (SCR). As a member of the United Nations Global Compact The same vision that drives the group’s business strategy drives our commitment to environmental and social sustainability. We encourage every employee to play a part in making sustainability a reality, from the group’s sustainable & corporate responsibility team to each brand and their team around the world. Our sustainability engagement is intrinsic to our organization and our goals. We give our brands a common base of targets and guidelines for their actions in sustainability to ensure the highest level of best practice is reached across the group, while letting each brand create the specific solution most relevant to its business. In 2020 we want to be a Group that is synonymous with innovation, quality and sustainability. A Group that continues to be recognized for performance and efficiency. A company that is respected for its values, its vision, and for its sustainable responsible conduct. Anders Davidsson 3 OUR COMMITMENT https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ 4 OUR COMPLIANCE JOURNEY Here’s what we’re doing to ensure that Fristads Kansas Group’s products are produced under safe, fair, legal and humane working conditions and taking care of the environment throughout the supply chain – and some background on how we got to where we are today. Gap Assessment Compliance program To ensure full transparency of our audit proTaking the next step  To reduce the audit cost for factories as cess, we have launched in January 2016 a BSCI audit is shared among FTA In October 2016, Fristads Kansas Group members, freeing financial resources to Social and Environmental Gap Assessment joined the FTA (Foreign Trade Association) be allocated to continuous compliance program in partnership with an which enabled us to move from our own auimprovement, independent global Testing, Inspection and dit program to the BSCI audit system Certification company Bureau Veritas.  To support the implementation of (Business Social Compliance Initiative) and sustainable environmental programs The aim was to assess our Group workplace the BEPI (Business Environmental Perforthrough BEPI, audit standards and process through free mance Initiative). random verification audits by Bureau Veritas  To harmonize remediation at factories In doing so, we intend to: at any of our strategic suppliers, providing through BSCI participant common full transparency to our stakeholders.  To move our Group compliance team platform. role from auditing to capacity building 7 of our strategic suppliers have been auditactivities, ed revealing that our Group auditing criteria’s and remediation follow up by our Com To reduce the number of different pliance team met and even exceeded minioverwhelming audits done at factories, mum expectation. 5 Our Compliance program We recognise that our business has an impact on environmental and social aspects far beyond our own immediate operations and we expect our suppliers and each and every of their factories to share the same values. The and the BSCI Code of Conducts for Suppliers lists the minimum requirements for supplier performance pertaining to human rights, labour rights, environmental management and anticorruption. These requirements are applicable to our own production facilities and all our brand’s suppliers. We act professionally, diligently and ethically and we expect the same of every supplier, which is mirrored in our Code of In order to manage on-going supplier perforrope), Bangladesh (for Bangladesh and PakiConduct mance, we maintain a proactive audit and stan) and Hong Kong (for China, South East compliance program centered on worker Asia and Madagascar) and performed by acOur program ensures that our suppliers welfare, factory working conditions, environcredited BSCI 3rd party auditors. abide by all local laws and meet the international requirements of our responsible sourcmental legislation and impact. Fristads KanIn addition to the audits, there is a continuing guidance. We actively promote and fossas Group has full access to supplier facilities, ous improvement support led by our internal ter an open dialogue around any issues that factory workers, employees, safety and envicompliance team as we believe that sustainarise during our relationship – it is only ronmental records. able changes are achieved through positive through this that we can effect meaningful The audit schedule is monitored internally by dialogue and continuous improvement. change. our SCR team in Latvia (for Northern Eu6 Supplier relations To be eligible for production, suppliers must Fristads Kansas Group compliance program. enrol in our Compliance program. responsible for reporting all factories used for the production of products provided to Fristads Kansas Group. In Bangladesh the minimum requirement to be eligible for our compliance program is for factories to have been audited either by Acord or Alliance prior to completing the Supplier Self-Assessment, the 1st step in 7 A unique approach to factory transparency & product traceability Engaged in 2014, the merger of our Group Corporate Social Responsibility and Asia Quality departments, ensures that all our brands have full visibility on their suppliers and each and every factory producing our products. Furthermore, the “low risk country” classification was waived on January 2014 to harmonise our requirements throughout our supplier base. Our production locations and SCR & Quality monitoring 8 A sustainable business is everyone’s business Preferred sourcing at sustainable suppliers is a group practice to support positive commitment and encourage employees to take ownership for the positive impacts of the company. We believe that responsible sourcing and product development is an important foundation of our success as a company and our role as a leader in work wear product innovation. And by understanding that it is critical to the lives, welfare and development of communities, we are committed to Coherent system for monitoring and remediation All factories are regularly visited by our In the event of critical issues detected, such chain top managers reporting to Group CEO Brands’ sourcing teams and our Group as child and bonded labour, harassment, and board members when applicable.Each Quality Controllers as 100% final inspection is bribery, an escalation process is implemented meeting between with Brands’ sourcing conducted on all manufactured garments. within a 24h timeline, involving Brand teams and suppliers include a full review of sourcing, product development and supply compliance improvements, The sourcing teams and our QC’s are trained to identify visible non-compliance with our Code of Conduct. On site review refers to child and bonded labour, harassment, occupational health and safety standards on the factory floors, such as blocked fire exits and further. Any deviation is immediately reported to the Group SCR team in order for area compliance managers to engage with the factory management and workers and implemente remediation activities. 9 Towards full chemical accountability: our Chemical compliance program As part of our social and environmental compliance program, all our suppliers and factory must review and sign our Restricted Substance List (RSL). very positive sign it is however far from guaranteeing testing of all fabrics from a supplier’s assortment and all chemicals, and as based on sample and not systematic as implemented in our chemical compliance program. Within our industry, dyeing and finishing processes are considered to be waste and chemical intensive and there are concerns on whether the use of chemicals and the treatment of resultant waste will detrimentally affect the environment and human health. We update our RSL twice a year based on the SVHC (Substances of Very High Concern) We need to create transparency, so we spare the chemical guidance of our partner Swerea Candidate List. And most of our Group’s no efforts to understand in depth the kind of and communicate these updates to our supbrand products are OEKO TEX certified. chemicals our finished products are containpliers and factories. ing and at which levels. Our RSL reflects the latest EU harmonized As a market leader, we can’t be satisfied with legislation which includes REACH, POPs regusole collection of signed certificates of comThese levels need to be compared to the EU lation, Biocide Regulation and Product Safety pliance by our suppliers and OEKO TEX certifiregulation, but also to the levels expected by Regulation. It also ensures compliance with cates. Though an OEKO TEX certificate is a the market. 10 2016 Raw Material testing results Failed results are addressed from product recall (not applicable in 2016) to re-engineering according to the levels detected On the 1st of January 2016, we have launched Core range products (raw materials or finTesting of core range raw materials and fina Chemical Compliance program with our ished goods) are been tested based on criteished goods is conducted four times a year partner SGS to help us build customized ria like volumes and also taking into considand test results reviewed, recorded and made available upon request to our customtesting packages that fit our industry and eration potential risks (i.e. special finishes ers, as well as the first step in our sustainable products. like anti-flame or water and stain repellency). product re-engineering program. 11 LEADING BY EXAMPLE The Fristads Kansas Group believes that ISO Management Systems supports integration of best practice into its brands, achieving sustainable inclusive growth by getting everyone on board and working with each another. 12 The benefits of ISO Management Systems  Engagement of employees – Involve em Increase leadership and employee’s in Life-cycle perspective – Looking at the ployees in the improvements of the provolvement – To meet environmental comperformance of the products and their mitments and improve its impact by inteuse and final disposal. Identifying the lifecesses they work with to help to test and grating the issues into the strategic plancycle stages that can be controlled or inadvance these improvements when imfluenced by the organization, this can inning process. plemented and, increase and measure clude raw-material acquisition, design, productivity.  Encourage better environmental perforproduction, transportation/delivery, use, mance of suppliers – By integrating them end-of-life treatment and final disposal. What the life-cycle stages are will vary  Improvement of stakeholders’ trust – into the organization’s business systems. from product to product and from service Gaining competitive advantages by imto service. proving our environmental performance through efficient use of resources and reduction of waste. Percentage of quality and environment certifications 13 OUR SCR GOVERNANCE of resources to complement the brands own and oversees the brands social, environmenactivities. tal and economic sustainable targets and Fristads Kansas Group Head of SCR reports to their suppliers’ performance. the Group Sourcing and Supply Chain Director, who reports into the Group CEO. In each brand a SCR Brand Owner is responsible for implementing the brands’ SCR strateThe Board reviews and approves the Sustain-gy and meets at least quarterly with the The Fristads Kansas Group’s SCR team set ability & Corporate Responsibility policies Group SCR team to review performance. targets and guidelines and acts as a platform ANTI-CORRUPTION All our employees commit to our Code of Our reputation is our most precious asset  Leadership in ensuring continuous imEthics and Business Conduct, designed to and in many ways, a direct reflection of the provement and driving performance. help and protect us, as we go about our work way we do business. Knowing our policies, applying good judgefor Fristads Kansas Group and each of its Our Code means more than just following the ment, being honest and speaking up are just brands. In a competitive, fast-moving and inlaw and our policies. It’s about using our valsome of the ways that we can build pride in creasingly regulated marketplace, it is imues and leadership skills to guide our conduct Fristads Kansas Group, and throughout our portant that each of us understands the rules and decision-making so that we are always brands, and help build a stronger business for that we must follow and the conduct that is doing the right thing at work and working in a the future. expected of us in order to support and infair, open and honest way. A Speak Out link will be implemented in each crease our customers’ confidence and play a Our values: of the brands in 2017 when normal escalavaluable role in society. tion channels will have proven inefficient.  Teamwork through ensuring our responAs colleagues, we are responsible for followsible people always do the right thing, ing the Code. Wherever we work and whatWe have a zero tolerance policy towards any ever our role, the Code is there to help keep  Excellence in committing to developing form of bribery and corruption as detailed in us safe and protect the reputation of our our people, so that they are highly our Fristads Kansas Group Anti-Corruption business among customers, colleagues, supskilled and intensely customer focused, Policy and compliance program. pliers, and all stakeholders. 14 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION We value and protect our confidential inforWe respect that third parties (suppliers, facmation and we respect the confidential intories, agents, distributors, and joint venture formation of others. partners) have a similar interest in protecting their confidential information. In case that Fristads Kansas Group’s continued success third parties share with Fristads Kansas Group depends on the use of its confidential inforconfidential information, such information mation and its nondisclosure to third parties. shall be treated with the same care as if it Unless required by law or authorized by the was Fristads Kansas Group’s confidential inboard, personnel shall not disclose confidenformation. tial information or allow such disclosure. This obligation continues beyond the termination We keep accurate and complete records. accurate records consistent with all applicaof employment. Furthermore, we must use We believe that the integrity and accuracy of ble legal requirements and industry standbest efforts to avoid unintentional disclosure our business records are of utmost imards. This applies to each and every detail of by applying special care when storing or portance. We maintain well-managed and our business. transmitting confidential information. COMPETITION best interest of our company, our customers, ployees to ensure that they are knowledgeaour employees, and society at large, as it ble regarding competition law and to make All of our brands and personnel compete drives efficiency and innovation, which are sure they can identify situations where comvigorously but fairly and legally the basis of a well-functioning market econopetition law considerations are relevant. my. We must comply with all competition and We ensure that expert in-house legal advice anti-trust rules in the countries in which we We respect competition laws in all the maris available to assist employees in navigating operate. We believe competition is in the kets in which we are active. We train our emcompetition laws. 15 United Nations Global Compact Commitment Our commitment Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Fristads Kansas Group Sustainability & Corporate Responsibility Policy human rights; and Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program and Union engagement Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Fristads Kansas Group Code of Conduct BSCI Code of Conduct Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program and Union engagement of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Fristads Kansas Group Code of Conduct BSCI Code of Conduct Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; ISO 14001 Certification Fristads Kansas Group Chemical Compliance Program BEPI Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and ISO 14001 Certification Fristads Kansas Group Chemical Compliance Program BEPI Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ISO 14001 Certification Fristads Kansas Group Chemical Compliance Program BEPI Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Fristads Kansas Group Anti-corruption Policy and Compliance Program bribery. 16 17 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP Sustainability & Corporate Responsibility Rm 1905-08, 64 Hoi Yuen Road, Kwun Tong, Hong Kong. OFFICE: +852 2307 0373 E-MAIL: csr.rsl@fristadskansas.com WEBSITE; www.fristadskansasgroup.com 18
