Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction Cover Artwork: Vector illustration of a digital fractal. Table of Contents Corporate Mind Introduction Pg # Investments for the Future 19 Promoting Wellness through Healthy 42 and Active Lifestyles Overview 3 Quality Process and Product 19 Eating Well and Living Well 45 Letter from the CEO 4 Planet Aware Pg # Product Reach Corporate Mind Pg # Responding to Climate Change 24 Relaxed Body and Mind 47 Conscious Leadership 8 Investing in Employee Education, Energy Consumption 24 48 Training and Advancement Corporate Purpose, Vision Tracking and Reducing Impacts from 8 28 and Values Product Distribution Human Rights and Diversity 49 Planet Aware Corporate Governance 9 Minimizing Impacts from Community Touch Pg # 30 Business Travel Investments in the Future 10 Supporting Education and 53 Preserving Natural Capital 32 Knowledge Supply Chain Management 12 Community Wellness 59 Minimizing Waste 32 People Care Product Reach Pg # Creativity 61 Government and Academic 15 Water Conservation 34 Research Laboratories Additional Information Pg # Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Connecting with Customers 16 35 2016 Report Parameters 64 Community Touch Industries without Paper Key Indicators 65 Applied Biotechnology and Less is More with Packaging 36 17 Agriculture People Care Pg # GRI Index 66 Forensics and Paternity Laboratories 18 The Promega Culture 39 Clinical and Molecular Diagnostics Additional Info Laboratories 18 Employee Health 41 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 2 Introduction Artist conception of cells in three dimensions. Overview Corporate Mind Promega has experienced a year of rewarding success with significant advances in science, groundbreaking new products, expansion of energy-efficient facilities, worthwhile community interactions and mindful development of our people. This progress embodies our panoramic Product Reach focus on the long term. As we look to the future, thoughtful growth continues to be a priority as we ask ourselves “how can we develop with purpose?” These successes also remind us of just how fortunate we are at Promega, where our people Planet Aware understand that we are responsible to more than just the bottom line. While our passion is around our opportunity to serve science, we are conscious of our influence on the environment, the communities in which we work, and our people. We are symbiotic with these People Care relationships, and our success directly correlates to the investments we make in each of them. Ultimately, our efforts in sustainable practices, innovation, civic engagement, and providing beautiful environments will foster long-term Community Touch economic growth and provide value for our communities. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 3 Additional Info Introduction Letter from the CEO Corporate Mind As we review, measure and report on our practices and conservation of 2015, we are reminded that our Corporate Responsibility contributes not only to people, planet and profits; it cultivates potential. We understand how “responsible” practices may seem counterintuitive to a prosperous business. Promega has faced the occasional skeptic who found some of the company investments in our people, our work space and our community to be short sighted. “Why put so much money into a community day care facility on your campus? Why spend so much Product Reach on the campus environment and create so much open space? Why not reserve the extra cash for the bottom-line?” These are normal questions from a traditional business perspective, ones that we have received from the early days of our company. Promega has a long history of doing things with an intent and belief that taking care of others will take care of the bottom-line. So far, this “short sighted approach” has worked for nearly 40 years. “ It is each individual’s contribution to the whole that makes a significant Planet Aware difference to the outcome. —William A. Linton, Chairman and CEO ” People Care It is each individual’s contribution to the whole that makes a significant difference to the outcome. We are interdependent. The more we can do to foster an individual’s potential, the more likelihood we can create a place that calls people back and invites them to fully contribute. The reward they find in each other and themselves generates ideas and services that comes from the heart instead of simply a paycheck. Community Touch Ours is an ongoing experiment in developing a place of purpose and reward for our customers, employees, community and shareholders. We continue to learn from our practices over the past decades and we hope these lessons further our evolution and propel us to our centennial celebration in 2078. To potential, purpose and a prosperous future, Additional Info William A. Linton, Chairman and CEO Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 4 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Corporate Mind 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Additional Info Promega uses an image of an animal cell to represent corporate organization because the cell represents non-hierarchical, interdependent structure. Introduction Corporate Mind Corporate Mind  romega’s vision of supporting innovative research targeted at improving “Phumankind Product Reach is enabled by a culture of providing a creative work environment where the contributions of employees, suppliers, customers and the community are consciously incorporated on a daily basis. ” Planet Aware —John LeBlanc, Senior Financial Officer, Promega Corporation Promega Corporation provides innovative solutions and People Care technical support to researchers, technicians and analysts in the life sciences, industry and government. We offer over 3,500 products to enable scientists worldwide to advance knowledge in the fields of genomics, proteomics, cellular analysis, molecular diagnostics, human identification and Community Touch applied biotechnology. Founded in 1978, the company is headquartered in Madison, WI, USA, with branches in 16 countries, over 50 global distributors, and manufacturing branches in San Luis Obispo and Sunnyvale, California, USA; Shanghai, China; and Seoul, South Korea. In 2015, revenue, headcount and building footprint continued to grow. Our revenue is approaching $400 million dollars (US), we have Additional Info 1,365 full-time positions worldwide; our global building footprint The Feynman Center cGMP manufacturing facility at Promega Corporation is over 1 million square feet. in Madison, WI. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 6 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware Promega Headquarters People Care Promega Manufacturing Facilities Branch Office Community Touch Distributor Our building footprint is over 1 million square feet globally Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 7 Additional Info Introduction Conscious Leadership Corporate Mind At the heart of science is the understanding of the Values. Promega continues to evolve and reflect a set of interdependent, dynamic nature of systems. This complexity living values that include: is increasingly true in business environments as well. In • Contribution to the advancement of science and to the complex, rapidly changing and uncertain environments, improvement of life in the world community. our leadership must have the latent capacity of mind and heart to truly flourish. We are actively developing an • Appreciation that we operate as an adaptable living organism in which each element and human contribution Product Reach organization environment that fosters the formation of deep personal connections, creates trust in the face of ambiguity is a vital part of a whole, capable of responding to the to encourage conscientious and courageous action, and emerging complexities of our time. supports the simultaneous use of intuition and intelligence • Personal development through inner and outer exploration in developing vision and outlook. Ultimately we also want and practices of self-awareness. to provide a space in which everyone has an opportunity for • Recognition that both work and home are places to self-awareness and transformation. Planet Aware cultivate wholeness and wholeheartedness through learning, offering the best of ourselves, integrating new insights and developing inner and outer qualities that Corporate Purpose, Vision and Values allow each individual to be present and engaged. Purpose. Promega exists on an evolutionary frontier • Recognition and reward of achievement through creativity, where the values of science, business and human wellrisk taking, process improvements and innovation. People Care being intersect. Acknowledging these interdependencies, • Adaptability and flexibility in the workplace. Promega cultivates its environment to allow employees to flourish, develop deep and enduring relationships with all constituencies and create intelligent life-science solutions. Vision. Promega Corporation is built on a vision where: Community Touch • Innovative research tools accelerate scientific discovery. • Life Science research can lead to the cure and prevention of many diseases. • The work environment nurtures creativity and self-discovery. • The corporation appreciates and values the contributions Promega employees enjoy using third spaces for informal meetings and Additional Info of each employee. social gathering. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 8 Introduction Artistic rendering of typical antibody structure in 3D. Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware Corporate Governance Promega is governed by a Board of Directors, while daily operations are led by the Corporate Leadership Team and People Care global Branch Managers. This diverse group brings wide-ranging expertise and unique country experience to management decisions. As the guiding force of the company, these groups are responsible for setting company strategy Community Touch and providing organizational oversight. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 9 Additional Info Introduction Investments in the Future Corporate Mind Promega has long believed in the philosophy that to be truly Corporate Logistics Facilities Expansion. The Promega sustainable, an organization must evolve as the world and Madison Kepler Center was completed in the fall of 2015. customer needs change. The key to addressing this challenge This 126,000 square foot facility’s design and structure is is to have a long-term vision and strategy. As a result, we look aimed at efficiency and simplicity while providing a positive at human needs in an effort to anticipate our customers’ needs employee experience. It serves as our global supply center, while providing an inspiring place for employees to work. We sending inventory to the company’s branches and customers Product Reach continue to be committed to building a long-term sustainable worldwide. This new center incorporates the latest technology future through investments in innovation, people, products in cold storage material handling that will shorten the lead and services, facilities and infrastructure. time to customers. In Kepler, teams process 11,000 orders a month involving about 125,000 items. Our focus on investing in the future continued in 2015 through scientific innovation, expansion of global facilities Mindful focus on building a long-term sustainable organization and advancing our technical and leadership capabilities. along with continued investment in infrastructure will Planet Aware These investments helped in meeting customer needs and enable Promega to meet the rapidly changing needs of the generating continued value. scientific community. Research. Growing investment in innovative research resulted in 81 new patent filings in 2015, People Care bringing our patent library to over 500 granted patents and nearly 240 pending patents. In addition, 21 new products were launched, supporting scientific needs in cellular analysis, genetic identity Community Touch and integrated methods with instruments and reagents. Additional Info The Kepler Center at Promega Corporation in Madison, WI supports product finishing and global distribution. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 10 Introduction Branch Expansion. Work began on the expansion of three • Promega Germany (GmbH) is in the early design stages for Corporate Mind branches in 2015: a major new facility to house the European distribution hub, Promega GmbH (the largest overseas Promega operation) • A new Promega UK facility, due for completion and the European branch of Terso Solutions. It will also have in early 2018, will expand the ability to respond a substantial instrument service space, staff amenities and to customer needs far into the future. The three capacity to host moderate scale meetings. The five level level facility will be about 15,000 square feet facility will be about 120,000 square feet, expandable to about and will comply with or exceed the strenuous energy 150,000 square feet, and will comply with or exceed the rigorous Product Reach performance and green building standards in the newest energy performance and green building standards of German UK Green Building Council Code. Promega UK staff and Building Codes. Promega Germany staff and the the Global Planning Team are planning to incorporate high Global Planning Team are using high environmental environmental performance values in the design of this new performance values in the design with a goal to make facility with the desire to make it a notable green project for this new facility a flagship green project representing the research park. In addition, a training center consisting Promega in Europe. of laboratory and lecture room will be incorporated into its Planet Aware design. This training center is intended in part for use with • Renovation and expansion of labs and office spaces at Promega local schools and colleges for the purposes of educating, Biosciences, San Luis Obispo, will be completed by the end inspiring and enthusing young people about life sciences. of 2016. As the organic chemistry center of Promega, this expansion will enable expanded analytical and process development capabilities while improving overall employee workspace and experience. People Care Community Touch Additional Info A chemist works at Promega Biosciences. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 11 Introduction Supply Chain Management Corporate Mind Promega recognizes the effect and importance that our In the last year we have suppliers have in the scope of our Corporate Responsibility, created and communicated a and forms partnerships with companies that have similar commitments. In the last year we have created and Supplier Code of Conduct with communicated a Supplier Code of Conduct with expectations relating to business ethics, labor, health and safety, and expectations relating to business ethics, labor, health and safety, Product Reach environmental responsibility. Past surveys have shown that over 50% of our suppliers have sustainability or corporate responsibility programs established or in development. and environmental responsibility. A focus on sourcing from local suppliers also supports local communities and reduces effects from shipping. In the upcoming year we will continue to communicate Planet Aware our expectations relating to sustainability and expand the application of our Code of Conduct in qualification and selection processes. People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 12 Additional Info Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Product Reach 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Community Touch Additional Info Artist’s representation of molecular-scale exploration of protein interactions enabled by NanoBiT technology. Introduction Product Reach Corporate Mind  cientific creativity and worldwide collaborations keep Promega on the “Sforefront Product Reach of innovation, yet it is our dedication to our customers that drives us to develop products enabling scientists to tackle the myriad mysteries of human health. ” —Gary Tarpley, Vice President Research and Development, Promega Planet Aware The biotechnology era started when researchers discovered cell biology has helped develop new approaches to cancer that they could freely manipulate DNA and create predictable therapies, like the development of biologics. recombinant molecules. For Promega, that era started by Because of the high-quality, reliable “tool kits” at their offering quality restriction enzymes that could cut and splice disposal, researchers have more freedom to focus on specific DNA in specific ways. People Care questions at the forefront of scientific discovery or clinical As the biotechnology revolution advanced, we expanded practice. The end result is better science, using better tools, the tools available in areas such as in vitro transcription and for faster answers. translation (including coupled transcription and translation to go directly from DNA to proteins), amplification (PCR), Community Touch DNA sequencing and tools for cell biology and neurobiology. Promega opened the application of bioluminescence to many areas of modern biology including drug discovery. Over the last 20 years, many new drugs were discovered and developed using Promega bioluminescent screening and profiling methods. More recently cells that produce light in response to various signals have been used in cellbased assays that extend our understanding of cell behavior, Additional Info The variety of products Promega offers provides our customers with biochemistry and immunology. Greater understanding of flexibility in their work. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 14 Introduction Government and Academic Research New Tools Access New Learning – Studying Protein Interaction in Corporate Mind Laboratories Live Cells Basic researchers in academic laboratories or government research centers are often early adopters of new technologies In the past, scientists believed that once we sequenced the that are later incorporated into industrial settings. The ability human genome, we would be at the core of understanding to miniaturize or automate such technologies is important human life. In reality, completing the sequencing was just because it allows these scientists to focus exclusively on a beginning. The discovery of 22,000 genes (fewer than the Product Reach and streamline their research processes. Promega continues anticipated 100,000) showed there was much more to learn. to develop improved technologies for routine DNA and RNA These genes express proteins that interact with each other in a isolation, analysis and amplification, and protein and cellular myriad of ways that lead to healthy and unhealthy conditions. biology that support researchers seeking to understand Creating techniques to observe the protein dynamics within fundamental principles of biology. their native environment has been an important goal for a number of years. Promega has experience creating tools in this Planet Aware area of “reporter assays” but until recently, no one was able to provide a tool that could really monitor the interactions in real time, in a live-cell environment. Over the past year, those techniques were elevated to a new view in science thanks to the Promega NanoLuc® Binary NanoBiT® Complementation Assay People Care Interaction Technology (NanoBiT). Modern therapeutic drugs commonly disrupt or induce a specific protein interaction, and the Promega NanoBiT® Assay helps researchers detect protein interactions and disruptions within a live cell as they happen. Typically learning in live-cell setting has involved considerably more complicated and costly methods. Now, NanoBiT Community Touch Technology enables drug companies to observe protein interactions in real time, leading to better understanding and treatments for diseases. For this technology, Promega was recognized in the Top 10 Innovations of 2015 by The Scientist Magazine. See the full paper discussing the capability of NanoBiT® Complementation Assay was named a top 10 innovation for NanoBiT on the American Chemical Society website. 2015 by The Scientist. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 15 Additional Info Introduction Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Industries Giving Hope and Sharing Life Corporate Mind Scientists developing small molecule drugs within the An unexpected diagnosis of any disease can be incredibly pharmaceutical industry need reliable assays and reagents difficult to manage for patients and their families. While because they often screen up to hundreds of thousands of modern medicine has made incredible progress over the past compounds at a time. Screening requires assay technologies decades, cancer treatment continues to be elusive as the type, that generate in vitro data predictive of in vivo results so that severity, and health of a patient can limit options. In 2014, an expensive failures such as “false positives” (compounds employee of Promega was grappling with her cousin’s sudden Product Reach that in fact are ‘hits’ but not good drug compound leads) diagnosis of stage IV cancer of the urethra. At the age of 37, and off-target effects are avoided. As small molecule drug this young man’s diagnosis and chance of survival were bleak. discovery has moved toward phenotypic screening, there is Shortly after, the severity of this patient’s cancer elevated when a new challenge identifying the specific target of the small an MRI revealed that the growth of tumors had spread to his molecule that produces the desired phenotypic change. brain. Although chemotherapy was an option, the doctors Once the protein target of the small molecule is identified, said there was little reason for hope. the scientists must be able to measure the drug’s activity, Planet Aware such as affinity and drug-target residence time within a live Given her familiarity with the Promega portfolio of nucleic cell. Promega’s Advanced Technology Group (ATG) used our extraction products, this employee insisted that doctors send proprietary NanoLuc® and HaloTag® technologies to create a sample of her cousin’s tumor to FoundationOne for genetic a novel phenotypic discovery platform that can address profiling. FoundationOne was able to purify the patient’s these challenges. DNA using Promega Nucleic Acid extraction products and People Care the Maxwell® System as a first step in their sophisticated test to determine a combination of two different drugs for Scientists in the biopharma targeted drug therapy. This treatment plan industry need the best analytical would allow the patient tools to functionally and to take less toxic drugs Community Touch and avoid whole body structurally characterize large cytotoxic chemotherapy. molecule “biologic” therapeutics. Eight weeks after the start of his target drug therapy, this patient was headed home from the hospital and continues to Additional Info improve every day. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 16 Introduction Scientists in the biopharma industry need the best analytical for Animal Proteins in feeding stuffs (EURL) to develop a Corporate Mind tools to functionally and structurally characterize large Standard Operating Procedure for the extraction of DNA for molecule “biologic” therapeutics. Promega has a suite of downstream PCR-based detection methods for food testing. bioluminescent, cell-based reporter bioassays that are used In water and hygiene analysis, our ATP bioluminescence in the discovery and development phases and after being expertise is already very well adopted. Several groups have validated by the pharmaceutical customer in the manufacture published methods using the BacTiter-Glo™ luminescent of biologics. Cancer immunotherapy has a bright future in ATP-based assay chemistry for the assessment of water the war on this pervasive class of diseases, and Promega Product Reach quality and biofilm formation. has a rapidly expanding portfolio of such bioassays. In addition, Promega has generated many proprietary The tools that we offer make microbial contamination enzymes used in the structural characterization of biologics monitoring in crude oil and heavy fuels possible, thus reducing by mass spectrometry. the use of bactericidal chemicals in those processes. The number and type of projects is expanding significantly in areas like minerals testing, microtox testing, and QC testing Planet Aware Applied Biotechnology and Agriculture of dairy products. The number of these implementations are increasing as the quality of our products get more and Today biotechnology tools once used by researchers are more visibility. used in applications to test food and water. Applications include tests for purity, bacteria and other elements to ensure safe products and authenticate quality claims. People Care For food analysis, we provide sample preparation tools in combination with pathogen testing and GMO testing for nearly all food matrices. Promega DNA Community Touch purification chemistry is considered to be the standard in authenticity determination of meat products, and has been used by the European Union Reference Laboratory Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 17 Additional Info Introduction Forensics and Paternity Laboratories Clinical and Molecular Diagnostics Laboratories Corporate Mind Forensics and paternity laboratories deal with tremendous Molecular diagnostic laboratories rely on the use of highcaseloads and tight turnaround times. Dependable results, quality, consistently performing products in their assays. throughput, and reliable product supply are critical in this We manufacture the majority of our reagents that contribute setting. These labs use limited, and often challenging samples to robust and reliably performing molecular assays. We to develop law enforcement leads from crime scenes. In ensure our products are manufactured to the highest quality addition, these labs help bring closure to families whose standards through maintenance of ISO 9001 & ISO 13485 Product Reach loved ones are missing, lost in mass disasters, and even certification and capabilities for cGMP manufacturing. We can help exonerate those who have been wrongly convicted of a provide flexible solutions with product customization options crime. Researchers and analysts need to know that they will to meet a clinical laboratory or IVD manufacturers’ needs. get optimal and reliable results from the valuable and often irreplaceable samples. Promega has worked with forensic and paternity laboratories for more than 30 years and supports their challenging workflow by providing products for efficient To sustain our contribution Planet Aware DNA extraction through discriminating STR analysis. to scientific exploration and application, we will continue to invest in the development and People Care discovery of new technologies. Community Touch Maxwell® 16 (left) and DNA IQ™ Casework Pro Kit (right) are used by crime labs globally to isolate and purify DNA. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 18 Additional Info Introduction Investments for the Future Quality Process and Product Corporate Mind To sustain our contribution to scientific exploration and Promega Madison was first certified to international application, we will continue to invest in the development standards for quality management systems in 1998 and, and discovery of new technologies. In 2015, over $41 million along with Promega Biological Products, Shanghai, China, (US) was invested in research and development, and 81 is currently certified to both the ISO 13485 and ISO 9001 new patent applications were filed. Because of sustained standards. These standards are required for the development, global investment in research and development, we have manufacture, testing, and delivery of medical devices around Product Reach an extensive intellectual property portfolio. the world. Currently, 16 locations meet standards for ISO 9001, ISO 13485 or both. We also work with academic institutions and other entities to license and develop promising technologies. As a member The Feynman Center, a cGMP manufacturing facility, serves of the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, we have the customers in need of molecular biology reagents for in vitro opportunity to take a first look at new technologies from diagnostic (IVD) assays. It meets today’s strict design and the university. regulatory requirements and has the flexibility to respond to Planet Aware future changes in regulation. State-of-the-art construction Patents (Issued and Pending Applications) includes failsafe redundancies to ensure uninterrupted power and dedicated, purified water for the highest quality Cellular Analysis 523 manufacturing processes. Genomics 97 Our customers receive safety data, as well as comprehensive People Care Genetic Identity and Other 92 technical data sheets on the use of Promega products to report level of integrity applied to all product claims. Proteomics 35 Total 747 Community Touch In 2015, over $41 million (US) was invested in research and development, and 81 new patent applications were filed. Because of sustained global investment in research and development, we have an extensive intellectual property portfolio. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 19 Additional Info Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Fermentation Facility at Promega Corporation in Madison, WI. Additional Info Currently, 16 locations meet standards for ISO 9001, ISO 13485 or both. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 20 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Planet Aware 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Community Touch Additional Info Artist conception of cells in three dimensions. Introduction Corporate Mind Planet Aware “ T he impact of each individual taking responsibility for sustainable Product Reach practices is what will continue to move the needle. For example, a member of the Operations Product Finishing team took the initiative to collect the packaging bags that our bottles are delivered in and took them to the recycling center on his own. This personal initiative brings to light the Planet Aware need, so we can then take steps to institutionalize these processes. ” —Jennifer Romanin, Director IVD Operations, Promega Corporation Promega is committed to environmental stewardship and aims 2015 People Care Lab ft2 to integrate the principles of sustainability across all aspects Logistics ft2 of our business, including the way we operate our facilities, Office ft2 transport products and engage with customers. Over the CO2/ft2 last few years, we have focused on long-term thinking and 2008 invested in an infrastructure that has set the foundation for Community Touch growth and sustainability for many years to come. This growth has challenged us; it also has allowed the incorporation of cutting edge approaches to resource conservation in new and existing facilities. In the last year, we decreased our operational carbon footprint as indexed to building footprint as a result of reductions in natural gas usage and water consumption. However, increased travel to support customers and complete Additional Info implementation of our ERP system for our Pac Asian branches has offset much of these savings. As a result, our carbon Figure 1. Even with a 90% increase of high-energy intensive spaces, the footprint was held constant as indexed to business indicators. “shadow” of our carbon emissions has decreased 7% per building footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 22 Introduction As we look toward the future, we have established Corporate Mind targeted goals for environmental impact reductions in the areas of greenhouse gas emissions, electricity, natural gas, water, distribution emissions and waste to be achieved by 2020. These targets have been indexed to revenue to account for growth. These objectives will challenge us and prioritize our focus on key areas of opportunity and impact for Promega. Product Reach 2020 Corporate Responsibility Goals Indexed to Revenue Area Target Reduction Carbon Footprint 10% Planet Aware Electricity 2% Natural Gas 10% Distribution 5% Waste 10% People Care Water 15% Community Touch Additional Info Rain gardens in the Prairie Swale at Promega Corporation in Madison, WI. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 23 Introduction Responding to Climate Change Global Carbon Footprint Corporate Mind Carbon Footprint Progress Toward Goal Promega supports the move to limit anthropogenic greenhouse gas 37 36 35 emissions and actively tracks contributions to climate change from 35 SCOPE 3 34 33 34 34 2020 Tons of C02 Per 1,000 Sq. Feet all operations globally. We take into account direct emissions from Goal fuel combustion (scope 1), emissions from purchased electricity SCOPE 2 (scope 2) and indirect emissions from business travel, outgoing distribution, water usage and paper usage (scope 3). Product Reach SCOPE 1 13683MA Energy Consumption 2008 2015 Emissions from energy generation account for over 70% of Promega Figure 2. Promega actively tracks carbon footprint from fuel emissions. We look to increase efficiency when designing new combustion (scope 1), purchased energy (scope 2), business facilities and improving existing operations, as well as encourage travel, outgoing distribution, water and paper usage (scope 3). every employee to minimize energy consumption on a daily basis. CarbonGlobal Carbon Footprint Footprint Composition 2015 Planet Aware 20% 51% Electrical Usage Natural Gas People Care New Promega facilities incorporate 1% Air Travel the newest technologies to minimize 2% Auto Travel Rail Travel energy usage. As a result, our electricity 7% Water Paper usage as indexed to building footprint 19% 13684MA Community Touch Distribution has decreased by 1% in the last year. Figure 3. Key contributors to the Promega carbon footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 24 Additional Info Introduction Minimizing Electricity Usage and Emission. To reduce impacts from electricity usage, we invest in energy efficiency and generate Corporate Mind electricity from rooftop solar panels or purchase it from renewable sources. New Promega facilities incorporate the newest technologies to minimize energy usage. As a result, our electricity usage as indexed to building footprint has decreased by 1% in the last year. Notable efforts to conserve energy in 2015 included: • O  ur newest facility, the Kepler Center, is designed to minimize energy throughout the entire building including the use of state-of-the-art vertical lift modules for coldProduct Reach chain storage that optimize efficiency and reduce loss of treated air in freezers. • E  nergy efficiency was enhanced through installation of LED lighting, energy efficient applications, upgrades to the HVAC system, and computerized monitoring at our Terso facility. Planet Aware • P  romega Benelux continues to implement energy conservation techniques, which in 2015 included the conversion to LED lighting.  hese efforts have been made possible through investments T in facility operations with the addition of several specialists People Care trained in energy efficiency. The facilities teams lead efforts globally to implement new technologies to reduce overall consumption. Community Touch Vertical lift modules for cold-chain storage optimize efficiency and reduce loss of treated air in freezers Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 25 Additional Info Introduction Electricity Progress Towards Goal Our use of renewable energy has increased every year and more Electricity per Building Footprint Corporate Mind than 18-fold since 2008. Promega facilities that use 100% renewable 27.6 26.8 25.7 25.5 Thousands of kWh / 1,000 Sq. Feet 25.5 24.7 energy sources include: 23.8 24.2 2020 Goal • Promega GmbH Promega Euro Hub in Mannheim, Germany • Promega Italia in Milan, Italy • Promega Biotech Ibérica in Alcobendas, Spain Product Reach 13685MA • Promega Biotech AB in Stockholm, Sweden 2008 2015 • Promega Brazil in Sao Paulo, Brazil Figure 4. Electricity usage of operations globally as • The Aviation Operations building in Promega Madison, indexed to building footprint. Wisconsin—our largest renewable energy producer with over 250 solar panels and geothermal wells for heating and cooling Planet Aware • T  he da Vinci facility in Madison, Wisconsin, isn’t powered solely by renewable but it has 48 solar panels and extensive sky lighting People Care Community Touch Solar arrays on the da Vinci building at Promega Corporation in Madison, WI. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 26 Additional Info Introduction Natural Gas Usage. Natural gas is used primarily at manufacturing NaturalGas Gas Progress TowardFootprint Goal Natural per Building Corporate Mind sites for heating and production related processes. Natural gas is our largest source of direct air emissions and third in overall emissions 1,230 1,118 1,093 1,101 for Promega. In the last year, our natural gas usage decreased by 1,043 958 965 2020 Therms per 1,000 Sq. Feet Goal 6% as a result of investments that optimized efficiency of existing 836 facilities and thoughtful design of new facilities. To minimize heating requirements and related emissions, we use geothermal wells, solar water heaters, and heat capture technology in many facilities. Recent Product Reach initiatives to conserve natural gas usage include: 13686MA • Installation of new high efficiency boiler burner replacements 2008 2015 and new steam coils on air handling units in our BTC facility. Figure 5. Natural gas as indexed to building footprint. These changes reduced the natural gas usage of the facility by over 15%. Planet Aware • O  ur newest facility, the Kepler Center, uses heat recovery systems on ultra-low temperature freezers to supplement heating for the facility. These systems also eliminate the cooling demand of the facility and conserve electricity. Direct air emissions are monitored from combustion of fuel purchased People Care for heating and emergency generators in North America. Promega emissions fall below the threshold levels set by local and federal organizations, and we continue to explore further enhancements. Community Touch In the last year, our natural gas usage decreased by 6% as a result of investments that optimized efficiency of existing facilities and thoughtful design of new facilities. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 27 Additional Info Introduction Tracking and Reducing Impacts from Product Global Distribution Emissions Global Distribution Emissions Corporate Mind Distribution 25 25 25 Promega invests significant efforts to ensure that our products get 23 Tons of CO2 / Million in Revenue 21 21 to customers quickly and safely. We strive to reduce air emissions 19 19 2020 Goal by decreasing the size and weight of packaging materials and using efficient modes of transportation. To understand the indirect emissions from outgoing shipments, data were collected from Product Reach Promega-owned global distribution hubs on weight, distance and 13687MA mode of transportation. 2008 2015 Continued effort by our logistics teams across the globe are made Figure 6. Emissions from product distribution to customers globally. to minimize weight and packaging materials. Several projects in North America and Europe resulted in the use of smaller shipping boxes and packaging improvements that have reduced weight and Planet Aware the amount of dry ice used. The Promega Euro Hub, our distribution center for Europe located in Mannheim, Germany, saved over 25 tons of dry ice last year even with revenue and shipments increasing. People Care Community Touch Additional Info The Promega Euro Hub reduced dry ice usage by 25 tons in the last year even with revenue and shipments increasing. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 28 Introduction Efficient Product Delivery with Our Helix On-Site Corporate Mind Stocking System. Our state-of-the-art, on-site inventory management system, Helix®, further reduces emissions from distribution. The Helix program uses RFID technology that tracks product use in real time, and results in more efficient shipping practices. This automated inventory management system ensures that customers have uninterrupted access to supplies while Product Reach reducing the impact on our planet. In addition, Promega purchases carbon credits to offset the greenhouse gas emissions from energy use of the Helix® System from shipment to distribution to stocking. In 2015, Helix offset 740 tons of emissions worldwide by supporting Planet Aware the following projects: • U  nited States reforestation projects in Texas and Arkansas • O  ddar Menachey REDD+ tropical forest conservation in Cambodia People Care Since 2010, we have offset over 3,700 tons of carbon dioxide. To see more information and learn how to participate, please visit www.promega.com/helix Community Touch Promega carbon offsets supported the Oddar Menachey tropical forest conservation project in Cambodia. The project prevents deforestation, protects biodiversity and benefits the health and wellbeing of the area inhabitants. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 29 Additional Info Introduction Business Travel Carbon Footprint Minimizing Impacts from Business Travel Business Travel Carbon Footprint Corporate Mind Business travel via air, automobile and rail comprise approximately 10 9 Tons of CO2 per Million in Revenue 9 9 10% of our current carbon footprint. In the last year, emissions from 8 9 8 business travel increased per revenue due to increased customer 7 visits as well as travel for the final phase of ERP implementation at Pac Asian branches and manufacturing locations. Travel is essential for supporting researchers and scientists, yet we are committed to Product Reach minimizing impacts from travel by using fuel-efficient vehicles and 13688MA environmentally sensitive modes of transportation. 2008 2015 Efficient Travel. Promega actively seeks out fuel-efficient vehicles. Figure 7. Business travel emissions from air, automobile, and rail as indexed to revenue. Promega Benelux, Promega UK, Promega Italia, Promega AG in Switzerland and Promega KK in Japan have moved to a more efficient and ecologically sound fleet. Since 2008, our global Planet Aware automobile fuel efficiency has improved by 7%. In the United States, enrollment in the Emkay GoGreen fleet program enables increased use of high-efficiency vehicles and also plants trees annually to compensate for unavoidable greenhouse gas emissions generated. Since our enrollment in 2009, we have offset over 1,900 tons of CO2 by planting trees to offset automobile emissions. People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 30 Additional Info Introduction We also encourage the use of electric vehicles with the Alternative Transportation. Alternate transportation Corporate Mind installation of electric vehicle charging stations at Promega programs have been implemented in a number of locations Benelux and Promega Biosystems in California this past worldwide to reduce environmental impacts. Employees year. Our Madison campus also has electric vehicle charging are encouraged to use public transportation, ridesharing stations in parking garages to encourage employees to or biking-to-work. All buildings at Promega Madison minimize greenhouse gas emissions from transportation. and Promega Biosciences in California offer bicycles for employees to use, as well as resources to support cyclists, including access to pumps and bike repair Product Reach kits. Many locations worldwide have similar programs in place. Planet Aware People Care Promega employees worldwide frequently use alternative transportation to limit their environmental impacts. Electric vehicle charger at Promega Benelux. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 31 Additional Info Introduction Preserving Natural Capital Global Non-Hazardous Waste Corporate Mind per Footprint Minimizing Waste 10 13 9 9 10 195 10 Cubic Feet per 1,000 Sq. Feet 195 Due to continued efforts to increase employee awareness, improve 167 159 164 167 6 6 158 149 recycling programs and evaluate waste streams, we have consistently been able to reduce waste. Employees are reminded of the mantra Landfill/Recycling/Incineration 184 182 181 185 2020 “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” and have championed this effort through 169 163 Goal 161 139 Product Reach recycling at all locations, as well as composting at several sites. 13689MA One success at minimizing waste is from our pipette tip box recycling 2008 2015 program that diverts over 5,000 pounds from the landfills each year. Since the start of this program, we have recycled over 110,000 Figure 8. Composition of non-hazardous solid waste per pipette tip boxes. We also segregate and recycle trays from our building footprint. automated Maxwell® Instrument with over 980 pounds, roughly Planet Aware 34,000 trays, in 2015. Global Hazardous Waste Global Hazardous Waste per Footprint TREATED/INCINERATED/RECYCLED Pounds of Waste Per 1,000 Sq. Feet 3 98 People Care 216 208 13 70 114 72 14 8 12 13690MA 55 42 165 106 95 59 Community Touch 2010 2015 Figure 9. Composition of hazardous solid waste per building footprint. Recycled pipette tip boxes were donated and used by a local artist for an Additional Info art installation. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 32 Introduction “ O ur IT team is proud to play a small part in the overall success of our Corporate Mind sustainability initiative by recycling all end-of-life computer equipment. The discarded equipment stays out of the landfills in an eco-friendly and financially responsible manner. ” —Brian Schiro, Director Information Technology, Promega Corporation Promega encourages reuse by providing permanent ware in Product Reach cafeterias and kitchenettes, and reusable cups for all employees. Compostable and recyclable takeout containers have replaced polystyrene materials. Other global efforts to Planet Aware reduce waste included: • A  n e-recycling drive collected and recycled over 10,000 pounds of materials from employees at Annual Promega Madison Earth Day Celebration. • A  composting program piloted by Promega BioSystems People Care in their Sunnyvale, California community has contributed to an 80% waste reduction. Managing Hazardous and Infectious Wastes. In the biotech industry, manufacturing processes can include work Community Touch with potentially hazardous substances. We understand the responsibility that comes with the use of these products, as well as the obligation to reduce waste and ensure proper disposal. To further reduce emissions associated with hazardous waste, we have partnered with waste handlers where over 90% of waste is treated for reuse, reused as fuel or recycled to minimize environmental impacts. In Europe, we arrange for recycling of all our instrumentation and electronics Additional Info at the end of life in compliance with the Waste Electrical and Materials collected during the annual Earth Day Celebration at Promega Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive. Corporation in Madison, WI. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 33 Introduction Water usage progress toward goal Water Conservation Water Usage per Building Footprint Corporate Mind Thousand Gallons Per Million in Revenue Promega actively measures water usage and evaluates initiatives to 34 conserve in manufacturing, landscaping, and daily office tasks. In 28 29 29 26 26 the last year, water usage reduced by 15% as indexed to revenue, 23 24 2020 Goal conserving over 4 million gallons of water. All regions globally saw reduction with notable improvements in Madison, Shanghai, and Seoul locations. Product Reach 13691MA Many of our global locations incorporate design features to conserve 2008 2015 and ensure proper disposal of water. Offices in Sydney, Australia, use rain water collected for cleaning, toilets, and irrigation of plants. Figure 10. Water usage indexed to building footprint. Similarly, Promega Madison uses rainwater collection and rain gardens for natural filtration. Planet Aware Promega Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, California, has a long history of water conservation projects, from automatic and low flow faucets to a custom water recirculating system for distilled water. Since 2009, water usage has decreased by 53% People Care at this facility. Community Touch Additional Info Rain gardens in the Prairie Swale at Promega Corporation in Madison, WI. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 34 Introduction Paper Usage Progress Toward Goal Connecting with Customers without Paper Paper Usage per Footprint Corporate Mind By using modern technologies and emerging media channels, we have enhanced communication with our customers and reduced 209 Reams per 1,000 Sq. Feet the need for printed materials. Using iPhone®/iPad® and Android™ mobile applications, blogs, electronic catalogs or online support, for communications allows reduction of unnecessary paper needs and as well as real-time connections with customers. 37 40 27 39 24 19 11 13692MA Product Reach 2008 2015 In the last year we saw paper usage Figure 11. Global paper usage indexed to building footprint. decrease by 50% as more printed pieces have been moved to electronic formats. Planet Aware Significant efforts and investment have allowed Promega to transition away from paper catalogs, instruction manuals, print marketing and a majority of other corporate communications to electronic formats. In the last year we saw paper usage decrease by 50% as more printed pieces have been moved to electronic People Care formats. Additional efforts to reduce paper and its effects include: Recyclable Tradeshow Materials. To celebrate the European Sustainable Development Week, Promega Community Touch France used a tradeshow booth comprised only of recyclable cardboard in 2015 and distributed seed pens to vendors. Out of the 200 companies represented, Promega Additional Info was the only vendor to offer this. Promega France used a tradeshow booth made of only recycled cardboard Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 35 Introduction Recycled Paper and Duplex Printing. Many global To conserve dry ice used in packaging, Promega has switched Corporate Mind locations have transitioned to using recycled paper and to smaller shipping boxes, incorporated new materials that duplex printing. Promega Italia uses recycled provide better insulation, and implemented packaging paper and participates in a campaign sponsored designs that minimize air space. Other efforts to provide by Group Portucel that plants trees. sustainable packaging include use of unbleached shipping boxes, sustainably harvested materials and biodegradable/ Electronic Documents: recyclable air pouches. These materials offer the same level • F  ield Application Specialists in North America, along with of product protection with the least environmental impact. Product Reach branches in Europe and Pacific Asia integrated the use We regularly evaluate procedures and investigate potential of iPads to better serve customers while eliminating the improvements to reduce environmental impacts of packaging use of printed resources. and product handling. • P  romega sends electronic copies of various documents to customers that do not want a printed copy, which resulted in a savings of over Planet Aware 5,000 pieces of paper a month. • E  uropean branches offer electronic invoices to customers as another way to reduce unnecessary printing and paper usage. Less is More with Packaging People Care Since many of our products are temperature sensitive, we face unique challenges in packaging that involves use of dry ice, gel ice and foam coolers. Even with these challenges, we are committed to Community Touch searching for innovative ways to reduce packaging, use environmentally friendly materials, and design for recycling or reuse. Environmental sustainability, product protection and quality are all key priorities for our packaging. Additional Info New Promega shipping boxes promote local recycling to reduce environmental impacts. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 36 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care People Care Community Touch 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Additional Info Fluorescently stained pumpkin stem viewed through a microscope. Introduction Corporate Mind People Care “ Dthe Product Reach  eeply imbedded in the Promega culture is a simple guiding principle to do right thing to achieve long term results versus short term gains. People at Promega are passionate about their work and focused on building deep Planet Aware meaningful relationships. ” —Darbie Miller, Senior Human Resources Business Partner, Promega Corporation People Care At Promega, we believe that work should be more than simply a job; it should be a path for employees to grow and find personal fulfillment. When individual strengths, interests and company vision are aligned, a synergetic relationship Community Touch can be nurtured between employees and employer. Each work with and support one another. We take pride in how our work helps to improve the lives of others, which would not be possible without the dedication and commitment of our employees. We value the contributions employees make and invest heavily in supporting their well-being and growth. Additional Info We value the contributions employees make and invest heavily in their well-being. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 38 Introduction Our 19 worldwide locations embrace the relationship between 1. The organization supports the personal aspirations of Corporate Mind employee and company by providing support in ways that employees and others who work with us in meeting our meet individual needs in each region. Employees are given goals. flexibility in how they work and can thrive in an environment 2. Underlying structures reinforce the primary goal of personal where individual differences are respected. We support the development, including: passion and creativity employees bring to their work, personal interests and their community involvement. Promega aims a Organizational reporting and decision-making. to be a healthy place to grow our people, our business and b. Physical work environments, including design, lighting, Product Reach our shared cultural spaces. communication systems and access to information. c. Priority for the things people need to do their best work. d.  A financial structure that supports the primary organizational goals and values for personal development. Economic metrics give us guidance on sustainable business practice, but are not the only Planet Aware drivers for business decisions. e. Selection and support of employees entering the organization that reflect our values. 3. The nature of the work is based on the premise that life science research and related discoveries have been People Care and will continue to be important to society and human development. Our contribution to this field is to design The Catalyst Lab is a meeting space for creative and strategic thinking. and supply products, systems and services that simplify this research and give more reliable and accurate results. The Promega Culture Community Touch Employee feedback has indicated that their greatest A corporation’s values will guide its culture, so those principles satisfaction comes from the people they work with and the must be clearly articulated and actualized to provide context nature of the work they are doing. The organizational core for exceptional decision-making. The psychology of the principles support the central role of purpose in employees’ organization — the “cultural DNA” — provides a critical satisfaction. foundation through which company principles and operations are shaped. For Promega, these principles include: Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 39 Additional Info Introduction Work Environment. To inspire and Corporate Mind support our employees, we create unique workspaces with features such as original and rotating art exhibits— Product Reach including art created by employees themselves; third spaces to evolve thinking, ample natural lighting, space to exercise and meditate; and local healthy dining options. Employees also work in a nonhierarchical space to foster Planet Aware collaboration and teamwork. We strive to bring the outdoors into our buildings to encourage an appreciation of natural beauty. This was accomplished in the Feynman Center in Madison, Wisconsin, by incorporating native plants and People Care materials from the surrounding prairie, and a winter garden with thousands of plants inhabiting a living wall, adding life and warmth to the building. Locations globally use natural lighting, local Community Touch resources and art to provide unique and comfortable work environments at all of our branches. We continue to invest in providing an environment with an attention to detail that is inspiring, flexible and aligned with the needs of employees. The Living Wall Additional Info on the Promega Madison, WI campus holds over 40 plant species. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 40 Introduction Employee Health and Wellbeing Corporate Mind Employee Safety. Promega Environmental Health and Fitness Facilities. All North American locations offer on-site Safety programs are committed to establishing, maintaining, facilities and programs to support employee wellness. Most and improving work environments for the safety and welllocations offer health club reimbursements and financial being of our employees as well as the communities in which support for participation in sports if the facility does not offer we operate. Accident rates are below the industry average, an on-site fitness room. and we have been recognized for our commitment to safety. The Madison campus offers basketball and volleyball, fullyProduct Reach Benefits. We offer comprehensive benefit programs based equipped fitness rooms, walking, jogging and biking trails on country standards. Benefit programs generally include and cross-country skiing trails in the winter. A Promega medical, dental and vision coverage available to full-time Health Promotion Specialist serves as a resource to provide employees and their families. Employees are also offered exercise plans and help employees develop fitness goals. shortand long-term disability insurance, life insurance, To promote health in body, mind and spirit, the Zen Zone tuition assistance and paid time off. These benefits are is available on the Madison campus with a steeping pool, Planet Aware a significant investment to ensure the well-being of our steam room, and sauna. Promega Madison, and our offices employees and their families. in Sunnyvale and San Luis Obispo, California are tobaccofree campuses. Wellness Center. Promega Madison is host to an on-site Wellness Center staffed by a nurse practitioner and integrative physician that People Care offers convenient care services and wellness consultations to Promega employees, spouses and partners. In 2015, the Wellness Center received over 2,300 patient visits and administered 461 flu vaccines in Madison, Wisconsin and at our offices in Sunnyvale and San Luis Obispo, Community Touch California. Over 700 employees completed Health Risk Assessments offered in 2015 to better understand their body and current health status. Additionally, a physical therapist began services at the Wellness Center and has seen over 747 visits since the service became available in 2015. Branch locations use benefit programs and local Additional Info medical facilities to provide health care that is convenient and affordable. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 41 Introduction Promoting Healthy and Active Lifestyles Corporate Mind Promega strives to create a culture of wellness by supporting events and offering programs for a healthy and engaged workforce. Mental and physical wellness are equally important, with facilities provided for yoga, exercise, meditation and other activities to meet individual needs at many locations. “Together; Sustainable; Successful” Challenge. Promega Product Reach Euro Hub in Mannheim, Germany challenged their team and the European branches to live the mantra “Together; Sustainable; Successful” by biking, walking or running to work in September 2015. Employees from Germany, Italy, France, Benelux and Sweden traveled over 4,000 km and donated €2,000 to local charity. Fitness classes from Yoga to Barre are held regularly at Promega Planet Aware Corporation in Madison, WI. Korea Electric Love Marathon. Employees from Promega Korea and Promega Biosystems Korea participated in the 12th Annual Electric Love 10K. The event commemorates the date Korea used electricity for the first time and promotes energy conservation as a means People Care to protect our planet. This is one of the largest sustainable events in Korea, with over 12,000 participants. Community Touch Promega Korea employees participated in the 12 Annual Electric Love 10K. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 42 Additional Info Introduction A  nnual Promega Fun 5K Walk/Run. Each fall, Promega ‘Race of the Companies’. Promega Biotech Ibérica parCorporate Mind Madison sponsors a fun walk/run for employees and their ticipated in several races including Race of Companies: families. In addition to promoting healthy and active lifestyles, Carrera de las Empresas, Race for Science: XXXV Carrera de food and monetary donations are provided to The Second la Ciencia, and Race for Women: Carrera de la mujer, which Harvest Food Pantry. support philanthropic causes and raise funds to fight cancer. Product Reach Planet Aware Promega Corporation hosts an annual Fun 5K Walk/Run. Promega Biotech Ibérica employees participated in several races. Pink Parade in Milan. Promega Italia participated in “Pink B  ike to Work. Promega supports employee Bike-to-Work People Care Parade” – a non-competitive 5K hosted in Milan groups worldwide, from Wisconsin to the United Kingdom. Bike in October 2015. This event raises funds for racks and repair kits are available at every building in Madison Pink is Good, a project by Fondazione Umberto and at several branch locations. Additionally, Promega offers Veronesi to support breast cancer research. bicycle commuter benefits, which includes $20 per month tax free for cycling related expenses in the United States. Community Touch Supporting Employee Teams. Promega supports employee sports teams and running/walking teams globally. At our Madison campus, 27 individuals participated in events that supported charitable causes in 2015. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 43 Additional Info Introduction Team Building Activities. Many locations hold social events My Wellness Journey Corporate Mind outdoors to encourage an appreciation of the natural world My wellness journey started unexpectedly and took me by surand active lifestyles. Teams in France, Switzerland and Korea prise. In early 2015, I found myself struggling to get out of bed, enjoy skiing to connect with nature and stay active. always tired and burnt out. I was going through the motions and had no interest in the activities I typically enjoyed. My manager noticed that I was not being ‘myself’ and took the time to speak with me about how I was feeling. He showed support by encouraging me to seek assistance. Product Reach My first step was an appointment at the Wellness Center. During the appointment, we discussed my concerns and I was offered access to Thrive. The Thrive website describes itself as a resource “for people who want to take charge of their emotional well-being to lead happier, more satisfying lives.” It specializes in teaching techniques from cognitive behavior therapy which is a clinically Planet Aware proven method to assist those suffering from depression and stress. It helps users think constructively, communicate confidently, and encourages participation in activities that make you feel good. Promega France employees participate in skiing days. Thrive allowed me to proceed at my own pace without feeling any pressure and provided a method to measure my progress. People Care There were ups and downs, but over several months I completed Wellness Education. The Promega Wellness Team regularly all of the lessons and practiced the skills I was taught. This offers programs throughout the year to encourage active and program gave me the tools to become more assertive and break healthy lifestyles. We strive to support our employees in their my cycle of negative thoughts. Although my journey continues, pursuit for achieving work-life balance by offering campaigns I am back to being myself and much happier than I was a year which aim to educate employees and encourage nutritious ago thanks to the support of the wellness center staff and the Community Touch eating, increased physical activity and mindfulness. Classes Thrive program. and communications have included a diverse set of topics such as Chimera Self-Defense, meditation and stress relief, Promega Employee advanced directives, smoking cessation, financial planning, Ayurvedic medicine and trigger point therapy. The annual Promega Wellness & Safety Fair in Madison brought together 19 wellness vendors and over 230 employees to further support Additional Info their wellness journey. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 44 Introduction Eating Well and Living Well Corporate Mind Local Produce and On-Site Garden. By serving fresh Produce Swap. Promega Biosciences in California, and local produce from our on-site community garden in USA, has a “Produce Swap” program for employees to Madison, Wisconsin, we promote a culture of wellness. share excess produce from their home garden with other With over 3,000 pounds of vegetables harvested annually employees. All funds from this program are donated to the from our garden and produce from a network of over three local food bank, as well as the produce grown from fruit dozen local farms, we were able to serve healthy, organic trees on the Promega Biosciences property. menus across our campus year-round. Promega offers plots Product Reach in the community garden for employees to use as their own, and provides starter plants to help promote the sharing of gardening skills. Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Promega Culinary Team annually grows over 3,000 pounds of vegetables in the Promega Madison, WI on-site garden. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 45 Introduction Feed the Planet, Energy for Life. The team at Promega Lunch and Learns. Promega Madison offers a series of Corporate Mind AG, in Switzerland, did a team building trip to the EXPO classes called “Lunch and Learn” which this year covered 2015 in Milano, Italy. With the theme “Feed the Planet, nutritional topics including: Probiotics & Prebiotics, Nutrition for Energy for Life”, this event aimed to address important issues Athletes and Functional foods. We also showcased Promega’s such as sustainable development and food security. The own on-site apiary and the value of bees to our environment. Swiss pavilion showcased the commitment to sustainability Take-Home Family Meals. In Madison, employees may development and brought attention to the issues of limited now enjoy a weekly “take-home family meal” prepared by food and water resources. Product Reach our chefs using locally sourced foods. These dinners have allowed busy employees to eat a nutritious, “home-cooked” meal with their families without having to get out a pot. Many employees report that it has brought their families together in a new way. Planet Aware People Care Promega AG visited Feed the Planet, Energy for Life Expo in Milano, Italy for a team building trip. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 46 Additional Info Introduction Relaxed Body and Mind Using Mindfulness in Meetings Corporate Mind ProMindful and Emotional Intelligence. ProMindful, Earlier this year, I listened to some of the recorded ProMindful sessions and wondered if there was a way to use mindfulness now in its second year at Promega, is a program that offers to help manage my reactions in meetings. There were occasions Promega employees an introduction to the related practices where I felt frustrated that meetings weren’t run in the manner of mindfulness and emotional intelligence. Both of these I would have found best suited to the needs and strengths of my practices have been shown to support health, wellbeing, team. The result was that much of the time, I sat in meetings and even increased effectiveness work. Participants come feeling frustrated, wanting things to be different and wrestling Product Reach together for a 30-minute teaching once a week and have with how to approach the issue. I spoke to Wellness Center the option to join a 15-minute community meditation every staff, and together we explored two possibilities which included day. Some of these meditations are guided while others are keeping a running list of items to address after meetings and silent. Each style of practice cultivates “internal awareness” compassion meditation. The problem-solving list seemed and “other awareness” in unique ways. We have received proactive and constructive but the mediation was challenging much positive feedback on this program, with employees as it instructed me to focus on the difficulty (the fact that meeting sharing stories of improved patience and communication wasn’t being held in a way I liked), breathe in the frustration, Planet Aware and exhale a sincere wish for the meeting facilitator’s wellbeing. skills, creative problem-solving, compassion for self and Surprisingly, I found that I couldn’t stay frustrated while focusing others, and even physical changes like reduced headaches. on doing something with every breath and felt a deep sense of Most of all, it brings us together to share our practice and peace and satisfaction. My learned ability to be present and ourselves in new ways. at peace helped release my resentment, made me feel a better connection with my peers, and had a positive influence on my People Care meetings. This meditation technique gave me a new sense of appreciation for the power of a quiet wish of wellbeing as a replacement for inner frustration. Promega Employee Community Touch Meditation is offered daily at Promega Corporation in Madison, WI. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 47 Additional Info Introduction Encouraging Relaxation. The Promega branch in Investing in Employee Education, Corporate Mind Mannheim, Germany offers free massages and yoga sessions Training and Advancement to employees each month. Promega Sweden and Promega Benelux also have massage chairs on-site for employees. Career training and development programs are designed Promega Australia has added a library of wellness books, and to keep employees abreast of the latest technologies, offices in Brazil and San Luis Obispo, CA added relaxation scientific trends, and customer needs. We are committed or meditation rooms for employees use. to the personal and professional growth of all employees throughout the many phases of their career and work to Product Reach Work-Life Balance. We recognize the significant role of foster the skills, competencies, and talent in our workforce. family and encourage the strengthening of these connections. Professional development courses such as the Coaching From on-site child care in Madison, to social gatherings for Leaders and The Emerging Leader and Management tailored toward children, Promega appreciates the fulfillment Essentials programs support supervisor and senior leaders. families provide and the importance in supporting future Customized training for departments is available, as well generations. This past year, Promega AG in Switzerland had as organizational development services that include talent employee’s children in the office for “Nationaler Zukunftstag”, management resources and consulting. Furthermore, Planet Aware a national day for future generations to see what their parents individually-targeted leadership development is available on are doing at work and to get to know what kind of jobs and site at work, or with external academic or training partners. opportunities are available for them. In 2015, $1.2 million dollars were invested in external training and advancement, although this number cannot truly capture the entire value in training, as informal and internal training investments are difficult to track. People Care We are committed to the personal and professional growth of all Community Touch employees throughout the many phases of their career and work to foster the skills, competencies and talent in our workforce. Promega families participate in the annual employee art showcase. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 48 Additional Info Introduction Quality Systems Training. Many trainings are focused Language Training. English lessons are provided at Corporate Mind on maintaining high standards in Quality-System-Regulated Promega KK in Japan and at Promega offices in Korea to (QSR) areas. This has provided automated and just-in-time help employees improve communication with international visibility into the training status by individual employee, as customers, colleagues, and host guests from different well as by training requirements. countries. With dedicated training departments and comprehensive training facilities in the United States, Europe Scientific Training. The Scientific Training team designs, and Asia, we make every effort to provide all employees with develops and implements product and sales trainings for the resources they need to advance their career. Product Reach employees around the globe, which are delivered in live and virtual classrooms. In 2015, there were over 2,400 attendees of 36 webcast courses, and 9 live classroom courses. Live courses were offered at facilities in Madison, WI and Lyon, Human Rights and Diversity France at the Promega Europe Training and Applications Respecting Human Rights. As a member to the UN Laboratory (PETAL), as well as at our new training facility Global Compact, Promega follows all regulations regarding in Singapore. PETAL and Singapore facilities address the Planet Aware employment and has zero tolerance for violations of human training needs of employees globally and limit the amount rights. We are committed to upholding and advancing of travel needed. These facilities also incorporate video The Universal Declaration of Human Rights in how our conferencing equipment to allow scientists and trainers to business develops productive relationships around the world participate from off-site locations. to continue working cooperatively among different customs and cultures. Issues that we take very seriously include: People Care • Protection of children from exploitation • Protection of all workers from compulsory labor • Payment of at least minimum wages • Safe working conditions Community Touch Promega complies with all local workplace regulations and ensures that our employees and community members are treated with respect and dignity. We hold the same expectations for our suppliers and look to align with organizations that uphold international human rights and labor standards. Additional Info The Scientific Training team designs and implements product and sales trainings for employees around the globe. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 49 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware Promega General Managers gather at annual fall meeting. Valuing Diversity. As a global company, we believe in and practice equal opportunity and affirmative action. We acknowledge and honor the fundamental value and dignity People Care of all individuals. We pledge ourselves to creating and maintaining an environment that respects diverse traditions, heritages and experiences. With offices in 16 culturally diverse locations, the organization benefits from the unique cultures and experiences of all employees. Women represent Community Touch approximately 46% of employees worldwide and occupy 42% of management positions in the United States. Promega Biotech Ibérica was again recognized for the commitment to human rights and equal opportunity employment being awarded “Alcobendas Concilia”. Promega Biotech Ibérica in Spain was again recognized by the city of Alcobendas with the Municipal Award for Additional Info Reconciliation and Equal Opportunities in 2015. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 50 Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Community Touch 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Additional Info Artist’s abstract rendering of molecules. Introduction Community Touch Corporate Mind Product Reach “ The and focus and investment that Promega places on educating, inspiring enthusing young people about life sciences and science more generally will make positive impact long into the future. —Derek McCall, Managing Director, Promega UK Ltd ” Planet Aware As a life sciences company, we are fortunate. It is our job harmoniously across an organism. We work in that same to investigate, and help others investigate, the workings spirit of harmony within our community organism. of life. While we may see life at the molecular level, life People Care Promega’s growth is in part possible due to the positive lessons seem to hold true at any size. Cells exhibit both interactions with our surrounding communities. The support individual and group dynamics. They also display continuity we receive is invaluable to our success, and we make it and flexibility. What is perhaps most remarkable about cells our business to cultivate, give back and foster inspiration is their interconnectedness. That is, their ability to work that comes with a strong community bond. We appreciate this community bond takes many forms of exchange. In Community Touch addition to the reciprocal support between Promega and our communities, there are also ripple effects of our business. In the past year a close look at the local impact of the Promega Madison campus revealed the depth of our ripple effect in the local community and economy. Direct, indirect and induced impact within the state of Wisconsin totals nearly $550 million in multiplied economic output. With each Additional Info location, Promega appreciates its responsibility in the social The Fitchburg Center’s Farmers’ Market brings together Promega employees and economic impact on the community. and community members. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 52 Introduction Promega integrates a level of internal autonomy that allows The BioPharmaceutical Technology Center Institute. Corporate Mind for meaningful support at a local level around the world. And, The BioPharmaceutical Technology Center Institute (BTC as we continue to embrace change to facilitate community Institute), Promega Corporation and other sponsors have growth, we are committed to supporting new groups and worked together to coordinate the annual International Forum initiatives. We appreciate that our growth is interconnected on Consciousness. The event is geared towards the general to the successful growth of our surrounding communities. public and focuses on sharing information from the worlds of By focusing on engagement and support in education, natural and social sciences, as well as leading discussions community wellness and creativity, we can make strides to on related social and ethical issues. The forum attracts Product Reach enrich the lives of those around us, and our own. roughly 300 participants, and scholarship registrations are awarded annually to 20–30 attendees by revenue generated from registration fees. In addition to the International Forum Supporting Education and Knowledge on Consciousness, the BTC Institute is the only location in Wisconsin to provide an in lab experience for K-12 students Promega embraces the perspective that shared knowledge and teachers. Working closely with students and teachers across global networks help scientists fulfill their potential. Planet Aware the Institute offers a Biotechnology Field Trip Program, which Education brings growth, discovery and rich context for the provided over 3,300 middle and high school students from future. Over 25 years ago, Promega helped to establish— Wisconsin and Illinois with hands-on, molecular biologyand continues to provide significant support to—two based laboratory experiences during the 2014–2015 cornerstone organizations for community and future scientists: academic year. The BioPharmaceutical Technology Center Institute People Care and Woods Hollow Children’s Center. Significant time has been volunteered to teach classes with an emphasis on molecular biology within our communities. Locations globally support various initiatives focused on expanding knowledge. These organizations and initiatives include: Community Touch Additional Info Biotechnology Field Trip Program provides students with hands-on, molecular biology-based laboratory experiences. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 53 Introduction Caring for Future Innovators at Woods Hollow Scientific Journalism Workshops. Promega GmbH in Corporate Mind Children’s Center. Promega is a substantial supporter of Germany organized workshops for journalists from regional the Woods Hollow Children’s Center, which was developed to newspapers to discuss new information and current trends in provide early childhood education and care for the Madison, bioscience. Three journalist-scientist tandems were awarded Wisconsin community. Woods Hollow is located on the with the Main Focus Biology award, sponsored Promega Madison campus and is available to community by Promega. This award and workshop aim to and Promega employees. With gold-standard accreditation, promote transparency in the bioscience field Woods Hollow offers a rich experience with diverse curriculum between researchers and publication readers. Product Reach in a setting that allows children to explore and create. Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 54 Additional Info Introduction “ An responsibility Corporate Mind international company with firm grounding in science and strong social can push forward and help scientific innovation and progress in both developed and developing countries. ” —Tao Cui, General Manager, Promega (Beijing) Biotech Co., Ltd Product Reach Collaborating with the Marine Biological Laboratory. Internships at Promega’s European Training and To advance educational and research efforts in the areas of Application Laboratory (PETAL). Promega continues molecular biology, cellular biology, biomedicine and ecology; to offer opportunities for European students to carry out Planet Aware Promega established a Discovery Fund in 2013 to benefit an internship program around the development of scientific the Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL). The MBL is one applications at our premises in Lyon (France). Last year, we of the largest nonprofit biological laboratories in the world had a biotechnology student from the University and it is an international center for research, education and of Granada (Spain) participate in a summer training. Their offerings include highly competitive summer internship program. courses and research programs that attract thousands of People Care scientists and students from a variety of institutions across the globe. The Promega Discovery Fund provides financial support to the MBL Education Department and also explores how Promega tools and technologies can be used to advance MBL courses. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 55 Additional Info Introduction Corporate Mind Sponsoring Teams in the iGEM Product Reach Competition. Promega GmbH, Promega UK and Promega Benelux supported university students in the International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) Competition. By sponsoring teams with a wide range Planet Aware of products, Promega enabled the groups to work on projects like biosensors that detect knockout drops in water, treatments to alleviate the pain of Parkinson’s disease and microplastic People Care degradation through the use of synthetic biology. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 56 Additional Info Introduction Promega Beijing’s Innovation Award. Promega Beijing International Symposium on Human Identification. Since Corporate Mind works with the Chinese Society of Cell Biology (CSCB) to 1998 Promega has hosted the International Symposium on recognize student advance in the field of cell biology. In 2015, Human Identification (ISHI), the world’s largest symposium Dr. Baoliang Song of Wuhan University and Dr. focused on DNA analysis for human identification. Now in Lijian Hui of Shanghai University were recognized its 27th year, ISHI is a forum for education and sharing that with the biannual Promega Innovation Award. is open to all practitioners and suppliers of DNA analysis for human identification. Learning opportunities include interactive workshops, presentations, case studies and Supporting Young Scientists. Promega Biotech Ibérica Product Reach scientific posters, and many labs and industry agencies count in Spain continues to support young scientists through their hours attended towards continuing education requirements. award-winning micro funding program aimed to More than 950 scientists, DNA analysis, law enforcement help spread their scientific results in peer reviewed professionals, and legal and ethical experts from 40+ journals and communications to congresses. countries participate in this inclusive forum for discussing the latest technologies and debating policy issues. Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Annual International Symposium on Human Identification (ISHI) attracts more than 950 professionals from over 40 countries. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 57 Introduction Supporting Students in Impoverished Areas. Each year, Supporting Instructors. Promega offers educational Corporate Mind Promega Beijing works to help elementary schools in remote resources such as complimentary lectures and lab teaching areas by assisting in improving their educational environment. guides for teachers looking to enhance their curricula. Topics In 2015, two computer classrooms were set up in of interest have ranged from DNA purification to emerging Dong Feng and Tea schools in Shuan Bei County, infectious diseases. Our Training Support Program offers Yunnan province. instructors at the high school, undergraduate and graduate levels who teach courses using DNA, RNA, protein or cell-based techniques the opportunity to receive up to Product Reach $2,000 in discounts off Promega products to supplement their classrooms. For more information, please visit http://www.promega.com/ products/pm/na/training-support-program/ Planet Aware Sharing Knowledge through the Promega Webinar Series. The Promega Webinar Series is a program that provides noncommercial live webinars to scientists around the world, free of charge. Scientific topics range from basic science concepts to highly technical research presentations. Promega Beijing helps improve educational facilities in remote areas. This communication channel allows unique interactions People Care between young and senior scientists in the areas of genomics, proteomics, genetic identity and cellular analysis. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 58 Additional Info Introduction Community Wellness Corporate Mind Inspiring Young Musicians with WYSO. Ensuring music Ops in Action. Promega employees are deeply involved education continues to thrive in our communities, Promega throughout their communities. Recognizing the importance sponsored the Wisconsin Youth Symphony Orchestra of these commitments, Promega piloted a program giving (WYSO) 50th Anniversary Season in 2015. For the past five employees in Madison an opportunity to spend a week decades, WYSO has provided unwavering commitment to supporting a charity or organization of their choice. This the Wisconsin arts community, growing from one single year’s participants gave back in various ways which included Product Reach orchestra into a comprehensive program that includes three restoring houses in Gulf Coast and implementing improved full orchestras, a string orchestra, a chamber program, a work processes for adults with disabilities. harp ensemble, a percussion ensemble and a brass choir. Promega is a proud supporter of WYSO as the organization continues to provide transformative musical experience to children in south-central Wisconsin and beyond. Planet Aware People Care Promega Madison, WI piloted a program giving employees paid time off to support a charity or organization of their choice. Promega sponsored the Wisconsin Youth Symphony Orchestra (WYSO) Community Touch 50th Anniversary Season. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 59 Additional Info Introduction Building Community through Construction. Believing Providing Meals for the Needy. Promega France donated Corporate Mind that everyone deserves a healthy and affordable place to funds to the charity “Les restaurants du Coer” which works call home, Promega teamed with Terso, our sister company, to distribute hot meals to those in need and to in 2015 to host a panel build day for Habitat for Humanity. eliminate poverty. With 8.5 million people in France Panels were constructed in the Agora parking lot on the living below the poverty line, “Les restaurants du Promega Madison campus. After the panels were built, Coer” provides critical resources and support. employees inscribed welcoming wishes for the family into the Providing Aid for Disadvantaged Children and Citizens. wood as a reminder of their ongoing support. The panels were Product Reach Promega Italia made a contribution over the 2015 holiday used to build a home for a local family that was completed season to Save the Children Italia Onlus, an association that in early 2016. provides health programs and education to underprivileged children, as well as protection from abuse and exploitation. In the coming year Promega Italia has elected to raise funds for the Banco Alimnetare, a food Planet Aware bank that not only provides distribution of food to the disadvantaged but also works to offer physical support and social inclusion to those people. People Care Contributing Educational Materials to Local Schools. In 2015, Promega Biotech Ibérica donated electronics to a local school that otherwise would not have been able Community Touch to afford them. Promega recognizes that education and resources are crucial for the development of young students and gives back through donations of equipment, funds and time. Promega teamed with Terso Solutions, Inc. and hosted a panel build day for Habitat for Humanity. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 60 Additional Info Introduction Community Action Team. The Community Action Team at Charitable Giving in Australia. Promega Australia values Corporate Mind Promega Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, CA is an employeesupport received from the community and strives to give led group that works to support local organizations and back by supporting local and international organizations. In nonprofits. In 2015, the team hosted 3 fundraisers and raised 2015, donations were made to World Vision’s Annual Child funds for 15 different organizations including the United Sponsorship, The Smith Family Learning for Life Way, Wilshire Hospice, SLO High Aggie Backers, SLO Wind program, Australasian Council of Women and Orchestra, and the American Cancer Society. To encourage Policing, and the France Alzheimer Association involvement in the community paid time is provided each working on challenges facing mental health. Product Reach month to employees and monetary donations are matched by the company. In addition to fundraisers, the Community Action Team organizes quarterly road clean ups to help Creativity maintain our adopted road. The ability to think creatively has always been a cornerstone for scientific experimentation. At Promega, we have a long history of leveraging innovation to support creativity within Planet Aware the company and in our surrounding communities. Spotlight on Visual Artists. Quarterly public art exhibits on the Promega corporate campus serve a dual purpose of sharing creativity of featured artists, while introducing the community to diverse perspectives. Throughout the years, People Care exhibits have featured the work of local and international artists. In 2015, Promega presented a mixed-media show featuring exploration into mindfulness and realms of consciousness. Through illustrations, photography, paintings, poetry, and creative performances, six artists interpreted Community Touch the unique impacts of consciousness and its undefined meanings. The Promega Biosciences Community Action Team supported local organizations with fundraising, donations and volunteering. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 61 Additional Info Introduction Showcasing Beauty in Science. Scientific images are a Backing Established Creative Venues. Promega Madison Corporate Mind critical form of data that in many ways provide insight into supports numerous cultural venues in the community, such nature’s mysteries and help us understand the way the world as the American Players Theatre (APT). As a partner with works. While they provide valuable information to research, APT, Promega supports their educational program in which scientific images can also be inherently beautiful, an aspect the actors travel to schools around the state, bringing the that nonscientists often do not have the opportunity to experience to thousands of students. experience. The appreciation of beauty in detail and science is what compelled Promega to sponsor the “Cool Science Product Reach Image Contest” hosted by The Why Files at the University of Wisconsin—Madison. From 112 submissions, 11 were selected as winners. Promega plans to continue sponsorship for the contest in 2016 to encourage appreciation of aesthetic within science. Planet Aware American Players Theatre (APT), sponsored by Promega, supports People Care educational programs teaching hundreds of Wisconsin students about Shakespeare each year. Community Touch The ability to think creatively has This light microscope image of stink bug eggs was a winner of the University of Wisconsin-Madison Cool Science Image contest. always been a cornerstone for scientific experimentation. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 62 Additional Info Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info Additional Info 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Artist’s conception of a virion. Introduction Additional Information Corporate Mind 2016 Report Parameters Reporting on Promega Corporate Responsibility progress is Some sections of the GRI that were not covered in the report completed on a calendar year basis with information in this report will be addressed below. In 2015 we had no incidents or issues sharing results and actions from January 1, 2015 to December 31, in the following areas: 2015. This is the eighth Promega report in this area following the • Environmental fines or sanctions (G4-EN29) initial report released in July of 2009. This process of reporting Product Reach • Incidents of discrimination and action taken (G4-HR3) will continue annually in the future. Corporate Responsibility reporting attempts to focus on the environmental and social • Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people impacts of Promega operations worldwide using the framework and actions taken. (G4-HR 8) established by the Global Reporting Initiative’s Guidelines and • Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. monopoly practices. (G4-SO 7) • Fines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with Information for this report has been gathered from all 22 Promega Planet Aware laws and regulations. (G4-SO 8) branch and subsidiary locations worldwide. Engagement with key internal stakeholders has been focused on areas identified as key impacts and opportunities. Our current process captures Please contact sustainability@promega.com with any information on a wide range of indicators but we recognize questions on the Promega Corporate Responsibility Report. that there is still room for growth in the information we capture. In rare instances, additional or adjusted information for prior People Care periods was captured resulting in slight variations from previously Product Responsibility reported indicators. 2015 and Non-compliance Carbon footprint calculations have been made using emission Incidents regarding product health and factors provided by the World Resources Institute Greenhouse 0 safety codes Gas Protocol on energy and business travel. Reported emissions Incidents regarding product information Community Touch from distribution were calculated with the conversion factors 0 and labeling provided by DEFRA’s 2015 Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors and have incorporated the new methodology for emissions Incidents with marketing communication 0 for air freight that include radiative forcing. Lastly, the regulations Environmental Defense Fund’s Paper Calculator has been used Breaches of customer privacy and loss of for calculating the life cycle impacts of our paper usage. Current 0 customer data and previous years’ carbon footprints have been calculated using the most updated information and emission factors from Incidents concerning provision and use 0 of products or services Additional Info the resources above. *Notable incidents would have resulted in fines or warnings. Illustration of cancer cell in mitosis. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 64 Introduction Key Indicators Business 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Corporate Mind Number of Employees 973 1,009 1,120 1,197 1,223 1,285 1,327 1,381 Building Footprint (Sq. Feet) 610,925 610,925 687,724 689,314 721,090 878,583 1,037,560 1,088,204 Number of Global Locations 16 17 17 17 18 18 19 19 Environmental Product Reach Greenhouse Gas Emissions 22,397 21,822 23,819 24,401 24,126 29,161 34,928 37,021 (Tons of CO2) Emissions Per Million in Revenue 101.0 93.3 91.5 85.8 76.5 84.2 95.1 96.5 (Tons of CO2/Dollars) Emissions Per Building Planet Aware Footprint 36.7 35.7 34.6 35.4 33.8 33.2 33.7 34.0 (Tons of CO2/Sq Ft) Energy Consumption: Electricity (kWh) 16,880,814 16,393,560 16,363,009 17,592,001 17,785,445 21,284,680 26,692,713 27,781,392 Natural Gas (Therms) 683,201 667,819 658,883 664,891 603,132 916,119 1,275,922 1,197,993 People Care Water Consumption (Gallons) 14,241,376 14,474,723 17,900,997 19,031,889 20,646,864 23,120,018 35,502,263 31,506,638 Total Paper (Reams) 127,631 22,894 27,798 18,522 28,141 16,488 24,972 12,360 Solid Non-Hazardous Waste 222,045 214,396 243,538 268,597 269,044 299,030 314,372 344,605 Community Touch (Cubic Feet) Incinerated (Cubic Feet) 7,854 5,797 6,556 6,632 6,623 8,832 6,372 6,964 Land filled (Cubic Feet) 112,227 111,336 124,178 127,396 122,025 143,330 144,021 175,278 Recycled (Cubic Feet) 101,964 97,263 112,804 134,569 140,396 146,868 163,979 162,364 Chemical Waste (Pounds) 145,395 144,449 177,238 165,679 186,568 153,828 167,784 185,076 Additional Info Infectious Waste (Pounds) 9,316 9,431 9,261 9,164 12,779 13,749 14,483 16,480 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 65 Introduction GRI Index Corporate Mind We are committed to transparent reporting on our environmental, social and economic performance. This report contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting G4 Guidelines. The following table has been developed to help users locate specific information in the report. Content GRI Section # Page # Product Reach Introduction 3 CEO Letter G4-1 4 Corporate Mind GRI Section # Page # G4-3, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-9, G4-10, Overview 6 Planet Aware G4-EC1, G4-LA1 Corporate Values G4-56 8 Corporate Vision G4-56 8 Corporate Governance G4-33, G4-34, G4-SO4 9 People Care Future Investments G4-13, G4-EC7 10 Supply Chain Management G4-12, G4-EC9 12 Community Touch Product Reach GRI Section # Page # Investments in the Future 19 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 66 Additional Info Introduction GRI Index (Continued) Corporate Mind Planet Aware GRI Section # Page # Overview G4-14 22 G4-EN 15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, Responding to Climate Change 24 G4-EN18, G4-EN19 Product Reach Energy Consumption G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6 24 Heating Promega, Not the Planet G4-EN3, G4-EN21 25 Tracking and Reducing Impacts from G4EN7, G4-EN17, G4-EN30 28 Product Distribution Reducing Impacts from Business Travel G4-EN17, G4-EN30 30 Planet Aware Preserving Natural Capital 32 Minimizing Waste G4-EN23, G4-EN25 32 People Care Water Conservation G4-EN8, G4-EN13 34 Connecting with Customers without Paper 35 Less is More with Packaging 36 Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 67 Additional Info Introduction GRI Index (Continued) Corporate Mind People Care GRI Section # Page # Overview 38 The Promega Culture 39 Work Environment 40 Product Reach Employee Health and Wellbeing G4-LA2, G4-LA5, G4-LA6 41 Promoting Healthy and Active Lifestyles 42 Eating Well and Living Well 45 Planet Aware Relaxed Body and Mind 47 Investing in Employee Education, Training and Advancement G4-LA9, G4-LA 10, G4-LA11 48 Human Rights and Diversity G4-15, G4-LA12 49 People Care Community Touch GRI Section # Page # Overview G4-EC8 52 Supporting Education/ Knowledge G4-SO1 53 Community Touch Community Wellness G4-SO1 59 Creativity 61 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 68 Additional Info Introduction GRI Index (Continued) Corporate Mind Additional Information GRI Section # Page # G4-15, G4-17 to G4-23, G4-28 to Report Parameters 64 G4-34 Key Indicators 65 Product Reach GRI Index G4-32 66 Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 69 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Product Reach 2015 Lab ft 2 Logistics ft2 Office ft2 Planet Aware CO2/ft2 2008 People Care Community Touch Figure 1. Even with a 90% increase of high-energy intensive spaces, the “shadow” of our carbon emissions has decreased 7% per building footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 70 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Carbon Footprint Indexed to Building Footprint Product Reach Carbon Footprint Progress Toward Goal 37 36 35 35 SCOPE 3 34 33 34 34 2020 Tons of C02 Per 1,000 Sq. Feet Planet Aware Goal SCOPE 2 People Care SCOPE 1 Community Touch 2008 2015 13683MA Figure 2. Promega actively tracks carbon footprint from fuel combustion (scope 1), Additional Info purchased energy (scope 2), business travel, outgoing distribution, water and paper usage (scope 3). Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 71 Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Global Carbon Footprint 2015 Carbon Footprint Composition 20% 51% Electrical Usage Product Reach Natural Gas Planet Aware Air Travel 1% Auto Travel 2% Rail Travel People Care 7% Water Paper 13684MA 19% Distribution Community Touch Figure 3. Key contributors to the Promega carbon footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 72 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Electricity Progress Towards Goal Electricity per Building Footprint 27.6 26.8 Product Reach 25.7 25.5 Thousands of kWh / 1,000 Sq. Feet 25.5 24.7 23.8 24.2 2020 Goal Planet Aware People Care 13685MA Community Touch 2008 2015 Figure 4. Electricity usage of operations globally as indexed to building footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 73 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Natural Gas Natural per Building Gas Progress Footprint Toward Goal Product Reach 1,230 1,118 1,093 1,101 1,043 958 965 2020 Therms per 1,000 Sq. Feet Goal Planet Aware 836 People Care 13686MA Community Touch 2008 2015 Figure 5. Natural gas as indexed to building footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 74 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Global GlobalDistribution DistributionEmissions Emissions Product Reach 25 25 25 23 Tons of CO2 / Million in Revenue 21 21 19 19 2020 Planet Aware Goal People Care 2008 2015 13687MA Figure 6. Emissions from product distribution to customers globally. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 75 Additional Info Introduction BACK Business Travel Carbon Footprint Corporate Mind Business Travel Carbon Footprint 10 Product Reach 9 Tons of CO2 per Million in Revenue 9 9 9 8 8 Planet Aware 7 People Care 13688MA 2008 2015 Figure 7. Business travel emissions from air, automobile, and rail as indexed to revenue. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 76 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Global Non-Hazardous Waste per Footprint 10 9 Product Reach 13 9 10 195 10 Cubic Feet per 1,000 Sq. Feet 167 195 6 159 164 167 6 Planet Aware 158 149 Landfill/Recycling/Incineration 184 182 181 185 2020 169 163 Goal 161 People Care 139 13689MA Community Touch 2008 2015 Figure 8. Composition of non-hazardous solid waste per building footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 77 Additional Info Introduction BACK Global Hazardous Waste Corporate Mind Global Hazardous Waste per Revenue Product Reach TREATED/INCINERATED/RECYCLED Pounds of Waste Per 1,000 Sq. Feet 216 3 98 208 Planet Aware 13 70 114 72 14 8 People Care 12 13690MA 55 42 165 106 95 59 2010 2015 Figure 9. Composition of hazardous solid waste per building footprint. Community Touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 78 Additional Info Introduction BACK Corporate Mind Water usage progress toward goal Water Usage per Building Footprint Product Reach Thousand Gallons Per Million in Revenue 34 28 29 29 26 26 Planet Aware 23 24 2020 Goal People Care 13691MA Community Touch 2008 2015 Figure 10. Water usage as indexed to building footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 79 Additional Info Introduction BACK Paper Usage Progress Toward Goal Corporate Mind Paper Usage per Footprint Product Reach 209 Reams per 1,000 Sq. Feet Planet Aware People Care 37 40 39 27 19 24 11 13692MA 2008 2015 Community Touch Figure 11. Global paper usage as indexed to building footprint. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 80 Additional Info Introduction Corporate Mind Product Reach Planet Aware People Care Community Touch Additional Info PROMEGA CORPORATION • 2800 WOODS HOLLOW ROAD • MADISON, WI 53711-5399 USA • TELEPHONE 608-274-4330 www.promega.com • © 2016 PROMEGA CORPORATION • ALL RIGHTS RESERVED • PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE • 06/16 • 26716437
