Sustainability Report 2015 Tomorrow matters Hours of safety CO2 Fatalities Lost-time injury training per employee per employee frequency rate 12 4 0 1.8 Up from 10 Down from 2.7 Table of contents Letter from our CEO 4 FLSmidth at a Glance 6 CSR at FLSmidth 8 Impact Assessment 10 Health and Safety 12 People Development 18 Compliance and Export Control 28 Responsible Sourcing 32 Environmental Impact 34 Product Cases 36 About this Report The 2015 Sustainability Report describes the FLSmidth Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts and is also FLSmidth’s Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. The scope of this Report is the entire FLSmidth Group. The case stories included have been selected because they represent the areas in which we have made significant progress during 2015. The first part of the Report describes progress within the FLSmidth focus areas, closely related to our business conduct. The second part of the Report consists of case stories about our technological and innovative progress, supporting our vision of delivering technology that creates sustainable value for our customers and thereby also for their societies and the environment. The reporting period is 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015. 2 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 Hours of safety Lost-time training per employee injury frequency rate 12 1.8 Female Tonnes managers CO2 9.7% 46,910 White-collar employees trained in Near miss reporting code of business conduct increased 75% 46% Fatalities CO2 per employee 0 4 3 Letter from our CEO Tomorrow matters As societies around the world become more economically As an example, we saw a remarkable outcome of our developed, minerals and cement are essential to fulfilling safety focus in Chile, where FLSmidth won four awards the development. The demand for both will continue from the Chilean National Safety Council for outstanding to grow, and FLSmidth has an important role to play in safety achievements. One of these recognised that there this context. Reflecting our core values of competence, have been no lost-time injuries associated with our maincooperation and responsibility, we are proud of our unique tenance contract the Puerto Punta Chungo facility in over heritage and position in the minerals and cement indus15 years, which is the result of continuous vigilance by all tries and, in particular, our ability to enhance productivity involved. throughout throughout our customers’ value chains. Compliance People Being compliant is vital to our long-term success as a trustOur employees are essential to our ability to deliver to our worthy business partner. A third-party due diligence initigoals and values, and we are committed to developing ative, involving screening sales agents for adverse media, unique competencies and knowledge through ongoing edsanctions and litigations, was completed during 2015, and ucation and training. Leadership excellence is particularly we launched a third-party portal providing key information important to us, and 1,024 managers – approximately 80 about intermediaries. Furthermore, we conducted in-person percent of FLSmidth’s managers – completed a dedicated training in FLSmidth’s Code of Business Conduct for 75 Leadership Transition Training programme. In addition, percent of all white-collar employees. 300 top managers at FLSmidth have engaged in the “Flying the Flag” programme intended to develop leadership skills Responsible sourcing while at the same time advancing strategic development The extent of FLSmidth’s sourcing means we exert great initiatives for FLSmidth. impact on our supply chain, and with that comes significant responsibility. We have released a new code of suppliWe have strengthened our diversity efforts with new er conduct reflecting greater expectations of our suppliers. targets and by initiating a new diversity policy to be imThis requires them to take responsibility for everyone plemented during 2016. By 2018, FLSmidth is committed in their operations, including day labourers, contract to having 15 percent female managers at Group level. workers, temporary workers and migrant workers. It also We will help achieve this by ensuring at least one female describes explicit requirements in legal compliance, health ­candidate is considered for each new managerial position. and safety, child labour, freedom of association, forced labour and environment. Safety Keeping safety top of mind requires a dedicated, constant We are committed to incorporating sustainable thinking effort as well as transparency and accountability. Our new throughout our business, including honouring our UN Health and Safety reporting system makes it easier for Global Compact commitments. I am satisfied we are managers to understand what lies behind the numbers in heading in the right direction. safety reports. Furthermore, bringing an organised and structured approach to managing safety data throughout our global organisation is essential to preventing future Best Regards, accidents. Thomas Schulz Group CEO, FLSmidth & Co. A/S Back to contents 4 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 We are proud of our unique heritage and position in the minerals and cement industries and our ability to enhance productivity throughout our customers’ value chains Thomas Schulz Group Chief Executive Officer 5 FLSmidth at a Glance C U ST OME R SER V IC ES P R O D UC T C O M PA N I E S The Customer Services Division provides a full suite of The Product Companies Division hosts a diverse portfolio parts, services, and maintenance solutions to the global of relatively standardised market leading product brands, cement and minerals industries. applied in cement, minerals and adjacent industries. Who we are with headquarters in Denmark and operates about FLSmidth is a market-leading supplier of engineering, 50 countries all over the world. equipment and services to the global minerals and cement commodities. We provide our key commodStrategy and business model ities with the solutions to fulfill the full range of The growth and economic development of societies all customer requirements, from single equipment to over the world is driving urbanisation and industrialicomplete plants and from spare parts to full operation sation which in turn is driving demand for cement and and maintenance services. We are the market-leading minerals. As a leading supplier of environmentally sound supplier of productivity enhancing services in each of solutions to the global cement and minerals commodour six key commodities, which are copper, gold, coal, ities, FLSmidth has a sustainable business model which iron ore, fertilizers and cement. We help customers makes the company well positioned to benefit from the increase capacity, reduce operating costs and lower midand long-term structural growth opportunities. environmental impact. FLSmidth is a global company At the same time, the flexible business model allows FLSmidth to manoeuvre safely through the cycles. FLSmidth in numbers 134 years 12,969 Operates about Revenue of of history and employees 50 countries EUR 2,642 millions experience worldwide all over the world in 2015 Back to contents 6 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 MINER AL S CEMENT The Minerals Division is a leading provider of mineral The Cement Division is the market leader of premium processing and material handling technology and technology and process solutions to the global cement solutions to the global minerals industries. industry, and FLSmidth has delivered more cement . plants in the world than anyone else. The business is developed around four strategic focus six key commodities position FLSmidth strongly as areas: a one-source supplier to the cement and minerals as well as adjacent commodities. As a full service • Full service provider provider, FLSmidth offers customers to design, build • Focus on six key commodities and operate their plants. • Full flow-sheet • Life-cycle approach Vision We will be our customers’ preferred full service provider FLSmidth’s life-cycle approach helps customers reduce of sustainable minerals and cement technologies. emissions, lower operating costs and enhance productivity based on a unique combination of key products, Company values process know-how and a broad service offering. A Over the past 134 years, FLSmidth has developed a strong engineering heritage combined with comprebusiness culture based on three fundamental values, hensive flow-sheets of key technologies within our which are firmly rooted in our Danish heritage: competence, cooperation and responsibility. 1.3% of revenue Lost Time Injury invested in research and ­Frequency Rate development in 2015 (LTIFR) 1.8 7 CSR at FLSmidth Long-term focus on positive impact CSR Strategy commitment to being a responsible company provided the FLSmidth’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy framework for FLSmidth’s CSR policy, published in 2008. supports our business strategies by adding a long-term focus on responsibility. Our CSR efforts aim to create Wherever we operate, we strive to adhere to a set of shared value by continuously improving our Health, Safety corporate policies. Our CSR policy lays the foundation for and Environment (HSE) competencies, delivering sustainable how we operate around the globe and is centered on our technology, respecting people and developing our employees. three company values. Through our Human Rights Policy, The underlying rationale behind all our CSR activities is to we commit to respecting human rights and our Human create value for our main stakeholders: customers, share­Resources Policy states that we offer equal opportuniholders, employees, suppliers and the community. The purties for all employees, which is further elaborated in our pose is to become a more valuable partner to our customers Diversity Policy. Our commitment to mitigating risk related and all our stakeholders. to climate change is anchored in our Health, Safety and Environment Policy, which states that “excellence involves At FLSmidth, we aim to align CSR with business operations assessing the environmental impact of our operations as part of our global business strategy. Having signed the and business activities to protect the environment”. Our UN Global Compact in November 2008, FLSmidth committed expectations of our suppliers are expressed in our Code of itself to supporting the United Nations’ ten principles regardSupplier Conduct, which addresses human rights, labour ing human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, rights, safe and healthy working conditions, environmental as well as reporting on progress made. protection and business ethics. The FLSmidth CSR Policy Materiality Based on FLSmidth’s 134 year history and our corporate values The objective of FLSmidth’s CSR activities is to support our – competence, responsibility and co-operation – the company business and improve our long-term performance by focushas formed a culture around respecting individuals and helping ing more on responsibility. Therefore, it is essential that any to protect societies and the environment. Our history and given CSR activity is aligned with our business strategy. The CSR value chain Supp lier > > > > F L Smidt h > > > > C u s tom e r > > > Hos t C ou n tri e s > Sustainable long-term > Health and safety > Quality products > Economic development relationships > Compliance > Safe products > Job creation > People development > Sustainable products > Environment > Responsible sourcing > Business ethics > Compliance > Environmental footprint > People development Back to contents 8 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 Through ongoing dialogue with our business partners The FLSmidth CSR Board and major stakeholders, we constantly verify that our The CSR Board was established in 2010 and has regular CSR activities focus on the issues most relevant to discussions about CSR strategy and development our business. ­opportunities. The members of the CSR Board are: Safe working conditions for all employees, customers Thomas Schulz, Group CEO and contractors is high on the agenda at FLSmidth. We Virve Elisabeth Meesak, Group Executive Vice President, continuously strive to improve our Health and Safety Group Human Resources competencies and lower all safety risks and hazards. Olli Haavisto, Senior Vice President, Group Supply Chain & Quality Being a global company means we are present in emerging Claus Christian Torbøl, Senior Vice President, markets and some countries where corruption is perceived to O&M Management be a significant issue. We put special emphasis on ensuring Pernille Friis Andersen, Senior Vice President, that FLSmidth employees and business partners do business Group Communications, Investor Relations, in a legal manner. For FLSmidth, a high level of integrity and CSR & Group Marketing compliance is a prerequisite for doing business. Jeppe Kromann Haarsted, Global Compliance Manager Morten Jess Nielsen, CSR Advisor Employees are our most valuable asset and are critical to the success of our organisation. With 12,969 people employed Modern Day Slavery Act Statement. globally, it is material that our employees have fair working FLSmidth does not accept unlawful behaviour, and we conconditions, equal opportunities and development plans and sider modern day slavery and human trafficking intolerable. that all human rights and labour rights are respected. However, our business model involves sourcing from countries in which the risk of modern day slavery is perceived to With many equipment suppliers globally, minimising supply be high. chain-related risks is important in relation to health, safety and the environment (HSE), human rights, ethical business FLSmidth issued therefore a new Code of Supplier Conduct conduct standards as well as in relation to improving the (COSC) in 2015, which contains a section explicitly dealing quality of supply. with modern day slavery: “We expect our suppliers to refrain from using any form of involuntary or forced labour. FurtherStakeholder dialogue more all employees shall be able to terminate their employEngaging with our stakeholders helps us make sustainable ment contract and leave the company’s premises at any time decisions and solutions. At FLSmidth, we define our stakeif they wish to do so.” holders based on whether they are affected in some way by our activities and operations, be it as customer, employee, The COSC is a part of FLSmidth’s general terms and investor, business partner or society in general. conditions, which are signed by suppliers when engaging in a business relationship. With that, suppliers commit to FLSmidth pursues a strategy of continuous and open dialogue meeting our expectations. with our stakeholders in order to enhance transparency and trust, while maintaining a high standard of sustainable Our work with CSR in our supply chain is an ongoing effort. approaches to operations and partnerships. For more information, see page 32 on Responsible Sourcing. 9 FLSmidth Impact Assessment Tomorrow matters Good business The challenges of environmental impact, sustainability, social IMPACT ASSESSMENT: responsibilities and emissions regulations are putting traditional The Ramliya Cement Plant in Egypt production philosophies firmly under the spotlight. They are making it increasingly difficult to remain competitive in today’s business environment. And the challenges will only grow in the future. Yet for FLSmidth, our approach to meeting these challenges 6. CUSTOMER VALUE not only provides us with a competitive advantage, it is central From 2010 to 2013, the market share of ACC Ramliya in Egypt increased from to the way we do business. That’s why FLSmidth has a role to 2.9% to 7.8% play in helping the cement and minerals industries approach The key to success is having a utilisathe future in a responsible, sustainable manner. When designtion rate far above the industry ing, building and operating a facility, as well as when choosaverage: (83% vs. 73%) ing the right components, technologies and products, we all This translates into more cement produced and need to think about tomorrow. Our comprehensive impact sold each year and gives a key competitive advantage. study of Egypt’s ACC Ramliya cement plant in 2014 provided In revenue terms, higher utilisation a benchmark for our approach. It proved that thinking about has allowed for nearly 500 million E£ in higher revenue over 2012 and 2013. tomorrow is good, sustainable business. Quality, responsibility and sustainability In 2016, FLSmidth will present the concept of Tomorrow Matters to the cement industry. The concept is a statement of quality, responsibility and sustainability. It communicates our commitment to fulfilling our role in building the societies of 5. OUR PEOPLE tomorrow. 85% of staff pass through a training centre, which helps them Designing, building and operating a cement plant is a longlearn additional valuable skills. term investment. Tomorrow Matters encompasses the aspect of future-proofing the investment – and its positive socioec99% of staff trained are locals, and the plant has a onomic impacts on the local region – as well as conveying low turnover rate of 1.5%. 99% the long-term potential of an FLSmidth plant in terms of energy efficiency, reliability, utilisation rate, compliance with safety and emission standards, and educating, empowering and including the local workforce. 40% This applies not only to projects, but also to the technology and products that enable our clients to think about 4. THE ENVIRONMENT tomorrow when creating a sustainable business. Our role With energy making up 40% of the costs of is to partner with them to support economic growth while goods sold, reducing energy means lowering both emissions and cost. minimising the environmental footprint. Minimising their impact is Consistent communication paramount. The Tomorrow Matters campaign supports our One Source Ramliya uses 14% less energy per ton than the average plant, business philosophy. It will have a significant presence in leading to better business and environmental impacts. our daily operations, guiding our communications within an The industry produces 800 kg cement per ton of dust emissions. increasingly competitive market. Ramliya produces 3,000 kg cement per ton of dust emissions. Back to contents 10 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 11stst 22nd nd 1. THE NEED FOR CEMENT 6,000 Best Second to water, concrete is the 5,000 Most Likely Worst most consumed good in the world. 4,000 Global Cement Consumption (MTPA) 3,000 7.8% Consumption of cement is driven by economic 2,000 growth, rising GDP per capita, population growth, urbanisation, industrialisation, and 1,000 investments in infrastructure. 1920 1940 1960 1980 2000 2020 2.9% 2. THE CHALLENGE By 2050, there will be 50% more cement produced each year globally. However, to create cement, GOOD BUSINESS materials must be heated 1400 o up to 1400º C. It’s not only about creating an impact with the customer, it is about As a result of the chemical process and energy good and sustainable business. usage, cement plants produce up to 5% of global CO2 emissions. 5% Cement plant operators must understand the impact of their plant on the environment and local economy while creating sustainable growth. Case study: How do cement plants drive and manage positive and negative socioeconomic impacts? The Ramliya Cement Plant in Egypt is owned by Arabian Cement Company and operated by FLSmidth. 14% 3. THE ECONOMY The economic effects of the plant impact Egyptians across the country. The cement industry in Egypt contributes directly and indirectly with 55 billion Egyptian pounds (E£) in gross value to the Egyptian economy. Ramliya contributes with 6% of the cement production. 11 FLSmidth Health and Safety Building a culture of safety A safe working environment is not only make safety a priority, talking more openly fundamental to our long-term success, it is about safety issues and sharing knowledge. also tied directly to the quality of our prodUffe Halldorsson comments: “By engaging ucts, services and processes. At FLSmidth, the whole organisation, we have reduced FACTS we work constantly to make safety top of many minor accidents in safety, while also mind for employees, also when undertaking minimising severe injuries through training, The most common types of injuries are slips, trips and daily routines and processes many take for safe work procedures and hazard observafalls injuries that can be prevented by better housegranted in their everyday work. tions. We have seen improvements in all keeping, facility maintenance areas, but reducing incidents, such as slips, and employee awareness Recognising FLSmidth’s global footprint, trips and falls; executing safe operations at 1 million hours without a lost-time injury at the Bawal communication across the Group, to all customer sites; and learnings from reporting manufacturing unit was achieved during 2015 locations, remains an important part of our of near misses and hazards are examples of activities. Our HSE policy sets the direction, concrete results.” A total of 166,277 hours were dedicated to safety declaring a long-term target of zero injuries training across the Group, equivalent to 12.82 hours for and zero harm. Important tools within every employee our global roll-out of best practices in site Continuing the top-down focus on safety, operations include our 10 safety rules and which sees a member of Group Executive employee safety handbook. Management appointed ‘Chairman of Safety’ for the year, Group Executive Vice 2015 has seen an improvement in safety President Brian Day took the lead for the numbers highlighted by the lost-time injury Group’s overall safety programme. He was frequency rate dropping to 1.8 and no fataliresponsible for ensuring that safety and safe ties. Uffe Halldorsson, Vice President, Health, behaviours were prioritised across the entire Safety and Travel Security, puts this down to FLSmidth Group and was behind the theme safety becoming more deeply ingrained in of the global safety event, where “personal the organisation. Managers and employees commitment to safety” was in focus. Back to contents 12 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 Case: New reporting system engage with employees to identify potential hazards and deA major initiative launched in 2015 was a new system for termine what we can do to manage them most effectively.” reporting safety incidents and safety KPIs. The system encompasses a dedicated IT system and set of procedures The success of this concept in Australia has led to a prodesigned to achieve a structured, organised way of handling gramme being adopted throughout the company. The ‘walk safety data across the entire FLSmidth organisation. It is and talk’ concept helps FLSmidth managers to engage with designed to reflect the organisational changes implementemployees about safety and provide visible safety leadership. ed in the FLSmidth Group in the beginning of 2015. Uffe Halldorsson explains that a key benefit of the system is its Case: House in order ability to provide managers with monthly reports and on-line Setting effective safety standards involves establishing a access to information about safety incidents at FLSmidth. clean, tidy working environment. At FLSmidth’s Automated “Managers can also determine the story behind a specific Analysis Technology facility in Brno, Czech Republic, safety incident, to understand what they need to do to prevent a is at the top of the agenda. And although safety awareness similar incident in the future,” he says. efforts with staff are important, rapid progress can be made through straightforward means. Ian Campbell, CEO of Case: Leading the way FLSmidth Automated Analysis Technology, explains: Business leaders play an important role in establishing effective safety standards. At FLSmidth’s facilities in Australia, “We wanted to improve safety, and we realised this would management conducted a series of safety behavioural tours mean changing the way we work. It started with the faciliin an effort to influence and work with employees about ties, where we have cleaned up the production areas, maksafety issues. Mark Clifford, Country Head of FLSmidth in ing it a tidier, safer place to work, and turned it into a more Australia explains that it is about opening up transparent professional, modern production facility. This quite simple dialogue throughout the organisation in order to develop a approach has been a big part of us setting new standards common understanding of safety responsibilities: for safety procedures.” “It has been an effective way for managers to interact with employees and influence positive safety behaviours in our normal work routines. We want all of our local managers to We are seeing the results of greater efforts in safety, particularly within data reporting and collection, which is creating better visibility and awareness of safety issues in all of our locations Uffe Halldorsson Vice President, Health, Safety and Travel Security at FLSmidth 13 FLSmidth Health and Safety Case: Outstanding safety Case: A safe journey is a ­record in Chile ­productive journey FLSmidth won four awards from the Chilean As a global operation, travel is an inherent National Safety Council for outstanding part of FLSmidth’s business. Every year, our FACTS safety achievements. The most spectacular staff travel many thousands of hours to award recognised 15 years without any many countries around the world. The safety FLSmidth in Chile won four awards for outstanding lost-time incidents at Chile’s Puerto Punta and security of our staff during their travels safety achievements from Chungo copper concentrator plant and port. cannot be underestimated. This is why the Chilean National Safety Council in its 53rd Annual FLSmidth has a maintenance contract at the greater efforts are being made to increase National Safety Contest facility with its owner, Minera Los Pelambres. awareness of relevant issues, guidelines and FLSmidth has maintained procedures through dedicated training. the Puerto Punta Chungo port an copper plant without Other awards recognised the significant any lost-time incidents in 15 years reduction of incidents in another contract Mette Bonde, Group Travel Security Managand other safety achievements, including er explains the importance of travel security ‘Risk Prevention Efforts’ and ‘Risk Prevention not only to employees’ well-being, but also Excellence’. The awards were celebrated at to the business: “Travel is a natural part of the Council’s 53rd Annual National Safety executing projects. The more we attempt Contest. to mitigate risks associated with travel, the safer we can keep our staff at all times. As “We express our most heartfelt congratan organisation, we are focused on well-exulations for the success reached by the ecuted projects and minimising interruptions organisation in the implementation of its caused by related factors. Travel is one of regular programs and continued actions to those factors. Ensuring our staff reach their prevent risk of accidents,” said Mr. Guillermo destinations safely and securely, minimising Gacitúa Sepúlveda, President of the Chilean unexpected incidents, also contributes to the National Safety Council. productivity of a project.” Mr. Luis Bravo, Health & Safety Manager at During 2015, Group Travel Security launched FLSmidth Chile acknowledged the hard work several travel security training initiatives. This that had gone into these achievements: included publishing a pocket guide, 10 Trav“15 years without any lost-time incidents is el Security Tips, and an advanced e-learning only achieved by a structured, meticulous programme. The training aims to educate and dedicated approach to all safety issues. all staff in how to safeguard themselves In the mining industry, safety standards are and provide better understanding of the higher than in other industries in Chile. countries they travel in. It takes staff through Safety is one of the key issues for our cusa number of different scenarios to help them tomers, so when we create a safe working learn how to deal with possible situations. environment for our employees, we actually also gain a competitive edge. This award is “It’s all part of being well-prepared,” says gained through the continuous dedication of Mette Bonde, “The better prepared you are, all employees to respect and protect health the safer you will be.” and safety issues.” Back to contents 14 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 FLSmidth has maintained the Puerto Punta Chungo port an copper plant without any lost-time incidents in15 years 15 FLSmidth Health and Safety Progress 2014-2015 Targets in 2014 report Targets in 2014 report Targets in 2014 report LTIFR = 2.6 for 2015. Continue FLSmidth will start working Global IT system will be strong focus on safety towards general HSE implemented for reporting, awareness through internal certification from 2015 internal learning and follow reporting up on injuries Achievement 2015 Achievement 2015 Achievement 2015 LTIFR 1.8 reflecting the FLSmidth continues working In the end of 2015 FLSmidth strong safety progress and towards HSE certification. In new global safety reporting the best result ever made 2015 FLSmidth South Africa, system did go live. The in safety FLSmidth Qingdao and part primary purpose is to report of FLSmidth India achieved safety KPIs, register and HSE certificates follow-up on injuries, near miss and hazards Targets in 2014 report Targets in 2014 report Targets in 2014 report 15% increase in reported Near Extra focus on implementing Group HSE audits continues Miss and Hazards measured best practice on site – 25 audits in 2015 planned per country and / or Business operations based on the new Unit compared to 2014 Site Safety Handbook Achievement 2015 Achievement 2015 Achievement 2015 Near miss reporting increased The employee Safety 25 Group HSE audits with 46%. More locations in Handbook was relaunched conducted at FLSmidth 2015 has started to track and in 2015 and made known facilities and projects follow up on near miss and hazthrough training sessions. ards compared with 2014 An E-learning training programme explaining FLSmidth HSE policy Back to contents 16 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 Targets 2016 Target 2016 Target 2016 Target 2016 LTIFR = 1.6 in 2016 despite The HSE certification Conduct the 4. Safety and record low injury rates in 2015 program continues in 2016. Quality Week FLSmidth continues to seek FLSmidth has launched a improvements. Long-term program to reach between target is zero injuries but 60-70% OHSAS 18001 and mid-term expectations is to be ISO 14001 certification of below or equal to 1 in 2020 our activities in 2017 Target 2016 Continue existing safety b. Extending the use of c. Working with the new activities from 2015; the Safety Handbook and Safety Leadership Guide and a. Further implementation promote the E-learning in promoting safety walks and of the new global safety FLSmitdh HSE policy and talks done by managers reporting system 10 safety rules 17 FLSmidth People Development Stretch assignments, coaching and training With employees based in many locations idated HR Management System, enabling around the world, developing our workleaders to improve resourcing implications force is one of our major responsibilities. when defining and executing business Not only does a more skilled workforce strategy. FACTS ­contribute to our own progress, but it also has a positive impact on local society. Mentoring is an efficient, agile way of For employee development, ­developing talent, as demonstrated by one 70% is achieved through stretch assignments, 20% FLSmidth develops employees through of our business units, FLSmidth KREBS. through coaching, and 10% by attending training stretch assignments, coaching and trainFollowing on from People Sessions, the ing. Follow-up is an important element of company’s leaders wanted to accelerate the Throughout 2014 and 2015, 1,024 managers completed the training. Specifically, we have ensured development and readiness of potential Leadership Transition Training. A total of 54 programmes continued dialogue between participants leaders. A mentoring programme was imwere provided in 7 countries following training, which is shown to play plemented that partnered senior leaders up an important role in putting new skills with identified talent, providing them the into practice. opportunity to leverage vital knowledge, experience and skills. Many leaders have developed a strong desire to reflect on the performance and potential of their employees with other leaders, and a concept of People Sessions was introduced to allow this. This has also been supported by the roll-out of a consolWe want to improve the employability of our staff at all levels by developing them in their current roles and by helping them to navigate towards new roles with increasing levels of responsibility Mathew Jon Rushton Vice President, People and Organisation Development, Group HR Back to contents 18 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 In 2015, 523 managers completed Leadership Transition Training. A total of 27 programmes were provided in 7 countries 19 FLSmidth People Development Case: Flying the flag Quality improvement Our Flying the Flag leadership development Another cohort helped implement the programme really took shape in 2015. This Group’s Quality and Supplier Development programme engages the top 300 leaders at Programme, which aims to improve quality FACTS FLSmidth in targeted strategic development across the entire Group. Several actions and initiatives, with the theoretical foundation of initiatives were launched, including sustained 190 specialists and senior managers completed a Flying each initiative provided by a leading Europecommunication on quality performance, a the Flag professional develan business school. During 2015, six cohorts Business Quality KPI programme and a new opment programme. Three Flying the Flag programmes completed the programme and finalised customer experience programme. were provided projects dealing with a business-critical issue identified by FLSmidth’s Group Executive Management. Complex Product Systems One cohort identified what FLSmidth needs to do to continue to move forward as an effective ‘Complex Product System’ business. Complex Product Systems (CoPS) are one-off or small batch solutions designed to meet non-standard large-scale or complex requirements. The project resulted in a number of major initiatives, including the implementation of a Project Excellence Model across Cement and Minerals to ensure that best practices are shared and made available for all relevant business units. FLSmidth contributes to building the societies of the future and we have to make sure that we are developing an organisation with the right of competencies to meet this considerable challenge Virve Elisabeth Meesak Group Executive Vice President Human Resources, FLSmidth Back to contents 20 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 482 managers, project managers and specialists receiving training delivered by FLSmidth HR Denmark across 36 training ­programmes 21 FLSmidth People Development North America Europe Job function Job function Technicians: 1,040 Technicians: 1,338 Non Technicians: 1,260 Non Technicians: 1,279 Gender Gender Men: 1,863 Men: 2,052 Women: 437 Women: 565 Employees Employees Total: 2,300 Total: 2,617 South America Job function Technicians: 1,022 Non Technicians: 546 Gender Men: 1,413 Women: 155 Employees Total: 1,568 Back to contents 22 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 Asia Job function Technicians: 2,117 Non Technicians: 1,546 Gender Men: 3,354 Women: 309 Employees Total: 3,663 Africa / Australia Middle East Job function Job function Technicians: 229 Technicians: 1,080 Non Technicians: 331 Non Technicians: 1,181 Gender Gender Men: 480 Men: 2,071 Women: 80 Women: 190 Employees Employees Total: 560 Total: 2,261 23 FLSmidth People Development Case: Building leadership competencies By the end of 2015, nearly 1,000 FLSmidth managers across Goals six continents had completed the Leadership Transition A female representation of at least 10% among Training programme. This equates to 80 percent of FLSmidth managers by 2015 and of at least 25% on the Board managers with five or more direct reports. The training is an of Directors by 2016. important step in FLSmidth’s drive for building a common approach to leadership and a strong leadership pipeline for Policy the future. FLSmidths current Diversity policy focuses on the strategic advantages of having a diverse workforce. The training takes managers through a number of topics In 2015, we have commenced work on a new Diverrelated to the individual’s leadership level. Elmer Mortensen, sity policy targeting 15% female managers by 2018. Senior Leadership Development Manager at FLSmidth The policy is expected to be finalised and adopted in explains the overall purpose of these topics: “We want to 2016. show managers how they can improve their own and their teams’ performance by developing their direct reports. They How the policy is put into practice learn how to set engaging and specific goals based on a • KPIs for HR Business Partners to ensure at least clear line of sight related to our strategic objectives.” one female candidate for all managerial positions Particularly special focus is on ‘leading at the right level’ • A pilot development program for all female and applying the work values that fit the purpose of each employees in Salt Lake City, USA manager’s leadership level. This helps managers to be more efficient in their time application and in their choice of skills • Strong focus on increasing the representation of to develop. “If you have the right work values, you will women in the TOP 100 management group spend the time and apply your skills in the right way,” says Elmer Mortensen. • During the course of 2016, action plans will be developed with a view to increase the general The training is part of the bigger picture of developing female representation in the Group, which leadership ‘the FLSmidth way’. Managers across the Group dropped from 14% to 13% in 2015 now speak about leadership in the same language and with a shared understanding of what is required of leadership at Result all levels in the organisation, fostering cross-organisational The goal of having 25% female representation on collaboration and employee engagement. the board of directors by 2016 is not anticipated to be met. Thus, two new board members have been Case: Diversity nominated to be elected at the AGM in April 2016, As FLSmidth increases its foothold in more markets around none of them are female. The candidates have been the world, particularly in developing economies, our business nominated based on their unique competencies and becomes increasingly diverse. But far from being a barrier to experiences. growth, this development is seen as a significant business driver. The goal of 10% female managers by 2015 has not reached. The share of female managers declined Virve Elisabeth Meesak, Group Executive Vice President HR from 10.3% in 2014 to 9.7% in 2015. As a conseat FLSmidth explains that increasing diversity is a natural quence of challenging market conditions, FLSmidth and essential part of the company’s progress as an increashas been implementing significant efficiency and ingly globalised organisation. “Diversity not only drives our business right-sizing measures, especially in group ability to innovate, but it is also a source of competitive and support functions, where representation of advantage,” she comments, adding, “It’s important that female managers is typically higher. our organisation reflects the different local environments in which we work.” “These are small steps, but we are fully committed to delivering on this target and we believe it will make a difference to our competitiveness,” concludes Virve Elisabeth Meesak. Back to contents 24 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 It is FLSmidth’s goal to have 15% female managers by 2018 25 FLSmidth People Development Progress 2014-2015 Targets in 2014 report Targets in 2014 report Targets in 2014 report Training is delivered as At the Group level, 22 There is follow-up with each required in each location deliveries of Leadership manager who attended as well as across functions, Transition Training involving Leadership Transition Training business units, divisions and 440 managers, three of in 2014 to learn what has the Group. Notably, a review Flying the Flag involving 90 been applied, revisit other by the project management specialists and managers and learnings and support further function six of LEAP application Achievement 2015 Achievement 2015 Achievement 2015 The Performance and DevelAcross the Group, 523 manThere was follow-up with opment Review (PDR) were agers received training in one each manager who attended primarily used to identify of 27 Leadership Transition Leadership Transition Training what training is required Training programmes and in 2015 to learn what had in each location and the 96 specialists and managers been applied, revisit other organisation and people participated in one of six learnings and support further reviews were primarily used Flying the Flag programmes. application to identify what training is Two LEAP programmes were required in each function, completed business unit, division and the Group. Training was delivered as prioritised by each location, as well as across functions, business Targets in 2014 report Targets in 2014 report units, divisions and the Group. Notably, a signifiIn terms of training delivered Management teams calibrate cant amount of training for across locations, an example ratings of performance and project managers was driven is the 42 trainings scheduled potential to strengthen the by the Project Management for EMEA – such as quality of succession planning, Office in Minerals situational leadership, project associated development and management, cross-functional increase sustainability training for specialists Achievement 2015 Achievement 2015 More cross-regional training was Management teams completed. This included 482 calibrated ratings of permanagers, project managers formance and potential and specialists receiving training to strengthen the quality delivered by HR Denmark across of succession planning, 36 training programmes associated development and increase sustainability Back to contents 26 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 Targets 2016 Target 2016 Target 2016 Target 2016 Complete two cohorts of Build a framework describing Design six workshops for Flying the Flag, four Leading good leadership, drawing on leadership teams to reinforce Leaders programmes and 10 the expectations established processes and tools introduced Leading Others programmes through the Leadership through Leadership Transition Transition Training and Training expectations identified through Flying the Flag Target 2016 Strengthen recruitment processes by sharing best practices, updating the current recruitment system, and implementing ability and personality tests 27 FLSmidth Compliance and Export Control In compliance wherever we are As a global company with operations in developing and deOur highly qualified regional compliance representatives veloped economies, FLSmidth is dedicated to approaching play a vital role in this work, helping colleagues with their business with a high level of integrity and compliance. At specialised knowledge of local rules and regulations as well times, we are faced with the need to address the potential as by providing training and conducting due diligence and for corruption. In such situations, we must never comprointernal investigations. mise our standards. FLSmidth’s executive management takes a keen interest in Much of our work in Compliance and Export Control inthe interpretation of specific rules for employees to know volves enabling FLSmidth employees and business partners that they have management’s guidance and backing to to conduct their business in a legal manner and according to handle difficult situations. our Code of Business Conduct. In 2015, we have continued our focus on communication to employees through in-perThe overall goal for 2016 is to consolidate the many initiason training targeted campaigns. The launch of a dedicated tives and activities undertaken during 2015 and to ensure IT system has increased transparency and enhanced our that they are fully entrenched in our global organisation. ability to collaborate effectively with business partners. Case: Regional Compliance Case: Third party portal launched Representatives get to work Intermediaries such as sales agents are an important part of Following their appointments in 2014, our 12 regional FLSmidth’s business in many countries, for example in areas compliance representatives completed their first full year with no local office. To keep pace in a dynamic business in earnest. Third party due diligence is one of their key reenvironment, it is vital that the latest information is available sponsibilities, involving screening sales agents for adverse to anyone who needs it. media, sanctions, litigations and similar. They are also tasked with investigating internal whistleblower cases. Last year saw the launch of a database dedicated to With more than 50 cases in the last two years, this alone sharing information about our global network of sales requires significant focus. agents. “Since the UK Bribery Act came into force in 2011, FLSmidth has of course maintained this information, but our But the representatives’ biggest achievement in 2015 new database enables us to do it in a much more systematic was providing training in FLSmidth’s Code of Business way,” says Pat Turner, Global Business Unit Manager Conduct. This is part of FLSmidth’s overall strategy to at FLSmidth. provide in-person training to all white-collar employees in issues related to compliance. According to Jeppe The database provides timely, important information Kromann Haarsted, FLSmidth’s Global Compliance about sales agents, including, for example, the presence Manager, it is a big task with approximately 6,000 and current status of an agent in a specific location. It employees to date having received training across also helps in due diligence of agents as well as making it the company. “Here, the regional compliance repreeasier to communicate with them. sentatives played a vital role, coordinating and running 233 face-to-face training sessions in 41 countries.” “The aim is to provide greater transparency to help us become more efficient and improve our sales performance,” explains Pat Turner. Back to contents 28 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 Case: Campaigning for Case: Maintaining export ­compliance ­control standards This year saw the launch of an internal comFLSmidth supplies products that can potenmunications campaign to make everyone in tially be used for purposes outside of the FACTS the organisation more aware of compliance cement and minerals industries. To comply issues. Jeppe Kromann Haarsted, FLSmidth’s with international Export Control regulaThe Compliance Department received 31 internal whistleGlobal Compliance Manager, says, “Comtion, it is vital we understand both the full blower reports in 2015, all of pliance is a topic that continuously needs potential of our products and the legislation which were investigated renewed attention, and we wanted to reapplicable to our products when exporting 30 of these whistleblower reports were admissible, i.e. launch the campaign in order to emphasise from one country to another. within the scope of the whistleblower hotline programme particular messages and the latest developments.” In 2015, we took steps to improve our ability The whistleblower cases were divided amongst regions: Afrito classify products by establishing a team ca (35%), Asia (10%), Europe (23%), North America (3%), The campaign highlighted developments dedicated to the task. Based in our Chennai South America (29%) including the Code of Business Conduct office in India, the team consists of eight 233 Code of Business Conduct Handbook, Third Party Portal, hotline cases, engineers who were given special training sessions were held in 42 countries in 2015 important internal investigations, and the in analysing, classifying and documenting Export and compliance global training programme. It included products. Martin Eger Larsen, Global Export reviews were conducted in questionnaires, competitions, specifically Control & Compliance Coordinator, says, two legal entities in 2015 targeted direct emails and information ses“This important development is another step 55 in-depth due diligence screenings were conducted sions in Top 100 management meetings. in professionalising our approach to product in 2015 classification and sanctioning.” Executive management’s attention to compliance was also made clear through the campaign. For example, Group CEO Thomas Schultz shared his thoughts on compliance through videos and other company announcements. More than 6,000 employees have received face-to-face training in the Code of Business Conduct – at least 5,000 of these in 2015 29 FLSmidth Compliance and Export Control Progress 2014-2015 Targets in 2014 report Targets in 2014 report Targets in 2014 report Conduct in-person training Establish tools for knowledge Strengthen internal controls of 95% of all white-collar sharing and ongoing and internal investigations employees in FLSmidth training for the regional procedures in FLSmidth worldwide in Code of Business compliance representatives Conduct. Complete companyand compliance and export wide global survey of current control reviews of three compliance practices and FLSmidth entities challenges Achievement 2015 Achievement 2015 Achievement 2015 Conducted in-person trainEnsured ongoing training Strengthened internal coning in the Code of Business and an internal newsletter trols and internal investigaConduct for 75% of all for the Regional Compliance tions procedures in FLSmidth, white-collar employees in Representatives to ensure including an investigation FLSmidth worldwide knowledge sharing manual and a case management system Targets in 2014 report Targets in 2014 report Screening software integration Roll-out third-party due into the global order handling diligence procedure, including system (Helios ERP). Conduct risk assessment and screening training of nominated export control employees and general training in export control awareness for a broader range of employees Achievement 2015 Achievement 2015 We have experienced challenges Launched the Third Party with the integration of a screenPortal and a due diligence ing software solution. In order to screening tool in all entities reduce the risk we have thereglobally fore focused on better aligning manual processes in connection with the screening for sanctioned parties. In addition, we have trained further specialists in the analysis of critical items Back to contents 30 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 Targets 2016 Target 2016 Target 2016 Target 2016 Complete in-person training Conduct compliance and Expand the scope for the in Code of Business Conduct export control reviews of classifier team for 95% of all white-collar three FLSmidth entities employees worldwide Target 2016 Target 2016 Target 2016 Screen at least 150 third Continue to develop Further professionalise the parties capacities of the Regional control and investigation Compliance Representatives in procedure, including data order to ensure their further protection routines specialisation 31 FLSmidth Responsible Sourcing Sustainable Supply Chain As a company operating throughout the The CoSC covers the following areas: world and with most manufacturing out• Legal compliance sourced, FLSmidth spends a large share of • Health and safety its earnings in a global network of suppliers. • Child labour FACTS We have a large impact and with that comes • Freedom of association responsibility. We are committed to honour• Forced labour Supplier baseline assessment was based on UN Global ing the commitment we made to UN Global • Environmental Compact Principles Compact in all aspects of our business, and 6 supplier visits were conducted responsible sourcing is one of our CSR Pilot in 2015 focus areas. FLSmidth initiated a Responsible Sourcing The FLSmidth’s supplier development tool consists of Pilot in 2015 to support the launch of a new consists of 48 questions and Quality management principles form the programme within supplier development. approximately 200 guiding questions basis of good CSR work. FLSmidth is comThis involved developing and testing a series mitted to adopting a responsible manner in of tools and methods to help suppliers raise its efforts to maintain a high level of product their quality and CSR performance. Fundaquality while driving down costs responsibly. mental to the pilot is the strong correlation Our daily work with suppliers around the between CSR and quality. Evidence shows world is based on the strong relationships that performance within health and safety between a high standard of occupational leads to improved processes and better health and safety, labour rights, environmenquality of products. tal control and the quality of the product. The pilot programme was launched with New Code of Supplier Conduct two suppliers representing different indusFollowing a review of supplier relations, tries, different cultures and different sizes. FLSmidth has raised its expectations to Together with each, we identified areas for suppliers. We have renewed and reinforced improvement and agreed on development our Code of Supplier Conduct (CoSC) in an plans, which are currently being implemented. effort to communicate these expectations Our partnerships with these suppliers have more clearly. developed and matured as a result of certain risks being identified and mitigated. When The use of sub-contractors and temporary CSR and quality improvements are jointly workers is a high-risk area within CSR. implemented, they become mutually Ensuring fair labour rights and acceptable reinforcing. working conditions for temporary workers is a challenge for companies operating in The pilot has shown that the new tools a cost-competitive environment. Our new and methods can lead to change and spark CoSC describes how FLSmidth meets this improvements. For example, significant challenge, and it describes in explicit terms improvements have been seen in the use of how we expect our suppliers to provide a PPE and safety procedures. safe and healthy working environment for all employees. The pilot will continue in 2016. The new CoSC applies to all subsuppliers working on behalf of our suppliers and thus expands the scope of our earlier CSR policy. It enables us to improve our CSR performance throughout the supply chain. Back to contents 32 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 Topics such as collaboration, value engineering, CSR and health and safety were on the agenda at FLSmidth’s 2015 Supplier Conference. FLSmidth’s Group CEO Thomas Schultz is seen here presenting the New Code of Supplier Conduct Our strategy is to move closer to our customer and we expect our suppliers to do the same. Our CSR in the supply chain is important because shared values are a solid foundation for growing together Olli Haavisto Senior Vice President Group Supply Chain and Quality 33 FLSmidth Environmental Impact Stable emissions FLSmidth’s HSE policy states that “We strive line with last year which also experienced a for operational excellence at FLSmidth, slight increase due to more business activity and an essential element of that excellence related to customer visits. Scope 3 emissions involves assessing the environmental impact have decreased slightly to 31,377. FACTS of our operations and business activities to protect the environment”. We do that by Environmental management Scope 1 emissions annually accounting for CO2 emissions for all system emanating from sources that are owned or controlled by our legal entities. In 2015, FLSmidth decided to enhance FLSmidth environmental management in the Group Scope 2 emissions Stability with a view to implementing a Group emanating from electricity, In 2015, FLSmidth’s CO2 emissions were wide environmental management system. heating andcooling, or steam purchased by FLSmidth fairly stable compared to 2014, where The work is ongoing and will continue emissions dropped significantly due to throughout 2016. Scope 3 emissions emanating from aircraft the sale of Cembrit. Cembrit is a building travel materials company with in-house manufacturing of fibre-cement products. In 2015, scope 1 emissions increased from 12,700 to 13,460, and scope 2 emissions increased from 33,100 to 33,450. This is roughly in Environmental numbers 60,000 50,000 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 2013 2014 2015 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Back to contents 34 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 At FLSmidth, we are continuously developing new technologies and solutions to meet the challenges of our customers, in a sustainable manner 35 FLSmidth Product Cases Sustainable technologies The challenges of FLSmidth’s customers are Case: Beating emissions our opportunities, shaping the solutions challenges in the north we offer. Production of cement causes of Norway emissions, which creates a demand for In the town of Longyearbyen in Norway, FACTS emissions reduction. Miners face challenges the local power plant faced some tough such decreasing head grades, water scarcity environmental challenges. Longyearbyen Cement production results in several exit gases containing and difficult environmental permitting. Both is the administrative centre of Svalbard, an dust and air-polluting chemindustries are faced with increasing energy archipelago between mainland Norway and icals. Compounds filters can remove these substances by costs. At FLSmidth, we are continuously the North Pole. as much as: developing new technologies and solutions NOx by 88% to meet the challenges of our customers, The town’s coal-fired plant supplies heat and SO2 by 96% Dust by 99.9% in a sustainable manner. electricity for the region’s 3,000 residents, who are highly environmentally conscious Case: CataFlex catalytic and keen to protect the habitat of Svalbard’s filter bags 3,000 polar bears. The plant wanted to Early in 2015, FLSmidth released a new cataensure that emissions from the plant were lytic filter bag product, CataFlex®, developed kept to a minimum, while realising there in close collaboration with the engineerwas limited space for emissions-reducing ing company Haldor Topsoe. Combining installations. FLSmidth’s expertise in filtration for industrial processes with Haldor Topsoe’s leadership in Essential to minimising emissions is the catalysis, CataFlex allows production facilities power plant’s flue gas cleaning installation. to meet increasingly stringent environmental FLSmidth Airtech has helped meet the emislegislation. sions challenge by supplying an Electrostatic Precipitator (ESP) that removes dust well CataFlex removes particulate matter, just as a below the guaranteed 30 mg/Nm3. Moreostandard fabric filter bag, but it also removes ver, the ESP was designed according to the gaseous pollutants, such as hydrocarbons, limited footprint and the requirement to be NOx and dioxins/furans. Its uniqueness lies in placed inside a building. its three-layer construction. Each layer contains a catalyst optimised to remove specific compounds from a facility’s off-gases. With CataFlex, plants can reduce investments by upgrading existing air pollution control installations as emissions restrictions become tighter. It delivers an efficient, cost-optimised solution to comply with local environmental The industry needs the regulations. support of proactive partners who can offer complete lifecycle support in sustainable production practices Thomas Schultz Group Chief Executive Officer, FLSmidth Back to contents 36 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 FLSmidth operates about 50 countries all over the world 37 FLSmidth Product Cases Case: Substitution of fossil fuels The result was a 25 percent reduction in CO2 and substantial With the cement industry consuming around two percent savings in thermal energy, depending on the moisture content of the world’s energy resources, there is significant potenof the clay raw material. The new cement production process tial for developing more sustainable ways of managing reduces both initial investments and operating costs. these resources. An area of rapid development is in the use of alternative fuels, such as household or industrial FLSmidth also released the QCX/BlendExpert software in waste, in cement production. 2015. This software optimises the blend of raw materials and enables increased use of cost-efficient additives while mainFLSmidth continued to advance its use of pyro technology taining quality, resulting in fuel savings of up to 1.5 percent. in 2015 with further development of the JETFLEX™ burner for alternative fuels. We are expecting to see positive Case: Reducing risk of pollution results from large-scale tests during early 2016. With the A large copper mine can require as much as 400,000 m3/day JETFLEX™ burner, cement producers can substitute their in process water. The process water often ends up in giant coal and gas-based energy sources with waste. mine dumps, called tailings ponds. Because they are highly polluted, tailings ponds are a risk to the ground water and This delivers large cost savings and significant CO2 emissurrounding environment. sions reductions. Furthermore, cement kilns provide a safe solution for reducing hazardous waste because they In collaboration with a customer FLSmidth has pilot-tested a burn in strictly controlled conditions at high temperatures new giant filter at the world’s biggest copper mine, located (1,450 degrees Celsius). in the world’s driest desert, Chile’s Atacama Desert. Case: Technologies for sustainability The AFP filter model 2040 is the size of two Olympic-sized Cement production currently emits five percent of the swimming pools – twice the size of any other filter. The world’s total CO2 emissions. With cement production in largest for water recovery ever used in the industry, it can many parts of the world expected to increase along with discharge 20,000 tons of filter cake per day and can greater industrialisation, urbanisation and a growing middle recover 5,000 m3 of process water per day – the equivalent class, there is a need to develop technologies that enable of six Olympic-sized pools. With the new filter, mines can more sustainable cement production. reuse up to 80 percent of their process water. In 2015, FLSmidth successfully concluded a five-year project Additionally, by dewatering the processed ore waste rock, in collaboration with the two Danish universities, Aarhus and FLSmidth allows the tailings to be dry-stacked. This allows Aalborg as well as Aalborg Portland. The project aimed to the polluted tailings to be disposed of in an environmentally develop high-quality, low-CO2 cements based replacing one safe way, thus allowing the site to be rehabilitated, elimithird of the CO2-heavy raw materials in traditional cement. nating the pond’s long-term liability. Global cement production emits 5% of total global CO2 emissions. With cement production expected to increase with greater industrialisation, and urbanisation – we need to continue to strive to develop more sustainable technologies Per Mejnert Kristensen Group Executive Vice President, Cement Division Back to contents 38 FLSmidth: CSR REPORT 2015 FLSmidth employs 12,969 people around the world 39 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Businesses should support and respect Impact Assessment page 10 the protection of internationally Health and Safety page 12 proclaimed human rights People Development page 18 Make sure that they are not complicit Health and Safety page 12 in human rights abuses People Development page 18 Businesses should uphold the freedom People Development page 18 of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining The elimination of all forms of People Development page 18 forced and compulsory labour The effective abolition of child labour People Development page 18 The elimination of discrimination in People Development page 34 respect of employment and occupation Businesses should support a Impact Assessment page 10 ­precautionary approach to Environmental Impact page 34 environmental challenges Product Cases page 36 Undertake initiatives to promote Impact Assessment page 10 greater environmental responsibility Environmental Impact page 34 Product Cases page 36 Encourage the development and Impact Assessment page 10 diffusion of environmentally friendly Environmental Impact page 34 technologies Product Cases page 36 Businesses should work against Compliance page 28 corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery FLSmidth & Co. A/S Tel.: +45 36 18 18 00 corppr@flsmidth.com Vigerslev Allé 77 Fax: +45 36 44 11 46 www.flsmidth.com DK-2500 Valby, Denmark CVR No. 58180912
