Communication on Progress Year March2015March 2016 Statement of continued support I am pleased to confirm that Intishar for Tourist Patches reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Nadir Bokra General Manager & Founder Our responsible business Intishar for Tourist i Patches it is one of the private Sector Corporations that was established in the year 2010 at attract tourism from all over the world to the Sudan. In a form of programs and tours so as to meet the needs of the organizations goals and wishes of those who want to enter in the world of travel and tourism. Our company provides all tourist services such as tourism promotion, transportation, car rental, fishing tourist trips, visiting the monuments, diving into the depths of the red sea, hotels booking, organizing exhibitions, and conference, as well as many programs that you can find them in our website (ints-tourism.com) soon. Which Joined Affiliate Member World Tourism Organization (UNWTO). Member of United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) Member of Ecotourism and (TIES) Member of international tourism Safety Association(ITSA) 1. Human Rights Principles: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 1.1 Assessment, policy and goals: Intishar for Tourist Patches is actively concerned about the human rights of its employees and making sure they are not abused. 1.2 Implementation By incorporating human rights in the company’s Code of Conduct, Intishar for Tourist Patches is demonstrating that it will not tolerate or abide by human rights violations. Strong human resource policies to protect human rights. 1.3 Measurement of outcomes Though Intishar for Tourist Patches is small, but it ensures that all staff abide by the rule of conduct it has that go side by side with Human rights. Ensure safe and healthy working environment. Strong community linkage and participation. 2. Labour Principles : Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our company provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment without regard of race, color, religion, creed, gender, national or ethnic origin, age, marital or veteran status, sexual orientation, any handicaps or disabilities. Union agreement are negotiated in congenial environment and finalized with HOP. Collective Bargaining agents are free to hold Meeting in their respective units Management facilitate collective Bargaining agents to hold Meetings these Meetings and provide them enabling environment to interact with Associates. 3.1 Measurement of outcomes: Respect at Work place. Peaceful Working Environment. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals: Intishar for Tourist Patches is actively ensuring all its employees are treated fairly and with dignity while making sure all their rights are recognized through fair labour practices to allow them equal opportunities in all aspects of employment. Intishar for Tourist Patches is also ensuring a safe working environment for all employees. 2.2 Implementation Intishar for Tourist Patches is encouraging employees to engage and dialogue. Intishar for Tourist Patches is engaged in guaranteeing a good work package for its employees and making sure gender equality is respected. Intishar for Tourist Patches does not discriminate any employee based on religion, race or even religious dress. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes Intishar for Tourist Patches ensures that all employees are remunerated based on their work without taking into consideration any other factor. 3. Environment Principles : Principle 7: Businesses should support A precautionary Approach to environmental Challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental and responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 3.1 We care for the environment and the world community. We encourage our customers to use environmentally sensitive printing processes and materials, in an attempt to minimize waste and reduce environmental impact. We have clear policies and encourage our employees to print on used paper.challenges. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals: Intishar for Tourist Patches is conscious that environment protection starts within the company itself by making sure low energy saving products are used instead of high consumption ones. Intishar for Tourist Patches is committed to protecting the natural resources it does use and reduce its environmental footprint. 3.2 Implementation Intishar for Tourist Patches is making sure it does reduce its global paper consumption by advising its employees and its stakeholders to only print when it is really needed and useless printed paper should be again used as draft paper. Through these small gestures, Real Travel Service is adopting an eco attitude. 3.3 Measurement of outcomes Intishar for Tourist Patches is in a country where energy saving is a priority since the government is mainly investing in clean energy, therefore, Intishar for Tourist Patches has adhered to this philosophy to follow on its government footstep. Also, Intishar for Tourist Patches is on the process of being certifed by Travel Life to even bolster its eco attitude. 4. Anti-Corruption Principle Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals We support the work of the UN Convention Against Corruption, we work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We ensure all our employees behave in an ethical manner consistent with these values. This includes, but it is not limited to the United States, we apply these principles in any location we do business around the world. Intishar for Tourist Patches is committed to ethical business practices and exercises zero tolerance to corruption policy. 4.2 Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anticorruption risks and respond to incidents. We regulate the offering or receipt of gifts, hospitality or expenses. We maintain accurate records which properly and fairly document all financial transactions. We have a zero tolerance policy for systematic corruption or activities that could be seeing as malfeasance. We have strict policies that all employees must comply regarding this principle. Intishar for Tourist Patches believes that allowing itself to be audited by its stakeholders is ameans to deter any employee from engaging in corruption or bribery and a sign of transparency. Intishar for Tourist Patches adhere to compliance standards for the well-being of its business. 4.3 Measurement of Outcomes There have been no reports of conflict of interest or bribery within the company or in any of our locations. All employees of Intishar for Tourist Patches have been asked to be knowledgeable of the risks of corruption internally and externally and to be more transparent in interacting with clients and even potential ones.
