SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CREATING CONCRETE POSSIBILITIES MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 3 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 7 GOVERNANCE9 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY 13 ABOUT THIS REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 15 This is a summary of the sustainability activities relating to AfriSam (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015. The reporting period is aligned to the company’s financial ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 17 reporting period and AfriSam aims to report annually on its sustainability performance. The report includes SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY 19 information relating to AfriSam South Africa (Pty) Ltd operations in South Africa, Swaziland and Lesotho. PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS 22 AfriSam’s subsidiary in Tanzania, Tanga Cement Company Plc, is a publicly listed company on the Tanzania stock exchange and produces its own annual integrated report. This report is available from its website: www.simbacement.co.tz INDEX TO GLOBAL REPORTING This report has been produced giving due consideration to the Global Reporting Index (GRI) Core INITIATIVE INDICATORS 25 ‘In Accordance’ guidelines, as well as the United Nations Global Compact Active Level reporting requirements. We welcome your feedback on our sustainability reporting process. Please send comments or suggestions to: Report contact: Maxine Nel Physical address of headquarters: AfriSam (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd AfriSam House Reg. 2006/005970/07 Constantia Office Park Tel: +27 11 670 5893 Weltevredenpark Email: Maxine.Nel@za.afrisam.com 1715 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear Stakeholders, The concept of sustainable development has long since formed the foundation for AfriSam’s business activities. It echoes an internal philosophy that we live on a daily basis. While we acknowledge that, for our generation to prosper, we require the I am proud to confirm that AfriSam (South Africa) (Pty) utilisation of natural resources, we commit to future generations that we will Ltd pledges its continued commitment to uphold the use these in a deliberate and responsible manner. 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in We do this by actively managing our production processes and equipment to the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and ensure that we reduce the consumption of natural resources, such as coal, Anti‑Corruption. We look forward to continuing our mineral resources and water, while at the same time reducing the CO2 footprint relationship with the South African Local Network. of our products through increased efficiencies and utilising by-products from AfriSam strives to conduct its business activities in a other industries as part of our cement manufacturing process. manner that contributes to the sustainable development Apart from reducing the environmental impact of our business activities, we of Africa and its people. As such, we ensure the integration also seek to sustainably uplift community members surrounding our operations of the Principles in our business strategy, culture and daily to ensure that they too can look forward to a brighter tomorrow. This year, we operations. In this report, we summarise the progress we have once again made a significant difference to those in need. Through funds have made against these principles in 2015 and strive to donated by the company and active employee involvement, we have built homes report continuous progress in future. and schools, provided food, clothing and educational material – contributing AfriSam is committed to building a better future for the towards the sustainable upliftment of communities in which we operate. people of Africa. It is of this passion and commitment that As employees are the heartbeat of our company and the enablers of we are most proud; not of what products we make, but sustainability, AfriSam strives to provide a workplace that allows them to grow, rather of what we make possible – we create concrete develop and actively contribute towards the success of our company, our country possibilities. and continent. I am proud that we are one of a select few companies in Africa Yours faithfully, that have been certified as a Top Employer by the Top Employers Institute. 2015 was the 6th consecutive year that AfriSam was honoured with this title. The safety of our employees and all stakeholders that interact with our company remains our number one priority. In 2015, the company achieved its best safety AfriSam pledges its performance since it started measuring this business driver in 2006. This is the continued commitment to result of a concerted effort by all employees to ensure that AfriSam becomes an Stephan Olivier uphold the 10 principles of even safer workplace. We will continue the drive towards our ultimate goal of Chief Executive Officer the United Nations Global ‘Zero Harm to People’. AfriSam (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd Compact 3 1PROFILE ORGANISATIONAL Since 1934 when it started its first cement plant in South Africa, AfriSam has established 1.1 Presence and capabilities itself as a formidable concrete materials group The AfriSam Group has operations in South Africa, Aggregates and Readymix committed to making growth possible on the Lesotho, Swaziland and Tanzania. It is the majority AfriSam’s cement operations are strongly augmented by well-established African continent. Today, AfriSam is a leading shareholder of Tanga Cement PLC, listed on the aggregate and readymix operations located in all major growth nodes. supplier of superior quality construction materials Tanzania stock exchange under its brand name Simba There are currently 43 readymix operations capable of delivering more than and technical solutions. Cement, and holds 68.33% of its shares. two million cubic metres readymix concrete annually, and 17 aggregate quarries, producing over 10 million tons of aggregate. Cement facilities AfriSam is strategically positioned and connected GEOGRAPHICAL Operational presence through its fully-integrated cement plants, milling operations, blending plants and distribution centres. FOOTPRINT Export OUR VISION: There are three fully-integrated cement plants: two in To be the leading concrete materials South Africa and a third plant in Tanzania. The fully TANZANIA CEMENT business on the African continent integrated plants have a combined cement producing • A fully-integrated cement plant capacity of six million tons of cement per year. (Tanga) OUR MISSION: • Tanga Cement PLC is a 68.33% To help develop our continent through The South African fully-integrated cement plants are subsidiary what concrete makes possible linked by a well-established road and rail transport • New kiln commissioned in 2015 • Total cement capacity of 1,2m tpa network, a modern vertical roller mill grinding ZAMBIA OUR VALUES: MALAWI operation and three blending operations, of which CEMENT & SLAGMENT Success is only possible by living AfriSam’s values of one is in Swaziland. The company’s slag grinding People, Planet and Performance which inextricably • 2 fully-integrated cement plants – facility is also strategically located in Vanderbijlpark, Dudfield (North West province) and connect all of our people and business activities: Gauteng and has a slag milling capacity of MOZAMBIQUE Ulco (Northern Cape) • A grinding station in Roodepoort • PEOPLE: Recognising that people are what make 800 000 tons per annum. BOTSWANA (Gauteng) the business, we strive to conduct our business with • Blending operations in Swaziland, integrity and in a courteous and respectful manner. Distribution Brakpan and Vanderbijlpark The South African footprint is supported by (Gauteng) • PLANET: We utilise natural resources in a deliberate 11 strategically located distribution centres throughout SWAZILAND • Total cement capacity of 4,5mio tpa way and follow a responsible approach towards the • Total slagment capacity of 0.8mio tpa impact of our actions on the community and environment. the country, as well as in Botswana, Lesotho and SOUTH AFRICA Swaziland. Cement is exported to Mozambique and the READYMIX • PERFORMANCE: We are uncompromising in our LESOTHO Democratic Republic of Congo. professionalism and strive to be the best in everything • 43 Readymix plants we do. We utilise our time, energy and resources to make The Tanzanian operation has 10 strategically located a valuable contribution to our customers, colleagues and AGGREGATE cement distribution centres throughout this country, business partners. Burundi and Rwanda, and exports to Malawi. • 17 plants/quarries 4 1.2 Expansion and new 1.3 Products and services acquisitions Cement Our Aggregate product range includes: Over the decades, AfriSam’s cement range has been a significant During the year under review, AfriSam established a • Roadstone • Road Layer Works contributor to various infrastructure developments on the continent. new readymix operation in Phoenix, KwaZulu-Natal. This • Concrete Aggregate • Speciality Aggregate The company’s cement continues to be used in the provision of much acquisition has been accounted for in the information provided above. needed houses, schools, roads, dams and other essential facilities for the Readymix concrete development of the region. The readymix operations are all equipped with computerised weight AfriSam also acquired a minority stake in Concrete 4 U, CAPACITY: Almost and batching systems – based on the latest technology – that ensure a readymix concrete company operating in the Eastern AfriSam produces the following 6 million tons of cement the final concrete product meets the stringent technical specifications of five types of cement, each uniquely per annum (including a Cape. AfriSam does not hold direct operational control builders, developers, architects and engineers. AfriSam’s concrete product developed for different applications: 1.2 million ton capacity in Concrete 4 U and therefore information about manufacturing expertise is further supported by pumping services that are this company is not included in this report. However, in Tanzania) offered as value-added services to our customers. Our readymix operations Concrete 4 U is a certified member of the South African can produce almost any mix required by customers and are able to supply Readymix Association (SARMA) and complies with high-volume projects. the stringent health, safety, environmental and quality standards set by this industry body. CAPACITY: 2 million cubic metres per annum AfriSam also increased its shareholding in Tanga Cement Plc from 66.3% to 68.33% in 2015. Our readymix product range includes: • Application brands – foundation mix, suspended slab mix, surface bed AfriSam is the largest Aggregate mix, column mix, post-tension mix and retainer mix materials provider All Purpose Eco Building High Strength Rapid Hard Roadstab • Speciality brands – Flowcrete, Poolmix, Trenchcrete and Hydrafil in Southern Cement Cement Cement Cement Cement • Customised mixes – concrete mixes designed in collaboration with our Africa customers to meet their specific requirements Slagment Premixed products Slagment is the registered trade name of our Ground Granulated Blast AfriSam invests significantly in research and development and is Furnace Slag (GGBFS). It is a latent hydraulic binder used in concrete and continuously looking at ways of innovating the products and services other construction applications as a partial cement replacement material. it provides. As an example, the introduction of a premixed bagged CAPACITY: 800 000 tons of slagment range and bulk dry mortar was a natural extension of AfriSam’s existing per annum from our Slagment product offering. operation in Vanderbijlpark Access to industry specialists and technical support AfriSam offers customers a Centre of Product Excellence where, in Aggregate collaboration with its customers, products and solutions are developed, AfriSam’s Aggregate products are manufactured to the highest technical tested and applied, ensuring continuous improvement in the various specifications to meet multi-purpose application needs, such as asphalt and aspects associated with construction materials. road surfacing, concrete, base and sub-base material for road layering, as well as speciality aggregates including ballast and gabion stone. The company also has a team of specialists covering the entire supply chain from mining to production and sales, supported by equally skilled CAPACITY: Over 10 million tons and experienced functional experts in the information services, finance, of Aggregate annually human resources and environmental fields. 5 1.4 Ownership AfriSam’s majority shareholders are: GEPF 66% PHEMBANI 30.5% HOLCIM 2,0% BUNKER HILLS 1,5% DID YOU KNOW? GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE PENSION FUND (GEPF): This fund is duly represented by the Public Investment Corporation (PIC). Established in 1911, PIC Limited is one of the largest investment managers in Africa today, managing assets of over R1.8 trillion and still growing. The PIC, a registered financial services provider, is wholly owned by the South African government, with the Minister of Finance as the shareholder representative. It invests funds on behalf of public sector entities, based on investment mandates set by each of these clients and approved by the Financial Services Board (FSB). PHEMBANI GROUP: Phembani Group (Pty) Ltd was founded in 1994 and is based in Sandton, South Africa. It is a black-controlled pan-African group which holds investments in the four key platforms of Mining, Power, Energy and Infrastructure. 6 2 REPORTING SUSTAINABILITY AfriSam has aligned with the internationally recognised G4 sustainability reporting principles and guidelines, which have informed the development of the reporting process. The GRI guidelines promote engagement with and responsiveness to multiple stakeholders. GRI reporting is voluntary and AfriSam has no obligation to report on sustainability or to make use of the GRI guidelines and principles. However, the company has decided to incorporate the guidelines so that the reporting process is as meaningful and effective as possible. The process for determining content to be included in this report was guided by: • The usefulness of the report to stakeholders (including interests and expectations of stakeholders) • The purpose, experience and nature of AfriSam’s core business • The material environmental, social and economic impacts of the business • The importance of reporting credibly and in accordance with the G4 ‘Core’ guidelines • The intention to report data for as many indicators as is reasonably and practically possible • The availability of data for the reporting period A materiality process was used to establish the relative importance of key environmental, social and governance issues for the organisation and its stakeholders. Issues were mapped and crossreferenced using risk and importance to the company as measures, and then against importance for stakeholders and the company’s ability to influence these issues. The materiality process was pursued to inform processes relating to stakeholder engagement and to determine content for this report. The report has been written with all stakeholders in mind and the company trusts that they will be able to access, read and understand the report, and offer feedback. Having said this, we believe that the report will be read mostly by employees, shareholders, customers and suppliers. AfriSam has aligned with the internationally recognised G4 sustainability reporting principles and guidelines, which have informed the development of the reporting process 7 2.1 Stakeholder engagement STAKEHOLDER METHODS OF ENGAGEMENT KEY ISSUES ACTIONS TAKEN • Engagement with staff on AfriSam’s strategy, business results AfriSam is committed to foster healthy relationships and future through information sessions, various written • Exco Roadshows with its various stakeholders through proactive communication, as well as part of the Exco Roadshows • Senior Management Meetings • Job security • Implementation of a diversity management programme engagement to ensure that it understands and • Intranet, newsletters, presentations and • Company stability, performance and • Human Resources held information sessions at select addresses key issues and concerns. briefings future growth plans operations to clarify the performance management system • Annual functions (year-end and site • Remuneration and benefits EMPLOYEES and payment of the short-term incentive scheme The company identifies key stakeholders based on the functions) • Organisational climate • Roll-out of an internal brand campaign to enforce ‘Creating • Internal staff surveys • Personal development and career following criteria: Concrete Possibilities’ and instil internal pride • Factory safety and environmental progression • AfriSam has embarked on ‘The AfriSam Way’ to establish a meetings • Performance management • RESPONSIBILITY – stakeholders to whom culture that inspires high performance • Staff notices • Personal Development and Career Progression of employees AfriSam and its operations have, or in are discussed during quarterly individual reviews the future may have, legal, financial and • Meetings • Ongoing communication to update all shareholders operational responsibilities in the form of • Written correspondence • Business performance • Quarterly updates on Economic, Social and Governance regulation, contracts, policies or codes of • Presentations • Provision of shareholder approval where (ESG) matters SHAREHOLDERS • Annual General Meeting required • Obtaining shareholder approval on relevant corporate practice • Corporate website matters • INFLUENCE – stakeholders with influence or • Integrated report • Annual General Meeting took place in November 2015 decision-making powers • Engagement with all unions at Ulco operation and diversity • PROXIMITY – stakeholders that AfriSam • Company stability, performance and programme implemented • Central bargaining forum future growth plans • Regular engagement with union representatives on and its operations interact with most including UNIONS • Consultation meetings • Organisational climate business results and expectations internal stakeholders, those with long• Written correspondence • Job security • Unions are informed of pertinent business matters through standing relationships and those stakeholders • Remuneration and benefits the quarterly Central Bargaining Unit (CBU), as well as through ad hoc meetings when required that AfriSam and its operation depend on in • Voice of Customer survey its day-to-day operations • Ongoing engagement with customers through a focused • Social, online and mobile media • Company stability, performance and • DEPENDENCY – stakeholders directly or sales interaction plan • Interaction in store during brand future growth plans • Proactive engagement with customers to schedule readymix indirectly dependent on our operations and CUSTOMERS promotions • Logistical constraints in high-growth deliveries optimally • Industry conference and retail events nodes activities in economic or financial terms, or in • Education of customers to create an understanding of our • Site and store visits by Sales team • Strength and colour variances terms of local or regional infrastructure products and their application • Technical support and training events • REPRESENTATION – stakeholders who, • AfriSam’s Enterprise and Supplier Development programme • Public forums through regulation, custom or culture, can • Meetings • Local employment and procurement extended to the North West and Northern Cape provinces legitimately claim to represent a constituency, • Continuous engagement via stakeholder forums to share • Internet • Environmental-related issues (dust, COMMUNITIES ongoing performance results and engage in dialogue on including those representing the ‘voiceless’ • Community engagement forum pollution and noise) key issues meetings • Upliftment (e.g. the environment, children and future • Upliftment projects • Implementation of CSR projects to sustainably uplift generations) communities in which the company operates • POLICY AND STRATEGIC INTENT – • Conferences • Working groups • Licence to operate stakeholders addressed in policy and value • Meetings • Mining rights and scorecard • Approval of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) statements, including those who can give GOVERNMENT AND • Factory inspections • Health and safety compliance obtained for key strategic projects warning about emerging issues and risks REGULATORS • Participation in government public • Environmental impact assessment • Active engagement with relevant authorities to strengthen hearings and policy debates and written approvals relationships Following is a list of key stakeholders identified submissions (anti-dumping, carbon taxes) • Employment equity • Site inspections for the sustainability of our company, the issues • Media events identified and our engagement methods to ensure • Press releases • Company performance and future healthy relations: MEDIA • Digital platforms growth plans • Implementation of media relations and engagement plan • Media site visits • Interviews 8 3 GOVERNANCE AfriSam is managed in compliance with the relevant legislation and regulations that govern its business. The governance framework below summarises AfriSam’s governance framework, roles and responsibilities: AfriSam is a privately owned company. Its shareholders are: 1. Major shareholders SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETINGS • GEPF • Phembani Group SHAREHOLDERS Annual General Meeting (AGM) through Bowwood & Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) Main No.4 2. Minority shareholders • Cemasco BV • Bunker Hills AFRISAM BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD Ethical leadership and OF DIRECTORS corporate citizenship DELEGATION ASSURANCE Assurance and Accountability from Management Delegation of authority to management The Board delegates functions to well‑structured BOARD AUDIT, RISK AND REMUNERATION AND committees without COMMITTEES SOCIAL AND ETHICS COMPLIANCE HUMAN RESOURCES abdicating its own COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE responsibilities CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) The Board appoints the Chief Executive Officer MANAGEMENT (CEO) and establishes EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE (EXCO) STRUCTURE SUBSIDIARY a framework for the delegation of authority BOARDS to the CEO Subsidiary Boards comprise the CEO and selected Executive and Senior Managers appointed by the CEO SENIOR MANAGEMENT FORUM CFO EXEC: IS EXEC: HR EXEC: SM EXEC: CEM EXEC: CM EXEC: SG First line of defence Finance Information Human Sales and Cementitious Construction Strategic Systems Resources Marketing Materials Growth Support the Business Operate the Business Grow the Business BUSINESS Second line UNITS GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE, LEGAL, RISK MANAGEMENT AND SECURITY of defence INTERNAL AUDIT Third line of defence INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE BY EXTERNAL AUDIT 1. Each Business Unit has policies and procedures, holds period meetings at which formalised decisions are taken. 2. Decisions taken at Business Unit level feed up into Opcom. 3. Decisions taken at Opcom feed into the EXCO and the CEO. 4. Decisions taken at EXCO feed up into the relevant Committees, Board and Shareholders. 9 3.1 Board of Directors Deputy Chairman Chairman of the Board of the Board Executive Directors PHUTHUMA NHLEKO JAN STRYDOM STEPHAN OLIVIER LEON SERFONTEIN Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer (Phembani) (PIC) Non-Executive Directors ROB WESSELS MOIRA MOSES ERNEST NESANE FATIMA FAKOET TREVOR WAGNER JEFF MOLOBELA MERVIN MULLER Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director (Phembani) (PIC) (PIC) (Independent) (Independent) (Independent) (PIC) – Alternate (Joined 15 December 2015) (Resigned December 2015) 10 3.2 Executive Management Team Executive Directors STEPHAN OLIVIER LEON SERFONTEIN Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer BSc, BSc (Hons), MSc, BCom (Accountancy) Hons, PhD (Biochemistry) CA (SA) Executive Management RICHARD TOMES HANNES MEYER SANDILE KHWELA LOUISE VAN DER BANK ROSHNI LAWRENCE AVI BHOORA Executive: Sales & Marketing Executive: Cementitious Executive: Human Resources Executive: Information Services Executive: Strategic Growth Executive: Construction Materials Master of Business Administration MSc (Chemistry) BA (Hons) Industrial Psychology, BSc (Computer Science) BSc (Hons) Metallurgy National Diploma: Civil Engineering MA Industrial Psychology 11 3.3 Memberships and associations We partner with a number of organisations to ensure we remain relevant and accountable to our customers and stakeholders. Our partnerships are with organisations that share our principles and which support causes aligned to our beliefs. In addition to our memberships, we also sponsor events that these organisations may host (as we deem appropriate). We see ourselves as an extension of society and as such, invest significant time and effort in worthy causes that affect our communities. Through our memberships, we also try and influence the direction of industry towards responsible citizenry. • South African Institute of Architects (SAIA) Awards for Sustainable Architecture • World Wildlife Fund (WWF) • Wildlife and Environment Society of South Africa (WESSA) • Green Building Council of South Africa (GBCSA) • The Concrete Institute (TCI) • Concrete Manufacturers Association (CMA) • Concrete Society of Southern Africa (CSSA) • The Association of Cementitious Materials Producers (ACMP) • Aggregate and Sand Producers Association of Southern Africa (ASPASA) • Readymix Association of South Africa (SARMA) • National Business Initiative (NBI) • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) All of AfriSam’s manufacturing facilities strive for compliance with the relevant laws and regulations that govern our business. In addition, production and processing are managed in compliance with ISO 9001:2008 to maintain the highest quality standards and meet customer requirements. AfriSam operates a state-of-the-art SANAS-accredited ISO 17025 laboratory for its own requirements, as well as to render services to the industry. All of AfriSam’s bagged cement products carry the South African Bureau of Standards (SABS) seal of approval. 12 4 SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC 4.1 Supplier and enterprise development The procurement of goods and services is a crucial component of AfriSam’s overall business strategy. In line with our core values, we are committed to responsible procurement that positively contributes to a resilient supply chain and the economic and social development of communities in the areas in which we operate. For AfriSam, enterprise development is an integral part of our procurement policy, driving and fostering black small, medium and micro enterprise (SMME) growth. We consider SMMEs surrounding our operations and provide these entrepreneurs with the necessary support and development for them to ultimately be included in AfriSam’s database of registered vendors, thereby contributing to the growth of their businesses. Our Business Development Centres also provide SMMEs with a facility where they have access to computers, already set up with an accounting package that will enable them to manage their statements and invoices to their customers. We view ourselves as a key player in the national agenda, which is focused on promoting a thriving SMME sector to assist in alleviating poverty. We have set ourselves targets that will ensure that AfriSam makes a meaningful contribution to transformation in South Africa. Through our Enterprise Development Programme, AfriSam will provide training and development to qualifying enterprises to grow and strengthen their businesses to a level at which they can trade with AfriSam and other companies. Through this programme, our objective is to increase spend within communities close to AfriSam’s operations. In the short term, our aim is to increase the capabilities of our current or potential communitybased SMMEs. In the long term, we will concentrate our efforts on the development of a training package for broad-based black economic empowerment (B-BBEE) suppliers nationally, regionally and in communities. AfriSam’s Supplier and Development programme aims to provide SMMEs with the necessary development and support to grow their businesses 13 4.2 Preferential procurement The procurement of goods and services is seen as a crucial component of our overall business strategy. In terms of our core values, AfriSam is committed to sustainable, responsible procurement that positively contributes to a resilient supply chain and the economic and social development of the communities in which we operate. We support preferential procurement as a lever for economic transformation and B-BBEE.The entire supply chain has a common understanding and buy-in in the transformation imperative. AfriSam is committed to support and grow B-BBEE and SMMEs in South Africa with emphasis placed on procurement from empowered companies. The company is also dedicated to working with its existing suppliers to enable their transformation, as well as sourcing products and services from new suppliers that embody the principles of transformation. By using its buying power, AfriSam has been instrumental in influencing 1. SUPPLY CHAIN STANDARDS: All procurement activities will be conducted in a fair, transparent and many of its suppliers to produce their own B-BBEE scorecards and professional manner, in accordance with AfriSam’s Procurement Policy and Procedures. All commitments to submitting these for the verification of their B-BBEE status. The number purchase on behalf of the company will be done through official AfriSam purchase orders. The awarding of new verification certificates and the improvement in the Group’s of tenders, contracts and orders are based on the evaluation of supplier capability, quality, price, delivery, own preferential procurement score demonstrate that suppliers have an ‘after sales’ service and B-BBEE status of the supplier. Payments will be made via electronic transfer, based improved understanding of their status and can take further steps to on agreed payment terms and supplier reconciliations. improve their scores. 2. WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP: AfriSam is committed to building sound long-term business relationships For transformation within procurement to be sustainable, prices and service with its key suppliers. As such, service level agreements with both local and global suppliers form the levels need to be competitive. AfriSam therefore assists its suppliers through foundation of the company’s procurement philosophy. AfriSam always seeks collaborative ways of working local and global benchmarking and sourcing processes during which the with its suppliers, local communities and government institutions. Supplier evaluations and joint business entire supplier-offering is evaluated based on total cost of ownership (TCO), development initiatives are key drivers towards building partnerships. including B-BBEE contribution level, price, service, safety and quality. 3. ENTERPRISE AND SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT: Enterprise and supplier development is a critical element AfriSam’s procurement policy is underpinned by five core principles: of the company’s overall B-BBEE strategy. AfriSam has an integrated strategy to meet the targets it has set itself and is determined to contribute in a meaningful and sustained manner to real transformation in the southern African region. Preference is given to suppliers that are actively involved in supporting transformation and meet AfriSam’s minimum B-BBEE criteria. 4. SAFETY: AfriSam is dedicated to the safety of both its own employees, as well as that of its business partners. The company’s safety motto of ‘Zero Harm to People’ therefore also applies to all new suppliers that intend doing business with the company. Persons entering any of the company’s premises are required to undergo a safety induction. 5. ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE: Sound business principles and good governance underlie all procurement transactions. AfriSam recognises that good governance is based on four key principles: fairness, accountability, transparency and responsibility, applied consistently in our interaction with stakeholders. The company will not compromise on safety, health, environment, quality and service delivery requirements. 14 5 SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL AfriSam actively drives environmental sustainability. We published our first environmental policy in 1994 based on the 16 principles of the International Chamber 5.2 Water conservation of Commerce’s ‘Business Charter for Sustainable Development’. We review and update The current water crisis in South Africa has featured prominently in Specific heat consumption this policy regularly and commit ourselves to its principles. One of our core values, ‘Planet’, (MJ/t clinker) headlines, but conserving water is not something new for us at AfriSam. reflects our commitment to the environment and guides our business decisions. We have long been implementing measures to reduce water consumption. 5 000 4 500 7% 8% 15% 7% 11% All operations have water balances in place which allow for optimising this Today, we have a comprehensive sustainability roadmap which covers a broad range of focus resource. We also practise recycling with as much grey water as possible, 4 000 areas, including energy use, waste management, water conservation, recycled raw materials which reduces reliance on fresh water. A good example is our readymix 3 500 and biodiversity conservation. operations where we intentionally use as much grey water as possible for 3 000 2 500 batching purposes, thereby saving on freshwater consumption. 5.1 Energy 2 000 1 500 AfriSam has long realised the importance of our role in environmental conservation and much 1 000 5.3 Waste management effort has been invested into reducing our energy consumption. Specific thermal energy 500 0 Apart from water, recycling is extended to other areas of the business, consumption has been on a positive downward trend from early 2000. We have continued to 2000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and to minimise waste returned, all returned concrete is recycled at track and measure our consumption in an effort to reduce it even further. In 2015, thermal AfriSam’s readymix facilities. The recycled concrete is used to manufacture energy consumption was 11% lower than in 2000. When comparing 2015 to 2000, specific Specific power consumption interlocking concrete blocks and paving stones, as well as being recrushed electrical energy consumption was reduced by 12% as a result of equipment and process (kWh/t cem) to manufacture more products which are used at our facilities. In doing so, improvements. 140 waste that would normally go to landfill sites is eliminated. We are continuously investigating sources of suitable alternative fuels and resources. In general, 18% 21% 23% 15% 12% 120 Employees are also encouraged to recycle paper, plastics, batteries and the cost for co-processing in kilns is still considerably higher than waste disposal to landfills but fluorescent globes at the office and at home. this has begun to change significantly, especially in the last two years. It is expected that the 100 alternate fuels market will begin to grow soon. AfriSam currently has approval for the use of 80 alternative fuels and raw materials in kiln 5 (Ulco), kiln 2 and kiln 3 (Dudfield). The company is 60 using tyres as alternative fuel at its Ulco and Dudfield cement operations. 40 Going forward, our key focus areas will be: 20 • Expediting trials on prospective alternative fuels 0 2000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 • Continuously engaging with suppliers on new available fuel streams • Continuously engaging on waste tyre allocations for kilns and implementing continuous use of tyres Reduction 2000-2011 Reduction 2000-2014 • Utilising biomass from invader species as an energy source Reduction 2000-2012 Reduction 2000-2015 Reduction 2000-2013 S pecific power consumption 15 5.4 Biodiversity conservation 5.5 Emissions reduction Rehabilitation of land impacted by AfriSam’s mining activities is not just a legal requirement but AfriSam launched ‘Project Green Cement’ in early 2000, signalling the start of the drive towards a moral obligation. This level of long-term planning by AfriSam demonstrates a commitment a low carbon dioxide (CO2) product range. The increased use of selected mineral components that will ensure the land will be able to be enjoyed by future generations. We actively practise cement extenders, mainly by-products from other industries, and careful selection and blending concurrent rehabilitation at our sites, which is in line with our policy to restore mined and of these mineral components reduces the clinker content of the cement. Clinker is the most quarried land to as close to its original state as possible. In many instances, alternative use is energy intensive component of the cement production process. found for the land, such as turning it into reservoirs, dams or recreational facilities. The green cement product range has allowed AfriSam to reduce its specific CO2 emissions per Environmental stewardship also requires companies to be proactive and this has been the case ton of cement by more than 30% since 1990. The Green Cement Product range has also led to in Saldanha Bay, Western Cape, where a site owned by AfriSam on the Saldanha Peninsula a reduction in: has been earmarked for the construction of a cement manufacturing facility. This piece of land • limestone mining – a non-renewable resource also contains pristine vegetation of exceptional conservation value. The Saldanha Limestone • subsequent decreases in our mining footprint from QUICK FACT Strandveld is restricted to the Saldanha Peninsula, is very limited in extent and classified as reduced limestone transportation As a result of ongoing research, AfriSam’s Eco ‘endangered’ by the NBSA. • crushing and raw milling Building Cement has a carbon footprint of AfriSam has set aside over 500ha of the land it owns in Saldanha for conservation purposes. • fuel consumption per ton of cement produced 442g/kg, one of the lowest in the world. It This land is in the process of being certified with contract nature reserve status, the highest also complies with the SANS50197-1 cement The global cement industry produces an estimated level of stewardship, and underscores AfriSam’s commitment to conserving natural resources, specification for common cements. 5% of total man-made CO2 emissions. AfriSam has including flora, for future generations to enjoy. voluntarily committed to a reduction target and a programme of eco-efficiency to minimise its impact. DID YOU KNOW? Through its future emission mitigation projects, we aspire to make even more strides in terms AfriSam’s commitment to environmental stewardship of emission reductions. We are currently considering a project to generate electricity from waste extends to that of the significant archaeological and heat recovered from the kilns. The bankable feasibility study has recently been completed for a paleontological finds at its quarry near Sterkfontein in waste heat recovery project at our Ulco cement operation in the Northern Cape. the Cradle of Mankind. In this exceptional case, when AfriSam made the discovery, it took a decision to cease AfriSam has also pioneered cement kiln emission all mining operations there in the interest of preserving improvements in southern Africa and has achieved a QUICK FACT this human heritage site. It has rehabilitated the area number of industry firsts, including: AfriSam was the first cement, aggregate and and is in the process of donating it to the University of readymix producer in southern Africa to publish • The first cement producer to install Continuous Witwatersrand for further study. an environmental policy in 1996. Emission Measuring (CEM) equipment capable of measuring 13 gas streams on a continuous basis • The first in the industry to install bag-house filter technology to control kiln emissions • The first in the industry to begin non-compulsory annual emissions monitoring 16 6 INTEGRITY ETHICS AND The AfriSam Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Policy express our commitment to conducting our business in accordance with • INTRODUCTION • COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW, RULES AND REGULATIONS applicable laws, rules and regulations. The AfriSam strives to conduct its business according to the highest The company recognises that apart from direct financial loss, AfriSam’s company fosters a culture of honesty, integrity, standards of business ethics and has incorporated a Code of Ethics reputation could be harmed and its market position jeopardised by compliance and good corporate governance. For this and Business Conduct (the Code) in the day-to-day running of the non-compliance with applicable legislation and regulations. Nonreason, ethical behaviour is the responsibility of every company’s business activities. The Code is underpinned by AfriSam’s compliance may alter public opinion on AfriSam and may adversely employee and should be reflected in the relationships values of People, Planet and Performance, guiding employees to affect the behaviour of the company’s customers, suppliers, business that we have with our customers, suppliers, act with integrity and respect at all times and deliver services in a partners or shareholders. For this reason, employees are required to shareholders and other stakeholders. professional, courteous and honest manner. stringently comply with applicable laws and regulations. • STATEMENT OF INTENT, COMMITMENT AND PURPOSE • GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 6.1 AfriSam Code of Ethics Committed to ethical business conduct, the AfriSam Board of AfriSam embraces good corporate governance aimed at ethically Directors has delegated the responsibility of creating and maintaining adding value, maximising returns and safeguarding people, assets This policy guides all employees’ conduct as follows: a culture of high ethical standards throughout the AfriSam Group and the reputation of the company. For this reason, directors and to the Executive Committee. The policy’s purpose is to provide employees are required to avoid conflicts of interest, maintain the employees with documented guidelines to support ethical decisionconfidentiality of all privileged information, as well as protect and making and conduct within the company. properly utilise the assets of the company. • APPLICABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY TO STAKEHOLDERS • COMPANY INFORMATION AND RECORD KEEPING This policy applies to all internal and external stakeholders, AfriSam is committed to reporting high-quality integrated company including employees, business partners, supply chain stakeholders information, including information relating to the company’s and directors of the AfriSam Group. As part of good corporate finances, operations and sustainability. To this end, no undisclosed governance, as well as building and maintaining a sustainable or unrecorded funds, liabilities or contingencies may exist except business, the policy also outlines the AfriSam Board’s accountability when specifically permitted by the accounting principles in use. The and responsibilities to the shareholders and all other stakeholders. company strictly forbids the falsification of any information. • ETHICAL PRINCIPLES • COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE Integrity, respect, responsibility, customer-driven, diversity, fairness In living AfriSam’s values of People, Planet and Performance the and environmental conscientiousness have been identified and Board of Directors, Management and employees of AfriSam embraced by the company as the seven core pillars of AfriSam’s commit to adhering to the guidelines as stipulated in this Code. ethical principles. Contravention of any aspects of this Code will be viewed in a serious light. Ethical behaviour and business conduct contributes in a positive manner towards the future of employees, the company and AfriSam’s stakeholders in general. 17 6.2 AfriSam Values Our value system is a reflection of what we believe in as a company and guides the way we conduct our business. Our three core values of People, Planet and Performance are the thread that ties our business together and inform every decision that we make (the Values are described in section 1). 6.3 Zero Tolerance policy The company has a Zero Tolerance policy for unethical behaviour. As such, we have a monthly communication mailer that is send out to all staff reminding them of this policy and simultaneously, educating them on types of unacceptable behaviour, our value system and general information to enforce this type of thinking. We also use the various communication channels to communicate this message and any specific incidents to keep our staff informed on the topic. We encourage staff to report incidents of corruption, fraud, dishonesty and any other behaviour that violates our Code. Our Tip-Off anonymous hotline is a tool that employees can use to report any such incidents without fear of victimisation or of being identified. Where there are violations, our company disciplinary procedure guides us on the course of action to be taken. This procedure is also aligned with and follows the principles and guidelines of the Labour Relations Act. 18 7SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL 7.1 Labour practices and decent work 7.2 Workforce breakdown At AfriSam, our employees are our most valued asset and the AfriSam’s workforce breakdown demonstrates its commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace. ultimate driver behind the success of our business. As such, we strive to create a rewarding experience through the adoption of various PERMANENT EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 employee benefit programmes. FEMALE MALE GRAND FEMALE MALE TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL Our Human Resources practices focus on promoting the attraction and AFRICAN COLOURED INDIAN OTHER WHITE AFRICAN COLOURED INDIAN OTHER WHITE retention of the best people. We view employee development as a path to providing value to both our customers and employees. We operate Non-management 97 40 17 5 74 233 788 91 20 17 147 1063 1296 in accordance to the Labour Code (1996) and have had no incidents of misconduct. Disabled employees 9 3 12 12 1 1 14 26 As at 31 December 2015, the company’s total turnover was 9.24% of its Able-bodied employees 88 40 17 5 71 221 776 90 20 17 146 1049 1270 total permanent staff complement, of which 3.72% was ‘uncontrolled’ due First line management 27 12 6 1 39 85 75 34 23 6 103 241 326 to retirement, death or disability while 5.52% was ‘controlled’ in the form of resignations. This remains well below industry standards. Disabled employees 1 1 2 1 1 3 AfriSam has a number of policies that demonstrates its commitment to Able-bodied employees 27 11 5 1 39 83 75 34 23 6 102 240 323 provide employees with a workplace where fair labour practices and decent working conditions are the order of the day. These include its Remuneration Middle management 8 6 11 2 24 51 19 8 16 6 53 102 153 Strategy & Policy, Remuneration Procedure and Job Evaluation. Senior management 1 2 6 9 5 4 5 1 22 37 46 Employees at AfriSam receive market-related packages and the company conducts regular surveys to ensure that its remuneration principles are Executive management 1 1 2 1 1 1 3 6 8 benchmarked against industry best practice. Total 133 58 37 8 144 380 888 138 65 30 328 1449 1829 REGIONAL BREAKDOWN EASTERN KWAZULUNORTH NORTHERN WESTERN GRAND BOTSWANA FREE STATE GAUTENG LESOTHO MPUMALANGA SWAZILAND CAPE NATAL WEST CAPE CAPE TOTAL 1 22 8 949 181 10 23 305 205 33 92 1829 19 7.3 Occupational health and safety AfriSam is committed to the health and safety of all individuals and groups with which it engages while carrying out its daily business activities. The company has a deeply entrenched safety culture and runs continuous awareness campaigns to keep safety at the forefront of the minds of its internal and external stakeholders at all times. To this end, AfriSam has implemented health and safety programmes and principles which are aligned with international standards but are tailored to suit its people, and its production and distribution requirements. As the transportation of its product is an integral part of the company’s business, AfriSam’s suppliers and contractors are involved in the ‘safety drive report’ programme, which entails regular checks of contractors’ vehicles for roadworthiness and the training of drivers for road safety awareness. Safety performance During 2015, AfriSam achieved its best safety performance since its measurement started in 2006. The company achieved a total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) of 2.92 at the end of December 2015, which is well below the milestone rate of 5.12 set by the company. We are grateful that we did not suffer any fatalities or serious injuries during 2015. Occupational health All permanent staff undergoes medical surveillance monitoring. The frequency is riskbased, with most of our staff undergoing annual tests. Our medical surveillance tests are comprehensive, covering over 30 mandatory checks including tuberculosis, silicosis, noiserelated hearing loss and AIDS. All cases where an individual is tested positive for any of the above-mentioned issues are treated confidentially and with sensitivity. The authorities are notified of all reportable cases. Where feasible, the source of occupational disease is eliminated or reduced. Appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) is also supplied. We have ongoing education and information sessions, which are normally conducted by occupational medical practitioners, occupational health nursing practitioners, peer educators and external service providers. Employee injury rate and number of occupational diseases 14 12 10 8 6 T otal recordable injury 4 In 2015, AfriSam frequency rate (TRIFR) achieved its best safety 2  umber of permanent employees N performance since 0 with occupational diseases it started measuring it 2012 2013 2014 2015 in 2006 20 7.4 Training and education At AfriSam we believe that our value of People is the ultimate driver behind our business and we strive to continuously empower and support our employees to be the best performing team. We therefore invest in the continuous learning and development of our employees to enable them to reach their full potential. AfriSam has a dedicated Learning and Development (L&D) department with the objective of defining, designing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating all processes, methods, policies, procedures, systems and programmes that the company undertakes to train and develop its employees. In 2015, on average employees spend about 5.5 days on formal training, over and above any on-the-job up-skilling and development received. All employees have formal personal development plans in place of which 99.3% of these were executed as per plan during 2015. SUMMARY OF HOURS SPENT ON FORMAL EMPLOYEE TRAINING FEMALES MALES TOTAL African 507 5 106 5 613 Coloured 257 1 162 1 419 Indian 89 240 329 White 411 2 268 2 679 Total 1 264 8 776 10 040 7.5 Diversity and equal opportunity In 2015, AfriSam held Level 2 B-BBEE contributor status. The B-BBEE verification was performed by the National Empowerment Rating Agency (NERA). In addition, AfriSam’s inclusivity is demonstrated in its corporate social investment, enterprise and supplier development initiatives, as well as the employee breakdown as discussed earlier in this section. 21 8 HUMAN RIGHTS PROTECTION OF Socio-economic development contributions consist of monetary or non-monetary contributions initiated and implemented by the company in favour of beneficiaries. The specific objective is facilitating sustainable access to the economy for these beneficiaries. 8.1 Community upliftment Contributing to its host communities’ development is one way in which AfriSam seeks to demonstrate its corporate responsibility for the good of all concerned. We recognise that being a good neighbour not only entails limiting environmental impacts, but also working with our stakeholders to improve their quality of life. In particular, we try to focus on areas that can make a difference to as many people as possible. These include education, development, conservation and legacy projects. Projects during 2015 included: HOOFWEG E-LEARNING AND RESOURCE CENTRE INVESTING IN EDUCATION The community of Wesbank in the Western community members through basic adult Cape has a new reason to celebrate, to be education and computer training classes. Since thankful and to dream even bigger. When the the launch in June, we are seeing a wonderful last brick was laid in the building of the multiresponse from the community and a newfound million rand multi-purpose e-Learning and confidence and enthusiasm from our learners.” Resource Centre, the lives of young learners in the community changed forever. A successful The centre offers e-learning (teaching partnership between AfriSam, the Department through information and technology), literacy, of Mineral Resources and Airports Company numeracy, IT literacy and library services. South Africa made this possible. The library facility serves as the mainstream teaching resource for grade 4 – 7 learners, With three primary schools and one secondary with the school using their existing media school in the area, more than 5 000 learners are centre room for the foundation phase learners. expected to benefit from the centre. The centre is fully integrated into Hoofweg The Principal of Hoofweg Primary Allystair Primary’s school programme in the mornings During 2015, R11.5 MILLION Sauer couldn’t be happier. “I am also happy and opened to surrounding schools and the was invested in community that the centre will accommodate our elderly community in the afternoons. upliftment projects 22 DONATION OF FIRE-FIGHTING EQUIPMENT CHEERS TO OUR GRADUATES PROTECTING COMMUNITIES’ LIVELIHOODS EMPOWERING THE YOUTH AfriSam contributed towards the safety and prosperity of local community members when it AfriSam’s partnership with Delta Environmental Centre donated much needed fire-extinguishing equipment to emerging farmers at Koopmansfontein (DEC) has yielded positive results with the successful farm in the Frances Baard District Municipality, Northern Cape. The donation included graduation of all sponsored students. The company 15 backpack fire-extinguishers, as well as a water tank with a 760-litre holding capacity. teamed up with the DEC last year to offer youth in the North West province an opportunity to study in the Frequent veld fires at the farm put the crops and the lives of the farmers at risk and AfriSam’s environmental education sector. Ulco operation always responds to the community’s call for assistance by dispatching its own fire team to stop the fire. Now a year later, all students from Wolmaransstad have completed their accredited short courses in the However, Koopmansfontein farm is 30km away from the Ulco operation and by the time the Youth Environmental Services (YES) programme. The fire team arrives onsite, some damage to crops and property has already occurred. learners will be awarded with a national diploma in With the donation of the backpack fire-extinguishers and water tank to the farmers at Environmental Education, Training and Development Koopmansfontein farm, AfriSam has empowered the local community to control the fire until Practice on completion of the 240 credits required at the Ulco fire team arrives. This will greatly assist in protecting the crops, lives and livelihood of Level 5 on the National Qualification Framework. the farmers and their dependants. The ‘give youth a green chance’ initiative was launched by Minister of Environmental Affairs Edna Molewa in 2013 for learners who expressed an interest in being part of the YES Programme in the province. AfriSam lends a At the Kutlwanong Home Craft helping hand to Development Trust, community emerging farmers members gain skills that can contribute to their livelihoods KUTLWANONG HOME CRAFT DEVELOPMENT TRUST NURTURING ENTREPRENEURSHIP AfriSam funds the Kutlwanong Home Craft Development Trust which aims to empower marginalised individuals and communities to improve their lives through equipping them with life skills in sewing and catering. The project also focuses on developing entrepreneurial skills as a form of empowering its participants to be self-reliant and self-employed. About 66 people are trained every year, enabling them to generate income from their new skills. The courses offered span 16 weeks and are accredited by the services SETA. The trust was registered in 2001 and to date over 1 000 students have been trained at Kutlwanong. 23 8.2 Protection of human rights AfriSam has a number of policies and procedures in place to ensure that the company provides a workplace where every stakeholder is treated with dignity, respect and fairness. These policies make provision for the protection from discrimination, forced labour, exploitation through excessive overtime, harassment and nepotism, among others, while also providing employees with a workplace that promotes diversity, accessibility for the disabled, as well as mechanisms to manage grievances in a fair manner. In 2015, an allegation of racism was reported at one of our cement operations in the Northern Cape. This matter received urgent priority from AfriSam’s Executive Committee and as a subsequent action, this operation participated in an extensive diversity management programme. This matter has been resolved with all employees focusing on team cohesion moving forward. AfriSam believes in the freedom of association and have recognised agreements in place with three trade unions namely the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), Solidarity and Building Allied Mining and Construction Workers Union (BAMCWU). Percentage of employees belonging to a trade union: UNION MEMBERSHIP AS % OF ALL EMPLOYEES UNIONISED 48.83% NON-UNIONISED 51.17% 24 INDEX TO GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDICATORS (GR3.1) GRI TOPIC PAGES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the CEO 3 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation 2 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 4 2.3 Organisational structure of the organisation 9 2.4 Location of headquarters 2 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates 2, 4 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 2.7 Markets served 4 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 2 2.9 Significant changes 5 2.10 Awards received 3 REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 3.4 Report Profile 2 3.5 -3.11 Report Scope and Boundary 2 3.12 GRI Content Index 25 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENT AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 4.10 Governance 9-12 4.13 4.13 Commitment to external initiatives 12 4.14 4.17 Stakeholder Engagement 8 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC5 EC 7 Market presence 4 EC8 Infrastructure investments 5 EC9 Indirect economic impact 13-14, 22-23 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE EN1 EN2 Materials used and recycled 15 EN3 EN7 Energy 15 EN8 EN10 Water 15 EN11 EN 15 Biodiversity 16 EN16 EN25 Emissions, effluents and waste 16 EN26 EN27 Products and Services 16 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE LA6 LA9 Occupational Health and Safety 20 LA10 LA12 Training and education 21 HR1 HR4 Human rights and non-discrimination 22-24 SOCIETY SO1, SO9 SO10 Community 22-23 SO2 S04 Corruption 17-18 SO5 SO8 Public Policy and anti-competitive behaviour 17 25
