WIENER STADTWERKE OUR IMPACT IN A NUTSHELL INSPIRATIONS FOR THE CITY. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 2 Wiener Stadtwerke /01 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Financial indicators in EUR million (= m) Unit 2015 +/% 2014 2013 Consolidated turnover EUR m 2,940.3 1.2 % 2,904.8 3,044.4 Consolidated operating result EUR m 133.2 -30.6 -385.7 Consolidated financial result EUR m -102.7 -302.2 % 50.8 55.1 Consolidated EBT EUR m 30.5 51.7 % 20.1 -330.6 Consolidated net result for the period EUR m 128.4 26.3 % 101.7 0.0 Total cash flow EUR m 70.2 187.1 % 24.4 118.9 Investments in tangible assets EUR m 689.0 -13.0 % 791.8 813.9 Depreciation EUR m 533.0 2.9 % 517.9 -787.4 Operational indicators Unit 2015 +/% 2014 2013 Electricity sales GWh 9,444 1.0 % 9,349 9,527 Natural gas sales GWh 6,633 3.0 % 6,441 7,793 District heating sales GWh 5,681 8.5 % 5,238 6,167 Passengers Wiener Linien Number, m 939.1 0.8 % 931.2 900.0 Passengers Wiener Lokalbahnen 1 Number, m 15.1 4.1 % 14.6 13.8 Total passengers 1 Number, m 954.2 0.9 % 945.8 913.8 Annual tickets Wiener Linien Number 698,968 7.8 % 648,227 582,114 Funeral Services (burials and cremations) Number 9,264 -0.4 % 9,301 10,130 Coffin and urn burials Number 13,419 3.6 % 12,953 13,274 Parking spaces Number 20,064 4.3 % 19,238 16,564 Employee indicators 2,3 Unit 2015 +/% 2014 2013 Employees, total, without P&N, annual average FTE 16,097 -0.1 % 16,114 16,102 Employees, total, annual average FTE 16,257 -0.1 % 16,276 16,276 Percentage of women, total (head counts) % 17.2 % 17.0 % 16.9 % Proportion of women in the 1st and 2 nd management level, % 23.6 % 21.4 % 19.2 % excluding apprentices Percentage of women in admissions, without P&N % 24.7 % 22.6 % 21.6 % Apprentices, total Head counts 390 0.2 % 389 402 Proportion of female apprentices % 20.5 % 20.6 % 21.9 % Turnover rate, without P&N % 4.5 % 4.4 % 5.9 % Accident rate (notifiable occupational accidents per Accidents/ 19.4 -10.6 % 21.7 20.0 1,000 employees), without P&N 1.000 empl. Training days overall, without apprentices, without P&N Days 56,215 -14.5 % 65,753 71,747 Personnel expenses EUR m 1,071.4 -8.1 % 1,165.4 1,166.6 1 Without disabled transportation. 2 Information, unless otherwise specified, including apprentices and those on parental leave and national service (P&N). 3 All gender information is without EnergieAllianz Austria. Sustainability report 2015 – Executive summary 3 Electricity production indicators Unit 2015 +/2014 2013 Electricity production, total GWh 5,011 661 4,350 3,974 Source +/GWh • Thermal power plants 4 % 80.9 % 519 81.2 % 76.6 % • Hydropower plants 5 % 12.1 % 3 13.8 % 17.6 % • Wind turbines % 3.2 % 59 2.3 % 2.4 % • Photovoltaics % 0.2 % 4 0.2 % 0.1 % • Biomass plants % 3.1 % 52 2.4 % 3.3 % • Solid waste incineration plants % 0.6 % 25 0.1 % 0.0 % Share of electricity from renewable sources related to total electricity production • Incl. investments % 20.4 % 20.5 % 25.0 % Heat production indicators Unit 2015 +/2014 2013 Heat production, total GWh 4,982 2.6 % 4,855 5,607 Source +/GWh • Combined heat and power plants (CHP plants) % 60 % 212 57 % 55 % • Solid waste incineration plants % 23 % 159 21 % 17 % • Peak boilers (gas, oil) % 8% -258 14 % 19 % • Biomass plants % 4% 14 4% 5% • Others 6 % 5% -1 9% 7% Share of heat from renewable sources related to total heat production • Incl. investments 7 % 22.4 % 21.4 % 19.3 % Heat production, total, incl. investments 7 GWh 5,676 2.1 % 5,560 6,339 Emission indicators Unit 2015 +/% 2014 2013 Greenhouse gas emissions SCOPE 1: Direct emissions, CO2-eq. 1,000 t 2,978 6.8 % 2,789 2,350 SCOPE 2: Indirect emissions, CO2-eq.8 1,000 t SCOPE 3: Other indirect emissions, CO2-eq. 1,000 t 2,080 -3 % 2,142 2,006 Air pollutants, direct emissions (stationary plants) Nitrogen oxides (NOX) 9 t 547 13 % 486 521 Sulphur oxides (SO2) 9 t 68 -49 % 133 36 Air pollutants, direct emissions (vehicle fleet Wiener Linien, without rail vehicles) Nitrogen oxides (NOX) t 48.1 -27 % 66.0 83.5 Particulate matter (PM10) t 0.08 73 % 0.04 0.02 4 Own thermal power stations (net) + subscription rights 7 Incl. MSWI Pfaffenau (operational management) 5 Own hydropower plants (net) + subscription rights at home + subscription rights 8 The database for SCOPE 2 emissions calculation is unified in 2016. on Innkraftwerke (Germany) 9 Excl. subscription rights 6 Grid and decentralized plants At all tables in this report possibly occurring rounding differences are not compensated. 4 Wiener Stadtwerke WELCOME MESSAGE Mayor and Governor Dr. Michael Häupl on Wiener Stadtwerke Sustainability Report V ienna is one of the most attractive cities in the world. In 2015, Vienna was rated for the sixth time in a row as the city with the highest quality of living! Services of general interest and public infrastructure are essential components of the high quality of living in Vienna. It is very important to maintain or even improve this high quality. In the coming years, massive challenges will have to be mastered. The trend is clear: Vienna is growing. In the near future, more than 2 million people will live in Vienna. Thus Vienna is the fastest growing city in Central and Eastern Europe. These demographic trends will affect all areas of public services. Even the current SORA City Barometer 2016 shows that people living in Austria appreciate the quality of life in their places of residence now and in the past few years. We aim to maintain this standard. This is an enormous challenge and involves high costs. Major challenges for cities in the 21st century, therefore, are on the one hand a targeted strengthening of economies as a basis for social justice and on the other hand an economical use of the resources available to us. Our ultimate goal is to make Vienna the most socially engaged two-million metropolis, by securing jobs and ensuring economic growth. Therefore, we invest, every year, in 10,000 new homes, Dr. Michael Häupl, Mayor and Governor of Vienna 2,000 new community homes, kindergartens, schools and more. Likewise, the infrastructure will grow by improvement of the urban transport network, new transport routes and innovative forms of mobility, by expanding renewable energy supply and T he comprehensive sustainability program contains a broad range of objectives and measures aimed at ensuring the best quality of life for all Viennese citizens with the most economical use environmentally friendly district heating and cooling. of resources and social participation. This is very important to me because Vienna will remain worth living in for all – where everyone This Sustainability Report impressively demonstrates Wiener is given all opportunities to set up on his or her own. Shaping this Stadtwerke’s far-reaching impact on the Vienna region: The Group social and cosmopolitan future is what matters now. We will meet offers secure jobs for more than 16,100 people. With its sustainable this challenge together! investments in future infrastructure Wiener Stadtwerke significantly contributes to ensuring the high quality of life in Vienna and also With this in mind, I would like to offer my warmest thanks to the to the regional added value at a high degree. This provides not Board and employees of Wiener Stadtwerke. only economic growth, but also ensures more jobs in the region and thus also promotes social cohesion. At the same time, Wiener Stadtwerke is fully meeting its corporate social responsibility – as may be expected from a company in muDr. Michael Häupl nicipal ownership. This is documented not only by the numerous Mayor and Governor of Vienna awards in recent years for innovative products and services or their excellent apprentice training program. Sustainability report 2015 – Executive summary 5 WELCOME MESSAGE Ulli Sima, Executive City Councillor for Environment and Wiener Stadtwerke V ienna is and remains a model city for environmental protection. The world's highest quality of life, a high level of satisfaction among Vienna’s citizens with the local environment and the key areas of general interest confirm that we are on track. Since 2015, I have been not only Executive Councillor for Environment but have also held responsibility for Wiener Stadtwerke and thus for public transport and energy supply in Vienna. My primary concern is now to create a real general interest department. Now and in the future, strong services of general interest are at the centre of our environmental policy. I clearly reject any privatization tendencies. We can provide increased synergies for our growing city, now that the excellent water supply, the high-tech incinerators, modern wastewater treatment, energy supply and public transport are in one hand, in my “new” department. This is also very important in view of the city's expected growth. It constitutes a major challenge, in a city likely to reach two million people in the not too distant future, to supply all the goods and services which are regarded as essential for human existence in our society. The sustainability strategy of Wiener Stadtwerke contributes significantly to the implementation of our long-term target: Preserving and improving the high environmental quality and quality of life for future generations. This includes clean air and pure water, intact soils, parks and green spaces, rich in flora and Ulli Sima, Executive City Councillor for Environment fauna – and, of course, protection and security against the impacts and Wiener Stadtwerke of climate change. This requires a joint effort by all players because there is still much to do. Here, businesses are thus called upon. I want to express my thanks to all the employees and the Management For many years we have supported Viennese companies with the Board of Wiener Stadtwerke for their great commitment and high help of the EcoBusinessPlan Vienna, the environmental service level of expertise in each of the main sectors of sustainability. I look package of the City of Vienna, in the implementation of environmental forward to successful, joint work towards achieving our sustainmeasures. In addition, this has helped to reduce their operating ability goals. The people and the environment in and around costs. The aim is to achieve benefits for the environment and Vienna will benefit from our success. business through ecological management. The Wiener Stadtwerke Sustainability Report 2015 impressively shows that a municipally owned company achieves economic success under sustainable management, but makes a substantial Ulli Sima contribution to the quality of life and environment in a big city. Executive City Councillor for Environment and Wiener Stadtwerke This long-term return will ultimately benefit all citizens of Vienna. 6 Wiener Stadtwerke WELCOME MESSAGE Director-general Dr. Martin Krajcsir and managing director Robert Grüneis D ear reader, 2015 was an important milestone in the long-term sustainability strategy of Wiener Stadtwerke. For the first time, we document In particular, it is about: • a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% the main expectations of our stakeholders as a result of our ma• increasing the share of renewable energy in total energy teriality analysis. And in accordance with the requirements of the consumption to at least 27 % International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), it is depicted in • an increase in energy efficiency by at least 27 % a comprehensive graph, how Wiener Stadtwerke with its business model creates values for the company itself and added value for its compared to the status of 1990. stakeholders and how ultimately society benefits thereof. These goals can be achieved only through joint efforts at the In the current sustainability program we present our binding longinternational and national level. We are aware of our responsibility term goals and measures. as municipal infrastructure service provider, and focus our strategic planning on it. We are very proud that we publish this year our fifth Sustainability Report since 2008. This Sustainability Report documents transpaEspecially the Smart City Vienna framework strategy adopted by rently and comprehensibly the way we live up our social responsibility. the municipal council forms the basis for our corporate strategy for We are firmly committed to the idea that especially our company the next years. It specifies how especially climate targets in detail – being 100% owned by the City of Vienna – has to set a good can be achieved and where Vienna wants to be in 2030 or 2050. example in assuming corporate social responsibility. Therefore Wiener Stadtwerke as the largest energy and mobility service we have aligned our strategy continuously on sustainability in provider in Greater Vienna considers it as its most important task to recent years, to achieve sustainable management throughout the give best possible support to the City of Vienna in achieving these company. We have systematically identified and worked on the goals – as 40% modal split share for public transport by 2020 or most important ecological and social challenges. reducing greenhouse gas emissions per capita by 35% (compared 1990) by 2030. So we are working constantly on the development of In recent years we have made great progress in comprehensively renewable energy sources for electricity and heat, the expansion of integrating sustainability into our business processes. Therefore, public transport services and to increase customer satisfaction, so and as the principles of the United Nations on human rights, labor that these offers are also well received. standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption are also ours, we joined the UN Global Compact already in 2008. With Climate and environmental protection, public services and this Sustainability Report, we publish also our communication on customers satisfaction are therefore central fields of activity of our progress on the implementation of the principles of the UN Global sustainability program. Here the large sustainability goals can be Compact. found, broken down to the business and sphere of influence of Wiener Stadtwerke, in combination with defined individual goals, The effects of climate change are becoming clearer. The Member concrete measures and deadlines. Each year, we report clearly and States of the European Union have to achieve the ambitious comprehensibly about our progress on achieving our goals. In parobjectives of the European climate and energy policy by 2030. ticular, we continue to pursue our goals for expansion of renewable energy and a 40% share of public transport in the modal split. We have reached nine goals with time horizon 2015 successfully and have abandoned none of our goals. New goals include the development of resource-efficient local energy supply concepts or the implementation of the electric mobility strategy of the City of Vienna. Sustainability report 2015 – Executive summary 7 Dr. Martin Krajcsir, director-general of Wiener Stadtwerke Robert Grüneis, managing director for the non-regulated energy sector, research / technology / innovation / Smart City, IT and sustainability Wiener Stadtwerke are the municipal services company to With our outstanding ranges of public services and mobility, we safeguard and develop the high quality of life in Vienna. We will contribute significantly to an attractive environment to live in for the by 2018 annually invest over 700 million euros in expanding the people of Vienna and the high quality of life in Vienna. Our mission infrastructure of Vienna – in the expansion of the metro network, is to render these services in high quality, safe, accessible and the purchase of new metro trains and trams and ecologically affordable for broad sections of the public, in compliance with high advantageous buses, in the development of renewable energy or in quality, environmental and social standards. increasing efficiency in energy production. The high quality of life in Vienna is also the result of the competent These investments will contribute to climate and environmental proand committed support of our 16,100 employees. We would tection and regional added value. So we provide numerous jobs and like to express our respect and our thanks for their outstanding at the same time also the livelihoods for future generations. Wiener contribution in the past year. Their commitment and their underStadtwerke are oriented to the common good, to the interests and standing of sustainability are the basis of our successful sustainable welfare of all the people of Vienna. management. Dr. Martin Krajcsir Robert Grüneis Director-general of Wiener Stadtwerke Managing director for the non-regulated energy sector, research / technology / innovation / Smart City, IT and sustainability 8 Wiener Stadtwerke TABLE OF CONTENTS /01 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2 /02 WELCOME MESSAGE: MAYOR AND GOVERNOR DR. MICHAEL HÄUPL 4 WELCOME MESSAGE: ULLI SIMA, EXECUTIVE CITY COUNCILLOR 5 FOR ENVIRONMENT AND WIENER STADTWERKE /03 WELCOME MESSAGE: DIRECTOR-GENERAL DR. MARTIN KRAJCSIR 6 AND MANAGING DIRECTOR ROBERT GRÜNEIS /04 TABLE OF CONTENTS 8 /05 VIENNA – MODEL CITY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 9 /06 STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS 10 /07 WIENER STADTWERKE'S IMPACT 12 /08 WIENER STADTWERKE SUBSIDIARIES‘ BUSINESS MODELS 16 /09 WIENER STADTWERKE'S MANAGEMENT APPROACH 18 /10 WIENER STADTWERKE'S SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES 19 /11 WIENER STADTWERKE'S SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM 2016 20 /12 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 21 /13 IMPRINT 23 Adoption of the current sustainability program in April 2016 Sustainability report 2015 – Executive summary 9 /05 VIENNA – MODEL CITY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION T he high level of environmental quality is made concrete and tangible for Viennese people as quality of life for all. It is reflected in the many facets of sustainable urban development: As a result, significant emissions of greenhouse gases, in particular CO2, and of air pollutants such as particulate matter and nitrogen oxides, too, can be avoided. The public transport is, in addition, much more efficient in the use of resources and leads to a • a high-quality drinking water supply reduction of motorized private transport. Less congestion, less • a premium infrastructure for environmentally friendly mobility pollution, less noise, more space in squares, streets and roads – all • a secure management of waste and waste water combined of this means a significantly higher quality of life. with provision of heat and electricity • a reliable supply of electricity, heat, cooling and gas By the operation of waste incineration plants Spittelau, • a high level of corporate environmental management (high Flötzersteig, Pfaffenau and Simmeringer Haide Wiener environmental standards) Stadtwerke energy companies ensure a secure waste disposal • a forward planning for a viable environment with a high on highest technical level whilst at the same time providing proportion of open and green areas environmentally friendly supply of district heating, district cooling • ambitious measures for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and electricity. So over 2 million people, more than 230,000 com• green procurement mercial and industrial installations and 4,500 farms are supplied • healthy, locally produced food with electricity, gas, heat and cold.1 District heating saves valuable resources, reduces CO2 emissions, avoids particulate emissions In Vienna these vital areas are in municipal ownership, to and is significantly better for the environment than the use of guarantee these essential services for the Viennese people permacoal, oil or gas. As an additional contribution to further reducing nently at a high level, accessible for all, at affordable prices. greenhouse gas emissions Wien Energie continuously increases the use of renewable energy sources. Wiener Stadtwerke contributes in many ways to that Vienna keeps its reputation as a model city for environmental protection. Bestattung und Friedhöfe Wien do not only ensure reverent funerals, but contribute to the improvement of the microclimate in Wiener Stadtwerke transport companies provide a comprethe city through the operation of 46 cemeteries in Vienna. Thanks hensive range of eco-friendly mobility, enabling people in Vienna to its ecologically oriented management of these cemeteries it to abstain from own cars without losses in their quality of life. is also making a significant contribution to the reconciliation of nature conservation and species protection with the needs of people for generous green and recreational areas. 1 Wien Energie Jahrbuch 2011 (Annual Book 2015). http://www.wienenergie.at/media/files/2016/we_jahrbuch2015_geschuetzt_179859.pdf 10 Wiener Stadtwerke /06 STAKEHOLDERS' EXPECTATIONS W iener Stadtwerke reports for many years transparently and comprehensibly about its sustainability performance. All previously published sustainability reports were created in accorin a series of workshops main stakeholder concerns, the referring key performance (output) and impact indicators (outcomes) were determined. dance to the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). With GRI G4, the sustainability reporting is now to focus more As a result of these workshops, at Wiener Stadtwerke most stakestrongly on the issues essential for the company from stakeholder holder concerns were already well covered by key performance perspective (materiality) and on the impact of corporate activities and/or impact indicators and thus were well suited for the conon the entire value chain, including the supply chain. GRI G4 also trolling of objectives and measures. The topics diversity strategy, calls for a connection of the material issues with performance compliance, supplier evaluation and complaint management will and impact metrics. The preparation for this materiality analysis is be deepened in the coming years. 19 aspects have been identified presented in detail in the Wiener Stadtwerke Sustainability Report as being material and then ranked in further workshops in terms of 2015. their relative importance to each other. The sustainability officers rated these aspects respectively from the perspective of the emCentral requirement of the Measuring Shared Value project perforployees in their division/company and each from the perspective med together with the sustainability officers of Wiener Stadtwerke of a certain external stakeholder. The result of this materiality anaand its companies and the auditing company Ernst & Young was lysis shows the aspects that are ranked as most important under all to connect the identified material issues with key performance major key aspects (5.0 or higher on a scale from 0 to 10). and impact indicators of Wiener Stadtwerke. In a further step in several workshops and discussions it had been ensured that these topics are included in the current sustainability program. After that As a result, you will find some greater differences between the internal and external perspective. Aspects ranked particularly high from an internal perspective: Aspects ranked particularly high from an external perspective: Customer satisfaction and high quality of services offered Security of supply Security of supply Customer satisfaction and high quality of services offered EBT and efficiency of the means employed Services offered Health promotion and accident prevention (employees) Accessibility Quality of living and Smart City Jobs and location safeguarding, tax yield Environmental protection If you join these two perspectives, the following aspects are identified as having the highest importance from both internal and external perspective: Customer satisfaction and high quality of services offered Security of supply Services offered EBT and efficiency of the means employed Jobs and location safeguarding, tax yield Quality of living and Smart City The aspects that are material from our stakeholders’ perspective the previous five areas of activity in order to ensure transparency and the corresponding key performance and impact indicators and traceability. The Sustainability Report has been structured in (see page 14/15) derived during the project Measuring Shared accordance with the selection of the most important stakeholders Value could be associated with the sustainability program 2016.1 of Wiener Stadtwerke and their (main) concerns. The procedure With the exception of the issue supplier evaluation all topics for establishing the themes or aspects, stakeholder engagement deemed as essential can be found in the objectives and measures in this process and the selection of the relevant issues is in acof the Group or at least one Group member. Therefore, the cordance with GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. structure of the sustainability program has been maintained in 1 The sustainability program does not contain economic goals. The aspect of earnings before tax (EBT) and efficiency of the means employed are subject of the company’s Annual Report. Sustainability report 2015 – Executive summary 11 Key topics in Wiener Stadtwerke's materiality matrix 109Versorgungssicherheit Dienstleistungsangebot KundInnenzufriedenheit und Qualität Barrierefreiheit 8Lebensqualität und Smart City Compliance (Umwelt) M Ergebnis und Efﬁzienz Klimaneutralität 7Minimierung Ressourcen O Arbeitsplätze Standort Biodiversität Compliance (Korruption) ST Sozialer Zusammenhalt Ausschreibungen Rahmenbedingungen 6für Optimales Arbeiten IM Regionale Wertschöpfung Gesundheitsförderung und Unfallprävention Gesundheitsförderung Compliance (Transparenz) PO (Lieferanten) und Unfallprävention (MitarbeiterInnen) 54RT S AN CT T S PE 3AS O RA 2PE CT AJ 1S M 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 10 9 Security of supply Customer satisfaction and high Services offered quality of services RANKING FROM AN EXTERNAL PERSPECTIVE offered Accessibility Quality of living and Smart City 8 Compliance (Environment) EBT and efﬁciency Climate neutrality Minimization of resource consumption Jobs and location safeguarding Biodiversity 7 Compliance (corruption) Social cohesion Tenders Conditions for optimal working Regional value creation 6 Health promotion and Health promotion and Compliance (transparency) SU accident prevention EM accident prevention (suppliers) (employees) 1 5 10 5 6 7 8 9 RANKING FROM AN INTERNAL PERSPECTIVE 1 12 Wiener Stadtwerke /07 WIENER STADTWERKE'S IMPACT Wiener Stadtwerke’s successful business model is special as it can only be realized by a company that is 100% owned by public authorities: provision of public services, securing of energy supply and mobility, a high quality of life and high regional added values in the Vienna area. Capital Inputs Equity Financial Borrowed capital Subsidies (public transport contract) Production plants (electricity, heat, cold, power plants, Value created MSWIs, renewable energy plants, central cooling plants) Storage facilities (gas, heat) Pipelines and distribution systems (electricity, gas, heat, cold) Manufactured Personal mobility in Public transport (metro, tram, buses, rail track) track systems the Vienna region Vehicles for passenger and freight transport Parking garages Parking spaces in garages Cargo transport Cemeteries in Central Europe Supply with Brand and trademarks Specialist expertise electricity, gas, Intellectual heat and cold Strong reputation Certified management systems Grid operation Employees, own Human Apprentices Employees at suppliers Energy services Customers Funeral services Social and Suppliers and-products relationship Legislator Society Waste incineration Fuels (natural gas, oil, biomass, waste, waste heat) Natural Water, air, soil Biodiversity Ecosystem services The graphic shows in a compressed manner how Wiener Wiener Stadtwerke not only provides products and services of the Stadtwerke with its business model creates value for the company highest quality. But it is also an important employer and trainer itself and added value for its stakeholders and how society ultiof apprentices in the region. And it contributes significantly to the mately benefits thereof. The graphic is inspired by the framework public services (services of general interest), to the high quality of of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), with its life, to security of supply (with energy and mobility), security of six types of capital (financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, disposal and high environmental quality as well as to creation of social and relationship, natural). regional added value in Greater Vienna. This is proven by using numerous performance and impact indicators in the Wiener The work and success of Wiener Stadtwerke is based on its sound Stadstwerke Sustainability Report 2015. These are partly of interest economic basis, its infrastructure (buildings, vehicles, etc.), its for more than just one stakeholder group. E.g. compliance is a key intangible assets such as reputation, brands, know-how and priority of owner, legislator and society, value creation of e.g. management systems, its motivated and well trained staff, its good owner and supplier or security of supply e.g. of owner and relations with customers, suppliers and business partners and the customers. natural resources that are used as carefully as possible. A short Key performance measures are described in detail in the presentation of the main value chains are given in chapter 8, details Sustainability Report 2015 and a selection of them is shown in this can be found at the Wiener Stadtwerke Sustainability Report, executive summary. Other performance indicators are included in chapter 10. the Wiener Stadtwerke Annual Report 2015 and the sustainability portal nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at. Sustainability report 2015 – Executive summary 13 Value shared Capital EBT and efficiency of the means employed Financial Security of supply Compliance, transparency and information exchange Security of supply Accessibility Availability Affordability Manufactured Safety High standards Sustainability Cultural heritage Value added Customer satisfaction and high quality of services offered Intellectual Compliance and corruption prevention Quality Security of supply Conditions for optimal working (incl. diversity) and with mobility human resources development Human Security of energy Health promotion and accident prevention supply Accessibility Quality of life Customer satisfaction and high quality of services offered Public servic Services offered (Services of general interest) Regional added value, long-term contractual relations and contractual compliance Social and Safe disposal relationship Requirements and transparency in tenders Health promotion and accident prevention Jobs and location safeguarding, tax yield Urban hygiene Compliance and orruption prevention Social cohesion (inclusion) Quality of life and Smart City Environmental quality Climate neutrality Minimization of resource consumption Natural Environmental Protection and Compliance Biodiversity For the presentation the impact of Wiener Stadtwerke, the impact As an employer and investor, Wiener Stadtwerke is an important indicators are mainly of interest. Not for all aspects appropriate key economic factor for the region of Vienna. So it has invested in metrics are available. Moreover, it is not just one but usually a recent years several hundred million euros per year, particularly in whole bundle of causes leading to a special “effect” – e.g. Modal property and equipment in the field of transport and energy. A Split: The high share of public transport (PT) of total traffic is a wide range of industries benefit from these contracts. result of a forward-looking urban planning, transport and infrastructure development and an attractive, comprehensive, A study of the Austrian Institute of Economic Research (WIFO) tightly clocked supply of public transport. commissioned by Wiener Stadtwerke shows that the company creates a workload for 62,000 working places. This means behind Important for customers satisfaction are criteria such as safety, each of the approximately 16,100 employees, there are three punctuality, cleanliness, reliability, connection reliability, speed, additional jobs at external companies throughout Austria. customer-friendliness and accessibility. Here Wiener Linien achieve usually top values. And regarding the tariffs, Wiener Linien belongs to the most reasonable traffic providers in local public transport in Europe. E.g. since the tariff conversion in 2012 the annual pass costs only 1 Euro per day. Seniors ride even at the price of only 224 Euros per year, or 61 cents per day. In many other European metropolises, passengers have to pay much more for this service. 14 Wiener Stadtwerke KEY PERFORMANCE AND IMPACT INDICATORS (ROUNDED) OF WIENER STADTWERKE 2015 Stakeholder and Key performance indicators 2015 Impact indicators their interests EBT and efficiency of the • Added value: 1,151 EUR m [G4-EC1] 1 + 3 = 4: Every Wiener Stadtwerke job saves three means employed • Distribution: 93 % for Wiener Stadtwerke employees [G4-EC1] additional jobs in other companies. [G4-EC8] 689 EUR m invested in infrastructure [G4-EC7] 39 % share of public transport (PT) on modal split (for the 4th time in a row) [G4-EC7] Efficiency of long-distance transmission and distribution lines [EUSS1 -EU12]: • Grid losses electricity: 4.74 % Customers in Greater Vienna supplied with • Grid losses gas: 0.29 % energy [G4-8]: Security of supply OWNER • Grid losses district heating: 9.05 % • more than 2 million people • more than 1,000,000 households Network availability: far abover 99.9 % [EUSS-EU29]: • 230,000 commercial customers • 32 min./a average power outage duration • 4,500 agricultural facilities • 2 min./a average unplanned downtime in the gas grid per customer • 99.98 % availability of district heating supply Share of employees working in subsidiary companies having Compliance, certified management systems [DMA, G4-34, G4-56]: transparency and information exchange • Management systems for quality and environment: above 80 % • Management systems for occupational safety and health: above 60 % • 1,670 of 2,178 vehicles for passenger transport are low-floor Accessibility • 76.7 % of the vehicles are barrier-free • Customer satisfaction: Systematization and standardization of data • Wiener Linien [G5-PR5]: Customer satisfaction collection for complaints management is on the agenda for 2016. o more than 98 % satisfied customers and high quality of [G4-PR8, G4-HR12, G4-LAQ16, G4-SO11, G4-EN34] o 698,968 annual tickets sold services offered • Quality: see security of supply • Wien Energie [G5-PR5]: 83 % satisfied customers • Energy production: • Development degree after implementation o 5,011 GWh electricity of expansion measures (Opening U1-South) CUSTOMERS o 4,982 GWh heat 2018: o 128 GWh cold o 99.8 % of all school places • 954.2 million passengers transported o 96.4 % of all inhabitants o Wiener Linien: 939.1 million passengers o 95.4 % of all workplaces o Wiener Lokalbahnen: 15.1 million passengers o 89.0 % of the living area o 87.4 % of the built-up area Services offered • Funeral services: o 59.6 % of the total area of Vienna o 9,264 burials and cremations o 13,419 coffin and urn burials • Availability: o 500 m catchment area underground and • 20,064 parking spaces suburban train, o 300 m catchment area tram, Wiener Lokalbahnen, busses and regional busses • Share of public transport (PT) on modal split: 39 % (for the 4th time in a row) • 16,097 employees [G4-10] • 16.9 years average length of employment • 4.5 % employee turnover [G4-LA1] (2014) • 17.2 % proportion of women [G4-LA12] • About 80 % of the apprentices remain in the company • 24.7 % proportion of women in admissions [G4-LA1] • 1 + 3 = 4: Every Wiener Stadtwerke job • 23.6 % proportion of women in 1st and 2nd management level [G4saves three additional jobs in other compaConditions for optimal LA12] nies. [G4-EC8] working (incl. diversity) • 50 % women on the Supervisory Board (only shareholder and human resource representatives) [G4-LA12] EMPLOYEES development • 390 apprentices [G4-10] • 2.5 % disabled employees falling under the Austrian Disability Employment Act [G4-LA12] • 56,215 training days in total [G4-LA9] • 3.5 training days per employee [G4-LA9] Health promotion and • 316 notifiable occupational accidents [G4-LA6] accident prevention • Zero fatal accidents [G4-LA6] • 19.4 notifiable occupational accidents per 1,000 employees [G4LA6] • 23.8 sick days per notifiable accident [G4-LA6] Sustainability report 2015 – Executive summary 15 Stakeholder and Key performance indicators 2015 Impact indicators their interests Regional added value, 689 million Euro investments in tangible assets [G4-EC9] 1 + 3 = 4: Every Wiener Stadtwerke job saves longterm contractual three additional jobs in other companies. [G4-EC8] relations and contractual compliance SUPPLIERS Requirements and • 316 notifiable occupational accidents [G4-LA6] transparency in tenders • Zero fatal accidents [G4-LA6] Supplier evaluation according to the criteria environmental management, workplace conditions, corruption and human rights • 19.4 notifiable occupational accidents per Health promotion and violations [G4-DMA, G4-EN32, G4-SO9, G4-HR10, G4-LA14] under 1,000 employees [G4-LA6] accident prevention construction • 23.8 sick days per notifiable accident [G4-LA6] Minimization of • 13,858 GWh fuels used [G4-EN3] • 312 MWel capacity installed for electricity resource consumption o of them about 85 % fossil [G4-EN3] from renewable energy sources, including • 0 % nuclear-generated electricity obtained [G4-EN3] o 22 citizens' solar power plants o 2 citizens' wind power plants • Proportion of renewable energy in electricity generation [G4-EN3]: o 19.9 % (consolidated Group) • 186 MWth capacity installed for heat from o 20.4 % (inkluding investments) renewable energy sources • Proportion of renewable energy in heat generation [G4-EN3]: • Smart City target: >20 % (2030) or > 50% o 18.0 % (consolidated Group) (2050) of Vienna’s gross final consumption of o 22.4 % (inkluding investments) energy come from renewable sources. • Reduce final energy consumption per inhabitant by 40 % by 2050 Climate neutrality • Direct CO2-emissions (SCOPE 1) [G5-EN15]: nearly 3 billion t, of them Climate objectives of the City of Vienna (KliP II): ENVIRONMENT o Power and heat generation: about 2,8 Mrd. t reduction of greenhouse gas emissions per capita o Fleet: about 43.000 t in Vienna to 35 % by 2030 in any case and 80 % by o buildings and other facilities: about 9.000 t 2050 (compared to 1990) (Smart City target) o Grid losses (gas and electricity): about 160.000 t o GHG-savings from the production of renewable electricity: about 55.000 t Environmental protection • 0.6 % savings in energy sales, including 40% for household and compliance customers (EEffG) [G4-EN7] • 547 t NOX from the operation of power plants, 48 t NOX from the operation of the fleet [G4-EN21] • 68 t SO2 rom the operation of power plants [G4-EN21] • nearly 80 kg particulate matter (PM10) from the operation of the fleet [G4-EN21] Biodiversity 46 cemeteries with approximately 5.2 km2 green space [G4-EN11] Smart City target: Keep the share of green space in Vienna until 2030 at about 50 % Jobs and location • Added value: 1,151 EUR m [G4-EC1] 1 + 3 = 4: Every Wiener Stadtwerke job saves safeguarding, taxes paid • Distribution: 93 % for Wiener Stadtwerke employees [G4-EC1] three additional jobs in other companies. [G4LEGISLATOR / STATE EC8] Compliance and • Business locations that have been monitored with regard to the corruption prevention risks of corruption, and identified significant risks [G4-SO3]: Systematic recording under construction • About 3,000 employees trained to anticorruption topics [G4-SO4] • No – in relation to sales – significant fines for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations, or due to violations of other laws [G4-SO8] Social cohesion Since April 2011, the Wien Energie Ombudsstelle has processed appr. (inclusion) 15,000 requests from social services and customers. Among others, since then 11,000 households have been supervised (assisted or supported customers / households) and about 300 prepayment meters have been installed and maintained continuously on a voluntary basis. SOCIETY Quality of life and Smart • Several historical buildings (stations, bridges) 97 % of respondents like or like even very much to City • 2 museums live in Vienna (Department of Sociology, University of Vienna, 2013). Vienna is the city with the highest • 46 cemeteries with approximately 5.2 km2 green space [G4-EN11] quality of life (No. 1 in the ranking in Mercer study). 16 Wiener Stadtwerke /08 WIENER STADTWERKE SUBSIDIARIES‘ BUSINESS MODELS The chart on page 12/13 provides an overview of the value Besides the already mentioned risk aspects applying to some or chain of Wiener Stadtwerke according to its six major types of all four business models (such as supplier selection, compliance capital. In this chapter, the underlying business models of Wiener and corruption, conservation requirements under economic Stadtwerke companies are briefly presented. More details can and occupational safety and health conditions, cybercrime and be found in the Sustainability Report, 2015. The business models data protection), the unscheduled downtime of its plants is an were developed in collaboration with the sustainability officers of important risk aspect for Wien Energie. To minimize this, the plants Wiener Stadtwerke and of the Group subsidiaries – as well as the are regularly checked, serviced and maintained. So unscheduled deduction of the respective risks from stakeholder perspective. shutdowns in recent years had been steadily reduced. The availability of certified facilities (excluding scheduled downtime) The energy segment is divided into two separate models, because increased from 82.9% in 2010 to 91.8% in, 2015. as for the regulated sector of power distribution (Wiener Netze) there are other conditions as for the deregulated area of energy In order to reduce its dependence on fossil fuels, Wien Energie has production and energy services (Wien Energie, Wien Energie gradually expanded in recent years the production capacity based Vertrieb). The latter is entirely subject to competition. The on renewable energy and also has set new targets for increasing the segments transport (Wiener Linien, Wiener Lokalbahnen) and provision of electricity and heat from renewables by 2030, see the garaging (WIPARK) are jointly represented as the business model sustainability program 2016 ( nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at ). personal mobility. The reason is that management of the parking From stakeholder perspective, a possible nuclear power's share garages also supports the aim of the City of Vienna to push back is also an important risk issue for Wien Energie (and Wien Energie motorised private transport in favour of public transport. New Vertrieb). So Wien Energie Vertrieb buys current on the market, car parks are therefore built especially where a switch to public which could theoretically include nuclear power – approximately transport should be facilitated. The fourth business model is B&F 30% of the so-called ENTSO E-mix is coming from nuclear plants Bestattung und Friedhöfe Wien. after all. Therefore Wien Energie Vertrieb ensures the absence of nuclear power for the entire electricity purchased. Risks existing for all business models These include in particular the topics selection of suppliers, compliance and corruption, workplace conditions / occupational safety for own employees and of contracted companies in the field of civil engineering, technical services (repair, maintenance, service) and in the upstream supply chain. Workforce's age structure provides a risk aspect for several Group subsidiaries. Further, more general aspects are conservation requirements under economic and occupational safety and health conditions as well as cybercrime and data protection. In order to detect and eliminate these risks early, Wiener Stadtwerke count on proven management systems such as on the existing risk management or certified quality, safety and environmental protection systems, see Wiener Stadtwerke's management approach starting on page 18. There are also risks due to the supply chain when purchasing products. These risks can be reduced by selecting appropriate positive criteria such as Ökokauf Vienna. Wien Energie business model 2015 Wien Energie business model is the production of electricity and heat, the operation of the heat grid and the sale of products electricity, gas (natural gas, biogas), heat (long-distance and district) and cooling (cooling center at the customer or cooling via cooling network) and services, in particular waste management and energy services. Wien Energie supplies more than two million people and about 230,000 commercial customers and 4,500 agricultural facilities in Vienna and nearby with gas and electricity and 375,000 households – about one third of all households in Vienna – and more than 6,800 key account customers with space heating and hot water. In addition, Wien Energie operates the largest solely fiber-based network at Vienna. Sustainability report 2015 – Executive summary 17 Wiener Netze business model 2015 Wiener Linien/Wiener Lokalbahnen vehicles are regularly checked Wiener Netze business model consists of the construction and and maintained to minimize the risk of high downtime. The maintenance of the grids for electricity, gas, district heating and availability and the price development of electrical energy is also telecommunications in Vienna: more than 23,500 km of electricity an important aspect of risk, since it is necessary for the traction of grid in Vienna, parts of Lower Austria and Burgenland, almost rail vehicles, the propulsion of the electric buses and the operation 4,700 km of gas grid in operator responsibility in Vienna and of stations and management as well as construction. Also, the parts of Lower Austria, and operation of 560 km of district heating requirements from laws and regulations (for example, energy effiprimary grid in Vienna. In addition, Wiener Netze own 178,886 ciency law) have to be taken into account regarding the limitation fiber kilometers, corresponding to 2,216 cable kilometers, which is in availability. In the area of external services strategic partnerships the largest solely fibre-based network in Vienna, operated by Wien may pose a risk aspect. Energie. Bestattung und Friedhöfe Wien business model 2015 The essential services of the Wiener Netze are the installation The business model of Bestattung und Friedhöfe includes and maintenance of electricity and natural gas connections, the Friedhöfe Wien, Bestattung Wien, Krematorium Wien, Sarglogistik maintenance of the district heating primary network in Vienna, Wien, Tierfriedhof Wien and Druckerei Lischkar. maintenance, surveying, technical inspection and other services, the provision of security and services (gas emergency, power Bestattung und Friedhöfe Wien’s business model is the provision outage service) and the installation, maintenance and reading of of services and products for bereavements in Greater Vienna. The electricity and gas meters. The rollout of the new electricity meter services include in particular burials (earth, urns and crypt burial), – smart meters – is implemented step by step in accordance with the organisation and execution of funeral services ( one-stop regulatory requirements. shop ), cremations, rental and maintenance of grave sites, maintenance of cemeteries, stone carvings and animal burials. In addition to the risk aspects concerning all Group subsidiaries, As products, they offer metal coffins of our their own production, especially workplace conditions and the EIA (environmental grave stones, grave plates, grave monuments, grave borders, impact assessment) suitability for services provided by third party flowers and funeral printing products. construction (civil engineering) have been identified as further risks for Wiener Netze. Here, Wiener Netze rely on their certified Important risk aspects from the perspective of stakeholders – in management systems. Wiener Netze are certified e.g. following addition to those already mentioned – are the origin and quality ISO 9001 (Quality management), ISO 14001 (Environmental of the resource (the problem of use of incorrect raw materials for management), ISO 1090 (Technical requirements for the execution paints, metals, etc.) and materials. Therefore stones are primarily of steel structures), EN ISO 3834 (Quality requirements for fusion ordered from local sources and with good working conditions. welding of metallic materials), ÖVGW QS GNB 200 (Quality Stones without a certificate, for example, from India or China, are requirements placed on gas grid operators) and ONR 192050 not used. (Compliance Management Systems certified in the department of network technology gas and district heating). All certificates are The priority for regional products also applies to garden supply available for download on the Wiener Netze website: and floristry. To reduce the dependence on energy suppliers (elechttp://www.wienernetze.at/eportal/ep/channelView.do/pagetricity, natural gas), waste heat is used in the own energy supply TypeId/40374/channelId/-43304 and self-generation by photovoltaic is expanded. The certification of the printing company Druckerei Lischkar in 2008 confirmed that Wiener Linien, Wiener Lokalbahnen and WIPARK their products comply with the guidelines of the Austrian eco-label business model 2015 for low-emission printing products. The business model “personal mobility” summarizes Wiener Linien, Wiener Lokalbahnen and WIPARK. The business model includes the provision and operation of a comprehensive public network for personal mobility in Vienna by Wiener Linien and mobility services in Greater Vienna by Wiener Lokalbahnen. Wiener Linien operate on a total route network of 1,083 km, five subway lines, 29 tram and 127 bus lines, 104 subway stations and 5,203 stations (incl. commission-based transport and Nightline). With its 2,030 vehicles for passenger transport they have produced 19,766 million square kilometers. Wiener Lokalbahnen offer rail passenger transport between Vienna and southern Viennese surrounding area and bus services in the Viennese region (VOR). With its 148 passenger vehicles (incl. transport of disabled people (WLT)) Wiener Lokalbahnen have thereby produced 526 million square kilometers. WIPARK contributed 20,064 parking spaces in 67 garages to relieve the public space from motorised individual traffic. The share of public transport in the modal split could be held for the fourth year in a row at 39%. 18 Wiener Stadtwerke /09 WIENER STADTWERKE'S MANAGEMENT APPROACH Strategy Using the triple bottom line as a basis, Wiener Stadtwerke have 2010, sustainability has been integrated into the company's pursued their economic, environmental, social and societal goals strategy – since then corporate strategy and sustainability strategy for a long time. 2006, Wiener Stadtwerke adopted their sustainaare closely interlinked. Thus, the corporate strategy is based not bility principles. 2008, Wiener Stadtwerke joined the only on earnings-related criteria, but social responsibility and UN Global Compact and committed themselves, inter alia, to the profitability form equivalent overall objectives to which the Group precautionary principle. aligns its actions. The Wiener Stadtwerke Board is responsible for the development of the strategy. The Board – together with the With the first Consolidated Sustainability Report published in managing directors of group subsidiaries – fixes the objectives of 2008, the sustainability program was implemented as a planning the Group and the operational implementation. and control instrument. The sustainability principles can be found on the following page, the sustainability program is available at The objectives and measures of the Group or at least one Group nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at. subsidiary contained in the sustainability program 2016 also correspond (with one exception) to all topics deemed as essential within the materiality analysis conducted in 2015. www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/10111-Wiener-Stadtwerke-Holding-AG Corporate Governance Wiener Stadtwerke Group has implemented a comprehensive Wiener Stadtwerke bear a great financial responsibility. To meet risk management system that enables the early identification of these demands, they apply modern principles of good and resopportunities and risks. The risk management system of the entire ponsible corporate management. To ensure proper and efficient Group is fully functional according to opinion of the auditing and business practices Wiener Stadtwerke Group uses effective tax consulting firm BDO Austria GmbH, 2013, and the implementools of corporate governance and control. The structures and tation of processes, activities and controls corresponds to an mechanisms set up there are used to establish transparency adequate risk management system. Detailed information on the for the owner, the supervisory authorities and the public and to risk management system and the internal control system (ICS) can ensure appropriate risk management, and focusing on a long-term be found in the Management Report, 2015. success. Wiener Stadtwerke Group’s Compliance Management System The Wiener Stadtwerke Group is owned by the City of Vienna, (CMS) is based at the director-general. The consolidated Directive the owner's representative is the Executive City Councillor for KRL 147/2013 regulates the compliance management system. Environment and Wiener Stadtwerke, Ulli Sima. Wiener Stadtwerke Related to compliance the corporate guideline (KRL) 127/2012: Holding AG is a holding company without any further operations “Code of Conduct”– The principles of conduct of the Wiener on the market. It continues the activities of Wiener Stadtwerke Stadtwerke Group is to name. In addition, a compliance officer (previously a company of Vienna, part of the magistrate) since of the Board and compliance commissioners in all major Group 01.01.1999 in form of operating company subsidiaries. The subsidiaries were appointed and a whistleblower portal was estabmanagement of the operating business is up to the respective lished. 2015 3,000 employees were also trained on anti-corruption directors of the Group companies. At least one of the four Board issues. Moreover, Wiener Stadtwerke counts on certified quality, members is member of the Supervisory Board of each of the Group safety and environmental management systems. companies. Further information about the Compliance Management System The Supervisory Board of Wiener Stadtwerke AG is elected (CMS) and the corporate audit, the Vienna City Court of Auditors according to § 87 para. 1 Austrian Stock Corporation Act by (formerly Vienna Control Board), the personnel, complaints, the annual general meeting of shareholders. It consists of eight and supplier management can be found in the Sustainability shareholder representatives (four men and women each) and four Report 2015 and at the sustainability portal nachhaltigkeit. employee representatives, who are posted in accordance with § wienerstadtwerke.at, as well as informations on stakeholder and 110 Austrian Federal Act on the Labour Constitution and freedom sustainability management and memberships. of association. Sustainability report 2015 – Executive summary 19 /10 WIENER STADTWERKE'S SUSTAINABLILITY PRINCIPLES A s a result of an intensive discussion process Wiener Stadtwerke have adopted five equivalent sustainability principles in 2006. They describe our fundamental objectives in relation to our employees, our customers, climate and environmental protection, the economy and society as a whole. Our principles correspond to programs and objectives of the City of Vienna for sustainable development. Our sustainability principles are: WE ARE A SERVICE PROVIDER IN THE AREA WE ARE A SOCIALLY ORIENTED COMPANY. OF SERVICES OF GENERAL INTEREST WITH FOCUS ON THE REGION OF VIENNA. • Jointly developed management principles are the guiding principles for a consistent behavior of our managers. • We supply the Vienna region comprehensively with essential • Our goal is to avoid danger to life and health of our employees. services for daily life. • We therefore strengthen employee protection and corporate • Our services are equally accessible for all people and are reliabhealth care as a basis for safe and healthy working conditions. le, secure and available in high quality. • We offer our employees an incentive plan, and attractive jobs. • Our offers are continuously optimized according to the require• We promote the personal potential and commitment of our emments of our customers in the region. ployees and therefore invest in the training of our employees. • We take into account the special needs of certain groups such • As one of the leading training companies in the region of Vienna, as families, disadvantaged persons or people with disabilities. we have an important task to give young people a chance to training and an optimal entry into profession. • We take employee participation of all employees seriously. WE ARE A ECONOMICALLY SUCCESSFUL COMPANY. WE ARE A COMPANY AWARE OF ITS • We are committed to profitability and sustainable business RESPONSIBILITIES TO SOCIETY. success against the owner, the City of Vienna. • Customer satisfaction is one of our main goals, because only • As one of the largest investors in Austria we contribute to adsatisfied customers can ensure our economic success. ded value in the region of Vienna. • We focus on quality and performance in order to compete. • Observance of human rights and respecting human dignity are • As a public company we calculate fair and reasonable. a matter of course in our company, this must also apply to our • Research and development of new products are a prerequisite business partners. for our competitiveness in the future. • Equal rights for all people in the company, regardless of gender, age, political or religious affiliation, ethnicity or color, is our top priority. WE ARE AN ECOLOGICALLY • We oppose any form of corruption and rely on operational MINDED COMPANY. transparency. • We seek dialogue with all target groups to promote sustainable • Our installations are efficient and meet the latest state development of the Vienna Region by our services. of the art. • Climate protection is an important and serious concern to us; we are just as careful as possible when using natural resources. • We are committed to continuous improvement of our environmental performance. • Our products and services are environmentally friendly and enable our customers a sustainable behavior. 20 Wiener Stadtwerke /11 WIENER STADTWERKE'S SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM 2016 With the first Group Sustainability Report published in 2008 our program into five areas of action has been maintained in order to sustainability program has been implemented as a planning and ensure transparency and comprehensibility: control tool. The sustainability program is resolved each year by the entire management of Wiener Stadtwerke, the Sustainability • Climate and environment Board. This top sustainability committee consists of all Board • Public services and customers members, all managing directors and elected staff representatives • Employees and the sustainability officers. • Societal environment The aspects identified as material from stakeholder perspectives • Organisation. and the corresponding output and outcome indicators (see page 10 / 11) collected during the project “Measuring Shared Value” In Sustainability Program 2016 nine goals with a deadline of 2015 could be assigned to the sustainability program 2016. With the were achieved and all other goals were maintained. Thus, the exception of the aspect supplier evaluation all material topics targets, especially the development of renewable energy and a correspond to the objectives and measures of the Group or at least 40% share of public transport in the modal split will be continued one Group member. Therefore, the separation of the sustainability and are backed by new measures. Highlights of our sustainability program 2016 Climate and environment Public services and customers Wien Energie aims to increase the share of electricity from The overall objective of Wiener Linien is to increase the public renewable sources by 2030 to 35%. To this end, generation shall transport share in the modal split to 40% by 2020. Since 2012 the be diversified and the capacity should be expanded from 312 proportion is, despite a continuous increase in the number of MWel (2015) to at least 1,100 MWel. No less than 200 MWel are to passengers, remaining unchanged at 39%. To make trips on public be realized by 2020 with the construction of wind farms in Austria transport more attractive, Wiener Linien focuses on modern and and additional 100 MWel by 2022 by means of photovoltaic comfortable vehicles (for example, the “low-floor tram offensive”) systems. End of 2015, the production capacity for district heat and more offers and measures to increase client satisfaction (e.g. from renewable energy sources amounted to 186 MWth. Their introduction of a service team, establishment of electronic survey share is to be expanded by 2030 even at 39% and the generation tools). capacity (incl. waste heat) to at least 415 MW. So a large heat pump Wiener Lokalbahnen plan to equip their entire stations by 2020 with a useful heat output of 27 MW is to be built for the Vienna with barrier-free access. district heating system by 2017 at the power plant site Simmering. Wien Energie is to extend its consulting and service offer by the Until 2030, 50% of the annual low temperature heat market is to construction of an energy theme park (Energie-Erlebniswelt) at be covered by district heating (40%) and decentralized solutions the Spittelau location by 2017 and to expand the services of its (10%). Wien Energie aims to reach a market share of 43% of the Ombudsman for social hardship cases, to reduce social hardship in Viennese low temperature market by 2030. the context of energy poverty. Wiener Netze plan until 2018 to introduce a mobility concept, Wiener Netze will start in 2017 with the rollout of smart metering whereby there will be a significant fleet reduction and thus positive for electricity and gas. environmental effects. To increase customer satisfaction Bestattung Wien will open in To increase the energy efficiency of rail vehicles Wiener Linien 2016 two new branch offices. plan to equip the entire metro and tram fleet with recuperation by 2017. Recuperation means that during braking, the kinetic energy Employees is converted back into electrical energy and fed back into the grid. Primary objective is to promote the health of our employees and And in the upcoming fourth phase of expansion of the subway to reduce the rate of notifiable accidents at work. For this e.g. Benetwork, the construction of the new metro stations will be made stattung und Friedhöfe Wien will perform the pilot project health in energy-optimized design while maximizing utilization of existing management until 2017. waste heat. In order to create conditions that allow optimal working, a Wiener Lokalbahnen intend to implement resource-saving Group-wide employee survey is to be performed in 2017. measures, like roof greening, rainwater harvesting and use of To strengthen diversity and equal opportunities a network within solar thermal energy, at the new construction of the depot for the the Group is to be set up to share knowledge and experience of Badner Bahn and the premise (WLB-center) at Inzersdorf until and for people with disabilities by 2017. And at Wiener Linien 2018. about 25 “respect coaches” will be on duty by mid-2016. They will Friedhöfe Wien will expand their successful bee conservation support the managers to have and show an appreciative attitude project at Vienna's Central Cemetery by 2017 to more cemeteries. during employee interviews. Sustainability report 2015 – Executive summary 21 /12 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 W iener Stadtwerke are member of United Nations Global Compact since 2008 and are committed to its ten principles. With those principles, concerning their business, they incorporate Additional information can be found at our sustainability portal nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at. such requirements into their business processes and set goals in its No developments are given for the principles 1 to 5 for the year sustainability program, underpinned with measures and deadlines. 2015. The background is that for Wiener Stadtwerke as well as generally in Austria the respect for and observance of human rights is The UN Global Compact asks its members to deliver every year a matter of course. So neither in the Wiener Stadtwerke Group nor a communication on progress. Our communication on progress in its environment there is forced or child labor. Therefore, these for 2015 is an integral part of our sustainability report 2015. The issues were not explicitly addressed in the sustainability guidelines following table lists the related guidelines like e.g. organisational or in the sustainability program. systems and identifies the progress made. The page numbers refer to the corresponding illustrations in the long version of the For further explanations, see our Commitment to the protection Sustainability Report 2015 ( nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at ), of human rights and against forced and child labor, which also is only German version available). available for download at the Sustainability Portal (in German). Page references are to the sustainability report, not to this summary. PRINCIPLE 1 / Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights PRINCIPLE 2 / Exclusion of human rights violations Commitment • Commitment to the protection of human rights and against forced and child labor. p. 21 and see sustainability portal: nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/download-bereich.html PRINCIPLE 3 / Respecting the right of assembly and freedom of association Commitment • Sustainability principles: see p. 21 and sustainability portal: nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/de/organisation/leitsaetze.html Systems • Employee representation: see p. 19 and sustainability portal: nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/organisation/stakeholder.html PRINCIPLE 4 / Elimination of all forms of forced labor PRINCIPLE 5 / Abolition of child labor Commitment • Commitment to the protection of human rights and against forced and child labor. Download from sustainability portal: nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/download-bereich.html PRINCIPLE 6 / Eliminating discrimination Commitment • Sustainability principles: see p. 21 and sustainability portal: nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/de/organisation/leitsaetze.html • Anti-discrimination manual: see sustainability portal: nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/de/mitarbeiterinnen/vielfalt/personelle-vielfalt.html • Equal opportunities officer and equal opportunities program: see sustainability portal: nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/de/ mitarbeiterinnen/vielfalt/personelle-vielfalt.html Measures 2015 • Annual participation in the Vienna Daughter Day (Wiener Töchtertag): see p. 70 • Workshop for sensitization for equality and advancement of women: see p. 70 • Wiener Linien: Formation (2013) and extension of Women's Network (Wiener Frauen Linien): see p. 70 • New collective agreement with new time models for a better balance between family and profession: see p. 72 • Introduction of a baby month and a care leave (Pflegekarenz): see p. 72 22 Wiener Stadtwerke Results 2015 • Increasing women's share in the 1st and 2nd management level from 21.4% in 2014 to 23.6% in 2015: see p. 15, 69 • Increasing women's share in total (from 17.0 to 17.2 %) and in admissions (from 22.6 to 24.7 %): see p. 69 • Wiener Netze: Award amaZone 2015 from the initiative “Sprungbrett” (“stepping stone”) in the category Public companies and companies with high public awareness for their involvement in the promotion of female apprentices: see p. 70, 99 • Winning female apprentices for technical jobs: see p. 21 and sustainability portal: nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/de/mitarbeiterinnen/aus-weiterbildung/lehrlingsausbildung.html • Additional means of apprenticeships for recognised refugees: see p. 67, 71 • Cooperation with an integration project for disabled (AfB): see p. 96 PRINCIPLE 7 / Supporting the precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8 / Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Commitment • Sustainability principles: see p. 21 and sustainability portal: nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/de/organisation/leitsaetze.html Systems • Environmental and integrated management systems: see p. 50/51 • Sustainability management with under others working groups on climate protection, green procurement, customer satisfaction, management systems and sustainability communication: see sustainability portal nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/organisation/management.html Measures 2015 • Finalization of energy optimization of the municipal solid waste incineration plant Spittelau: see p. 84 • Expansion of the business area district cooling: see p. 84 • Increasing the energy efficiency of rail vehicles (Wiener Linien): see p. 85 Results 2015 • MSWI Spittelau: Increasing the efficiency of 70 to 76% and tripling of current production – with no change in waste throughput and heat extraction: see p. 84 • Construction of district cooling centers in Vienna Central Station and in the geriatric center Donaustadt: see p. 84 • Acquisition of further 150 trams with energy recovery, type ULF (ultra low floor): see p. 85 • Keeping the public transport's share of the modal split to 39 %, see p. 61. 2015 about 954 (2014: 946) million passengers used the mobility services offered by Wiener Linien and Wiener Lokalbahnen: see p. 56 • Reduction of sulfur dioxide emissions from heating plants by stopping the use of heavy fuel oil: see p. 83, 91 • Reduction in nitrogen oxide emissions of the bus fleet of Wiener Linien by successive replacement of buses fueled with Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) by electric buses and hybrid regular buses: see p. 88, 91 • CO2-emissions: see p. 87 ff. • Emissions of air pollutants: see p. 90, 91 PRINCIPLE 9 / Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment • Sustainability principles: see p. 21 and sustainability portal: nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/de/organisation/leitsaetze.html Systems • Internal RTI (research, technological development, innovation) fund: see sustainability portal: nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/daseinsvorsorge/innovationen.html • Energy-saving advice: see sustainability portal: nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at/oekologie/produkte-dienste/energiesparen.html Measures 2015 • Expanding the production of electricity and heat from renewable energy sources: see p. 82 • Construction of a total of 22 citizens’ solar power plants in Vienna and Lower Austria in the period 2012-2015: see p. 34, 46 • Realization of district cooling projects: see p. 55, 84 • Promotion of electric mobility in Vienna: see p. 86 • Development of mobility app „smile“: see p. 102 Sustainability report 2015 – Executive summary 23 Results 2015 • Increase in produced electricity from renewable sources froms's 816 GWhel in 2014 to 950 GWhel in 2015: see p. 82 • Production of around 5.85 kWh solar power with the citizens’ solar power plants: see p. 83 • Implementation of three new power supply models for decentralized use of renewable energy: see p. 104 • Further reduction in the annual consumption of traction current by 1% (4 kWh) compared to last year with an increase in square kilometers of rail vehicles by 0.5%: see p. 83 • Increasing the annual tickets for the public transport (Wiener Linien) of 648,227 to 698,968: see p. 57 • Wien Energie: Honoring as National Champion Austria for Environmental & Corporate Sustainability 2014/15 as part of the European Business Award for its activities in the fields of renewable energy, energy consulting, energy poverty and stakeholder dialogue: see p. 99 • Wiener Linien: UITP Award 2015 in the category Customer Experience for the mobility app „smile“: see p. 99 PRINCIPLE 10 / Work against corruption Systeme • Compliance Managements System (CMS): see p. 18 • Compliance commissioners in the subsidiary companies: see p. 18 • Code of Conduct: see p. 18, 19, 66 and homepage of Wiener Stadtwerke wienerstadtwerke.at : > Unternehmen > Organisation> Code of Conduct. Measures 2015 • Training of more than 3,000 employees to anticorruption topics: see p. 18, 50 /13 IMPRINT PUBLISHER AND RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTENT COMMUNICATION CONSULTING & DESIGN Wiener Stadtwerke Holding AG CIDCOM Werbeagentur GmbH, Wien Thomas-Klestil-Platz 14 A-1030 Wien Telefon: +43 (0)1 531 23-0 ILLUSTRATIONS post@wienerstadtwerke.at wienerstadtwerke.at CIDCOM Werbeagentur GmbH, Wien nachhaltigkeit.wienerstadtwerke.at PRINTING AND FINISHING PROJECT MANAGEMENT Druckerei Lischkar, Wien Dipl.-Ing.in Isabella Kossina, MBA, Printed on ecofriendly paper from the Wiener Stadtwerke Group Sustainability Officer sample folder of “ÖkoKauf Wien”. CONCEPT AND CONSULTING CONTACT Dr.in Barbara Zeschmar-Lahl, Contact person for questions about the report is the Group BZL Kommunikation and Projektsteuerung GmbH, Oyten (D) Sustainability Officer: Dipl.-Ing.in Isabella Kossina, MBA Mail: Isabella.Kossina@wienerstadtwerke.at Tel.: +43 (0) 1 531 23-74090 24 Wiener Stadtwerke
