UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 MARCH STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT For the third time Broste Copenhagen is once again excited to continue our approach to support the ten UN Global Compact principles and further emphasize our unwavering social responsibility as a leading Scandinavian company within interior design. The past year Broste Copenhagen has accelerated and we will keep developing upon our existing commitments in the industry for the years to come. I am pleased to confirm that Broste Copenhagen will keep addressing and promoting the United Nations Global Compact in the scope of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption once again. Our commitment and actions that will be described in this Communication on Progress 2016 report will guarantee that we’ll take the necessary steps towards business integrity and a responsible approach in our daily activities and objectives which can strengthen our business model within interior design. Currently our efforts and exertion to integrate the ten principles into our business practice and culture is progressing so that strategies and operations regarding our procedures, practice and our ethical behaviour is aligned with our designs. We are proud of our accomplishments in regards of human rights and labour practice, to commit and promote environmental solutions and eliminate corruptive behaviour as far as our reach allows us to go. In Broste Copenhagen we set the highest standards in interior design as well as in social responsibility using the United Nations ten principles as a guiding frame for our business and will remain continuously to share our information and policies with all our stakeholders of Broste Copenhagen. An archive of our previous Communications on Progress reports can be found on the UN Global Compact website including our own website. Every stakeholder is welcome to provide feedback for further considerations and share practices that could be of relevance for improving the implementation of the ten principles in Broste Copenhagen promoting transparency. I sign this document to assure that all information is correct and accurate and to assure the United Nations that Broste Copenhagen will continue our commitment. Yours Sincerely Kim Larsen, CEO Broste Copenhagen Vision HUMAN RIGHTS Broste Copenhagen is a privately held company that publicly endorse and commit to adhere to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights including the Danish legislation and the European Human Rights Declaration. It is essential for Broste Copenhagen to be more than just interior design as our business philosophy states; “It is a way of life that we are eager to share with the world around us.” Progress At Broste Copenhagen we have a long tradition of travelling the world for inspiration and materials in our designs. Our designers and creative team is constantly working on developing the range with respect for the fine balance between the Nordic tradition and the trends of a movement which is reflected in our designs. By doing so we always encourage our designers and employees to promote and respect human rights in countries and locations that are not used to our high standards in Scandinavia. Broste Copenhagen will never engage or be complicit in any human rights abuse and our policy is that if any situations should come to our attention it is our business practice to conduct a thorough investigation before any continued cooperation. This is to secure that no severe violation is performed, human rights are upheld and no infringements is reported in the future. Every employee in Broste Copenhagen is committed to due diligence every step of the way. Our design collection which changes twice every year covers a wide range of products including candles and lanterns to tableware, home textiles and decorative items. Our portfolio of products and as a company engaged in the design industry means that we do acknowledge the risks that may be associated with our firm. However we pay a particular attention to the challenges faced by vulnerable groups, such as children or men and women working under conditions unacceptable to our standards which is why we pursue to support human rights as a guiding principle. Results There has been no reported incidents during the company’s history. All company procedures are to be effective to protect internationally proclaimed human rights for all, with a zero tolerance of noncompliance. Broste Copenhagen will never hesitate to take action and abolish any partnership or remove design products if any detections are made or if behaviour seems questionable in terms of human rights abuse. Having suppliers around the world and operating in countries such as China and India requires that we exercise due diligence to proactively prevent and mitigate potential risks and adverse any human rights impacts. In addition to this we have chosen to continue our support of different NGO’s that protects and ensures basic human rights for the children who have little opportunity to speak for themselves. We support the Danish initiative Mødrehjælpen (Help for mothers) and Kids with Cancer. Vision LABOUR We strive to ensure that the company supports diversity and non-discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. It is important to Broste Copenhagen that our suppliers and business partners respect our commitment to the UN Global Compact and that we promote a diverse and creative workforce working in a healthy and safe environment. Furthermore we wish to safeguard workers’ rights hence our support to the International Labour Organizations (ILO) which promotes; rights at work, encourage decent employment opportunities, enhance social protection and strengthen dialogue on work-related issues to adhere with global labour guidelines and to comply with our own national work legislation. Progress At our headquarters in Denmark every person is ensured the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining with an individual chosen union and Broste Copenhagen support this. Every employee can always take up issues and have the opportunity to discuss working conditions with the union and the work representative in Broste Copenhagen if any concerns arise this includes grievances or complaints. We demand all our suppliers to adhere to national legislation and labor laws. We continue to make visits to our biggest suppliers, and encourage management to continuously improve conditions for workers in addition to the law. Results Broste Copenhagen have conducted several surveys in the past in regards of employee satisfaction but for the first time we have chosen to process the information more structured and include it in our Communication on Progress. We look forward to showing you the results in our next report. Further we have put a side a substantial amount and created a group to be responsible for employee's interests and arrange activities outside work to ensure our employees satisfaction and wellbeing. Collaboration throughout our supply chain is an essential part of our way of doing business and it is important to make thorough audits to ensure the standard is in line with our commitment to UN Global Compact and our Code of Conduct. In 2016 we have conducted audits in China and India where our biggest suppliers are located. We are happy to announce that nothing has occurred that could be of concern regarding our adherence and compliance to the UN Global Compacts principles on labour issues. Only minor issues has been reported such as missing objects for first aid boxes and limited lighting in one factory. Issues is noted and we expect it to be solved by our next visit. Vision ENVIRONMENT At Broste Copenhagen we take our environmental concern very serious. As our own guided principle we believe to be an active part of the society in which we live and act – as individuals, as citizens, and as a business, both now and in the future. That is why our approach to environmental challenges is reflected in many of our design collections. This is an area where we take an active part in guaranteeing that our products do as little harm to people, the society and the environment making sure that customer can choose environmental produced design products. Progress We do believe to be accountable and responsible for our products and that we can be held responsible for a certain standard when it comes to our designs. This is a challenge that we accept although we acknowledge that it is a continually progress that will never end. We believe that it is better to participate and undertake initiatives that can make a difference instead of not doing anything. Our business model lies within the intersection of sustainable products and our business supporting operations and strategies to advance in environmental opportunities that inspire our customers. Our initiatives are our actions to advance a broader societal priority with an emphasis on certified produced materials in our collection and line of products. Our certifications are presented on the next pages that is our labels which guarantees our customers that we keep our promises. By our ethical choice of material use such as certified wood, recycling waste, energy saving sources and our continuously progress to reduce harmful substances and chemicals in our products we encourage environmental friendly technologies and techniques in our design collections for the end user and customer addressing the principle of mitigating risks associated with environmental concerns and consumer health. Results At Broste Copenhagen we will undertake and establish a more systematic approach towards environmental products and services. It is our goal and ambition to use supplementary measureable quantitative data to effectively address and solve issues regarding our environmental impact like our CO2 emission and energy savings underlining our sustainability strategy and advocacy. Furthermore we will enable a systematic approach each year as a way of measuring and compare past progress in regards to our percentage of labeled products. In 2015 we have changed our entire lighting system at our warehouse with an impressive result. The total reduction of energy on a yearly basis amounts to approximately 64 percent and 35726 kg in CO2 compared to 2015. For the first time we have made a thorough examination of our product range, and out of our overall portfolio in our Spring/Summer catalogue of 2016 a total of 13 percent represent products certified within sustainability and use of chemicals (see list of different certifications below). In addition to our certified products, we have a selection of more than 160 products based on different principles of sustainability. However, they have not yet obtained certification. Examples include our leather rugs and linen tablecloths. Our leather rugs are made of 90 percent reused leather and the production of the linen is in nature eco-friendly. Recycled materials We use products made of recycled glass as part of our CERTIFICATIONS environmental strategy to minimizing waste. It conserve natural resources and energy consumption is restrained. Glass is an ideal sustainable product with many advantages. Most importantly, GOTS (Global Organic Textile Standard) glass can be recycled again and again without it deteriorating. Only textile products that contain a minimum of 70% organic fibres can become GOTS certified. All chemical inputs must meet specific environmental and toxicological criteria ensuring your skin is less exposed when in contact with the material. The Standard is recognized as the world's leading processing standard for textiles made from organic fibres. It defines high-level environmental criteria along the entire organic ÖEKO-TEX textiles supply chain and requires compliance with social criteria as well. The ÖEKO-TEX® Standard 100 is an independent Aswell as Organic Exchange we want to support this initiative and we are testing and certification system for textile raw materials, proud that more than 75 of our products carry this label. intermediate and end products at all stages of production. ÖEKO-TEX 100 is a health care label, which predominantly ensures the end-user against toxic fumes. So far Broste Copenhagen has 18 products with this label. FSC FSC We actively support the international recognized non-profit Nordic Ecolabel organization FSC™. In an FSC™-certified forest no more trees The Nordic Ecolabel is a voluntary eco-labeling scheme than the forest can reproduce is felled, and over-exploitation of that evaluates a product's impact on the environment nature is avoided. In addition, FSC™ guarantees that flora and fauna are throughout the whole life cycle. The label guarantees, among other things protected and that the people who work in the forest are guaranteed that climate requirements are taken into account, and that CO2 education, safety and a fair pay. emissions (and other harmful gasses) are limited where it is most relevant. Organic Exchange Foofsafe The Organic Exchange is a non-profit business organizaFood Safe is a label that Broste Copenhagen uses to guarantee tion focused on creating environmental and social benefits products are tested and food safe approved when used for through the expansion of organic agriculture. The first project consumption of food and liquids. Some of our ceramic and glass products focuses on transitioning 10% of the world’s supply and demand of cotton used for food contact are produced according to EU Regulative 1935/2004 to organic cotton within 10 years. The Organic Exchange also works to and complies with consolidation Act 822. Many of our ceramic products for help increase consumer awareness and Broste Copenhagen want to interior purposes like the Box “Jenny” Brass are Food Safe labeled. participate and help this development. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Broste Copenhagen has a zero-tolerance policy in regards to bribery and corruption. Our dedication to addressing and advancing anti-corruption and uphold our business integrity aspect is embedded in our values, code of conduct and CSR policies. In Broste we believe in the responsibility promoting trust and fairness including designs that is manufactured under supervision that can reduce risks associated with unethical behaviour. Progress As a principle in our policy facing unethical conduct we feel obligated to lead an investigation if any suspicion towards corruption is detected. This course of action will guide us in communion to protect the company against risks in relation to fraud, bribery, extortion, corruption or other forms of unethical misconduct. Broste Copenhagen will always undertake in the progress towards eliminating and abolish corruption in our business, from our engagement with customer, partners and in our supply chain. Results In Broste Copenhagen there have been no concerns regarding anti-corruption and the delivery of our services or products. The company have not been the subject of any investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or any other necessary actions taken related to corruption or bribery.
