UN Global Compact Report Communication on Progress Participant Rubicon Global Published 2016/5/10 Time Period October 2014 – May 2016 Format Stand-alone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation Level This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Self-assessment  Includes a CEO statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes Statement of continue support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am writing to you to express Rubicon Global’s continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In 2011, we committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and I am proud to report that we have and will continue to do so. Our third Communication on Progress describes our efforts to support the ten principles this year and our goals for the coming year. We will continue to support the efforts of the United Nations and look to it for guidance and thought leadership. Sincerely yours, Lane Moore, Executive Chairman, Rubicon Global Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Throughout 2015, Rubicon Global’s Human Resources team updated our company policies and enhanced our employee orientation process. Efforts include expanding training for all employees and creating the Rubiculture employee handbook. In April 2016, Rubicon Global completed its B Impact Assessment and was recertified as a Certified B Corporation. Rubicon Global joins a league of corporations that believe business is the most powerful way to create change. As a Certified B Corporation, Rubicon Global must publicly report on its social and environmental performance using established thirdparty standards. The B Impact Assessment measures across governance, workers, community and the environment. Rubicon Global’s B Impact Assessment score is reviewed periodically with the next assessment to be completed by the end of 2018. To view Rubicon Global’s 2016 B Impact Assessment, please visit www.BCorporation.net/RubiconGlobal. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Right violations. Current human resources policies and policies with Rubicon Global’s vendors will be under review during the remainder of 2016 and the beginning of 2017. On Rubicon Global’s next United Nations Communication on Progress, the company will report back on policies established, company-wide training developed and consultation held with stakeholders. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Rubicon Global uses third party assessments like the B Impact Assessment to measure its performance and identify gaps. In addition, Rubicon Global worked with outside human resources consultants to ensure the proper policies and measurement tools are in place. Rubicon Global implemented a new policy regarding maternity and paternity leave which allows for 30 working days minimum paid maternity leave and 11 working days of paid leave for paternity leave. Paid healthcare premiums for all full time Rubicon Global employees was also implemented in 2016. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labor for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Rubicon Global adheres to the laws set forth by the U.S. Department of Labor and the Georgia Department of Labor. During the remainder of 2016, the Human Resources team will be reviewing current policies, assessing risks and setting goals in this area. In 2015, Rubicon Global had an employee led team, the RuBicontributors, which looked additional benefits and opportunities such as telecommuting, volunteer activities and cross-departmental collaboration. The team will presented their findings to the Executive Team for review and implementation. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Right violations. Rubicon Global has introduced and implemented new policies and benefits for employees. The Rubiculture books is the tool used to educate the company on these newly implemented policies. Some of these new benefits and policies include unlimited paid-time-off is now being offered to all exempt Rubicon Global employees, paid time off for volunteer hours for all full time employees based upon the length of time you’ve worked at Rubicon, every two years an associated can qualify for 1 week of personal development and sponsored fitness sessions to support employee health and wellness. Rubicon Global is consulting with key stakeholders during the remainder of 2016 to review current policies, assess risks and set goals related to labor rights. In 2016, the Human Resources team will help lead the implementation of employeedriven benefits. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. On Rubicon Global’s next United Nations Communication on Progress the company will report back on policies established, company-wide training developed and consultation held with stakeholders. Rubicon Global uses third party assessments like the B Impact Assessment to measure its performance and identify gaps. In the area of workers (which includes job creation, compensation, benefits/training, worker ownership and work environment), Rubicon Global scored a passing score of 22. In the area of community (which includes community products/services, suppliers/distributors, local involvement, diversity, civic engagement/giving), Rubicon Global received a passing score of 22. Before the end of 2016, Rubicon Global will work to improve both of these areas on the B Impact Assessment. To view Rubicon Global’s 2016 B Impact Assessment, please visit www.BCorporation.net/RubiconGlobal. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Rubicon Global has a clear vision for helping North American and the world’s top brands reduce their impact and protect our communities. The company’s business model is built on sustainability, efficiency, transparency and responsibility. Rubicon Global utilizes innovative solutions in order to help companies improve the way they do business and turn waste into a resource. Rubicon Global’s mission is to keep as much material as possible out of landfills and find new or existing recycling solutions for waste materials. Rubicon Global partners with its clients to come up with innovative alternatives for their waste stream, with minimizing costs and achieving the goal of zero-waste as primary objectives. Rubicon Global introduced a Small, Medium Business (SMB) sales department at the beginning of 2016. The SMB department is working towards providing the same best practices to small and medium businesses globally. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Rubicon Global’s environmental efforts include:  Rubicon Global works with customers to reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills and reduce each company’s environmental footprint. Our experts, including those in the Rubicon Global Environmental Resources and Sustainability teams seek out new technology and improved solutions for our customers every day. We use metrics and Big Data analytics to pinpoint opportunities and continuously reduce environmental impact.  Each Rubicon Global employee participated in a thorough orientation that covers both Sustainability and thought leadership, led by the VP Investor Relations and the Director of Environmental Resources.  Rubicon Global believes in sharing best practices with the public. In 2014, Rubicon Global sponsored a Knowledge@Wharton report entitled “The Sharing Economy: A New Way of Doing Business.” This report featured articles on the impact of sharing economy on the environment. The report was distributed widely to the business comminute and is available to the public. Read the report here: http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/the-sharing-economy-a-new-way-of-doing-business/.  Rubicon Global believes in equipping the next generation with tools to build sustainable businesses. Rubicon Global joined the board of the Initiative for Global Environmental Leadership (IGEL) program at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania to create an academic partnership focused on market driven approaches to sustainability. Wharton, America’s oldest business school, is known for its cutting edge approach to sustainability. Rubicon Global’s Executive Chairman is proud to serve on the IGEL Corporate Advisory Board and support the school’s mission to develop and disseminate business solutions to sustainability on a global scale through future leaders and public outreach.  The Basel Action Network (BAN) is the leading global source of information and advocacy on toxic trade and international hazardous waste treaties. BAN was created out of the United Nations treaty signed at the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal. The convention was initiated in response to numerous international scandals regarding hazardous waste trafficking that began to occur in the late 1980s. As a BAN e-Stewards Enterprise, Rubicon Global is committed to working with certified eStewards recyclers whenever possible and supporting fair and just recycling practices.  Rubicon Global is a member of the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), a non-profit organization dedicated to sustainable building design and developers of the LEED rating system. LEED experts at Rubicon Global work with customers to earn maximum credits and earn green building certification.  Rubicon Global is a member of Enactus (formerly Students in Free Enterprise (SIFE)), an international non-profit seeking to create a better, and more sustainable world through the positive power of business. This organization works with leaders in business and higher education to mobilize university students to make a difference in their communities while developing the skills to become socially responsible business leaders. Participating students form teams on their campus and apply business concepts to develop outreach projects that improve the quality of life and standard of living for those in need.  Rubicon Global is a founding member of the US Zero Waste Business Council. USZWBC is the first third-party zero waste business certification program for facilities and professionals. USZWBC developed the Zero Waste Business Associate (ZWBA) certification system to train professionals interested in helping businesses achieve Zero Waste.  Rubicon Global is a member of the U.S. Composting Council (USCC) and is committed to advancing innovative and cost-saving solutions that keep valuable materials out of the landfill. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Rubicon Global uses third party assessments like the B Impact Assessment to measure its performance and identify gaps. In the area of the environment (which includes environmental products/services, land/office/plant, inputs, outputs and suppliers/transportation), Rubicon Global scored 43, making this an area of excellence. To view Rubicon Global’s 2016 B Impact Assessment, please visit www.BCorporation.net/RubiconGlobal. On Rubicon Global’s next United Nations Communication on Progress, the company will report back the success of its environmental initiatives and goals for the future. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. During the remainder of 2016, the executive leadership team, led by the Executive Chairmen will be reviewing current policies, assessing risks and setting goals in the area of anti-corruption. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Rubicon Global is consulting with key stakeholders during the remainder of 2016 to review current policies, assess risks and set goals related to anti-corruption. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Rubicon Global uses third party assessments like the B Impact Assessment to measure its performance and identify gaps. In the area of governance (which includes corporate accountability and transparency), Rubicon Global scored 19. To view Rubicon Global’s 2016 B Impact Assessment, please visit www.BCorporation.net/RubiconGlobal. On Rubicon Global’s next United Nations Communication on Progress, the company will report back on policies established, company-wide training developed and consultation held with stakeholders.
