DLA PIPER UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 www.dlapiper.com | 01 REPORT I. INTRODUCTION II. RESPECTING AND SUPPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS (INCLUDING LABOUR RIGHTS) 1. Our People 2. Our Suppliers 3. Our Clients 4. Our Communities i. Human Rights ii. Access to Justice iii. International Development III. CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT 1. Within the Legal Sector 2. Within our Firm 3. In our Supply Chain 4. Through our Advice to Clients 5. Through our Pro Bono Projects IV. WORKING AGAINST CORRUPTION V.  FURTHER INFORMATION STATEMENT I am pleased to submit our third Communication on Progress, and my first as Global CoCEO of DLA Piper. This report sets out how we, as a business, have worked to further embed the Global Compact and the principles of human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption (Principles) into our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. DLA Piper has been a strong supporter of the UN Global Compact initiative since we became signatories in 2013. The firm was founded on a ‘value and values’ proposition and we have always strived to demonstrate the very highest ideals of the legal profession. As a legal service provider, we view the foundation of our profession to be service to our clients, as well as advancing the rule of law and promoting access to justice within our sphere of influence. These issues are at the very heart of our business and operations, and are matters on which we are uniquely placed to contribute. Our membership to the UN Global Compact only serves to enhance our commitment to the key principles, to focus our efforts on improvement and to provide a recognized framework for reporting our progress. 2015 was a positive year for businesses seeking to transition to a more sustainable future. The new Sustainable Development Goals compliment the UNGC Principles by providing an overarching roadmap for global action. The Paris Agreement at the UNFCCC COP 21 was a landmark event and sends a powerful signal to the corporate community that ‘business as usual’ is no longer an option. During 2016 we will continue to refine our commitment to the UN Global Compact and to expand it in line with our expanding geographic footprint. We will be increasing our focus on the impact of business operations on human rights and also further developing our work on children’s rights through our global partnership with UNICEF. We look forward to reporting our progress on these issues in the future. Yours sincerely, Simon Levine Global Co-CEO www.dlapiper.com | 03 I. INTRODUCTION As a leading global business law firm, DLA Piper provides us with great opportunity to use is committed to the highest standards of our legal knowledge and resources to meet honesty, openness and accountability. We are our obligations as a responsible business and proud to be one of the few law firms who to support the rule of law, advance access are signatories to the United Nations Global to justice, human rights, environmental Compact (UN Global Compact) and we are sustainability and support progress towards proud of the progress we have made in working the Sustainable Development Goals. towards its 10 Principles. With over 90 offices in 30 different countries Our approach to the UN Global Compact is we are diverse in nationality, experience and implemented throughout our global business, outlook. We value diversity in all its forms which operates through two partnerships, and have programmes in place to nurture and DLA Piper International LLP (‘DLA Piper grow what makes us unique, and to ensure International’) and DLA Piper LLP (US) that the firm reflects the community around (‘DLA Piper US’). Each of the partnerships us. This also allows us to serve as valuable has an appropriate governance and executive partners in furthering the needs and interests structure, and the two partnerships are of all of our clients. bound together by a Swiss Verein with Our formal commitment to the Global a Global Board appointed by and from Compact and its ten principles of human DLA Piper International and DLA Piper US. rights, labour, environment and antiAs lawyers, our profession is one of public corruption was made in February 2013. service. We are guardians of the law and act The following report covers the 2015 calendar as trusted advisors to assist those in need of year and reflects the collective actions of legal services. We play a central role in the over 8,000 lawyers and staff globally in 2015, administration of justice, and our expertise as well as our top line objectives for 2016. is crucial to solving many of the issues of our time. Law is at the heart of many interactions for individuals, and for body corporates within the public, private and NGO sector, as well as for the government. This central role 04 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2015 II. RESPECTING AND SUPPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS (INCLUDING LABOUR RIGHTS) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ■■ Principle 1: Businesses should support and ■■ Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the respect the protection of internationally freedom of association and the effective proclaimed human rights; and recognition of the right to collective ■■ Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit bargaining; in human rights abuses. ■■ Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; ■■ Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and ■■ Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our firm is committed to respecting and supporting international human rights throughout our business operations and ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. DLA Piper was one of the first law firms to publicly express these commitments in a Human Rights Policy statement. The policy also expresses our commitment to uphold the Principles outlined in the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We play an active role in sector-wide discussions on steps to encourage implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human as a member of the Business and Human Rights Advisory Group of the UK Law Society. DLA PIPER’S HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY IS CONSISTENT WITH: ■■ the International Bill of Human Rights Universal Declaration of Human Rights ■■ International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ■■ International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights ■■ the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work ■■ the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights www.dlapiper.com | 05 1. OUR PEOPLE The firm’s strategy for diversity was developed by the Executive and overseen by the governance bodies Diversity and inclusion are key to our global identity. As of DLA Piper International and DLA Piper US with a global business law firm, with a diverse client base, we implementation carried out across global offices by local know that our clients expect our people to represent teams responsible for ensuring the firm-wide diversity the communities in which we work and value our ability objectives are met. to advise them on both local and global cultures and markets. This means that we must encourage all of our We recognise that one size does not fit all when it comes people to value diversity and respect each person’s to Diversity and Inclusion. Each of our regions operates individuality. within different demographics, culture, social/political and legislative frameworks so our approach centres on As our organization of over 8,000 employees operates Regional Diversity and Inclusion action plans. Each action across 30 countries throughout the Americas, plan is developed locally, focusing on gender and at least Asia Pacific, Europe, Africa and the Middle East, our one other under-represented group in that particular Human Resources policies in each jurisdiction are geography. tailored to the legal, regulatory and cultural requirements of each territory. We value every one of our people on The plans focus on five key areas: their merits as individuals and their ability to carry out ■■ Regional data review their work to the highest standards and strive to ensure that everyone at DLA Piper has full access to career ■■ Recruitment and Selection development and training opportunities in line with their ■■ Development and Retention abilities and skills. ■■ Engagement We are also committed to creating a safe working environment for all employees, providing training and ■■ Corporate Responsibility and Community supervision when necessary. Everyone in the firm is As well as a Diversity and Inclusion Policy, we have also expected to take reasonable care of their own safety developed a comprehensive Diversity and Inclusion and that of others, and co-operate fully with health training curriculum. The curriculum is currently being and safety arrangements. We were internationally rolled out at all levels across the International firm certified to OHSAS 18001, an internationally recognized via our Career Academy training programme. A core occupational, health and safety management system series element is Unconscious Bias training which is currently standard, again in 2015, for the seventh straight year. being rolled out to all partners. We actively promote a culture that is inclusive of all, Following the rebrand and re-launch of our approach to where everyone has the opportunity to grow their flexible working as ‘Agile Working’, we are continuing career and where pathways to career progression are to focus on ensuring that agile working arrangements transparent. Managing diversity and inclusion means provide effective career development opportunities and valuing and utilizing the differences our people bring to that we are utilising the technology to support smart and the business and that no one is disadvantaged. efficient methods of working. 06 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2015 This year, we have additionally focussed on Wellbeing, We recognize that diversity in the legal profession is a particularly mental health issues, recognising the stigma systemic issue, with roots that extend beyond our firm often associated with mental health and the prevalence and reach back through university studies and even of mental health issues within the legal profession. We access to basic education opportunities. recognised World Mental Health Day in all regions with Our flagship global programme ‘Break into Law’, events, training and information sessions. launched in March 2013, aims to remove barriers to the We actively welcome and value the ideas and wide range of legal and non-legal careers within our contributions of all of our people. In some cases, sector for talented, underrepresented young people. people with common interests or backgrounds wish In every region around the world, we are using our to form resource groups to share insights and different resources and the skills of our people to provide perspectives with each other and with the firm. opportunities for young people to gain experience and We now have four Resource Groups within the understanding of what it is like to work within the legal International firm: sector and career progression within it. In addition to providing scholarships and sponsorships to some ■■ The Leadership Alliance for Women (LAW) students to support them through their studies, ■■ Family Network – for parents (including foster parents we offer a wide range of bespoke initiatives such as and adoptive parents), grandparents and those with apprenticeships, in-depth work experience weeks, CV caring responsibilities and interview skills workshops, career insight days and ■■ LGB and T Network – for lesbian, gay, bisexual and access to dedicated mentors. We also conduct research transgender colleagues into the factors which influence access to careers within our profession and run thought leadership events to ■■ Interfaith Network – for people of all faiths and further explore the issues. beliefs, with the aim of raising awareness off different faiths within the firm and promoting respect and Break into Law has won a number of awards since tolerance. its inception, including the Financial Times Innovative Lawyers Awards in 2013 for encouraging talent into The key objectives of all our resource groups include: the profession, the All About Law ‘Social Mobility –– Information sharing – access to useful information Award’ and runner up in the CSR Arabia 2015 Award and specific information sessions for investing in UAE youth through mentoring and sponsorship of students. –– Support – buddy and mentoring schemes –– Networking opportunities both within the firm and Improving equality, diversity and inclusion within the legal externally profession is a significant global priority for DLA Piper and ‘Break into Law’ enables us to achieve a collective –– A platform for sharing ideas and experiences – impact on this key issue within our sector. including focus groups –– A forum to provide input into regional diversity and We recognize that our diversity initiatives have a longinclusion action plans term time horizon, but we believe that we are on a journey and whilst, like most law firms, we still have The efforts and achievements of our LAW network have some distance to travel, with strategic approaches in our been endorsed externally, with LAW being recognised geographic regions, we are making great progress. by Euromoney Women in Business Law awards for the Best Gender Initiative in an International Firm in 2015. Building on the good work of LAW initiatives throughout 2. OUR SUPPLIERS the UK, US and Australia, the Global Leadership Alliance Our global Sustainable Procurement Policy provides a for Women (Global LAW) was launched in early 2015. high-level framework for ensuring our suppliers uphold Global LAW harnesses the expertise of colleagues our respect for human rights, as well as pursuing engaged in local initiatives around the firm and leverages responsible management of environmental issues and best practices among existing local mentoring, skills anti-corruption measures. development and networking programs to support the advancement of our women lawyers worldwide. DLA Piper is committed to utilizing suppliers who Priorities for Global LAW include: respect human rights through, among other actions, promoting safe and fair working conditions and ensuring ■■ Retention and advancement of women lawyers respect for the four key rights and Principles in the ■■ Advancement and leadership opportunities for women International Labour Organization’s Declaration on lawyers Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work: freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right ■■ Supporting internal and external business development to collective bargaining; elimination of all forms of opportunities www.dlapiper.com | 07 forced or compulsory labour; effective abolition of child As part of our global partnership with UNICEF, we have labour; and elimination of discrimination in respect of conducted a research project across sixteen jurisdictions employment and occupation. to understand the statutory and regulatory landscape with regards to marketing and advertising to children. All new strategic suppliers sign up to our Sustainable The objective of the ‘Advertising and Marketing to Procurement Policy and provide detailed sustainability Children’ project is to capture as much information as information through our Supplier Portal. In 2015 we also possible about the regulatory framework within which continued dialogue with our key existing suppliers and companies and their marketing and advertising agencies now have almost 50% of strategic suppliers reporting operate. As well as supporting UNICEF’s work in helping through Supplier Portal (more information on this is companies and governments adopt best practice in provided in the Environment section). relation to children’s rights, we have also been able to As a global business law firm, DLA Piper recognizes that, share the findings of this research with our own clients. within our supply chain, there are many different national In 2016 we intend to conduct further research in cultures, with their own laws, norms and traditions. As additional jurisdictions and to prepare a final report on some suppliers will face more complex issues than others the larger group of jurisdictions in the future. in implementing our Sustainable Procurement Policy, we are committed to working with our suppliers to assist them in understanding human rights and adopting best 4. OUR COMMUNITIES policies and practice to ensure respect for such rights DLA Piper believes in active participation in the wider in practice. In doing so, we not only strengthen respect community and one of the most important ways for human rights, but also improve the quality of life of DLA Piper can contribute to our communities locally and persons working for entities within our supply chain. globally, is through the provision of pro bono services. Our pro bono work not only furthers our relationships 3. OUR CLIENTS with the communities we serve, but also supports the promotion and advancement of a range of human rights. We are taking steps to further develop our expertise to We believe that pro bono work provides personal and support our clients’ respect for human rights, through professional development for our people and raises their our advice on client matters, training and the pro bono awareness of human rights issues. projects we carry out collaboratively with them. DLA Piper’s culture and policies encourage pro bono Using bespoke training tools developed by DLA Piper work and we expect all of our colleagues to make a we work with businesses to help them to understand serious and sustained commitment to pro bono and and respond to the expectations of the United Nations our communities. We are one of very few firms to have Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which appointed dedicated pro bono partners, as well as more outline the responsibilities of business in relation to than a dozen pro bono counsel, managers and staff upholding human rights. around the world to fulfil this commitment. In 2015, We have developed sustainability training materials for our global lawyers and paralegals donated more than the UN Global Compact’s LEAD Programme companies 202,000 hours to legal pro bono work and our global in partnership with Harvard Business School and the staff donated 221,000 hours to pro bono and community Boston Consulting Group. Our lawyers assist the UN engagement work. Global Compact in training the boards of multi-national Our commitment to global issues and supporting corporations, including many of our clients, on Business community needs through pro bono is underpinned by and Human Rights and Sustainability. Working with the our Pro Bono Policy. A key aspect of the policy is the UN Global Compact, we are continuing to enhance principle that pro bono work should be treated the same this sustainability training programme to facilitate the as all other work undertaken by the firm. Pro bono engagement with a larger number of LEAD Programme clients should receive the same high standard of service companies in this innovative, strategic knowledgeas commercial clients, and lawyers time on pro bono building initiative. matters should be recognised in the same manner as billable time. 08 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2015 GLOBAL PRO BONO HOURS DLA Piper pursues pro bono work in a collaborative manner, with our lawyers cooperating with their international colleagues, clients, nonprofit organizations, governments and academic institutions, to accomplish our collective goals. Partnering with others enhances the results that can be achieved and helps to build a pro bono culture in the legal profession around the world. In 2015 New Perimeter announced the completion of a ten-year partnership with the National Center for State Courts (NCSC) in Kosovo. New Perimeter has partnered in Kosovo with NCSC, an international nonprofit organization, on various rule of law projects funded by the United States Agency for International Development. The assistance has included helping to draft the laws creating the court and prosecutorial systems in Kosovo. The most recent project involved a team of DLA Piper lawyers training Kosovar jurists on legal ethics and consulting on ways to improve the country’s professional disciplinary system and methods for continuing legal education. The team also conducted an extensive review of all the laws and regulations governing the legal sector in Kosovo and provided comments and suggested revisions. New Perimeter also worked closely with the Kosovo Bar Association (KBA) Gender Committee in Pristina to develop strategies for increasing female bar membership and helping it draft a strategic plan aimed at increasing the number of women entering into and working in the legal profession. In addition, New Perimeter delivered workshops to the KBA Minority Committee and helped it develop a plan for increasing the number of minority members of the bar. The following are highlights of the pro bono and community activities we carried out in 2015. i. Human Rights In 2013 DLA Piper and UNICEF, the world’s leading organisation for children, launched a ground-breaking partnership aimed at strengthening the protection of children around the world. During the partnership we have pledged to provide pro bono assistance to the estimated value of $5 million towards UNICEF’s global child justice programme and raise $1.5 million for this New Perimeter is our non-profit organization established area of UNICEF’s work, through a corporate donation by DLA Piper to provide pro bono legal assistance in and employee fundraising. under-served regions around the world to support access to justice, social and economic development and To date, we have donated $1 million to fund UNICEF sound legal institutions. Founded in 2005 as a result of projects and contributed $3.5 million in pro bono hours. our firm’s commitment to support legal advancement A core element of our partnership is supporting a worldwide, New Perimeter’s vision is to harness the ‘Justice for Children’ project in Bangladesh, a key aim of skills and talents of DLA Piper lawyers to further a more which is to address the legal reforms necessary to align just world for all. the country’s legislation with international child rights standards. www.dlapiper.com | 09 The Bangladesh government, with UNICEF’s support, has Over 18 million children have been orphaned as a result of made real progress to improve children’s lives by reducing HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa and the legal framework mortality rates, achieving high levels of immunisation and surrounding inheritance rights for these children is improving girls’ access to education. However, it now faces often unclear. DLA Piper is carrying out a legal review problems that are far more complex and intractable like of children’s inheritance laws in jurisdictions across the child labour and child marriage. High levels of extreme region to support UNICEF in contributing to a significantly poverty continue to push many children onto the streets, improved future for the rights of affected children. where they often get caught up in an inadequate and In addition to our work with UNICEF we also deliver inappropriate justice system. high-impact pro bono work to support positive With more than 65 million children in Bangladesh, the human rights developments around the world. Some scale of these challenges is enormous. The projects we representative recent highlights of this work are are supporting are helping to put in place the legal, social profiled below. and organisational frameworks that will better protect ■■ DLA Piper has established a partnership with these children. ECPAT, the child trafficking and transnational child Through DLA Piper funded programmes, over exploitation campaign organization. As part of this 1,700 children in Bangladesh have so far benefitted from partnership DLA Piper is compiling research regarding initiatives which protect them from conflict with the legal avenues available to child victims to seek and law and over 224 key professionals have been trained on obtain reparations for sexual exploitation. We are juvenile justice and orientation of the 2013 Children’s Act. also reviewing legislation on the sale of children and the application of that legislation and the sexual In October 2015 a team made up of 39 colleagues exploitation of children in the travel and tourism from across the Firm took part in the UNICEF Global industry. In a separate but related project, our lawyers Challenge, trekking the Simien Mountains in Ethiopia. provided research on the Hague Convention on the The team raised over $250,000, providing vital support Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction to the to UNICEF’S child justice programmes. American Overseas Domestic Violence Crisis Centre. “We are immensely proud that colleagues from around ■■ One of our European Signature Projects, “Schools for the world have shown such incredible team spirit to All”, is undertaken in collaboration with the Mental complete one of the largest ever corporate fundraising Disability Advocacy Centre (MDAC). MDAC works events of its kind. The Simien Mountains trek is a first for to secure inclusion, equality and justice for people DLA Piper and the legal sector as a whole.” with mental disabilities worldwide. We are partnering with MDAC to work towards inclusive education for Simon Levine Global Co-CEO children with disabilities who are denied education altogether, or segregated from their non-disabled Birth registration and inheritance rights were the priority peers in separate schools. As part of this project pro bono research topics for the partnership in 2015. we have mapped the legislative landscape relating to The lack of universal birth registration is one of the key inclusive education in seven countries across Europe. factors affecting the implementation of a child-friendly In 2016 and beyond we will be expanding our support justice system in Bangladesh, a serious protection issue by providing capacity building training and representing that UNICEF is addressing with authorities with the individuals. support of DLA Piper. We are undertaking a review ■■ We provided legal advice to UNAIDS on age of the relevant and existing legislation in a number of restrictions for harm minimisation programmes for jurisdictions in order to be able to assess the consistency young injecting drug users. We also drafted a briefing and adequacy of the law in each country, and ultimately paper on the relationship between international to be able to help UNICEF target advocacy efforts and treaties on drug trafficking, human rights obligations identify key areas for change. and harm minimisation, as well as seconding a lawyer The review will comprise four phases of ten countries to assist with work on human rights for people living each over the next two years. Phase 1 commenced with HIV. in May 2015, bringing together 46 lawyers from ■■ We successfully represented a client with a 15 DLA offices around the world to work together communication to the UN Human Rights Council on research for 10 priority countries (Angola, Kenya, regarding arbitrary detention. The individual was kept Zambia, Uganda, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Pakistan, on remand for two and a half years prior to being India, Bangladesh and Indonesia). extradited to the US. The Human Rights Council held that his detention was arbitrary in violation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. 10 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2015 ■■ In conjunction with Kaleidoscope Human Rights or videos are usually anonymous and the evidence is Foundation Australia we drafted shadow reports to therefore rarely attributable and verifiable. That is, the UN Human Rights Committee as well as CEDAW the evidence does not include information such as and ICESCR in relation to LGBTI rights in various the time, date, geographic coordinates and ‘author’ countries in the Asia Pacific region. of the evidence that would allow a third party, such as a court or tribunal, to verify its authenticity. ■■ We assisted the Centre for Reproductive Rights Anonymous and unverifiable evidence is of limited with research into the interplay between personal if any value to investigating authorities and judicial laws and constitutionally protected human rights bodies. The app will capture this information, as well in relation to child marriage around the world and as other relevant information in a secure and verifiable drafted a memo on whether the right to freedom of manner, and store it in a secure and central manner, to enterprise can be used to limit the right to freedom of allow this evidence to be used to the maximum extent expression, conscience and religion in countries where in bringing to account the perpetrators of atrocities. entities deny essential reproductive health services to individuals based on religious grounds. ■■ 25 DLA Piper lawyers dedicated over 400 hours to draft a set of reports on third party ■■ We drafted advice for Human Dignity Trust on the court interventions across 11 jurisdictions for constitutionality of laws criminalising homosexual Amnesty International. The reports looked at conduct in a number of countries in the Asia Pacific intervention processes, as well as obstacles to region. intervention and related case law, improving Amnesty ■■ In conjunction with UNESCO, we have developed a International’s advocacy work across the globe. Over training kit to teach young people UN Human Rights 50 DLA Piper lawyers devoted over 1,000 hours engagement in relation to sexual and reproductive to researching and drafting a 625 page comparative health rights. report for Refugee Action on the asylum and ■■ In collaboration with Atos Germany we undertook refugee legal frameworks in 16 jurisdictions including a research project on damages awarded in human Australia, Germany, Sweden, and the UK. The charity trafficking cases. Lawyers across Europe also engaged will use this report to help distil best practice from in multi-jurisdictional research project for the Human comparable jurisdictions and inform their discussions Trafficking Pro Bono Legal Centre to identify human with the UK government on improvements to the trafficking cases in which damages were awarded. system there. ii. Access to Justice ■■ One of our Europe-wide Signature Projects, ‘Upholding the Rights of Refugees, Asylum Seekers and Stateless Access to justice is an issue at the heart of our work People’, attempts to address the complex legal issues as a law firm. Our global pro bono practice supports a faced by these extremely vulnerable individuals. The wide range of programmes and projects to support this project includes a number of individual initiatives, each crucial issue. developed in partnership with leading NGOs and Some recent examples of this work are profiled below. intergovernmental organizations. The initiatives involve strategic litigation, provisions of comprehensive legal ■■ New Perimeter assisted the International Bar research, analysis and recommendations, support and Association (IBA) in the development of a smart training to build capacity of organizations working phone application, the eyeWitness to Atrocities app, in the area and assistance with policy reform. This designed to promote the identification, reporting project was awarded PILNet’s European Award for and prosecution of crimes such as genocide, torture, Partnership in the Public Interest for 2015 for the best crimes against humanity and war crimes (atrocities). project undertaken jointly between a non-governmental The app will enable users to upload images and/ organization and a law firm in Europe. or video from a smart phone or other internetenabled media device to a central secure repository ■■ In the UK, we continue to focus on improving access maintained by eyeWitness and hosted by LexisNexis. to justice through the expansion of a network of Relevant information from the repository can then legal clinics for individuals. New clinics that have be provided to prosecutors to assist in bringing to commenced in 2015 include a clinic that assists account the perpetrators of atrocities. This project deaf children and their families obtain the Disability arose from the increased use of social as a method to Living Allowance in partnership with the National bring attention to atrocities across the world. There Deaf Children’s Society, and a legal clinic working are significant challenges to the use of this ‘social in partnership with Coram Children’s Service to media evidence’ to bring to account the perpetrators regularise children’s immigration status. We also of these crimes. The authors of the photographs and/ continue to develop our commitment to community www.dlapiper.com | 11 legal empowerment, by developing legal education ■■ We are advising International Medical Corps in the modules on areas of law such as stop & search Middle East and Europe on the establishment of powers, phone scamming, neighbourhood housing offices and jurisdiction specific labor laws to allow for disputes, and basic negotiation skills. IMC the set up and continuity of IMC operations and refugee relief work efforts. ■■ We researched and drafted a report on gender discrimination in sentencing decisions in sexual and ■■ We are advising Advocates for International gender based violence (SGBV) cases in the Pacific. The Development on legal obligations relating to the report looks at over 900 cases of SGBV and the way Sustainable Development Goals. in which discriminatory views influence the sentencing ■■ Through New Perimeter, we worked with Canadian of the perpetrator. The report was released on NGO Women Lawyers Joining Hands (WLJH) and international human rights day and presented the the Nepal Bar Association to provide continuing report at the Pacific Island Law Officer’s Network in legal education to female lawyers in Kathmandu. The the Solomon Islands. We are also developing a training partnership is part of a broader initiative developed by manual on medico-legal skills and knowledge in sexual WLJH to support female lawyers in Nepal by providing violence cases. The training will be delivered across mentorship, ongoing training and financial support to the pacific to legal and health professionals to increase increase their skills and opportunities for advancement equality of access to justice for victims of sexual particularly in the corporate commercial field. In 2015 a violence. team of lawyers worked with female Nepali lawyers as ■■ In Australia we carry out substantial work to support part of a six-day preliminary workshop on legal ethics, Indigenous rights and access to justice. We are business ethics, and corporate and commercial law. currently representing the parents of an Indigenous young man who died in custody in their son’s coronial inquest and we recently worked with the Arts Law Centre to send two lawyers out to remote parts of Australia to advise indigenous artists on wills and copyright. iii. International Development ■■ Our Signature Project on Pacific Island Nation Development seeks to improve the legal skills and rule of law knowledge of some of the most vulnerable countries in the world. In 2016 we are seconding a lawyer to Vanuatu to assist the Government with rebuilding the country after Cyclone Pam. ■■ We also continue to support the Timor-Leste Government. Since 2008 we have provided lawyers on a secondment basis to the Timorese Ministry of Finance, as well as providing advice on matters relating to business, finance, human rights and foreign affairs. ■■ We are building the capacity of NGOs in the Middle East by advising on administrative and governance matters pertaining to fundraising regulation. A 2015 roundtable explored practical implications for corporate and not-for-profit entities undertaking fund-raising activities in Dubai, and provided attendees with tips to assist in navigating the new laws in a way that would ensure compliance and minimize the risk of prosecution. A fundraising guide was developed and shared with NGOs such as UNICEF, UNHCR and SOS Children’s Villages. 12 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2015 III. CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. DLA Piper strives to be a leader in environmental 1. WITHIN THE LEGAL SECTOR sustainability. We undertake initiatives to reduce our own operational environmental impact and provide DLA Piper has maintained a leadership role within advice and support to our clients – both in managing the legal sector on addressing environmental issues. their own environmental impacts and assessing and We founded the Legal Sustainability Alliance (LSA), an responding to climate-related risks and opportunities. inclusive movement of over 300 law firms committed to In the past 12 months the firm has made an increasingly working collaboratively to take action on climate change. active contribution to international climate policy This leading example of corporate collaboration on discussions and the development of and investment in climate change is firmly established in the UK and low-carbon technology and infrastructure. Australia and in the US through our partner organisation Our strategic approach to the environment is embedded the Law Firm Sustainability Network. across our firm with our two joint CEOs responsible for setting environmental expectations, a Global 2. WITHIN OUR FIRM Sustainability Initiative and the day-to-day running of We have a global Environmental Policy that applies to our environmental approach implemented by two Chief all of our offices and requires every employee to take Operating Officers with the support of our Procurement, reasonable care of the Environment. Our employees also IT, Risk and Facilities teams. receive training on our environmental approach as part DLA Piper was the only law firm to join the heads of of their induction when joining the firm. major multinationals from Brazil, China, Europe, India We work to reduce our environmental impact in and the United States in supporting the World Economic four strategic focus areas: energy, procurement, travel Forum Climate Leaders Statement urging world leaders and waste/resource use. to reach an ambitious climate deal in Paris. In an open message, 78 CEO climate leaders – a crosssectoral coalition that included banking, manufacturing, construction and energy companies – extended “an open offer” to governments to co-design climate solutions. The businesses collectively represent $2.06 trillion in revenue, equivalent to India’s GDP. Importantly, many of them lead companies from outside of the OECD group of developed nations and pledge support for developing countries to adapt to a warmer world. We were also the only law firm to sign the Paris Statement, convened by COP21 host-nation France at the successful conclusion of the 2015 UNFCCC Conference. www.dlapiper.com | 13 Our Global Sustainability Initiative (GSI) is governed by A 25% global reduction in energy consumption over a committee of senior leaders from across the firm that six years would be a hugely significant achievement for meets quarterly to discuss progress against the strategic the firm and would position DLA Piper as a leader in our focus areas. In addition to senior partner representatives sector. Although some law firms have been successful and environmental attorneys, the GSI includes in reducing energy consumption in certain office representatives from the most relevant functions of locations (predominantly the UK), few have established our business for implementing change – Corporate management systems and performance targets across a Responsibility, Procurement, IT, Risk and Facilities global footprint. Management. Energy reduction opportunities are finite and many In 2015 we significantly surpassed our three-year of the “quick wins” have already been achieved. The reduction targets (see performance data below) and our firm has made significant energy reductions at offices Global Board endorsed new 2018 targets for our key where energy consumption has been well managed and impact areas (also detailed below). We were re-examined measured. Major efficiency gains have stemmed from a and certified to ISO 14001, the international standard targeted approach to identifying reduction opportunities for environmental management, which we have now held through improved building management systems and for eight years. We are one of very few global law firms to investment in efficient technology (largely lighting). achieve worldwide certification to the standard. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT – KEY GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 TARGETS 2016 Travel 28% increase in the number of Further increase the firm’s use of Telepresence/video conferences IT communications systems as an between 2013-2015. alternative to travel. Implement a new carbon offsetting programme to offset all air-travel emissions. Energy Reduced energy consumption Further reduce energy consumption by 15%. in line with new 3-year target of an additional 10% reduction by 2018 (total Increased green energy reduction of 25% on 2012 levels). procurement to 24 offices (where green energy is available). Increase number of offices using green energy on a year on year basis. Waste Reduced use of paper by 13% Further reduce paper consumption in line from 2012. with new 3-year target of an additional 7% reduction by 2018 (total reduction of Carried out recycling of: 20% on 2012 levels). ■■ Paper in 99% of our offices +2% Increase the level of recycling taking place on 2014. across our global offices. ■■ cartridges in 96% of our offices = 2014 level. ■■ Plastic & glass bottles in 94% of our offices +1% on 2014. ■■ Cardboard 94% of our offices = 2014 level. Procurement Supplier Portal now captures Appraise suppliers’ sustainability performance data from key performance and identify key areas strategic suppliers enabling us to for engagement and improvement. collate detailed and consistent Proactively consult with key suppliers on information on sustainability sustainability metrics. performance. Further roll out of Supplier Portal across key suppliers. 14 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2015 3. IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN THE FOLLOWING PROJECT EXAMPLES We are committed to achieving the highest standards ILLUSTRATE THIS WORK: of sustainable procurement throughout our extended supply chain. Our Sustainable Procurement Policy and ■■ DLA Piper advised on a project to construct a further roll-out of our Supplier Portal have provided us £110 million combined heat and power biomass with the tools to enhance oversight and engagement on plant (CHP plant) in the UK. The project will be this issue. the largest waste wood renewable energy plant in the North West of England. The facility is Environmental sustainability is a core focus of expected to become operational by the end of our sustainable procurement strategy. Capturing 2016 and will provide enough power to supply performance data on key issues such as carbon emissions 35,000 homes a year and will also supply heat to and environmental management systems and governance an adjacent industrial wood-drying facility. is a fundamental part of understanding the potential risks and opportunities for proactive engagement through our ■■ DLA Piper has continued to advise on the procurement processes. development, with a value of £910 million, of a ground-breaking 240MW tidal-powered As we increase the scope of our data capture and electricity generating station in Swansea Bay, dialogue across our supply chain we can make South Wales. The plans for the tidal lagoon a significant positive difference in minimising could provide power for 120,000 homes for environmentally detrimental practices and encouraging 120 years. The firm has advised on all aspects, a move towards more sustainable practices. DLA Piper from funding the project, to Environmental will be undertaking extensive direct engagement with Impact Assessment, to leading the application suppliers on our shared opportunities for improvement for development consent. his area throughout 2016. ■■ Our US firm supports policy makers at the 4. THROUGH OUR ADVICE TO CLIENTS Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Energy and the White House Council on We advise our clients on all environmental aspects of Environmental Quality and represent clients their business, from climate change obligations, carbon affected by all the major environmental statutes. trading and regulation to renewable energy projects and strategic environmental planning. We play a significant role in the renewable energy 5. THROUGH OUR PRO BONO PROJECTS market, advising companies and investors on key growth Our global pro bono work focuses on priority markets including hydro, energy-from-waste, solar, on environmental issues such as climate change, and off-shore wind, biomass and biofuels. deforestation and wildlife conservation. DLA Piper is also a leader in understanding and advising Over the last year, DLA Piper has been closely involved on legal liability and the legal risks associated with the with the UNFCCC negotiations. We advised the impacts of climate change to maximise risk resilience and Permanent Mission to the Republic of the Maldives on preparedness. issues pertaining to climate change and small island states Following the Paris Agreement the management of in the lead up to COP21. DLA Piper’s global team also climate legal risk will increasingly be a factor in business advised East Timor at the COP21 negotiations. decision making and leading clients will need to consider We have also advised the corporate policy and advocacy the implications across project finance and infrastructure group Business for Social Responsibility on the UNFCCC development. Regulatory obligations in relation to negotiation texts and co-drafted a report calling for corporate management of environmental impacts will a robust international agreement to accelerate the continue to increase, particularly at a regional and transition to a low carbon economy national level in the short term. www.dlapiper.com | 15 DLA Piper continued to provide on-going assistance on trade in wildlife, including criminal penalties; reviews to Georgia’s Ministry of Environment and Natural ancillary legislation such as anti-corruption legislation Resources Protection to support their participation at that can be used to prosecute; assesses the local judicial the negotiations. As part of this work, New Perimeter process and capacity to enforce; and concludes with provides Georgia with both international legal expertise recommendations for improvement. to better understand the complex legal and treaty The next phase of work will involve offering texts and personnel to more effectively navigate concentrated assistance to a number of priority the policy landscape. Our support focuses on issues jurisdictions in Africa and Asia to assist them in surrounding the Green Climate Fund, climate finance, strengthening and enforcing legislation. Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions, Low Emission Development Strategies, national communications and DLA Piper is also involved in the United for developing country commitments. Wildlife Transport Industry Taskforce, chaired by Rt. Hon William Hague MP, focusing specifically on DLA Piper is partnering with the Royal Foundation of the role of the transport industry in the illegal wildlife the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry trade. Our London Maritime practice is supporting this on behalf of the United for Wildlife partnership to help work, both representing the firm on the Taskforce and tackle the illegal wildlife trade. Although 179 countries providing legal advice and research support. are party to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), In addition, a lawyer from our Shanghai office has been the illegal trade in wildlife has continued to proliferate seconded to assist the Asian Development Bank, a to the point where it is the third largest illegal business partner of United for Wildlife, with their work on the behind only drugs and weapons. Over the last two years illegal wildlife trade in Vietnam and Cambodia. over 100 lawyers from 22 DLA Piper offices around In the UK DLA Piper was a lead contributor to a the world have worked to produce research reports report launched at the Houses of Parliament in 2015, that provide an overview of the legal frameworks summarizing the effectiveness of key climate change surrounding wildlife trade in 26 jurisdictions. Each legislation and policy. country report gives an overview of principal legislation 16 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2015 IV. WORKING AGAINST CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. DLA Piper adheres to the highest regulatory and Our Whistleblowing Policy and associated procedures professional standards in order to protect our business, may be used for reporting breaches on a confidential or our reputation and our clients. anonymous basis. We are known as thought leaders on issues of antiOur publicly stated policy on Anti-Bribery and bribery and corruption and regularly host events for our Corruption is reinforced through Board sponsorship and clients and other stakeholders outlining and promoting commitment to the policy and related procedures. These best practice on this subject. procedures include: Our global anti-bribery and corruption policy states the ■■ training and communication following: –– mandatory e-learning which must be completed by “DLA Piper has a strict anti-bribery and corruption policy all of our people and forms part of our new-starter which applies to all our people globally. We will not directly induction programme; or indirectly engage in bribery or corruption in any form –– training delivered to members of the Board and and have a zero tolerance approach to breach whether it Executive; involves private individuals or public officials. We will never –– training incorporated into the firm’s management accept, solicit, agree to receive, promise, offer or give a bribe, academy and other formal training programmes; facilitation payment, kickback or other improper payment. ■■ incorporating consideration of bribery and For this purpose ‘bribe’ means a financial or other advantage, corruption risk into our new client due intended to induce a person to give improper assistance diligence and on-going monitoring processes in breach of their duty, or to otherwise influence someone and procedures; with the underlying purpose of obtaining/retaining business, or an advantage in the course of business, and ‘facilitation ■■ a clause in our standard terms of business with payments’ are small bribes made to government or public clients which sets out our anti-bribery and officials to speed up routine administrative processes or other corruption policy and our expectations of our actions. clients; All of our activities are managed in full compliance with this ■■ supplier due diligence processes operated by policy and with all applicable legal and regulatory anti-bribery our central procurement team, and a clause in and corruption obligations. We expect our business partners all our supplier contracts setting out our antito have similar policies which apply to all dealings with, on bribery and corruption policy and expectation behalf of, or involving DLA Piper.” of our suppliers; and This policy is an integral part of the International firm’s ■■ procedures and controls which address: risk management and compliance framework, which –– working with Governments and public officials; incorporates policies, procedures, guidelines and a –– the giving and receiving of gifts and hospitality; Compliance Handbook covering a wide range of issues, –– the giving of political and charitable donations; and including anti-money laundering, sanctions and ethics. –– working with third parties. www.dlapiper.com | 17 V. FURTHER INFORMATION For additional information about DLA Piper’s approach Additionally, we welcome any queries or comments you and activities related to the UN Global Compact may have on this report. Please address them to: Principles, please refer to the following: Nicolas Patrick Break into Law Partner, Head of Responsible Business www.dlapiperbreakintolaw.com nicolas.patrick@dlapiper.com Corporate Responsibility www.dlapiper.com/global/corporate_responsibility Diversity www.dlapiperdiversity.com Environmental Sustainability www.dlapiper.com/global/corporate_responsibility/ environmental_sustainability/ New Perimeter www.newperimeter.org Pro Bono www.dlapiperprobono.com UNICEF child justice partnership www.dlapiper.com/unicef www.dlapiper.com DLA Piper is a global law firm operating through various separate and distinct legal entities. Further details of these entities can be found at www.dlapiper.com. This publication is intended as a general overview and discussion of the subjects dealt with, and does not create a lawyer-client relationship. It is not intended to be, and should not be used as, a substitute for taking legal advice in any specific situation. DLA Piper will accept no responsibility for any actions taken or not taken on the basis of this publication. This may qualify as “Lawyer Advertising” requiring notice in some jurisdictions. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Copyright © 2016 DLA Piper. All rights reserved. | APR16 | 3068518
