Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014-2015 UN Global Compact NKT wishes to protect the environment, safeguard human and labour rights, and work against corruption NKT is signatory to the UN Global Compact and this report provides Communication on Progress (COP) for the period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015. NKT 5,409 3,212 at a glance The business units Nilfisk and NKT Cables have also been autonomous signatories to the UN Global Compact since 2010 and 2011, respectively. 207 Nilfisk NKT Photonics Cables Group * Last twelve months (endJune 2015) Reporting structure NKT’s three businesses have diverse product BUSINESSES NO. OF EMPLOYEES* portfolios, organisations and markets. Accordingly, they differ in focus areas and Professional cleaning Photonics Group NKT Holding challenges in terms of sustainability. The first equipment 207 19 part of this report deals with the Group’s overall performance on selected parameters Energy cables while the second part addresses progress in each of the businesses. Hightech products based 8,847 In the NKT Group, the overall responsibility on optical fibers NKT Cables for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) lies Nilfisk with the Board of Directors, while the targets 3,212 5,409 are set by the individual businesses. To ensure commitment, all targets must be as specific as possible and concrete actions to achieve them must be clearly defined. SUSTAINABLE MEGATRENDS GLOBAL PRESENCE supporting business strategies Urbanisation NKT Holding Photonics Group Sustainable energy supply +100 NKT Cables Nilfisk COUNTRIES Healthcare demand CONTENTS NKT Group NKT at a glance 2 Statement 3 FINANCIALS* Performance 4 Photonics NKT Nilfisk NKT Cables Group total Business units Amounts in DKKm 2014-15 2013-14 2014-15 2013-14 2014-15 2013-14 2014-15 2013-14 Nilfisk 7 Revenue 7,019 6,665 9,304 * Last twelve 9,208 months (1 July 2014285 2015)16,605 16,155 30 June282 NKT Cables 12 Operational EBITDA 764 797 670 386 14 10 1,415 1,166 Photonics Group 17 * Last Twelve Months, LTM (July-June) Framework Reporting principles 21 GRI indicators 22 GRI appendix 23 Visit www.nkt.dk to learn more about NKT 2/ 24 CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Holding A/S NKT Group statement Since NKT became signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2009, the ten principles laid down in this initiative have served to guide the focus of our efforts within social responsibility. We will continue to support the principles and use them as a framework for further progress within the areas defined. NKT’s business strategic direction is based on megatrends such as urbanisation, sustainable energy supply, and increasing healthcare demand. We believe these trends will remain strong macro drivers in the coming years and provide opportunities for further development of our businesses. We also believe that it is by being an active player in these areas that we can make our largest contribution to a sustainable future. “ NKT’s business strategic direction is Joint efforts are required to meet global development challenges. Since acceding to the UN Global Compact we have urged all our major suppliers to comply with the same initiative, our target being to achieve 80% acceptance. Due to diverse composition in terms of supplier base this is a challenging target for some of our based on megatrends business units, but we will continue to pursue our goal. such as urbanisation, The safety of our employees is top priority in all our businesses and is an integral part of our strategies. Our goal is to be best-in-class within our industries, and I sustainable energy am pleased to see that we are on the right track although there is still room for supply, and increasing improvement. healthcare demand” Being an attractive workplace is essential for recruiting and retaining the best people. During the period under review all our businesses have conducted global employee engagement surveys. In the course of this process we have gained valuable insight into the parameters which drive employee engagement and where improvement is required. Social responsibility is an ongoing process and the present report gives insights into our targets and the progress realised. Michael Hedegaard Lyng Group Executive Director NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Group 3 / 24 Group performance HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS The NKT Group has a global presence and strives to operate in In the period under review both Nilfisk and NKT Cables experienced compliance with local laws and regulations and with respect stable levels of supplier compliance with UN Global Compact, and for international rights. Incorporated in numerous policies, this in both business units the UN Global Compact is an intrinsic part of compliance is also an integral part of NKT’s due diligence procedures the standard purchase contracts. Nilfisk has recently established a for acquisitions. Social Supplier Audit Unit within its Global Procurement department to assist suppliers with compliance in all areas where the principles Supplier support for UN Global Compact of the UN Global Compact are not already fully implemented. More Since 2009, suppliers selling to NKT for more than EUR 50,000 than 250 direct and indirect suppliers will be encompassed by the annually have been requested to comply with the principles of the audit programme. UN Global Compact. The target is to obtain the compliance of 80% of the suppliers concerned. One reason for the continued disparity in supplier compliance levels relates to the composition of the supplier base. NKT Cables has a Suppliers* complying with UN Global Compact small number of large suppliers, primarily located in Europe, while Nilfisk has a large number of small local suppliers around the world. Photonics Group also predominantly has small local suppliers, and % 100 the level of compliance differs significantly between the entity’s 2014/2015 product segments. Changes in product mix were the main reason 90 80 ** 84 88 2013/2014 for the significant decline in compliance recorded in the period 73 71 73 2012/2013 60 63 under review. All business units will continue to urge their suppliers 50 54 to adhere to the UN initiative. 40 20 Diversity profile unchanged 0 Nilfisk NKT Cables Photonics Group The NKT Group continuously monitors the diversity profile of its 2012-2013 2013-2014 2014-2015 senior management in terms of age, gender and nationality. NKT operates in industries which historically have a preponderance of * Annual purchase value above EUR 50,000 men, and this is still reflected in the fact that relatively few women ** Adjusted due to error in 2013-2014 reporting hold senior management or staff positions. 4/ 24 NKT Group CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Holding A/S Diversity in senior management 2014-2015 Senior Man. Age profile Gender No. of nationalities Total <40 40-54 >54 Women Men (The predominant nationality in %) NKT Board of Directors* 6 0 2 4 1 5 2 (Danish 83%) NKT Management 5 2 3 0 0 5 1 (Danish 100%) Nilfisk 42 6 31 5 2 40 20 (Danish 43%) NKT Cables 65 15 46 4 5 60 12 (German 50%) Photonics Group 10 0 8 2 1 9 4 (Danish 40%) Total 128 23 90 15 9 119 * Elected at the Annual General Meeting NKT is firmly committed to providing equal opportunities for all units have increased safety training and the number of awareness employees and candidates, and it is recommended that both campaigns. They have also increased their focus on eliminating genders be represented among the candidates for a vacant unsafe situations and behaviours and on analysing the root causes of management position. However, the primary consideration is to incidents registered. achieve diversity through combining optimal competences with appropriate social and cultural skills. ENVIRONMENT It is NKT’s objective that both genders should be represented among the AGM-elected members of the Board of Directors, with NKT’s approach to reducing environmental impact is twofold: 17% as the target for the under-represented gender. This target was Reduce consumption of resources by NKT’s own businesses, and achieved for 2014-2015. develop and supply products that reduce user energy consumption (Nilfisk) and promote the spread of sustainable energy production Reduction of occupational injuries is a strategic target (NKT Cables and Photonics Group). A safe and healthy working environment is an integral element in the new business strategies launched by Nilfisk and NKT Cables Reduced CO2 emissions relative to output in 2015. Both business units are aiming at best-in-class industry Nilfisk and NKT Cables both continued to reduce CO2 emissions standards, the ultimate goal being to eliminate injuries altogether. relative to output. Nilfisk realised a decrease of 2% which was, For Nilfisk the ambition of a safe workplace is integrated in its core however, less than expected. In NKT Cables the reduction of 6% was values, whereas for NKT Cables the reduction of occupational injuries driven by both increased revenue and saving initiatives relating to an constitutes one of four must-win battles to achieve its strategic efficiency improvement programme named DRIVE, launched in early targets. To further reduce the number of accidents the business Occupational injuries causing work absence CO2 emissions (Scope 1+2) relative to output Frequency per million working hours Tonnes CO2 Tonnes CO2 10 % 33,000 2014/2015 120,000 9.7* 8 2013/2014 8.0 -15% 6 7.3 7.0 6.9 32,000 2012/2013 -5% 4 5.8 100,000 31,000 2 -2% -6% 0 30,000 80,000 Nilfisk NKT Cables 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2012-2013 2013-2014 2014-2015 Nilfisk NKT Cables * Part of the increase is due to the inclusion of data from a plant acquired CO2 emmisions from Photonics Group are insignificant in Sweden in 2013 Scope 1: Energy consumption for heating Scope 2: Energy consumption for production NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Group 5 / 24 2014 and fully implemented during 2015. Both business units are contact with external partners are aware of and trained in NKT’s striving to further reduce CO2 emissions. anti-corruption policy. No cases of corruption were registered in the present reporting period while one case of misuse of company Reduced water consumption assets was registered. Both Nilfisk and NKT Cables again registered significant reduction in water consumption. This was the result of a general decrease across Whistleblower system to include external stakeholders all sites, combined in the case of NKT Cables with the impact of the In 2010, NKT set up an internal whistleblower system with the aim DRIVE programme. of disclosing any internal irregularities. The system is maintained by an external provider and enables all employees to report any serious Water consumption concerns with regard to irregularities within the company. Reports may be submitted in a number of languages, and in writing or orally. None of the reports submitted for 2014-2015 necessitated material m3 m3 adjustments in business procedures. 170,000 125,000 Nilfisk -10% -4% As from 2016 NKT has decided to take its responsibility NKT Cables for ethical business conduct a step further by granting external stakeholders 150,000 100,000 -10% access to the whistleblower system for disclosure of any irregularities. -8% System access will be via www.nkt.dk and the business unit websites. 130,000 75,000 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2012-13 2013-14* 2014-15* Compliance Committee established Nilfisk NKT Cables After the end of the reporting period, NKT established a Compliance Committee responsible for determining compliance strategy at both Photonics Group does not register water consumption. Group and business unit level. The Compliance Committee acts in * Water consumption is not adjusted for the acquirement of a plant in Sweden, in 2013. collaboration and alignment with the Audit Committee established by NKT’s Board of Directors. The purpose of the Compliance Committee is to review and oversee ANTI-CORRUPTION the NKT Group compliance programme, including but not limited to, evaluating its effectiveness and receiving updates about compliance NKT has business operations worldwide, including areas where activities. The members of the Compliance Committee are the CEOs corrupt practices used to exist and to some extent still do. Some of the three business units, and representatives from NKT Group business units are also active in sectors previously governed by Legal and Compliance as well as Finance. cartels. It is therefore crucial for NKT’s credibility to be a strong advocate of fair competition and lawful practices. Appeal against European Commission decision In April 2014 NKT received a fine of DKK 29m following an Internal compliance investigation conducted by the European Commission into alleged All managers of NKT entities complete an annual Statement price-fixing activities in the high-voltage power cable industry in of Representation. This statement includes an extensive anti2002-2006, cf. Company Announcement No. 8, 2014. NKT disagrees corruption review that must report any findings relating to with the Commission’s decision and therefore lodged an appeal in potentially corruptive practices, such as cartels, money laundering, Q2 2014. NKT will inform the market once the appeal is heard. bribery and facilitation payments. The Statement must also specify whether necessary actions are taken to ensure that employees in 6/ 24 NKT Group CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Holding A/S Nilfisk statement Accelerate Growing our company to lead the industry Grow market share Strengthen Drive competitive Build strong Power front-end offerings brands supply chain performance Agile and commercial organisation Key strategic levers to support growth Parallel with the introduction of Accelerate, Nilfisk’s new business strategy, we have defined a value proposition which states that Accelerate we are ‘Clearing the way for a safer, cleaner and more productive everyday’. This proposition reflects Nilfisk’s commitment to act responsibly by offering cleaning solutions with focus on health, Growing our company to lead the industry safety and efficiency. Nilfisk believes that the adoption of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour rights, anti-corruption and Promise made in the Accelerate environment will help us develop our business in a positive direction and at the same time address the growing demand from customers strategy to Nilfisk customers: and regulations in this regard. In an effort to become more proactive a new Social Supplier Nilfisk acts innovatively and Audit Unit has been established within our Global Procurement department to place even greater focus on our business partners’ responsibly, and leverages over 100 adherence to the UN Global Compact principles. years of professional experience to The Accelerate business strategy combined with our sustainability offer a wide range of high quality and strategy Green Meets Clean, which emphasises cleaning solutions that provide a sustainable balance between cleaning efficiency, fully supported cleaning solutions environmental improvements and responsible behaviour within the that help people and businesses all industry, will be fundamental in our striving to continuously support the UN Global Compact agenda. over the world Jonas Persson President and CEO, Nilfisk NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2014-2015 Nilfisk 7 / 24 Highlights 2014-2015 Nilfisk SC450 scrubber dryer offers low management costs and eco-friendliness achieved by minimised water and detergent consumption Accelerate business strategy our ORACLE an energy-saving Nilfisk core values value proposition to our customers demonstration project Safer Nilfisk, in cooperation with Serenergy, Aalborg Nilfisk has implemented a set of core values • Lower health hazard for workers University and Danish Power Systems, has shared by all constituent companies and • Less accidents on the job been part of project ORACLE (Outdoor entities around the world. • Increased security handling dangerous Reliable Application using Clean Energy). dust and liquids The aim of the project, partly sponsored by To succeed in the execution of our strategy EUDP (the Energy Technology Development common goals have been defined, and our Cleaner and Demonstration Programme from the core values explicitly encourage collaboration • More pleasing home Danish Energy Agency), was to demonstrate and treating others with respect. • Healthier and better working environment and verify advantages of fuel cells in outdoor • Improved hygiene and less bacteria cleaning vehicles to achieve higher energy Our values • Particle-free surroundings efficiency and reduced CO2 emissions. • Customers we are customer-driven • People we know people make the Productive As an outcome of the project, Nilfisk has difference • Optimise customers’ business implemented more energy-efficient fans on • Performance we want to win • Improve productivity and efficiency motors in vacuum cleaners, while additional • Professionalism we do things right • Increase up-time and running business learning is currently investigated. • Quality we stand for reliability 8/ 24 Nilfisk CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Holding A/S HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS To support the development of our organisation and leadership, more than 100 managers have attended a comprehensive leadership Nilfisk’s approach to the UN Global Compact principles is defined training programme. Additional leaders have attended a light version and globally communicated through the code of ethics and of the programme carried out locally in the Americas, Europe and Asia. business integrity principles introduced in 2012. Nilfisk is firmly committed to providing equal opportunity to its We have also implemented core values that are shared by all our employees and will not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any companies and entities around the world. These core values are part kind. During the present reporting period a number of cases relating of our culture and important to the success of the Accelerate to this area were recorded, duly investigated and internal actions strategy. One of them is ‘People we know people make the were taken. difference’. To ensure dialogue and foster commitment and engagement, an employee engagement survey was launched Another priority area is to ensure that the company’s suppliers  globally in 2012 and is conducted annually conform to Nilfisk’s standards and observe the principles of the UN Global Compact which are fully integrated in our standard contracts. We have achieved a 71% signature rate and we will strive to improve this further by initiating relevant activities in entities with lower supplier adherence. Nilfisk has also worked with 2014-2015 Employee Engagement Survey SGS, a world-leading auditing services company, as our thirdparty supplier auditor, and this has resulted in the establishment 42 4,627 91% 72 of a Social Supplier Audit Unit within our Global Procurement department. More than 250 manufacturers supplying parts or countries respondents response engagement finished products to Nilfisk either directly or indirectly have been rate index identified, and they will all be a part of our comprehensive UN Global Compact social supplier audit programme. This programme will interact proactively with the supplier and assist the supplier with learning and adopting the UN Global Compact principles in  Based on the most recent survey results and an employment all areas, if not already fully implemented. engagement index rating of 72, which is above average for   comparable global companies, two global focus areas have been It is important for us to continue reducing the number of identified: 1) ‘Employee connection’, which relates to leadership occupational injuries. The level was stable compared with the communication and recognition, and 2) ‘Growth and execution’, which is mainly about understanding our strategy and how it  previous reporting period, and to increase the focus on this area additional steps will be taken in selected entities, including the impacts our work. Teams and units in companies and entities across  assignment of an internal EHS coordinator position and replacement  Nilfisk work with initiatives to support these two focal areas. of the external EHS consultancy.  Goals & actions Human and labour rights Target 2014-15 Achieved  30.06.15  Status Management ( ) 100%   All local managements have been informed of our policies, have issued their comments, and 100% endorsed the policy. Zero tolerance of acts of discrimination of any kind. 100% ( ) 100% A 2015 engaement index of 77. This measures the managers’ ability to foster customer focus, empower the organisation, promote team spirit, and ensure alignment in the organisation. Procurement Index 77 Index 72 ( )  () By end-2015, 80% of procurement (above EUR 50,000 in value) to be supplied by partners who have agreed 80% 71% to abide by the principles of the UN Global Compact. Occupational injuries  Improving performance with a short-term goal of less than 5.5 accidents per 1 million working hours. The long term goal is zero accidents. <5.5 6.9() Labour rights ( ) 100% The UN Global Compact principles are an integral part of Nilfisk’s M&A due diligence process and 100% any non-conformities are reported. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2014-2015 Nilfisk 9 / 24 ENVIRONMENT Cleaning equipment invariably consumes energy and water and Nilfisk also constantly focuses on the performance of new products sometimes detergents are employed. When designing future in the working environment, and during the period under review equipment Nilfisk constantly seeks new technologies and innovative 76% of all new product introductions featured improved noise solutions with view to increasing cleaning performance, improving emission and ergonomics. productivity and reducing environmental impact. This is achieved both through our technology development programme and Internal consumption of resources is another area of focus for Nilfisk, through product innovation. and we continuously strive to minimise environmental impact in  our manufacturing entities. In the present reporting period Nilfisk During the reporting period a significant number of new product introduced the Accelerate strategy comprising substantial front-end introductions targeted environmental improvements. A new investments, including employment of sales personnel. This led to a product development process has been commissioned with significant rise of CO2 emissions from company cars. As the effect of the focus on sustainability and environmental improvements in the investments materialised later than expected only 2% reduction energy, water and detergent consumption and improved end-ofof CO2 emission relative to output was achieved at this point of time. life disposal features. 71% of new product introductions contained It is estimated that in the coming reporting period the targeted improvements within at least one of the environmental focus areas. average reduction of approx. 4% annually will be achieved. On top of this, product platforms in the consumer and commercial vacuum cleaner segments have been optimised in terms of energy In terms of indirect CO2 emissions we achieved a reduction of 22%, performance to comply with the European regulation on eco-design requirements for vacuum cleaners. mainly as a result of improving the transport of goods. In total, direct and indirect CO2, emissions were reduced by 13% in the 2014-2015 reporting period.  2014-15 30.06.15   Goals & actions Environment Product development Target Achieved  Status New products feature sustainability improvements in at least one and preferably more of the following four areas: Energy consumption, water consumption, use of detergents and end-of-life disposal. 75% 71% () CO2 emissions  8% reduction relative to output over 2013-2015, equivalent to ~4% annually. 4% 2% () Product environmental footprint ( ) 100% Actively participate in industry-related activities, boards and committees to push for agreement on 100% industry standard for measuring environmental performance of products. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track 10/ 24 Nilfisk CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Holding A/S  ANTI-CORRUPTION The Nilfisk code of ethics expresses our commitment to promote of the UN Global Compact. The individual statements are then ethical standards, compliance and accountability. As a supplement consolidated and signed by the CEO of Nilfisk. One case of misuse to the code of ethics we have introduced business integrity of company assets was reported during the 2014-2015 period, and principles that provide all Nilfisk employees with guidelines on relevant investigation and internal actions were taken.  how to and how not to conduct themselves in specific matters and situations related to our business. To increase attention to this area, Furthermore, Nilfisk’s global whistleblower system enables Nilfisk plans to carry out an internal communication campaign with employees to report anti-corruption and other unlawful incidents. the ambition of having 90% of all employees complete a code of ethics programme by end-2016. The programme will also be part of new employees’ introduction plan as well as having all current Such reports are dealt with by an independent party. All incidents filed during the reporting period were accorded the highest priority, being discussed and dealt with by the Group Management of Nilfisk  employees signing off to these principles every second year. To ensure top-level commitment and support of our anti-corruption and NKT. In 2016 we expect to expand our whistleblower system to   also enable external stakeholders to report. Furthermore, we plan to run an internal awareness campaign supporting the possibility to agenda, the local managements of all Nilfisk entities are obliged speak out. to sign a personal Statement of Representation on the principles     2014-15 30.06.15  Goals & actions Anti-corruption Management Target Achieved Status    Local managements have been informed of our policies, issued their comments and endorsed our policies. 100% 87%() Anti-corruption  () Reported corruption or cartel cases. 0 () 0 Ensure that employees are aware how to act in accordance with Nilfisk’s expectations where issues of business integrity are concerned. 100% 95% () Apply risk management in growth markets on business integrity issues. 100% 20%() ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track HIGH-PRESSURE WASHERS WITH CLEAR SUSTAINABLE PROFILE The new versions of SC DUO 6P/7P stationary high-pressure washers contain several improvements. The steel cabinet has been replaced by more environment-friendly expanded poly-propylene (EPP), which has also led to significant noise and weight (-18 kg) reduction, resulting in less shipment energy, lower cost as well as improved disposal. Some product variants enable higher water pressure, which increases cleaning performance while using less time and hence less water. The SC4MPS variant has a new foam sprayer system to minimise detergent usage. The sprayer system is placed in connection with the gun with the aim of reducing spills as the detergent does not have to travel through the complete hose. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2014-2015 Nilfisk 1 1 / 24 NKT Cables statement An increasingly urbanised world population is making ever greater demands for mobility, trade, communication and improved living standards. In our globalised and interconnected world, much depends on electrical power. Satisfying these growing demands in a way that is truly sustainable and socially responsible poses a challenge: how do we provide a basis for future growth that does not harm present or future generations? For more than a century NKT Cables has demonstrated a passion for developing sustainable and socially responsible solutions for infrastructure, transport and construction. NKT Cables acceded to the UN Global Compact in 2011. Being signatory to the UN Global Compact has helped us greatly in expanding the reach and awareness of corporate social responsibility throughout our company. We view our relations with customers, suppliers, communities and other stakeholders through the “ framework provided by the UN Global Compact. NKT Cables wishes to set standards of excellence in everything it does. We are NKT Cables wishes committed to responsible and ethical behaviour, and as an active corporate to set standards of citizen we embrace a principled approach to the way we conduct business around the world. Our organisation is committed to upholding the tenets of excellence in everything the UN Global Compact, and the ten principles on human and labour rights, it does environment and anti-corruption are the foundation for our corporate social responsibility profile. We believe that living by these principles is essential for sustainability, the long-term survival of our business, and the greater good of the global community. Our participation in the UN Global Compact strengthens and energises our commitment to working ethically and responsibly. Michael Hedegaard Lyng President and CEO, NKT Cables 12/ 24 Photonics Group CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Holding A/S Highlights 2014-2015 Knowledge transfer and continuous focus on training is essential to improve safety in NKT Cables’ workplace Whistleblower system for reporting ethical concerns Go Green sustainable product offerings NKT’s whistleblower system was established to provide a channel NKT Cables’ Go Green strategy is focused on offering products and for reporting ethical concerns. It is operated by an independent solutions which reduce CO2 emissions and feature environmental third party to ensure that issues can be raised safely and securely. No innovations. As an alternative to their enquiry for a conventional major concerns were reported in the period under review. product, customers are offered a Go Green solution that combines ecological and economic advantages based on a total cost of The system is currently available to all employees and in 2016 it ownership approach. To quantify the advantages in terms of will be extended to vendors and business partners. An awareness sustainability, NKT Cables has developed a scoreboard method campaign will accompany the extension. that can directly compare the difference between both solutions. As a company focused on economic product performance and ecological sustainability, NKT Cables is a pioneer in its market. NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Cables 1 3 / 24 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS Respecting human and labour rights is fundamental to our business. aiming at eliminating a minimum of 3,000 unsafe situations and NKT Cables has ethical guidelines, and our local management teams behaviours annually, and this goal has been achieved in the last in all countries are required to sign a Statement of Representation two reporting periods. The annual target for reduction of accidents affirming adherence to the principles of the UN Global Compact. was achieved in the July 2014 June 2015 reporting period and continued focus will be placed to maintain attention on this NKT Cables conducts regular surveys of its suppliers’ commitment important task. to the above 10 principles. The results of the most recent survey revealed that the commitment level among suppliers has continued After the reporting period, our new business strategy, EXCELLENCE  to increase. In the 2014/2015 reporting period, 90% of the total 2020, was launched supported by the following vision statement: purchase volume of materials/components used in our products ‘By driving excellence we will be the best power cable company by came from suppliers who had pledged binding allegiance to the ten 2020 in the eyes of our customers and our people’.  principles. This represents an increase of 2%-points over the previous reporting period. To further promote and increase acceptance of the A key element of this strategy is ‘Safety, People and Organisation’, UN Global Compact among suppliers with purchase value above and one target is to achieve a job satisfaction rating of at least 80% EUR 50,000, NKT Cables will in future introduce agreed conditions of by the year 2020. This goal is challenging and ambitious as results  purchase that will render suppliers’ compliance mandatory for doing from the employee engagement survey conducted at end-2014 business with us. revealed a low satisfaction rate. The next survey is planned for early 2016 and will be conducted by an independent external partner. The improvement and maintenance of safety continues to be given the highest priority at NKT Cables. A programme was set up in 2013     2014-15  30.06.15 Goals & actions Human and labour rights Target Achieved  Status Procurement Supplier commitment to the Global Compact by all with purchase value above EUR 50,000 100% 90%  ( )  Occupational injuries Improve safety performance towards best-in-class industry standards, defined as a frequency of less than 5 accidents per million working hours. Starting point 2010: Number of accidents 131, frequency 22.6. Annual  target is a 25% reduction. Number of accidents in the reporting period. <40 <7.7 ( ) () 32  Frequency per million working hours in the reporting period. 5.8  Eliminate the number of unsafe situations and behaviour. Employees >3,000 () 3,204  Measurement of employee satisfaction by global survey in autumn 2014. Development of action plans based upon the findings. 100% () 100%  New goal: Employees trust index >80% by 2020 Health management () Provide the resources and management systems to ensure a safe and healthy work environment. All sites to 100% 100% create action plans based on OHSAS 18001 by end-2015 in line with NKT Cables’ health & safety policy. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track 14/ 24 NKT Cables CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Holding A/S ENVIRONMENT Environmental impact from cable production is relatively small and efficiency remained unchanged for several years, we achieved mainly related to CO2 consumption and the use of limited natural an improvement from 94.8% to 95.6%, but still below the target  resources, especially copper. of 96.3% by the end of the present reporting period. The overall target of 96.6% is therefore a challenge, and the target year has During the last few years NKT Cables has successfully implemented been redefined as 2020 with the aim of continuing the focus on multiple initiatives, achieving significant reduction in energy improvements in the manufacturing processes. consumption and the utilisation of natural resources. NKT Cables has more than 55 years of experience with recycling of • CO2 emissions from Scope 1&2 relative to output were reduced both its own production scrap, such as metals and plastic, and worn compared with the last reporting period by 6%,while absolute out leads and cables from our customers. NKT Cables is one of the few emissions were reduced by 3% and totalled 81,180 tonnes. cable manufacturers operating a complete recycling of specific cables and our facility is certified in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard.  • Power consumption was 891 MWh lower than last year, clearly exceeding the target of a reduction of 340 MWh, while the The ISO 50001 Energy Management System was implemented at the reduction target for natural gas consumption was not achieved plant in Nordenham, Germany, making it easier for us to integrate our energy management into our overall efforts to improve quality • Water consumption was reduced by a further 8,900 m3 and a new reduction target will be defined in the beginning of 2016. and environmental management.  Copper is an essential material for the manufacture of cables. As 2014-2015 performances show a need for further changes in   terms of the development of solutions, as well as the need for   a result of initiatives related to the DRIVE efficiency improvement an increase in capital spending to secure ambitious innovations programme, which was launched early 2014, a change in our material utilisation trend was recorded. After the utilisation  for environment-friendly activities. The first effects of the revised environmental strategy are expected to be visible in 2016.     2014-15 30.06.15 Goals & actions Environment CO2 emissions Target Achieved Status  ( ) 46.5%   CO2 emissions from comfort heating reduced by more than 40% compared with 2010. >40% CO2 emissions reduction (Scope1+2) versus 2013-2014 results. 2% ( ) 3% Reduce consumption of natural gas by end-2015. 490 MWh () 380 MWh New goal: Reduce consumption of natural gas by another 150 MWh by end-2016.    Reduce power consumption by end-2015. 340 MWh ( )891 MWh New goal: Reduce power consumption by another 500 MWh by end-2016.   Implement ISO 50001 Energy Management System at plant in Nordenham, Germany. 100% () 100% Material utilisation efficiency Increase efficiency by 0.1% yearly, i.e. to 96.3% in 2015 Target redefined: Increase efficiency by 0.2% yearly, i.e. to 96.6% in 2020. 96.3% 95.6% ()  Water ( )8,900 m Save 5,000 m3 drinking water by end-June 2015. >5,000 m3 3 A 2013-acquired plant in Sweden will be included in a new baseline for 2016. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Cables 1 5 / 24 ANTI-CORRUPTION At NKT Cables we are fully committed to being a reputable partner To ensure a streamlined and aligned process, the further training of and employer wherever we do business. The NKT Group’s code of employees has been postponed and incorporated in future training. conduct allied to the continuous development of our compliance policies helps us to achieve these goals by striving for fair and The model form contract has been developed and implementation responsible practices throughout our company. of the clauses is in progress. We believe that acting responsibly and fairly are critical to ensuring Also in 2016 NKT Cables expects to implement a new software long-term success for ourselves and our business partners. Our code system to support and optimise the NKT Group’s proactive efforts to of conduct sets out common standards for business ethics and for identify, assess and minimise risks related to business conduct and our everyday conduct. compliance. When fully implemented, the system will ensure and document our employees’ knowledge of compliance guidelines. Code of conduct and compliance NKT Cables’ commitment to good business ethics and compliance Whistleblower system  with international regulations and internal policies is anchored in The NKT Group’s whistleblower system enables employees to report our code of conduct and other internal corporate guidelines. These activities that may involve criminal conduct or violations of our directives outline the fundamental requirements for how NKT company policies. It consists of a website and phone hotline which Cables operates and set out the ethical standards expected of all our are managed by an independent third party to ensure the highest employees and our business partners. level of security and confidentiality. During 2016 the whistleblower We are continuously developing training materials, and during 2016 system will be widened so that also vendors and business partners may report possible criminal activities or other irregularities in   we expect to add further training and new reporting procedures relation to NKT Cables. An awareness campaign concerning this new to foster transparency and improve our compliance performance. feature of the whistleblower system will be launched in 2016.   2014-15 30.06.15  Goals & actions Anti-corruption Target Achieved Status  Anti-corruption  New goal: Provide access to NKT whistleblower system for vendors and business partners associated with NKT Cables.  Include anti-corruption and competition law as part of legal training programmes. 100% 50%() () Develop a model form contract including clear statements regarding anti-bribery. 100% 80%() New goal: Kick-off an awareness campaign about the NKT Group’s whistleblower system and access to the system for vendors and business partners. New goal: Develop a compliance mindset throughout the organisation through awareness campaigns. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track 16/ 24 NKT Cables CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Holding A/S Photonics Group statement Photonics Group’s products and solutions are integrated in applications aimed at better and more efficient use of energy resources such as oil and gas, new and improved equipment for early detection of diseases, and systems for improved human safety and protection of high-value assets. We operate in global businesses characterised by increasing focus on sustainability. The entire supply chain, from the materials and components used in our products to the end-users of our customers’ solutions, is geared to delivering environmentfriendlier products and to ensuring that these products are manufactured in a safe and responsible manner. Accordingly, our suppliers and business partners are urged to adhere to the principles of the UN Global Compact. In the present reporting period we have registered a decline in adherence on the part of suppliers, “ and strengthened focus will therefore be placed on realising our target of 80% compliance. Demands for Our products are marketed and sold with a reputation for high quality and greater environmental represent significant input in the form of R&D and investment. For us it is therefore accountability, increased of paramount importance that the players in our industry compete on fair terms, and we will tolerate no form of bribery or other acts contributing to unfair security and improved competition. living conditions are It is vital to our business that we can attract and retain the best people in terms important drivers in our of competences and commitment and provide them with an incentive to do business development their best. We therefore strive to offer our employees a good, stimulating and challenging workplace based on continued dialogue on both joband non jobrelated development, goals and performance. We believe that our continued focus on sustainability will support our business opportunities and at the same time contribute to improving living conditions for future generations. Basil Garabet President and CEO, Photonics Group NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2014-2015 Photonics Group 1 7 / 24 Overskrift overskrift Highlights 2014-2015 Cleanroom facilities for manufacture of fiber laser products Early-stage, accurate disease diagnosis Group-wide employee engagement survey With the advances in medicine and growth in population the need for In the period under review Photonics Group conducted its first ever accurate diagnostic tools is increasing. Modern photonics technology, global employee engagement survey. and especially the use of super-continuum lasers, is making possible radically improved quality, cost and speed of diagnostics. The survey was designed to meet the needs and requirements of all business entities, and the wording of the questionnaire was Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) enables high-resolution discussed with employee representatives in advance to obtain images of, for example, the eye, blood vessels and skin. In 2015, the most accurate result. The findings and resulting action plans Photonics Group released an OCT product with the highest resolution were subsequently presented to the employees and the survey will commercially available on the market, aimed at pre-clinical studies for henceforth be conducted yearly to track developments and trends. early-stage diagnosis of e.g. skin cancer, diabetes and cardio-vascular diseases. 18/ 24 Photonics Group CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Holding A/S HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS Historically, Photonics Group’s chief focus in terms of human and introduced, such as eye protection, screening and alarm systems, and labour rights was on the correct conduct of business. Today, we no cases of eye injury have been reported for the past five years. combine this with ensuring that, throughout the production chain to customer delivery, all our products are manufactured responsibly Employee engagement is vital to our performance in a global and and without infringing human rights. We demand the same of our competitive business environment. Accordingly, Photonics Group major suppliers, our target being to achieve 80% compliance with has for some years conducted engagement surveys covering the UN Global Compact among these companies. some 50% of our work force. During the present reporting period the survey was extended to cover all Photonics Group entities, During the period under review the level of adherence decreased the response rate being 68%. Based on the feedback, focus will from 73% last year to 54%. This was partly due to a change in now be placed on addressing job security and improve internal  product mix in one specific business unit, as a result of which a larger communication. proportion of the product components are supplied from partners who have not explicitly confirmed compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Focus on supplier adherence to these ENVIRONMENT principles is being strengthened in the coming period. The manufacture of our products is associated with minimum environmental footprint and the use of relatively small volumes of We strive to offer our people a safe and healthy working environment. raw materials. Almost all our products incorporate and use electrical Many of our employees work with very high light intensities when components and are manufactured in compliance with the directive developing and manufacturing our lasers. Careless handling or accidents can cause serious eye damage and eye tests are therefore restricting the use of hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment (RoHS directive) and similar regulations.    conducted every two years. Numerous precautions have also been    2014-15 30.06.15 Goals & actions Human and labour rights Target Achieved Status Procurement 80% of our procurement (above EUR 50,000 in value) is to be supplied by partners who have agreed to abide by the UN Global Compact principles. 80% 54%( ) Development of plan to monitor, through inspections, the extent to which our suppliers comply with the ()   100% 0 agreed conduct. Target date revised: 30.06.2016. Occupational injuries  Accidents causing absence in 2nd half 2014 or 1st half 2015. 0% () 0%  () Eye injuries caused by work with high light intensities recorded in connection with eye test to be 0% 0% conducted every 2nd year. New goal: No accidents causing absences in 2nd half 2015 or 1st half 2016. New goal: No eye injuries caused by work with high light intensities recorded in connection with eye test  to be conducted every 2nd year. Employee engagement Employee engagement is measured in all business areas and action plans are made, based on the results. 100% ( ) 100% New goal: Global employee survey to be conducted every year. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2014-2015 Photonics Group 1 9 / 24 Our principal environmental impact relates to the use of our products payments. Exception to this rule may only be made if the safety of our in solutions intended to improve either environmental conditions, employees is threatened. supply of goods, personal safety or human living conditions. Examples of product and solution applications include fire detection Employees involved in external contacts at a high level have been  in tunnels, optimised use of high-voltage cables, leak detection in oil trained in our anti-corruption policy and further training is a high and gas pipelines, quality control of food, development of new and priority. The scope of training for employees with a narrower external improved medicines and diagnosis of diseases. contact profile will be of future focus, along with attention on potential breach of our anti-corruption policy in our ongoing risk  assessment when evaluating new business partners, geographical ANTI-CORRUPTION areas and potential acquisitions, etc. The risk assessment of high risk business areas and regions has to be pro-active and further formalised  We are a company with global activities, and we therefore operate and documented in order for Photonics Group to fully achieve their in parts of the world where corruption and facilitation payments targets within this area which is a goal for 2016. are very rare and also in other areas where they occur regularly. We strive to compete on fair and honest terms and we do not tolerate employee involvement in corruption or acceptance of facilitation Photonics Group has registered no instances of corruption during the present reporting period.      Goals & actions Anti-corruption Target 2014-15 Achieved  30.06.15 Status Anti-corruption    ()  Train all relevant employees in our anti-corruption policy relative to their specific job functions including integration of a documented standard procedure for training. 100% 75% Target date revised: 2016  () Facilitation payments Non-acceptance of facilitation payments. 0 () 0   No facilitation payments were recorded in the reporting period. Agents and distributors All agents and distributors are informed of our Fair Trade Policy. Ongoing () 100% Formalised and documented risk assessment of business areas and regions in which we are active, plus active follow-up on employees, agents and distributors in high-risk areas. 100% () 50% ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track 20/ 24 Photonics Group CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Holding A/S Reporting principles NKT deploys three key elements for monitoring progress on The reporting and the Statement of Representation embrace around Corporate Social Responsibility: 100 legal entities worldwide. 1. Data collection of various Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) are Reporting methodology registered, covering parameters such as occupational injuries, The reporting methodology remains unchanged from previous reports, CO2 emissions, utilisation of raw materials, irregularities such as and NKT has chosen to assess a total of 19 GRI (Global Reporting environmental spills and fines and development in diversity in Initiative), G3.1 indicators. An overview is available on page 22. senior management. The business units are responsible for data collection and KPI quality. Data integrity While the majority of data is estimated to be sound, CO2 emissions 2. An annual Statement of Representation on Corporate Social data for transport of goods is still subject to some uncertainty. Focus Responsibility, signed by all local managers in the business unit, is maximised on areas under the company’s control, and the data for certifying that they are familiar with and actively working to Nilfisk solely covers transport of goods from the company factories advance the principles of the UN Global Compact. to distribution centres. 3. An internal whistleblower system, maintained by an external Auditing provider, which allows all NKT employees to raise concerns about The present report was not audited by an independent auditor. seemingly inappropriate conduct, events or circumstances. Reporting may be done in a number of languages. Statement of Representation NKT BOARD OF DIRECTORS NKT wishes to ensure that CSR is an integral element in the daily activities of all business units and entities. Annually, all entity managers (around 100) draft and sign a Statement of Representation detailing the progress with compliance made by the NKT GROUP EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR entity concerned on all UN Global Compact principles. Each Statement of Representation is submitted to the CEO of the relevant business unit who signs a Statement on behalf of the unit as a whole. Ultimately, NKT’s Group Executive Director signs a CEO BUSINESS UNIT Statement of Representation for the entire Group and the Board of Directors is informed of the conclusions. ENTITY MANAGER NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2014-2015 2 1 / 24 GRI indicators The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a comprehensive sustainability reporting framework which enables all organisations to measure and report their economic, environmental, social and governance performance the four key areas of sustainability The NKT business units report on parameters inspired by the GRI indicators listed below. Not all parameters are elaborated upon in the present report, but data are used in other contexts. NKT Photonics GRI, G3.1 indicators GRI parameters* Nilfisk Cables Group Human Rights Investment and Procurement practices HR1, HR2, HR3 ü ü ü Non-discrimination HR4 ü ü ü Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 ü ü ü Child, forced or compulsory labour HR6, HR7 ü ü ü Labour Practices & Decent Work Employment LA1 ü ü Occupational health & safety LA7 ü ü ü Diversity and Equal Opportunities LA13 ü ü ü Environment Materials EN1, EN2 ü ü Energy EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7 ü ü ü Water EN8 ü ü Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16, EN17, EN18, EN23, EN24 ü ü ü Product and Services EN26 ü ü Compliance EN28 ü ü ü Transport EN29 ü ü ü Anti-corruption Local Community SO1, SO9 ü ü Anti-corruption SO2, SO3, SO4 ü ü ü Public Policy SO5, SO6 ü ü Anti-Competitive Behaviour SO7 ü ü ü Compliance SO8 ü ü ü * In-depth descriptions are available on page 23. 22/ 24 CSR Report 2014-2015 NKT Holding A/S GRI, G3.1 Appendix Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions EN7 Human Rights achieved Percentage and total number of significant investment EN8 Total water withdrawal by source agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight HR1 human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions HR2 partners that have undergone screening on human rights and EN18 achieved actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste operations, including the percentage of employees trained deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN24 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may EN26 HR5 services, and extent of impact mitigation be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonOperations and significant suppliers identified as having EN28 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws HR6 significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to and regulations contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Operations or significant suppliers identified as having significant EN29 other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, HR7 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to and transporting members of the workforce contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Anti-corruption Labour Practices & Decent Work Percentage of operations with implemented local community Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes. LA1 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices region broken down by gender that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and including entering, operating, and exiting LA7 total number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks SO2 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees related to corruption LA13 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption SO3 policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Environment Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume development and lobbying EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political SO6 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antiIndirect energy consumption by primary source SO7 EN4 trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Non-renewable energy source Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonEN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements SO8 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based EN6 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts SO9 result of these initiatives on local communities NKT Holding A/S CSR Report 2014-2015 2 3 / 24 Photos: Carsten Andersen and courtesy of NKT subsidiaries. Copyright: NKT, January 2016. NKT Holding A/S Vibeholms Allé 25 DK-2605 Brøndby Denmark Tel. +45 4348 2000 Contact Helle Gudiksen Communications Manager email: helle.gudiksen@nkt.dk
