Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Contents 1. Introduction 4 1.1 Introduction by Chairman of the Management Board of Robeco Group Leni Boeren 4 1.2 Our ambitions at a glance 5 1.3 About this report 5 1.4 Robeco Group in a nutshell 6 1.5 Financial results 6 1.6 Robeco Group Strategy 2014-2018 6 1.6.1 Core values 7 1.7 Risks 7 1.7.1 Operational risk 7 1.7.2 Regulatory risk 7 1.7.3 Financial risk 8 2. Client-centered 10 2.1 Knowing our clients 10 2.2 Client research and satisfaction 10 2.3 Operational excellence 11 2.3.1 Customer service 11 2.3.2 Recognition 11 2.4 Complaints 12 2.5 Products and services 12 2.5.1 Product approval 12 2.5.2 Product solutions 12 2.5.3 Product monitoring 12 2.5.4 Transparency 13 2.5.5 Security and privacy 13 2.6 Knowledge-sharing 13 3. Sustainability Investing 15 3.1 Active Ownership 15 3.1.1 Focus on stewardship 16 3.1.2 Voting 16 3.1.3 Engagement equity and credits 17 3.1.4 Exclusions 20 3.2. ESG Integration by Robeco 20 3.2.1 Equity 20 3.2.2 Quantitative equity 21 3.2.3 Credits 21 3.2.4 Sovereign bonds 22 3.2.5 Thematic investing by RobecoSAM 22 3.2.6 Private Equity 23 3.3 Promoting the implementation of sustainability investing 23 3.3.1 Sustainability initiatives 23 3.3.2 Corporate sustainability assessment 24 3.3.3 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 24 3.3.4 Environmental Impact Monitoring tool 24 3.3.5 Publications on sustainability investing 25 4. Governance 27 4.1 Mission 27 4.2 Supervisory Board and Management Board 27 4.2.1 Supervisory Board 27 4.2.2 Management Board 28 4.2.3 Governance changes 2016 28 4.2.4 Diversity in Robeco Group’s boards of directors 29 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 4.3 Risk Management 29 4.3.1 Governance 29 4.3.2 Audit & Risk Committee 29 4.3.3 Group Risk Management Committee 29 4.3.4 Robeco Group Control Framework and ISAE 3402 30 4.3.5 Compliance with laws and regulations 30 4.4 Code of conduct 30 4.4.1 Whistle-blowing policy 31 4.4.2 Regulations regarding private investment transactions 31 4.4.3 Bribery and corruption 31 4.5 Robeco Group tax policy 31 4.5.1 Robeco Group as an asset management company 31 4.5.2 Taxation of investment funds 31 4.5.3 Robeco as an active owner 31 5. HRM 33 5.1 Key figures 33 5.2 Employee Value Proposition 33 5.2.1 Remuneration 34 5.3 Employee engagement 34 5.4 Personal and organizational development 35 5.4.1 Leadership 35 5.4.2 Human capital development 35 5.5 Health and vitality 35 5.6 Working environment 36 5.6.1 New offices in the FIRST building 36 5.6.2 New office in the UK 36 5.7 Diversity 36 5.8 Dutch Pension Fund for Robeco 37 6. Environment 38 6.1 Energy and water use 38 6.2 Waste 38 6.3 Paper 38 6.4 Responsible purchasing 38 6.5 Mobility 39 6.6 Carbon footprint compensation 40 6.7 New sustainable head office 40 7. Society 41 7.1 Social sponsoring 41 7.1.1 Social commitment 41 7.1.2 Robeco’s Christmas donations to a good cause 41 7.1.3 Robeco SummerNights in Het Concertgebouw in Amsterdam 42 7.1.4 Beleggr 42 7.1.5 Harbor 42 7.1.6 RobecoSAM 42 7.2 Social activities 42 7.2.1 Robeco’s voluntary work 42 7.2.2 Robeco Hong Kong’s voluntary work 43 7.2.3 Roparun 43 7.2.4 Transtrend 43 7.3 Academic activities 43 7.3.1 Robeco Quantitative Strategies 43 7.3.2 Netspar 43 7.3.3 RobecoSAM 43 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 3 1. Introduction 1.1 Introduction by Chairman of the Management Board of Robeco Group, Leni Boeren I am proud to present our corporate responsibility report 2015. Robeco Group is a pioneer in sustainability investing. We believe and demonstrate that good corporate governance and social responsibility enhance the long-term risk-return profiles of our investment portfolios. At Robeco Group we are convinced that integrated sustainability leads to better-informed investment decisions and we see sustainability as a general enabler of superior risk-return profiles. In our corporate responsibility report we are guided by the principle of materiality. The report focuses on those Robeco Group activities that impact the world around us, our clients and other stakeholders in terms of the environmental, social and governance aspects involved. For the Group, these are – clearly – our results and performance in the field of integrating sustainability in our investment. After all, investing is what we do, it’s what we are and what matters most. And so this is what we particularly wish to be assessed on. In 2015, we made further steady progress in the field of sustainability investing. All our strategies have our clients’ best interest at heart. Our teams work closely together and share knowledge and ideas, so that they are fully equipped to meet our clients’ need. This can only succeed with employees who put this ambition into practice. The report therefore focuses also on our HRM policy. There is no end to social responsibility. Our ambition is to improve our performance year on year, in the best interest of our clients. Leni Boeren Chairman of the Management Board of Robeco Group 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 1.2 Our ambitions at a glance Theme Ambitions Client-centered – Ongoing dialogue and communication with clients and subsequent learning and actions to continue to build long-term partnerships – Increase our insight into client satisfaction within Robeco Group – Continuously strive for operational excellence in the interest of our clients Sustainability Investing – Promote implementation of sustainability investing to clients – Increase the assets in which ESG criteria are incorporated – Improve corporate behavior and the risk/return profile of investments – Increase the assets under voting – Increase the assets under engagement Governance – Continuous optimization of the effectiveness of our internal controls in the interest of our clients – Operate in a model where accountability and a balance of power can be demonstrated HRM – Hire, grow and retain diverse talent – Invest in the personal and professional development of our employees – Support and promote health and vitality of our employees – Score higher than the benchmark on employee engagement Environment – Conscious in our use of resources Society – Provide funds and time to employees and initiatives throughout our company for meaningful, diversified and local commitments to programs that benefit society 1.3 About this report the field of sustainability investing. RobecoSAM is renowned for developing and licensing the Dow Jones This report shows the progress made in the field of corporate Sustainability index group, a joint initiative with S&P responsibility in 2015. The report’s publication date is Dow Jones Indices. The firm’s offering comprises asset 7 June 2016. Where possible, Robeco Group has included management, indices and clean-tech private equity. and aggregated all majority subsidiaries and assets under – Transtrend. Rotterdam-based research-driven and management in this report: system-based managed-futures trader, with track record – Robeco Institutional Asset Management B.V. (‘Robeco’; going back to 1992. Rotterdam, the Netherlands). This is Robeco Group’s – Harbor Capital Advisors (Harbor). Based in Chicago, asset-management company covering Europe and Asia. Harbor offers a family of mutual funds by selecting and Robeco is also manager and director of all Robeco’s monitoring best-of-breed external managers. It provides Dutch-based investment funds as well as the direct management services to Harbor Funds, a mutual-fund distribution channel for Robeco funds. complex, and to institutional segregated accounts. – Boston Partners (formerly named Robeco Investment Management). Boston Partners is the US assetWhere applicable, the report provides more detailed management arm of Robeco Group, offering equity information on the scope of the policy pursued and the and alternative investments to institutional clients and data presented (e.g., divergent approaches in local market high-net-worth individuals. BP’s platform is comprised of practices and different divisions, and the resulting data three divisions: Boston Partners, Weiss Peck & Greer and variances). In our reporting process we focus on those Redwood. elements of corporate responsibility that Robeco Group – RobecoSAM. Swiss-based leading asset manager in determines as having greatest materiality: client centricity, Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 5 sustainability investing and human resources. To gather the especially in US equity and quantitative strategies. required information, we disseminate annual questionnaires within the organization. Wherever possible, the input In 2015, the Group generated net profits of EUR 238 million obtained is checked and validated against the existing data. – a record high and an improvement of 4% compared to Our ambition for each reporting year is to upgrade further the previous year. This increased result was due to a rise and enhance the quality of the internal data simultaneously in recurring management fees, caused by the positive with this report. investment result during the first half of the year. The operating result over the year ended at EUR 360 million, an 1.4 Robeco Group in a nutshell improvement of EUR 30 million. At group level, 74%* (2014: 79%) of the portfolios Robeco Group, a global asset manager, offers a mix of outperformed the relevant benchmarks over a three-year investment solutions and products in a broad range of period. For 2015, this figure was 67% (2014: 52%). strategies to institutional and private investors worldwide. Robeco Group’s head office is located in Rotterdam, the 1.6 Robeco Group Strategy 2014-2018 Netherlands, and the company has 1,266 FTE’s in 15 countries (end of 2015). The company has a strong presence In March 2014, Robeco Group introduced its strategy for in the US, Europe and Asia and a developing presence in key 2014-2018. This strategy is based on the growth ambitions emerging markets such as India and Latin America. of Robeco Group and its majority shareholder ORIX and Robeco Group was founded in 1929 in the Netherlands builds on the foundations laid in the previous strategy as ‘Rotterdamsch Beleggings Consortium’. Today, the period. In 2015, assets under management grew from EUR company is the center of asset-management expertise for 246 billion at the start of the year to EUR 268 billion by the ORIX Corporation, Robeco Groups’s majority (90.01%) end of December. shareholder based in Tokyo, Japan. The remaining shares are owned by Rabobank. 2014-2018 Strategy: accelerate growth The 2014-2018 strategy focuses on growth in three regions, 1.5 Financial results the US, Europe and Asia. In these regions, Robeco Group and ORIX have a strong presence and foundations on which In 2015, Robeco Group’s total assets under management further expansion can be realized. Growth is expected to increased by EUR 22.1 billion (+9%) to EUR 268.1 billion, of come from existing and new activities expanding from which 47% were institutional. For the seventh consecutive its current base. Robeco Group expects its assets under year, assets under management have grown to reach a management to exceed EUR 300 billion in 2018 as a record high. result of organic growth. However, during this four-year period Robeco Group and ORIX will also look for acquisition This increase in assets under management was driven by a opportunities. strong positive investment result, which provided our clients with attractive returns, and was supported by a positive net Foster growth in the US cash inflow. The investment result of EUR 18.6 billion was Strong growth in Boston Partners is expected by focusing on positively affected by a EUR 17.3 billion gain caused by US its strength as a value equities manager. Boston Partners’ dollar appreciation. Value Equity capability has an excellent performance record and is expected to meet strong client demand in the strategy The net cash inflow amounted to EUR 4.0 billion (2014: period. In addition to fostering growth at Harbor , Robeco EUR 6.2 billion). In geographical terms, flows differed for Group will also further strengthen the distribution of Robeco different markets. On a net basis, bond funds experienced products in the US. outflows, while equity funds posted net inflows, more * Returns are gross of fees (alternatives net of fees) 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Invest in Asia quo, a strong commitment to thorough analysis and the will Robeco Group is also further developing its sales set-up and to take the lead. leveraging on the ORIX’ network in Japan. Our investment capabilities based in Asia will continue to focus on Asia Sustainable Pacific Equities, but Robeco Group also has the ambition to We are convinced that companies with sustainable business expand into Asian fixed income. In November 2015, Robeco practices are more successful. We seek sustainability in received approval from the regulators for a Wholly Foreigneverything we do and we anticipate future developments. Owned Enterprise (WFOE) in China. Our actions are based on a long-term view and a thorough approach, both to investing and client relations. We factor Scale up in Europe in the long-term impact of our actions. We carefully manage Robeco will expand its European sales by adding further risks and we are conscious of the costs and the resources we resources to existing sales offices. In 2015, Robeco opened use. an office in the UK focusing on key account management, consultant relations and the UK institutional market. At Connecting the end of December an Italian sales office was opened to Robeco Group is an organization of specialists, each further develop the Italian business and service existing with their own unique expertise. We actively share our clients. In Europe, Robeco expects to realize growth with knowledge and work together to leverage the organization’s its quant capabilities, pension solutions and sustainability collective genius and skills in order to achieve the best integration. Robeco sees that client demand is shifting from possible results for our clients. We show each other respect, products to solutions and believes that in the longer term treat others as we wish to be treated ourselves and we think it can provide suitable services to meet this demand and and act in the best interests of the Group as a whole. benefit from this change in the market. 1.7 Risks 1.6.1 Core values Our core values embody the essence of Robeco Group and The main risks currently known to Robeco Group are serve as a touchstone for our daily work. They enhance a highlighted, but this overview does not include all the clear shared identity that drives the behavior required for potential risks that may ultimately affect Robeco Group. executing our strategy. 1.7.1 Operational risk Client-centered We define operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from Our clients justify our existence. We consistently think and inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, act in their best interest. In all we do, we ask ourselves or from external events. Robeco Group manages a large what the added value is for our clients. We show a genuine range of services and products for different client types in interest in our clients and make an effort to understand their various regions in the world. This means it is an organization situation and goals. We deliver on our clients’ expectations which is exposed to risks linked to operational errors and and we set our sights on a long-term relationship. In the potentially high operational costs. In order to mitigate end, the results we achieve for our clients are the only these risks and achieve excellence in its operations, Robeco measure of success. Group continuously searches for possibilities to simplify processes and reduce complexity. The Robeco Group Control Innovative Framework also provides a continuous assessment of the The world is constantly changing, and every day poses new effectiveness of controls to mitigate identified risks. challenges for our clients and our organization. We meet these challenges with a broad and long-term view, an 1.7.2 Regulatory risk inquisitive mindset, an inclination to challenge the status Furthermore the number of regulations and supervisory Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 7 body policies in the asset-management industry has been increasing since the financial crisis. The quantity and impact of these are not the only challenges Robeco Group has to contend with. Dealing with the uncertainty resulting from new and not fully clarified regulations with often blurred timescales for implementation is also demanding. Hence, the risks stemming from the regulatory environment have increased. To manage these risks, Robeco Group is actively involved in the policy development process at an early stage, both directly and through representative associations, such as EFAMA in Europe and DUFAS in the Netherlands. Monitoring activities and impact analyses of planned regulations and policies are conducted at an early stage. Relevant departments initiate and/or monitor the subsequent implementation of new or revised laws and regulations. 1.7.3 Financial risk Movements in financial markets impact Robeco Group both directly and indirectly. Direct impact on Robeco Group primarily stems from its balance-sheet positions. To reduce direct risk exposure, Robeco Group hedges and mitigates these risks where necessary, including the hedging of balance-sheet positions of major subsidiaries using foreignexchange forwards. There can be an indirect impact on Robeco Group through changes in its AuM, and thus in the fee income generated. Robeco Group maintains a diversified portfolio of products and services to limit the impact of changes in specific markets (asset classes or countries/ regions) on AuM and fees. Furthermore, Robeco Group policies prescribe the careful selection and monitoring of financial counterparties. To mitigate liquidity risk, cash positions are closely monitored by Group Finance. The financial risks in client portfolios (funds and mandates) are managed and controlled via Robeco Group’s financial riskmanagement policies. 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 9 2. Client-centered Ambitions Highlights Ongoing dialogue and communication with clients and subsequent – In addition to our many regular client contacts, we organized learning and actions to continue to build long-term partnership numerous client events and published several reports, magazines and research papers with the aim of supporting our clients in making their financial decisions Increase our insight into client satisfaction within Robeco Group – Robeco retail in the Netherlands launched an independent online feedback platform, where clients can rate Robeco’s services Continuously strive for operational excellence in the interest of our – Boston Partners introduced a new client reporting system with clients the associated packages, resulting in the provision fo more useful information based on client feedback – Robeco also renewed its client reporting system and processes, with the effect of shortening the timelines for its monthly and quarterly reports – Robeco implemented new client-service dashboards integrated into the global CRM system to monitor timeliness of response and issue resolution for client queries/issues and complaints – Robeco and RobecoSAM joined ‘Paperboy’, a service which enables clients to subscribe to updates of legal documents. – Harbor received an NQR 5-star award for client call-center performance We consistently think and act in the best interest of our 2.2 Client research and satisfaction clients. We focus on enabling our clients to achieve their financial objectives through superior investment returns and Via both bespoke and syndicated market research, solutions. we remain alert to market trends and client needs. In addition, we ensure intensive personal interaction between 2.1 Knowing our clients institutional clients and distribution partners and Robeco Group’s senior management, account managers, clientIn our relationship with clients to whom we give investment servicing teams and portfolio managers. advice, we make sure that we have sufficient information on their financial situation, investment objectives, risk To improve servicing at Robeco, wholesale distribution and profile and other relevant background data to assess which institutional clients either perform in-house studies or buy products and services are suitable for them. A good match ad-hoc surveys on specific topics. Important research topics between our products or services and our client’s profile is in 2015 were smart beta, ESG integration and multi-asset. key in our approach. We monitor changes in client portfolios For repetitive client-satisfaction research we prefer to join and provide our clients with transparent information syndicated research initiatives together with other asset on pertinent developments directly related to their own managers. We embrace such industry initiatives as an portfolio and other relevant services and products. We effective way for both our clients and ourselves to obtain frequently meet with our key clients to gather feedback independent feedback on our products and services and about the overall relationship. to obtain insight into areas where we could potentially improve. 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Per end 2015, over 20 pension funds submitted evaluations them to show their ESG-stance; tailor-made commissionof more than 30 mandates via the Pension Plan Perception sharing reports produced for another client). Program serviced by Investment and Pensions Europe (IPE) on behalf of a large number of European pension funds. Robeco Group joined the ‘Paperboy’ initiative on behalf All clients who submitted an evaluation for both equity of the Robeco and RobecoSAM funds. This is a documentand fixed income mandates recommended Robeco. Hence dissemination service to which clients can subscribe. It Robeco ranks first in a universe of 70 recommended asset allows us to upload legal and marketing documents directly managers. to the fundinfo.com website, a leading international platform that provides information, and features the latest For Robeco’s retail distribution clients, in the Netherlands versions of investment funds’ mandatory publications for only, we use third-party client panels as well as continuous immediate access by subscribers. feedback loops on our website, and ad-hoc surveys to obtain feedback and information on our products, services and 2.3.2 Recognition clients’ needs. Robeco retail started in July 2015 with an The National Quality Review (NQR) gave Harbor a 5-star independent online feedback platform, where Robeco clients rating in Q4 2015 for the quality of their call-center service can rate our services. In the period July-December 2015, and processing operations. NQR’s 5-star performance this resulted in Robeco retail receiving 400 ratings with an is computed annually and is awarded to clients whose average score of 8.0. Robeco retail was recommended to 12-quarter rolling average compares favorably to the top others by 92%. In 2015, the average customer success score quartile of the NQR benchmark for the previous year. (CSS, client is fully successful on line) for Robeco retail was 80%. Robeco retail’s online platform was nominated for the Metrixlab Website of the year 2015 and won the National 2.3 Operational excellence Contact Center Award (NCCA) online customer-service award for best online customer service. Robeco retail continuously Based on intensive client contact, client research and the monitors client feedback through online surveys and one-onprocesses described above, we identify concrete actions and one client contact. We have made a series of improvements projects to constantly improve our servicing. based on this feedback (i.e., better presentation of client portfolio performance figures, more personalized offering 2.3.1 Customer service and automatic reinvestment of the yearly dividend payments In 2015, Boston Partners introduced a new client reporting with the opt-out functionality requested by the majority of system and packages. Improvements to Boston Partners’ clients). client reporting and presentation materials result in the provision of more useful information based on client In 2015, Robeco Group won the ‘Asset Management Firm feedback. A highly valued summary-holdings page informs >100 billion’ award at the Funds Europe 2015 Awards. customers of Boston Partners about recent purchases and According to the jury, Robeco Group won the award because: sales as a standard feature in the client books. ‘The Netherlands-based asset manager is a company on the up.’ The criteria for this award are a) demonstration of Robeco also renewed its client reporting system and exceptional outcomes for the quant investment strategy processes. This has resulted in much shorter timelines across a broad range of fund types during the twelve-month for monthly and quarterly reports. Furthermore, having period, and b) a presence in at least four European markets. redesigned the reports, the information and commentaries Key evidence includes assets under management at the provided have become more meaningful. Robeco regularly start/end of the twelve-month period, a pattern of net produces specific reports for its institutional clients (e.g., inflows, the number of funds and their performance figures, CO2-reports produced for an insurance company, enabling and a list of markets in which the firm is active. Further Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 11 evidence of success may include a record in customer service, procedures, the Group addresses all matters that influence product development and launches, and thought leadership its business model, client offerings and/or risk levels. Clearly, or research. Account was further taken of the Group’s status we ensure that all products comply with the applicable laws as a champion of sustainable investing, managing over EUR and regulations. 80 billion in ESG-integrated assets. 2.5.2 Product solutions Robeco Germany received the Capital 5-star award, earning Robeco Group often co-creates mandates, funds or solutions a high rating for its client-service activities. ‘Capital’, a in close cooperation with clients. Some examples in 2015 monthly magazine, publishes an asset-manager ranking are given below. once a year, which covers fund-management quality and performance, and customer interaction. In response to feedback and requests from many of its largest institutional and intermediary relationships, Harbor 2.4 Complaints filed to roll out a new non-revenue share class, called the Retirement Share Class, which will be available in 2016. Robeco Group is appreciative of and alert to complaints and other signals from our clients, as they provide valuable input Robeco France cooperated with a French institution to for further improving our products and client servicing. All develop an Asia Pacific mandate including a Sustainability its operating companies have procedures in place to ensure Investing filter based on RobecoSAM research. that complaints are handled in a prompt and appropriate way and are followed up with suitable measures. Senior Together with a large sovereign wealth fund, Robeco Asia management receives complaints reports on a regular basis. Pacific compiled a tailor-made factor-index solution. Robeco Group’s audit program assesses regularly if the complaints procedures are effective and efficient, or require In the Netherlands, Robeco combined its smart beta improvements. capabilities into tailor-made investment solutions for two large wholesale clients: multi-factor equities and global In 2015, Robeco implemented new client-service developed conservative equities (both in Dutch fund vehicles dashboards integrated into the global CRM system to matching the needs of these clients). monitor timeliness of response and issue resolution for client queries/issues and complaints, if any. 2.5.3 Product monitoring Robeco Group has a procedure in place to monitor its 2.5 Products and services products according to six criteria: 2.5.1 Product approval – Client interest Robeco Group aims to develop high-quality products. – Relative and absolute performance Before a product is introduced to the market, the product – Financial risk approval procedure ensures that all product proposals – Operational risk are assessed from the perspective of client interest, – Publicity performance, financial and operational risk, regulatory – Regulatory aspects requirements, reputation and liability aspects. The Group’s productand service-approval procedures help to speed up Some of these criteria are quantitative, whilst others are the development process of new and revised products and qualitative. We implement follow-up measures where services by ensuring that the relevant discussions are held necessary, and input is obtained from various departments at the right time, and that decisions are made by the right throughout the Group’s organization. people in the right positions. Within the scope of these 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 2.5.4 Transparency was attended by over 250 institutional and wholesale We aim to make the information that we provide about our clients. products and services easy to understand, and try to provide – On 24 and 25 September 2015, RobecoSAM hosted its sufficient information to our clients, on which they can annual RobecoSAM Forum, a two-day conference that base their investment decisions. Robeco Group strives for a connects corporates and asset owners with a group maximum level of transparency for its products and services of outstanding speakers and RobecoSAM experts. in terms of their characteristics, including the risks, costs and The theme of the Forum was ‘Superhero Investing: fees. integration, impact and beyond’. The aim was to exchange views on the impact of sustainability trends 2.5.5 Security and privacy on the financial markets and to promote sustainability Safeguarding the integrity and confidentiality of Robeco investing as a mainstream strategy. Over 360 guests Group’s data is essential in providing services and protecting – a new record representing USD 7 trillion in assets – ourselves from cyber criminality. We have implemented attended the forum and celebrated RobecoSAM’s 20th advanced technical security solutions to manage security anniversary at a special dinner event. risks related to cybercrime and to protect the privacy of our – Robeco’s annual World Investment Forum kicked off on clients. Friday 6 November 2015. With the company extending its reach into Asia, the forum was held in Hong Kong 2.6 Knowledge-sharing for the first time. Some 160 delegates from 22 nations attended the event. The Robeco World Investment Independent thinking is at the core of our activities and Forum brought together the world’s leading thinkers we like to share the results of these thought processes with to speak on the most pressing economic issues of our our clients. We have many ways of sharing knowledge with times. The central theme was: ‘Hidden opportunities clients. in a slow growth world’. Around 120 institutional clients and distribution partners from across the globe A few examples of client events and publications are given attended, together with international keynote speakers, below. such as Linda Yueh (member of the World Economic Forum and a contributor to CNBC and CNN), Hamish Client events McRae (is among Europe’s foremost speakers on future – During the annual ‘Robeco Live’ event on 15 January trends in economics, business and society) and Pippa 2015, the company presented its macro-economic Malmgren (former Financial Market Advisor to President outlook for 2015 to Dutch wholesale, institutional and G.W. Bush and Special Assistant to the President on retail clients. Experts gave their views on what 2015 the National Economic Council), and speakers from would bring. Robeco’s specialists gave topical, in-depth Robeco Group. Finally, in the closing keynote speech, analyses and opinions on key investment themes. Niall Ferguson, a leading British historian and academic, Internal and external experts presented their vision for presented his views on what the world will look like in the coming financial year. Various media were used the years to come. to communicate these visions to a broader public. The online reports were made available at robeco. Publications nl. Three short promotional films could be viewed on – On 19 January 2015, RobecoSAM announced the Bloomberg TV. These thought-provoking films featured publication of its Sustainability Yearbook 2015; Mr. José Manuel Barroso (former European Commission – RobecoSAM’s quarterly Advance Magazine contains President), Mr. Ha-Joon Chang (economist) and Léon the latest news, research and insights on sustainability Cornelissen (Chief Economist at Robeco). The full investing; interviews could be seen on robeco.com. This event – Performance Insights 2014 – a booklet on Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 13 Robeco Group’s principal developments and results in 2014 – was published in March 2015. – In November 2015, Robeco issued its annual outlook for the coming year ‘Outlook 2016: The year of diminishing returns’. – In 2015, Robeco enhanced its annual Expected Returns publication, highlighting what investors can expect for the world economy during the next five years. The printed booklet, with more than 100 pages of insights and dozens of graphs, has been widely disseminated. Additionally, the findings were discussed with clients in a series of meetings. Sponsorship for Volvo Ocean Race 2014-2015 Robeco Group has been the proud sponsor of Team Brunel, the Dutch entry in the Volvo Ocean Race 2014-2015. In the general classification, Team Brunel finished holding an excellent second place. Sailing has many parallels to successful investing. Robeco’s investments are research-driven and based on quant models. Similarly, Team Brunel’s skipper and navigator use data analytics and data modeling on board. Another thing that successful sailors and investors have in common is that they both combine technical know-how with effective teamwork in leveraging the human aspect. No ocean-going yacht can operate without everyone pulling together, and the principle that we are ‘all in the same boat’ is one we have long been accustomed to applying in dealing with clients. The round-the-world pioneering spirit is embedded in Robeco’s DNA: We were the first to take sustainability investing seriously; the first to invest in emerging markets; and one of the first to make use of data analysis based on quant models. This sponsorship underpins Robeco Group’s Strategy 2014-2018 to grow mainly outside the Netherlands and raise the company’s international profile. We strongly believe that hospitality opportunities from sponsoring Team Brunel has given the company an effective international platform to strengthen its rapport with clients from all over the world. 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 3. Sustainability Investing Ambitions Highlights Promote implementation of sustainability investing to clients – Sustainability investing and ESG integration are resonating increasingly with both institutional investors and private banks – Robeco publishes many articles and research papers on sustainability investing, including how we approach sustainability investing in our investments. – Robeco Group organized multiple client-specific workshop programs at senior-management level. – Over 360 guests representing USD 7 trillion in assets, attended the RobecoSAM Forum, and celebrated RobecoSAM’s 20th anniversary Increase the assets in which ESG criteria are incorporated – Assets in which ESG integration has been implemented at year end: EUR 76.7 billion1 (2014: EUR 82.6 billion) Improve corporate behavior and the risk/return profile – Active dialogue with 164 companies worldwide of investments – RobecoSAM started three new engagement themes, namely environmental challenges in the European electric utilities sector, ESG risks and opportunities in the biopharmaceutical industry, and corporate governance in Japan Increase the assets under voting – Assets under voting: EUR 45.0 billion at year end (2014: EUR 41.4 billion) – RobecoSAM voted at 3,462 shareholders’ meetings Increase the assets under engagement – Assets under engagement: EUR 218.1 billion at year end (2014: EUR 65.6 billion) Sustainability investing is integral to Robeco Group’s overall strategy. We are convinced that integrating environmental, Access to ESG social and governance (ESG) factors results in betterLeading Integration Research informed investment decisions. Further we believe that our Integrated engagement with companies in which we invest will have Sustainabity a positive impact on our investment results and on society. Within Robeco Group investors, sustainability investing Active researchers and the engagement specialists work closely ownership together focusing on jointly determined financially material themes. 3.1 Active Ownership Robeco and sustainability investing in figures (total AuM 2015: EUR 268 billion) 3.1.1 Focus on stewardship (Year end, in billion euros) 2015 2014 2013 Robeco welcomes the momentum stewardship codes are Assets in sustainability theme funds 2.7 2.8 3.1 gaining across the globe and strongly supports the aim of Assets for which ESG integration has been implemented 76.6* 82.6 74.7 investors being active owners of the companies in which Assets ‘under engagement’ 218.1 65.6 53.7 they invest. Robeco has published its own stewardship Assets ‘under voting’ 45.0 41.4 37.6 policy1 which provides transparency on Robeco’s stewardship * Decrease due to stricter methodology used for calculating assets in which ESG criteria are incorporated. 1 Decrease due to stricter methodology used for calculating assets in which ESG criteria are incorporated. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 15 activities. We disclose how we manage potential conflict to implement good corporate governance and increase of interests, monitor our investee companies, conduct long-term shareholder value and to encourage responsible engagement and voting activities and report on our corporate behavior. On a case-by-case basis we assess if stewardship responsibilities. As a further sign of Robeco’s we want to (co-)file a shareholder resolution as part of our commitment to stewardship we are signatories of the UK voting and engagement activities. and Japanese stewardship codes. Finally, we are committed to act in accordance with the Eumedion Best Practices for Figures: Engaged Share-Ownership, which is considered as the Dutch – Assets under voting: 2015: EUR 45.0 billion (2014: EUR stewardship code3. (Eumedion represents institutional 41.4 billion, 2013: EUR 37.6 billion) investors’ interests in the field of corporate governance and – Voted at 3,462 shareholders’ meeting related sustainability performance.) – In 1,868 of the meetings (55.1%) we voted differently than management recommendations for at least 1 3.1.2 Voting resolution Robeco votes for its investment funds and on behalf of – Voted on 36,778 agenda items individual institutional clients. The voting is carried out – 87.0% of resolutions voted for management by dedicated voting analysts in our Governance and recommendations Active Ownership team. We have been voting since 1998. – 12.7% of resolutions voted against management Currently, we vote on behalf of our institutional and retail recommendations funds and many of our mandates. Robeco visits several – 0.2% abstentions shareholder meetings in person, but casts most of its votes electronically. Robeco publically reports about its voting Voting per region activity on its website4. 2015 2014 2013 North America 29% 30% 28% Robeco has a comprehensive voting policy based on 18 Europe 21% 23% 23% years of experience and insights and anticipates specific Pacific 15% 17% 22% policy wishes in its mandates where this is requested. We Emerging Markets 35% 30% 27% vote at meetings relevant to their holdings, regardless of region or company. In practice, we will only refrain from voting in specific cases of share blocking. In these cases we assess the priority of the meeting and the voting impact of our positions. Our voting policy and analysis is based on the internationally-accepted principles of the International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN) and on local guidelines. The ICGN-principles provide a broad framework for assessing companies’ corporate governance practices. They provide enough scope for companies to be assessed according to local standards, national legislation and corporate governance codes of conduct. Our assessment also takes into account company-specific circumstances. High-profile voting decisions are made in collaboration with investment teams and engagement specialists. Information captured from the shareholder meeting is taken into account in the forthcoming engagement activities. With our voting practices, we aim to encourage company management 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Impact of voting and engagement on Petrobras’ corporate governance Meeting Dates: 29 April 2015 and 25 May 2015 A constructive and effective active-ownership program consisting of the company held a special shareholder meeting with the sole purpose of voting and engagement can encourage companies to improve their seeking shareholder approval of the 2014 financial results. management of environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) risks. This in turn helps decrease costs, enhancing competitiveness and Robeco has been engaging with Petrobras since early 2014 with the profitability. objective of improving the composition and independence of the board of directors. In 2015, together with other Brazilian and foreign investors, The annual shareholder meeting of Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (Petrobras) Robeco successfully nominated two board members who will serve as took place in the aftermath of one of the most atrocious corruption representatives of minority shareholders at the board. It is yet to be seen cases in the history of the company. The company is under investigation, whether the new board will help the company transition to operate more as Brazilian authorities have accused former Petrobras executives, and independently from the government. Robeco will continue following some of Petrobras’ partner engineering firms, of inflating the value of the company closely through its engagement and voting efforts. At the service contracts and benefiting from the excess funds. So far, two former annual general meeting of 29 April 2015, the board directors were executives have been sentenced to serve several years in prison for money elected. The new board includes no high-ranking government officials, laundering, together with more than 100 people involved. In addition, 50 which is a significant change to the tradition seen in recent years. politicians are currently under investigation for taking bribes. As a result, It is noteworthy that three board directors refused to endorse the annual the company has paid USD 2 billion in fines for costs related to corruption accounts. They denounced the reporting process as being deficient and the accounts of 2014 reported an overall loss of USD 7.2 billion. The and they also complained about the scarce two hours that were given company’s annual accounts also disclosed an impairment charge of USD to directors to review the 319-page long document before deciding to 14.8 billion, reflecting the decreased value of its assets. endorse it. This report aimed to determine whether the USD 17 billion in write-downs were sufficient to account for the impairments on refineries The controversy and consequent fines led to a sharp decrease in the value and other projects where suppliers allegedly paid bribes to win contracts. of the company’s assets. This blow to the financial health of the company At the shareholders meeting of 25 May 2015, due to the severity of brought uncertainty in the reporting of the annual accounts and Petrobras accusations against the company and the concerns expressed by the was forced to delay their publication. For this reason, on 25 May 2015, independent directors, Robeco did not support the approval of the report. 3.1.3 Engagement equity and credits Robeco’s engagement program consists of two types of In 2005, Robeco began encouraging the management engagement: of companies in which it invests to implement good corporate governance and pursue environmental and Value engagement human-rights policies, the aim being to increase long-term We focus our value engagement activities on a limited value for shareholders. Robeco continues to believe that number of sustainability themes that have most potential to engagement and voting are critical elements of a successful create value at our investee companies. These sustainability integrated sustainability strategy and can improve the themes are selected based on their financial materiality. risk-return profile of its portfolios. For our engagement For these financially material themes we conduct a baseline activities we apply a focused approach in which a relevant study and develop engagement profiles for the companies subset of investee companies is targeted for a constructive to be engaged. We prioritize companies in our portfolios dialogue on environmental, social and governance factors and our client portfolios that have most exposure to the such as corporate risk oversight, human-rights policy and respective engagement theme. Based on the baseline study, environmental risk management. we establish SMART (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 17 Relevant, Time-bound) objectives and begin a dialogue to Engagement focus areas in 2015 encourage companies to address the issues identified. We In 2015, we started three new engagement themes: ESG have regular meetings and conference calls with company risks and opportunities in the biopharmaceutical industry, representatives to track their progress towards meeting Environmental challenges in the European electric utilities our engagement objectives over a three-year period. sector and Corporate Governance in Japan. Robeco’s themes By discussing sustainability risks and opportunities with run for a maximum of three years and we typically work on 9 companies and providing them with insights into investors’ to 12 themes in parallel (see below for details). Every quarter, expectations of corporate behavior, we encourage these we publish an overview of our engagement activities on our companies to adopt better practices. Companies with website. In 2015, Robeco conducted 185 engagement cases sustainable business practices can create a competitive with a total of 164 companies worldwide. advantage and are likely to improve the risk-return profile of their shares. Value engagement is thus aimed at improving Engagement the risk-return profile of the company’s stock and ultimately (Engagement cases per theme) 2015 2014 2013 of our and our clients’ portfolios. Corporate Governance 50 33 35 Healthy Living 11 9 8 Enhanced engagement Community 0 4 13 Our enhanced engagement program is focusing on Human Rights 34 23 7 companies that severely and structurally breach the Human Capital 2 0 11 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Global Compact Breaches 38 31 58 in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and Environmental Impact 24 18 31 anti-corruption. The process is based on a systematic Environmental Management 26 51 5 analysis of alleged breaches of UNGC principles. For this we continuously monitor the news flow of global print and Engagement per region online media and other publicly available information 2015 2014 2013 from consumer organizations, governments and nonNorth America 50% 30% 41% governmental organizations (NGOs). Companies for Europe 93% 47% 42% engagement are selected based on the severity of the Pacific 22% 10% 5% alleged breaches. Enhanced engagement is aimed at Emerging Markets 20% 13% 12% influencing companies to act in line with the UNGC. In order to measure progress we use five objectives focused on elimination of the breach, policy, stakeholder dialogue, risk management systems and transparency. The engagement typically runs over a three-year period, during which we have regular meetings and conference calls with company representatives to track their progress compared to our engagement objectives. If an enhanced engagement dialogue does not lead to the desired result, Robeco Group’s Management Board may decide to exclude the company in question from Robeco’s investment universe. The process for enhanced engagement is a formal part of Robeco Group’s exclusion policy. The exclusion policy is applicable to Robeco and RobecoSAM. 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Engaging the electric utilities sector Robeco believes that the business models of power generators will the current business models of electric utilities. It has the potential to significantly change by the end of the decade, moving from a centralized substantially disrupt the ability of electric utilities to generate revenues. generation structure based on burning fossil fuels to a decentralized one Therefore, we encourage electric utilities to adjust their business models based on renewables. Environmental reasons are one of the main drivers by diversifying their revenues e.g. via energy services, and find ways to behind this development. Decentralized generation through renewables monetize their huge retail customer base and capitalize on digitalization is increasing the existing overcapacity in the power markets. Coupled (e.g. Smart Home). In addition we believe investments in grid efficiency with low demand due to increasing energy efficiency and modest GDP and flexibility, targeted strategic acquisitions and green marketing and growth, traditional power generation is being pushed out of favor and will product development are suitable strategic choices. ultimately need to be shut down or get paid for providing backup power. As investors, we need to know how electric utilities will deal with this shift 4. Public policy in their industry, how they will address the huge risks and how they plan We expect electric utilities to be transparent on their lobbying activities to profit from the opportunities that arise. This will allow us to pick the at the national and the EU level and on their positions on relevant winners of this transformation. environmental legislation (i.e. fixing the Emissions Trading Scheme Our assessment of the sector is translated into the following four (ETS), or carbon tax). This includes ensuring consistency between the engagement objectives: companies’ views on climate change and those which are advocated for on their behalf by their representative trade association(s). This 1. Proactive environmental strategy transparency allows investors to see if the utilities are indeed embracing We believe companies should have a proactive environmental strategy to the changes or trying to hold on to the status quo. position themselves for future changes such as rising carbon prices. Thus we motivate electric utilities to have a clear de-carbonization strategy (i.e. Course of action: In the first quarter of 2015, Robeco commissioned from coal to gas to renewables) reflected by decreasing carbon intensity a research report by the utilities team of French broker Exane BNP and to have a plan of how to deal with a future carbon price reflecting Paribas. Based on our outline of the issue and definition of engagement the reality of the emissions’ impact (about 30–40€/t). We acknowledge objectives, the report analyzed a large number of key performance that traditional generation will continue to play a role in the energy mix indicators such as capital expenditure, R&D spending and thermal for some years to come. However, we expect electric utilities to shut down efficiency across the peer group. Complemented with an in-house report aged and less efficient coal-fired power plants. on the public policy activities of the utilities this data set forms the basis for our engagement. 2. Operational excellence in thermal generation Traditional thermal generation from sources such as coal and gas will Over the next three years we will engage with 12 companies on the four continue to play a role because it helps to mitigate the increasing volatility engagement objectives above for the utilities sector. In June 2015, we related to the integration of more and more renewables into the grid. kicked off the engagement with formal letters outlining our expectations That is why we expect electric utilities to strive for operational excellence for all these companies. In the last months of 2015, we held conference at their thermal generation assets. This includes having quantified calls and meetings with all 12 companies and encouraged them to move thermal-efficiency targets, upgrading coal-fired power plants to higher towards our engagement objectives. For various companies we are thermal efficiency, creating cleaner plants and sourcing coal responsibly. already seeing positive progress on some of the engagement objectives, such as having a proactive environmental strategy and innovating their 3. Focus on business model innovation business models. We will continue to engage this sector for the next three The rise of distributed generation presents a significant challenge to years working towards achieving tangible changes at the companies. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 19 3.1.4 Exclusions For every investment Robeco does the analyst makes an Robeco Group has implemented an exclusion policy for in-depth ‘investment case’ of the company, which states companies involved in the production of, or trade in, his or her opinion on the industry, company strategy, the controversial weapons, such as cluster munitions and antiproduct portfolio, competitiveness of the franchise and personnel mines, and for companies that structurally and a SWOT analysis. To quantify stock potential we identify severely breach the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). four value drivers: revenue growth, margin development, For that last category, Robeco Group considers exclusion invested capital needed and risk (as defined by a discount to be an action of last resort, only to be used after all factor). To assess the fair value of a stock, these four factors other dialogue-based methods to persuade a company to are combined in our proprietary valuation tool, which is a improve its practices have failed. Robeco Group re-evaluates discounted cash flow model that explicitly takes invested the practices of excluded companies at least once a year, capital into account. and may decide to reinstate a company in the investment universe at any time if it can show that the desired change Quantifying the impact of ESG factors on companies’ has been implemented. Robeco Group’s exclusion policy and valuation takes place in three steps. The first step is to focus exclusion list are published on our website. The exclusion on the most material issues, i.e. those ESG-issues that may policy is applicable to Robeco and RobecoSAM. substantially affect the company’s business model and value drivers – either positively or negatively. The second 3.2. ESG Integration by Robeco step is to analyze the impact of these material factors on the individual company. The third step is to translate the Robeco views sustainability as a long-term driver of change associated competitive advantages and disadvantages in markets, countries and companies which impacts into adjustments to value driver assumptions in valuation future performance. Based on this belief, ESG factors models. Even if the analyst decides to assign no impact to are considered as one of the value drivers in Robeco’s the value drivers (because the factors cancel each other out investment process, similar to the way we look at company or the company is just average), these questions typically do financials or market momentum. From an investment give the analyst a deeper insight into the quality of company perspective, we believe considering material ESG factors management and the risks involved. strengthens our investment process and ultimately leads to a better-informed investment decisions. The table shows an example of how the ESG impact may be quantified for a chemicals company. In this case the ESG 3.2.1 Equity factors have a significant and positive impact (+15%) on the At Robeco Global Equities, it is believed that a structured value driver assumptions. integration of material ESG factors makes for betterinformed decisions. Robeco therefore integrate ESG into our We have structurally taken this approach for two years now investment decisions and valuation models by linking the and can show how it affected our valuations and decisions most material ESG factors per company to its competitive over 2014 and the early part of 2015: position and value drivers. To achieve this, we take a three step approach: – Sales growth and margins are both adjusted more often than the cost of capital 1. Identify and analyze the most material factors – The average impact on target prices is 5%, ranging from 2. Assess the impact of the most material factors on the -23% to +70% company’s business model and competitive position – ESG is an important factor in 28% of our decisions and 3. Quantify the impact to adjust the value driver decisive in 9% of our portfolio decisions assumptions 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Value driver Sales growth Margins Cost of capital Target price Benchmark Global chemicals: 4% 15% EBITDA margin in 2013 8% Company adjustment ex ESG Exposure to low-growth EU recovery: >+200bp Na EUR 124 segments: -50bps ESG adjustment Innovation management: Innovation management, Na EUR 19 (+15%) +100bps Environmental management & Product stewardship: >+100bps Total 4.5% >18% by 2017 8% EUR 143 3.2.2 Quantitative equity Integrate ESG factors in the analysis of pharma companies All Robeco quantitative equity strategies integrate ESG With a view on industry trends, competitive dynamics, and critical success factors factors to ensure a better sustainability profile. The for the industry, the analyst evaluates the importance of various long-term quantitative model is calibrated to ensure that the intangibles. We focus our sustainability analysis on those financially material portfolio sustainability score is at least as high as that of factors with the largest potential impact and biggest likelihood. The most material the underlying index. Increased ESG coverage in emerging factors in the pharma industry were identified as: markets allows for a consistent integration of ESG-factors – Product Quality and Safety across all quantitative strategies. – Business Ethics – Innovation Management In 2014, the RobecoSAM Quant Sustainable Global Equities – Human Capital Management, Talent Attraction & Retention strategy was launched. This strategy offers a quantitative – Quality of Earnings approach to sustainability investing: the model driven stock– Corporate Governance selection strategy is 80% based on sustainability information from RobecoSAM. The remaining 20% is based equally on Rating the companies valuation and momentum factors. For each of the material factors, we rate the companies from ‘++’ to ‘--’, which leads to an overall relative sustainability rating that is used in our actively managed 3.2.3 Credits strategies. We do this for highly competitive peer groups, as our goal is to identify Robeco credit analysts express a view on the company competitive advantages even between leading companies. In the case of the pharma fundamentals as well as an investment recommendation. sector, we analyzed 15 of the largest US and European pharma companies. The fundamental view is built on five pillars: business position, strategy, ESG factors, financial position, and Having determined the factors that are material for the sector and having evaluated structure. In the ESG block the analyst considers the the relevant companies on these factors, the sustainability analyst recommends impact of key ESG factors on the credit fundamentals of impacts on the business value drivers of the company. This view is discussed with the issuer. The starting point is the analyst’s own views on financial analysts who create their own views on how to incorporate material factors key ESG trends and factors. In addition, the analyst closely into their analysis of the stock, translating the associated competitive advantages and cooperates with the sustainability investing research team of disadvantages into adjustments to value driver assumptions in valuation models. RobecoSAM. Continuing with the example of Roche, the company’s competitive advantages are Two factors are important when it comes to integrating visible in the field of oncology, where Roche dominates the domain. We expect its ESG factors within credits. First of all, the impact must long-term innovation edge over competitors to lead to higher pipeline success rates be financially material. So before concluding ESG factors and stronger sustainable revenue growth. In one analyst’s model, this equated to contribute positively/negatively to our fundamental view, CHF 17, or 6 % of the company’s fair value. there must be a tangible impact on factors like margins, Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 21 revenues and risk profile. Second, the focus is mainly on sustainability rankings can be a powerful tool to enhance detecting downside credit risk. risk analysis for government bonds, enabling investors to make better informed investment decisions. The analyst describes the five pillars – including ESG – in a credit research report. This report is discussed in a credit Robeco integrates ESG factors into the investment process committee where the final fundamental view is determined. via the country sustainability ranking. The output of the The fundamental view is expressed in a score (‘F-score’), country sustainability ranking is a score for each of the which ranges from -3 to +3. Combining the F-score with the countries in the investment universe. This makes it possible relative value results in the investment recommendation. to rank countries and to see how the scores evolve over time. Changes in the scores and the resulting ranking act 3.2.4 Sovereign bonds as flag for developments that could be relevant. In addition Robeco has developed a comprehensive and systematic ESGto the ranking, we discuss individual countries on a regular ranking framework for countries, designed to complement basis, to identify material changes in their ESG profile. ESG sovereign bond ratings developed by traditional rating factors are incorporated in the country reports in which agencies. A group of 60 countries are assessed on the basis fundamentals of a country are discussed. For all investment of various sustainability criteria. The ranking is updated decisions we write an investment thesis. In such a thesis the twice a year. By focusing on selected ESG factors such as ESG risks or opportunities are a standard element. Obviously, aging, competitiveness and environmental risks – which are ESG information only plays a role in investment decisions long-term in nature – and taking into account a country’s when deemed relevant. For instance we incorporate them position in the economic cycle, the country rankings offer a into country allocation decisions, but not into yield-curve view into a country’s strengths and weaknesses that are not decisions. typically covered by rating agencies. Used in combination, standard sovereign bond ratings and Robeco’s country 3.2.5 Thematic investing by RobecoSAM Long-term megatrends such as demographic change, scarcity of natural resources, pollution, and climate change determine the competitive environment in which companies operate. The megatrends create long-term sustainability Quantitative approach to cut carbon footprint challenges and opportunities. Companies that respond to Taking a quantitative approach can limit the environmental impact of companies such challenges and seize these new market opportunities in a managed equity portfolio. Together with one of Robeco’s clients we have enhance their ability to create long-term shareholder value. looked at ways to reduce the carbon footprint of the portfolios we manage for them. Our research shows that only a few critical sectors account for over 80% The thematic investment strategies of RobecoSAM of the environmental footprint in the global economy. So we target these four are supported by an investment process which allows sectors – energy, materials, utilities and transportation – plus any other company for consistency in the stock-selection approach while with a similarly high footprint. The objective is to reduce the carbon footprint of the maintaining a strong focus on fundamental analysis to portfolios without major impact on other portfolio characteristics. The flexibility of build a portfolio of high-conviction stocks. RobecoSAM’s the client-optimized, quantitative-investment process allows for a reduction of the sustainability expertise is integrated at different stages carbon footprint. For the enhanced indexing products we manage for the client, we of the investment process. First, the construction of the do not allow an overweight in any of the 20% highest footprint companies in the thematic universe is based on the long-term sustainability four industry groups. For the Conservative Equities mandate, no position is allowed challenge that is addressed by the theme (e.g. energy in any of the 10% highest footprint companies in the four industry groups. In total, efficiency). Analysts define the theme universe by identifying for our enhanced indexing strategies, we have reduced the carbon footprint by companies worldwide that offer products and services about 15% from the original situation. For the Conservative Equities mandate the addressing the sustainability challenges related to the given carbon reduction is closer to 40%. theme. Companies are then analyzed with regard to liquidity 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 factors, such as market capitalization and trading volume. decision-making process and the construction of its Second, the sustainability profile of an analyzed company portfolios influences its attractiveness in the fundamental valuation. – ESG performance: impact of responsible investment RobecoSAM integrates the company’s sustainability and examples, detailing concrete results of responsible performance in our financial analysis to estimate the stock’s investment in terms of performance for both the portfolio fair value. Third, in portfolio construction RobecoSAM companies and the private equity fund actively monitor and mitigate sustainability risks through – Review and next steps: looking into the private equity media screening. fund’s next steps with responsible investment and the expected results on the fund’s performance and portfolio In 2015, RobecoSAM launced the Global Child Impact and companies the Global Gender Equality Impact investment strategy. Both investment strategies are based on bottom-up stock We assess different ESG indicators and calculate a total ESGselection, which alongside the financial attractiveness of a score for each Private Equity fund. This ESG score appears on company also considers its endeavors regarding children’s the ESG Fund Factsheet which shows how a particular fund rights and gender equality. At the heart of both investment scores relative to the peers in the engagement universe and strategies lie the ‘Global Child’ and ‘Gender Equality’ over time. company ratings generated by RobecoSAM’s ESG database, which monitors over 3,000 companies. The annual assessment presents a basis for the engagement with the GPs on how they incorporate ESG analysis in their 3.2.6 Private Equity investment process. A standardized and comprehensive RobecoSAM Private Equity manages private equity fund-ofassessment framework enables RobecoSAM Private Equity to fund products and mandates, with some co-investments quantify, compare and benchmark the ESG performance of in the clean tech / resource efficiency space. Sustainability Private Equity funds which can help the latter monitor their factors are considered in the selection, appointment own progress and identify areas for improvement. and monitoring of private equity managers for all of RobecoSAM’s Private Equity strategies. RobecoSAM Private Based on the comprehensive analysis we provide fundEquity is in active dialogue with its fund managers on ESGspecific recommendations on how to better incorporate ESG issues, their relevance for private equity investments and considerations in due diligence as well as the monitoring their implementation in investment processes. RobecoSAM of portfolio companies the GPs are invested in. The Private Equity circulates an Annual Responsible Private recommendations are being discussed with the GPs during Equity questionnaire to the fund managers, our General the engagement calls as well as during the regular meetings Partners (GP). This questionnaire consists of four sections: with the GPs. a general section focusing on overall fund policies and practices followed by three more specific sections focusing 3.3 Promoting the implementation of on ESG-issues and their management. The questionnaire sustainability investing covers the following aspects: 3.3.1 Sustainability initiatives – ESG strategy & policy: investment strategy and Robeco Group is a participant in the United Nations Global integration of responsible investment, with questions Compact. The UN Global Compact is a strategic initiative for on the private equity fund’s specific responsible private businesses that are committed to aligning their strategies equity investment characteristics and operations with ten universally accepted principles in – ESG policy implementation: implementation of ESG the areas of human rights, labor, environment and antiissues concerning the integration of the private equity corruption. By doing so, business as a primary driver of fund’s responsible investment strategy in its investment globalization can help ensure that markets, commerce, Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 23 technology and finance advance in ways that benefit RobecoSAM has been assessing the sustainability economies and societies everywhere. performance of the largest listed companies on a yearly basis since 1999. Some 2,126 companies from 42 different As part of our commitment to making financial markets countries were assessed on their performance in financially more sustainable, Robeco and RobecoSAM are also material ESG criteria for the Sustainability Yearbook 2016. members of organizations such as the European Sustainable RobecoSAM awarded 77 RobecoSAM Gold Class medals, 74 Investment Forum (Eurosif), UNPRI, Asian Corporate RobecoSAM Silver Class medals and 97 RobecoSAM Bronze Governance Association (ACGA), Eumedion, The Institutional Class medals to the evaluated companies. Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Certification of Environmental 3.3.3 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Standards (Ceres) and Swiss Sustainable Finance. The active The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index was launched in contribution to these important platforms for collaborative 1999 as the first global sustainability benchmark. The Dow action on sustainability issues enables Robeco Group to help Jones Sustainability Index family is offered cooperatively by shape the global investment agenda. RobecoSAM and S&P Dow Jones Indices. The family tracks the stock performance of the world’s leading companies in 3.3.2 Corporate sustainability assessment terms of economic, environmental and social criteria. The Every year, RobecoSAM publishes The Sustainability indices serve as benchmarks for investors who integrate Yearbook. The yearbook describes the latest trends in sustainability considerations into their portfolios, and provide an effective engagement platform for companies who want to adopt sustainable best practices. Positive impact of the thematic stock pick Gamesa Gamesa is one of the world’s biggest wind turbine suppliers and developers of The Dow Jones Sustainability Index family comprises global, wind farms with production centers in Spain and China. The annual equivalent of regional, and country benchmarks. S&P Dow Jones Indices its 29 gigawatt wind-energy installations across the world amounts to more than and RobecoSAM together can create customized versions of 6.4 million tons of petroleum per year and prevents the emission of more than the indices, as well as sustainability-optimized versions of 40 million tons of CO2 per year. This corresponds to the annual emissions of more standard indices with a low tracking error, to meet investors’ than 6 million cars. By investing in companies like Gamesa, investors will reduce specific requirements for their unique investment objectives, greenhouse gas emissions and improve energy security on the long term. including industry and country exclusions. 3.3.4 Environmental Impact Monitoring tool RobecoSAM’s Environmental Impact Monitoring tool sustainability research and industry-specific, material ESG enables investors to quantify, communicate and optimize drivers. It is based on RobecoSAM’s corporate sustainability the environmental impacts of their listed equity and assessment and has become a global reference book for corporate bond portfolios. It measures the impact of corporate sustainability. investors’ portfolios on a series of tangible environmental indicators and indicates the magnitude of their portfolios’ The Yearbook looks back at companies’ sustainability environmental impact per invested dollar. The key performance in 2014, includes the best 15% per industry quantitative indicators screened for are: greenhouse gas and ranks them Gold, Silver or Bronze. The top-performing (GHG) emissions, energy consumption, water use and company from each of the 59 industries analyzed is awarded waste generation. The data can subsequently be used to RobecoSAM Industry Leader status. Split by region, Europe enable investors to make better informed decisions on holds the greatest number of companies included in the how to optimize their portfolios in order to maximize the Yearbook, as well as the most RobecoSAM Gold Class medal positive or limit the negative environmental impacts of their winners. investments. 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 3.3.5 Publications on Sustainability Investing On websites, in newsletters and at events Robeco As the investment process differs for different investment continuously discloses specific insights into sustainability funds, we introduced a Sustainability Investing Classification investing, including how we approach sustainability System. For every publically traded fund we publish on our investing in our investments. Many articles and research website the structural approach in ESG integration and papers are available describing ESG integration by whether voting, engagement and an exclusion policy apply. investment teams. Adding value through diversity The topic of gender diversity is rapidly gaining attention. More and more companies are convinced that a well-diversified board adds value to their organization. Robeco also incorporates this philosophy in its voting and engagement practices. When assessing corporate boards, we determine if the board is sufficiently independent and if directors have relevant experience. We also assess how diversified boards are in terms of skills, background, age, tenure and gender. With the intention to contribute to the diversity debate, Robeco carried out a quantitative research into the relationship between gender diversity on boards and stock performance. The unique sustainability data collected by RobecoSAM, the quantitative approach of Robeco’s quant researchers and its corporate governance knowledge put Robeco in an optimal position to carry out such research. A set of different statistical methodologies were used in order to increase the robustness of the research. In order to avoid biased results, corrections were made for the gender exposures to sectors, markets and other factors known to drive stock returns. In the analysis, Robeco has been found a positive relationship between gender diversity of company boards and stock returns. The results are promising and support the focus in engagement on this topic: the conclusion stays the same when using different methodologies and after correction for other performance-related exposures and effects. The link is especially visible from 2009 onwards. However, a large part of the results is not statistically significant, partly due to the relatively short research period (2004–2013). In order to make final conclusive statements on the effect of diversity on stock performance, Robeco would need a larger and more consistent data set that covers a longer period of time. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 25 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 4. Governance Ambitions Highlights Continuous optimization of the effectiveness of our internal controls in – Robeco Group further developed its Enterprise Risk the interest of our clients Management framework, consisting of risk taxonomy, a riskappetite statement and a risk report Operate in a model where accountability and a balance of power can – The purpose of the framework is to more explicitly and be demonstrated effectively integrate risk-management dimensions into strategic decision-making Robeco Group ensures that its corporate management is the Robeco products, the position of clients, the financial strong, responsible and transparent and guarantees the results and employee developments and conditions, as well interests of all stakeholders. as other matters. 4.1 Mission The board understands and endorses the emphasis on regulatory control resulting in a process of constantly Our mission is: ‘To enable our clients to achieve their increasing and changing rules and regulations and financial objectives through superior investment returns and the importance of monitoring compliance to the rules solutions’. Our key convictions are as follows: throughout the organization. This subject therefore receives – Since our establishment in 1929, we have maintained a the board’s due attention and is dealt with at every meeting. long-term view on investing – Every investment strategy should be research-driven and Members of Robeco Group’s Supervisory Board as per end of executed in a disciplined way December 2015: – Solid risk management is essential for successful investing – D.P.M. (Dick) Verbeek, Chairman (up to and including 9 – Sustainability investing leads to better-informed December 2015) investment decisions – A. (Bert) Bruggink (up to and including 21 January 2015) – A.C. (Arjen) Dorland We will accomplish our mission with employees who are – S.E. (Sjoerd) Eisma truly engaged and empowered to use their full potential, – M.E. (Michael) Gower (since 21 January 2015) working together to obtain the best possible results for our – M. (Makoto) Inoue clients. – J.J.M. (Jeroen) Kremers – Y. (Yoshihiko) Miyauchi 4.2 Supervisory Board and Management Board – J.J. (Jan) Nooitgedagt – A.M. (Alan) Rubenstein 4.2.1 Supervisory Board In 2015 the Supervisory Board of Robeco Group met five All Supervisory Board members have sworn the Dutch times, while a number of intermediate conference calls were banking oath. held. The meetings were attended by most of its members. In the meetings of the board and its respective committees (the Audit & Risk Committee, the Nomination, Remuneration & Corporate Governance Committee, the Investment Committee), due attention was paid to developments in the financial markets, the performance of Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 27 4.2.2 Management Board All Management Board members have signed an Integrity The Management Board of Robeco Group acts on the basis Statement and sworn the Dutch banking oath. of shared responsibility, on the understanding that all members have their own focus areas. The composition in 4.2.3 Governance changes 2016 2015 was as following: On 17 May 2016 Robeco Group announced that it will separate its activities into Robeco Institutional Asset – R.M.S.M. (Roderick) Munsters (Chairman, up to and Management B.V. (Robeco), which will have its own including 31 October 2015) Supervisory Board and executive management to emphasize – D.A. (David) Steyn (Chairman, since 1 November 2015) its position as an autonomous global asset manager, under – L.M.T. (Leni) Boeren the name Robeco, with its headquarters in Rotterdam, – H.W.D.G. (Hester) Borrie preserving the strong name and history, and Robeco Group. – H.A.A. (Hans) Rademaker The latter will be transformed from an operating company – J.B.J. (Jurgen) Stegmann (up and including 1 May 2015) into a financial holding company. – R. (Roland) Toppen (since 1 December 2015) The new corporate governance structure will further Company Secretary separate the holding activities of Robeco Group, and the – S. (Stefan) Gordijn (since 1 October 2015) asset management businesses of its subsidiaries: Boston – D.H. (Dave) Cross (up to and including 30 September Partners, Harbor, Transtrend, RobecoSAM and Robeco. 2015) The new structure reflects current global industry and market Robeco Group Corporate departments RobecoSAM Robeco Equity, Fixed Income & Boston Partners Transtrend Sustainablility Investing Investment Solutions US & Global Equities CTA Canara Robeco Harbor Capital Advisors Indian Equities Manager of Managers 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 trends, guaranteeing continued expertise in investments, 4.3.1 Governance distribution and client servicing. Robeco Group’s risk management is built on a model incorporating three lines of defense. This starts with Robeco will get its own dedicated Supervisory Board and a primary risk management responsibility for line dedicated support functions. Day-to-day management management in their day-to-day decision-making process. remains with Leni Boeren, Roland Toppen, Peter Ferket, Ingo The second-line functions are fulfilled by Group Compliance Ahrens and Karin van Baardwijk, who form the Executive (GC) and Group Risk Management (GRM), which develop Committee of Robeco. and maintain risk policies and frameworks to enable line management to effectively handle their risk-management Leni Boeren will lead the transition to the new governance responsibilities. and remain a member of the Management Board of the Robeco Group and several Boards of Robeco Group’s The Group Internal Audit function (GIA) acts as the third line subsidiaries until the transition is completed. Leni Boeren of defense and provides independent assurance on internal will leave Robeco Group once the transition is completed. control by means of various audits and reviews. Both the second and third-line activities are independent, with no As a financial holding company, RG will not perform any link to Robeco Group’s commercial functions. GC and GIA asset management activities. Subject to final regulatory report directly to the CEO. GRM reports directly to the CFO. approval, the Supervisory Board and the Management Furthermore, we have established several cross-functional Board will be replaced by a simplified financial holding committees that have specific decision-making powers. board chaired by Makoto Inoue. 4.3.2 Audit & Risk Committee As part of the new governance structure, the outgoing The Supervisory Board of Robeco Group has an Audit & chairmen of the two boards, Bert Bruggink and David Risk Committee (A&RC) to supervise the financial reporting Steyn respectively, have stepped down and will join ORIX process, the control environment, the system of internal Group. The other members of the Supervisory Board of controls, risk management and internal audit. The A&RC Robeco Groep will step down once the transition to the new also reviews the process used to monitor compliance with governance is completed. legislative and regulatory requirements and its own internal policies. The A&RC relies on reporting from GRM, GC, GIA, 4.2.4 Diversity in Robeco Group’s boards of Group Finance and the external auditor, and on updates directors from the business entities. Since 1 January 2013, it has been a legal requirement for companies to aim to have at least a 30% quota of women on 4.3.3 Group Risk Management Committee their management and supervisory boards. Robeco Group’s There are several risk management committees to ensure Management Board consisted per the End of 2015 of two comprehensive and consistent risk oversight throughout women and three men, and therefore met the required the Robeco Group. The Group Risk Management percentages. The current composition of the Supervisory Committee (GRMC) is the highest body within Robeco Board does not meet this requirement. Group that focuses on risk. It consists of the members of the Management Board and relevant staff departments. 4.3 Risk Management The GRMC is chaired by the CFO of Robeco Group and is responsible for evaluating and approving group-wide The following section presents an overview of Robeco policies relating to risk management topics. The GRMC Group’s approach to risk management. also assesses whether the risks relating to Robeco Group’s activities remain within the defined risk-tolerance levels. If risks exceed these levels, the GRMC can take steps to Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 29 remedy this. The GRMC is supported by various local risk4.4 Code of conduct management committees that are responsible for individual business entities and by (sub-)committees that focus on Robeco Group has a Code of Conduct. The Code contains specific issues (e.g., valuation, security, crisis management guidelines for the following areas: and new products). Core values – these values form the basis of our behavior 4.3.4 Robeco Group Control Framework and provide guidance for our day-to-day activities. This and ISAE 3402 is exemplified by the fact that all Management Board Robeco Group uses the Robeco Group Control Framework members have signed an Integrity Statement. Retail and to set the standard for managing risks within the company. institutional clients: Robeco Group knows its clients and The objective of the Control Framework is to maintain acts in their best interests, treating them with respect integrated control of Robeco Group’s operations and and communicating with them in an open, honest and ensure compliance with laws and regulations. The Control trustworthy way. Framework consists of several building blocks that combine to create a continuous process in which all significant risks Products and services – Robeco Group develops quality are identified, measured, monitored and controlled. Robeco products and services and informs investors of the product Group’s defined risk appetite plays a central role in the specifications in a fair and equitable manner. The company Control Framework, as it defines the scope of the framework is also responsible to its clients for any activities outsourced and provides high-level guidance for determining significant to third parties. risks and defining and implementing controls. The investment process – Robeco Group seeks to maximize Robeco Group has the following ISAE 3402 statements in the value of client portfolios, while taking into account its place as assurance reports for clients: clients’ objectives and constraints. Robeco Group has strict rules to safeguard fair trading and to manage possible – Robeco(asset-management activities) conflicts of interest between Robeco Group as a manager of – Private Equity client assets, and investors. – Integrated Asset Management – Flexioen Personnel and organization – Robeco Group employs – Robeco Retail Savings Administration people who are honest, qualified, cooperative and results oriented. Robeco Group has procedures in place to identify 4.3.5 Compliance with laws and regulations and manage possible conflicts between the interests of Changes to laws and regulations relating to financial private individuals, Robeco Group and investors. markets and funds (e.g., remuneration policies for the financial sector, the Financial Markets Amendment Act Robeco Group’s Code of Conduct supports an open and 2015, UCITS V, EMIR, MiFID II, MAR) could lead to an honest culture, where it is possible to address each other increase in operational costs for Robeco Group products and on the subject of potential infringements or malpractices. affect Robeco Group’s ability to grow its business. To manage Everyone should feel free to discuss any malpractices they these risks, Robeco Group is actively involved in establishing notice, either with their own manager or with the managers new laws and regulations or in revising the existing ones. of other departments, and with Group Compliance. It does this by participating in representative associations (e.g., EFAMA, DUFAS) and by remaining in close contact with (Dutch) government bodies. In addition, all relevant staff departments initiate and/or monitor the implementation of new or revised laws and regulations. 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 4.4.1 Whistle-blowing policy 4.5 Robeco Group tax policy Robeco Group adheres to Regulations regarding whistleblowing. In 2015, all Group entities had their own whistleRobeco Group’s tax policy makes a distinction between our blowers rules in line with local legislation and regulation. asset management company and our funds. These regulations state how it should deal with the confidentiality of the information, the procedures to be 4.5.1 Robeco Group as an asset management followed and the protection of the whistle-blower. These company regulations contain rules guaranteeing that a report made Robeco Group’s objective is to act at all times in accordance in good faith about a (possible) infringement or malpractice with applicable laws. Robeco Group does not use tax will not have any consequences for the employment-law structures that are intended for tax avoidance only. The position of the whistleblower, that this will not have any tax policy supports the Groups’ overall business strategy effect on the whistleblower’s fixed or variable remuneration, and objectives. We are guided by relevant international and that this will not have a negative impact on the standards, for example the OECD Guidelines. whistleblower’s regular performance reviews. 4.5.2 Taxation of investment funds 4.4.2 Regulations regarding private investment In our view investment proceeds should be taxed at the transactions level of the investor to the extent the investors are subject to All employees working for Robeco Group are subject taxation. Our investment funds should be tax neutral, thus to detailed regulations regarding private investment should not create any additional tax burden. Our tax policy is transactions and the handling of price-sensitive information. to minimize additional taxation (tax leakages) at investment These rules and regulations aim to prevent the use of pricefund level for our clients. sensitive information (or semblance of such use), as well as any trading on the basis of price-sensitive information, and We ensure that, as a company, we have the mechanisms any entanglement of business and private interests. in place to adhere to the above principles. These principles are consistent with the Group’s Code of Conduct. The Group 4.4.3 Bribery and corruption maintains a team of tax professionals who are in dialogue Robeco Group has a zero-tolerance stance concerning with our business and senior management. bribery and corruption of any kind. Robeco Group does not want to be involved in the misuse of public or private office 4.5.3 Robeco as an active owner to obtain improper advantage. Robeco Group is committed In its active ownership activities Robeco takes into account to complying fully with all applicable anti-bribery and antithe tax policy of a holding. During 2016, the topic of tax corruption laws. The corruption and bribery principles apply accountability will be a focus area for engagement. We to all permanent and temporary employees of Robeco expect holdings in which Robeco invests to comply with Group. the legal and regulatory framework that is applicable to their business activities. Companies should assess the risks associated with their approach to tax and match this risk profile with investors’ risk appetite and the need to maintain the trust of stakeholders. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 31 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 5. HRM Ambitions Highlights Hire, grow and retain diverse talent – In accordance with the overall growth strategy, the increase in staff in 2015 was predominantly a consequence of new hires of portfolio managers and client facing staff Invest in the personal and professional development of our staff – The average spent on development per employee at Robeco was EUR 1,700 – Two group-wide leadership conferences were held for our top management teams, and the Leadership Competency Model was implemented Support and promote health and vitality of our staff – Several new initiatives to stimulate the vitality of employees were launched. Score higher than the benchmark on employee engagement – General employee engagement (Robeco and RobecoSAM) was rated 7.5 compared to 7.3 in 2014. The benchmark for financial services is currently 7.3. These high scores earned Robeco the title ‘Best Employer 2015’ in the financial services category in the Netherlands Robeco Group can only be successful if its employees are In accordance with the overall growth strategy, the increase empowered and committed to the ambitions and core in staff in 2015 was predominantly a consequence of new values of the company. We recognize that our people are key hires of portfolio managers and client facing staff in the US in realizing our company goals. and Asia. The increase at Robeco in Europe is mainly due to our new office in the UK. 5.1 Key figures There has been a considerable increase in the international Number of employees (FTEs) 2015 2014 2013 mobility of our employees, through both temporary Robeco & Robeco Group 807 786 825 assignments and permanent relocations. RobecoSAM 119 116 114 Harbor 129 119 112 5.2 Employee Value Proposition Boston Partners 148 135 126 Transtrend 63 62 58 Robeco Group’s Employee Value Proposition reflects the Total number of employees 1266 1218 1245 value of what we offer employees in exchange for their commitment and performance on the job. In essence, New employee hires (total number) 2015 2014 2013 it is the promise that we make to current and potential Male 91 78 69 employees: Female 64 31 49 Total 155 109 118 Truly engaged – The opportunity to really leave a mark on the company. We stimulate this by being transparent about Turnover (percentage) 8% 9% 14% the company’s strategy, objectives, successes, challenges and decision-making; by making clear which results we expect from our employees and giving them the freedom to decide how to achieve them, delegating responsibilities as much as possible and providing ample room for their own initiative. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 33 Bound to grow – Collaborating with the best in the world. The scores for both response and overall engagement have Working with the Group means being challenged by highly increased. Moreover, the results compared to the relevant motivated and intelligent colleagues; constantly gaining and benchmark have improved further. The 2015 survey was sharing knowledge and skills; being part of a highly dynamic optimized based on an evaluation of the 2014 survey and and professional organization; and working for prestigious input from a sounding-board session involving 12 employee and demanding clients from all over the world. In addition, representatives from throughout the organization, including we expect our employees to leave the trodden path, explore the Works Council. new opportunities, innovate and push their boundaries. Robeco was chosen ‘Best Employer 2015’ in the financial Well rewarded – The total financial reward at the Group services category in the Netherlands. Effectory and is clearly linked to the business strategy and the results Intermediair carried out their Best Employer Survey for the achieved. The way we reward our staff is externally 15th time in 2015 for the purpose of obtaining an objective competitive and internally fair, with ample room for evaluation of employers in the Netherlands. Over the last differentiation, based on relative market value and year, 314,218 employees evaluated their employers. Our performance, using an integrated assessment of results and position – first place on the list – was determined by the behavior. Our performance and reward policy is transparent results of the Employee Engagement Survey held in the and clearly communicated. Netherlands in 2015. 5.2.1 Remuneration With the introduction of the Robeco Reward Framework, In 2015 for the first time, we incorporated all significant the employee-engagement survey has become part of the reward components such as annual salary increases and performance-management process. From the second half variable remuneration into a single integrated process with of September, all results were discussed at department level which to manage performance and determine reward. This during the workshop ‘Embed & Improve’, followed by plans new process ensures a complete and balanced assessment of action for 2016. The most important topic throughout of an individual’s performance, and increases transparency the entire organization is vitality, for which programs have in terms of how variable and fixed remuneration are been developed and launched. Robeco and RobecoSAM determined on the basis of performance and market both aim to constantly improve the level of commitment practice. This policy is applied throughout Robeco and and engagement of their employees and to maintain a high RobecoSAM. standard of leadership and productivity. We can only be successful if employees are empowered and 2015 2014 2013 committed to the ambitions and core values of the company. General engagement 7.5 7.3 7.3 A fundamental part of the assessment of individual Number of respondents 819 791 820 performance will therefore be to consider the degree to % of total surveys sent out 87 86 87 which the Group’s core values – Client-centered, Innovative, Sustainable and Connecting – are applied in daily practice. In previous years, the general satisfaction of employees was the focus of attention. Now we work with the general level 5.3 Employee engagement of engagement of our employees, since this is broader in scope. In June 2015, 819 employees (87% of all employees of Robeco, Robeco Group and RobecoSAM) completed the annual employee-engagement survey. General engagement was rated 7.5 compared to 7.3 in the previous survey in 2014. The benchmark for financial services is currently 7.3. 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 5.4 Personal and organizational development employees to perform their job. Our people’s development is one of the key drivers for In the first quarter of 2015, we celebrated the conclusion accelerating growth. Our mission is to nurture talented of a number of international talent programs. The focus leaders and experts, and to inspire and guide them towards of these programs was to teach participants to recognize achieving their best potential and performing to their best their motivation and talents, and to enhance their personal ability in realizing our business strategy. leadership qualities. 5.4.1 Leadership In the last quarter of 2015, we started preparing for the Leadership in delivering on our Strategy 2014-2018 was a module Managing at Robeco, with which managers are key theme in 2015. Robeco Group organized two group-wide given the opportunity to create their own learning path. Group Leadership Conferences for our top-management teams. The teams shared their ideas about how to The average spent on development per employee at Robeco strengthen the Group further. At the beginning of 2015, a in 2015 was EUR 1,700. In the forecast for 2016, this survey was sent out to Robeco senior management. This budget has been increased to EUR 2,000 per employee. survey provided effective insight into Robeco’s behavioral This is in line with our key driver for accelerating growth and strengths and showed us where we can strengthen our training talented leaders and experts to achieve their best organization further. Senior management conference was potential and perform optimally. organized with the aim of raising Robeco leadership to the next level. A further goal was to enhance Robeco senior 5.5 Health and vitality management’s engagement in implementing the Group’s Strategy 2014-2018. We believe that vital employees contribute to the success of our organization and that of our clients. Robeco Group We also introduced a leadership profile, which specifies therefore focuses increasingly on the vitality and working the leadership behaviors that drive the implementation environment of its employees and their healthy work-life of our strategy. This model is used in the performance balance. The sickness percentage at group level, 2.56%, has management cycle to enable the definition of clear remained stable compared to 2014 (2.44%). development goals for our senior managers. Our employees are key in realizing the company’s goals. 5.4.2 Human capital development Ensuring the vitality and sustainable employability of Learning is a key component of Robeco Group’s strategy. In our personnel therefore has paramount importance. The 2015, we focused on initiatives with which we can obtain possibility of working from home and keeping flexible significant results in expanding our learning culture. Our hours is conducive to a better work-life balance. The Group constant striving to improve has found expression in the is supportive in providing the means for this (e.g. health setting up of our own learning & development offering and checks – a safety, health and welfare service – a healthprocess. benefits program – coaching – stress reduction workshops – provision of healthy foods and beverages – encouraging In 2015 at Robeco and RobecoSAM, we encouraged our employees to commute by bike). Harbor has a corporate employees to pursue professional development as a means membership with Divvy (Chicago’s bike share system) for of obtaining industry-specific education and of working on their employees. RobecoSAM employees participate in Bike their own personal career goals. In 2015, we introduced to Work, a popular Swiss participative campaign involving a job-oriented competency model to help employees and riding your bike to work that puts as many as 50,000 people managers set their development goals. A job competency on their saddles throughout Switzerland. describes the skill, knowledge or attitude that enables Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 35 Robeco Group is the kind of employer to encourage IT-services, leading to improved user satisfaction as a result employees to live healthy lives and get sufficient exercise. of support provided to enable working any place, any time. We therefore offer subsidized gym memberships and/ In 2015, much time went into preparing the move in terms or an in-house sports facility (our office in France). In the of fitting out the premises and organizing IT-facilities, but Netherlands, a pilot we started offers an in-house sports also to prepare staff for the move to FIRST. facility (fit20) and subsidized membership for outdoor sport (The BootcampClub). The high level of participation in the 5.6.2 New office in the UK fit20 pilot is proof of its success. It will be decided shortly In November 2015, Robeco opened its new UK office in whether these facilities will continue to be provided in the Augustine House on the south side of Austin Friars, in the new office building FIRST. This will depend on the future City of London. Robeco’s commitment to the UK market success of the pilot. is now set in stone and, with the opening of our office in London, a key hub for the institutional and wholesale 5.6 Working environment business globally. Robeco Group is now well established in all of the world’s major financial centers. We strive to provide an office environment in which Our new UK office in the City of London is easy accessible employees enjoy working. One that allows them to do their by public transport. The concept Activity Based Working work efficiently and effectively, and helps them to realize has been implemented, and this provides an open and optimal result for our clients. transparent working environment that encourages communication through the efficient use of office space. In 2015, several offices replaced their furniture with ergonomic chairs and height-adjustable desks, thus creating 5.7 Diversity a pleasant working environment with the aim of preventing work-related sickness. The basic principle of equal opportunity applies to all employees. Equal-opportunity employment is an explicit 5.6.1 New offices in the FIRST building component of application procedures. All vacancies are In 2010, when the Management Board drew up the Robeco broadly available in such a way that no groups are excluded. Group Strategy 2010-2014, it was agreed that the success of the strategy for 2010-2014 and beyond depended on Age diversity 2015 2014 2013 making cooperation and innovation key preconditions. The under 30 years 12% 12% 12% discussions in 2010 on how best to implement the strategy 30-50 years 70% 72% 74% in terms of office premises were held with this in mind. This over 50 years 18% 16% 14% resulted in the decision to move to a new office space in Rotterdam. Gender diversity 2015 2014 2013 Male 67% 66% 65% The FIRST building is located in the heart of Rotterdam’s Female 33% 34% 35% prestigious central district, right opposite Rotterdam central station, making it easily accessible for employees who travel with public transport. Robeco’s headquarters moved to FIRST in May 2016. Robeco aims to create a more open and transparent working environment at FIRST, encouraging communication, greater flexibility at work (Activity Based Working) and the more efficient use of office space. FIRST will offer high-quality 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Management Diversity table PinkCapital is also active in the external networks Women in Financial Service (WIFS) and Monitoring Talent to the Top. Management diversity 2015 2014 2013 Male Female Male Female Male Female GreenCapital at RobecoSAM has special provisions for Senior management (2015: 11%) 84% 16% 83% 17% 75% 25% female staff (e.g., mentoring programs and training courses, Middle management (2015: 17%) 80% 20% 81% 19% 81% 19% and events specifically for women), opportunities for No management responsibility (2015: 72%) 60% 40% 60% 40% 60% 40% working from home and for part-time employment. 5.8 Dutch Pension Fund for Robeco The percentage of female employees decreased in 2015 due to the fact that the relative outflow percentage of women In 2015 Stichting Pensioenfonds Robeco held a survey was higher compared to the relative outflow percentage of amongst its members to assess their risk appetite with men. regard to their pension. Among the active members, 61% completed the survey, 13% of which in part only. Robeco Group has signed the charter Talent to the Top in Among the pensioners, 44% of participants completed the order to set long-term male-female diversity goals and questionnaire and 7% completed it in part. This response monitor diversity within the organization each year. is higher than observed in similar types of studies. In light of the overwhelming participation of scheme members in The PinkCapital women’s network promotes diversity at this survey, their risk appetite will be taken into account in Robeco in the Netherlands. The network now has 120 decisions on the risk budget of the pension fund. members. Pink Capital provides a platform for exchanging knowledge and experience and helps participants build a In 2015, new legislation was implemented that enables network at Robeco. PinkCapital also serves as a means of indexation to become more future proof for all generations. finding suitable role models to allow women to develop a clear view of their own career trajectory. The coverage ratio of Stichting Pensioenfonds Robeco was calculated to amount to 118% at the end of December 2015. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 37 6. Environment Ambitions Highlights Conscious in our use of resources – Robeco Group compensates the carbon emissions generated on an annual basis for the Robeco Group – At least 80% of Robeco Group’s overall energy consumption is green We aim to take a variety of measures with regard to the Paper waste increased in 2015. This can be explained by the environment. The main goal is to reduce Robeco Group’s fact that Robeco employees in different offices have started environmental footprint. preparing the move towards a ‘paperless’ office. In 2016 the roll-out of a new IT workplace takes place, focusing on 6.1 Energy and water use digitalization of work processes. Robeco Group actively strives to reduce the use of energy and 6.3 Paper water, and promotes the use of sustainable energy. Various energy-saving measures are being implemented to achieve Robeco Group actively strives to reduce the use of paper. All an overall reduction in energy consumption throughout the offices apply measures to reduce the use of printing paper, Robeco Group. Energy-saving motion detectors to turn on / one of which is to use tablets to read documents. Staff are turn off lighting, and daylight-dependent lighting systems encouraged (and in turn encourage receivers) not to print are installed in the Rotterdam offices. Total water usage for emails using a standard email footer. Two-sided printing or the Group is measured and monitored. At least 80% of the two pages per sheet printing is set as default in our printers. overall energy consumption is green. All offices use green Central printers are standard, and personal desk printers energy, unless the office is not able to connect to green are an exception. Increasingly, the documents for different energy. Total and green energy usage for the Robeco Group board and committee meetings are made available on iPad offices is measured and monitored. and the meetings are therefore completely paperless. All paper used by Robeco Group is FSC certified. Energy and water use Robeco Group 2015 2014 2013 Energy consumption (kWh) 4,558,931 4,815.226 4,064.825 Paper used Robeco Group 2015 2014 2013 Water consumption (m3) 14,880 16,039 15,507 Paper (kg) 27,856 32,709 35,032 In 2015, RobecoSAM’s on-site production of renewable 6.4 Responsible purchasing energy (e.g. solar, wind) was 97,627 kWh. For Robeco Group, corporate-responsibility considerations 6.2 Waste are part of the criteria (together with price and quality aspects) for making important purchasing decisions in the Robeco Group actively strives to reduce the amount of waste Netherlands. it produces and to recycle it if separate processing is locally serviced. Robeco Group aims to is separate and recycle paper When buying products such as paper, cleaning substances, and cardboard waste in all offices. We use environmentally coffee and furniture, Robeco Group applies sustainability safe cleaning products as far as possible. criteria to the materials and manufacturing method used. Waste Robeco Group 2015 2014 2013 In 2015, for instance, Robeco in Rotterdam decided to Residual waste (kg) 141,767 80,501 91,154 embrace a new way of working when processing mail and Paper and cardboard waste (kg) 139,342 77,679 75,880 packages. There is now a single vendor that gathers, delivers 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 and collects all mail. This reduces the number of transport movements. Robeco Group is compensating the carbon emissions generated by supporting number 6.5 Mobility of projects for a period of four years Robeco Group actively strives to reduce the amount of India: Andipatti Wind Power Project – Located in the transportation needed, to make employee transportation state of Tamil Nadu, India, a 49.5 MW wind power more efficient, and to choose a mode of transport that project delivers zero emissions renewable electricity to has less impact on our environment. Employees who the southern regional grid. The project reduces carbon frequently hold meetings between the Group offices emissions and improves air quality in the region. In in different countries and/or time zones have access to addition, the project contributes to the local economy webcams and advanced meeting software. Company cars and the livelihood of residents by creating jobs. in the Netherlands are low-emissions certified or within low carbon-emission ranges. The maximum carbon emissions, Mali: Cookstove Project – Traditional indoor cookstoves expressed in grams per kilometer, vary between 139 to 168 on biomass are inefficient and dirty, the indoor smoke for gasoline cars and 117 to 144 for diesel cars. Electric from biomass ranks in the top 10 risk factors for the mobility is also included in the Group’s company-cars global burden of disease. Improved cookstoves burn policies and many of today’s new company cars are plug-in biomass fuel more cleanly and 33% more efficiently. Our hybrids or full hybrids. Mali project offers end users an additional 20% discount on an efficient stove to phase out traditional stove use. The use of PHEVs (Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles) is increasing. At this moment, 25% of lease drivers are driving Brazil: Mato Grosso – Spread across individual farms in a PHEV. the Brazilian states of Mato Grosso (11 farms) and Mato Grosso do Sul (18 farms), covered in-ground anaerobic Robeco aims to optimize flexibility and efficiency in mobility, digesters use biogas from animal waste to generate so employees are encouraged to use public transport. electricity for on-site consumption. The project reduces Robeco introduced a public transport card for its employees. carbon emissions by approximately 45,000 50,000 Currently Robeco is developing a Vision on Mobility which is tonnes per year. in line with the BREEAM-NL (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) the building certificate for its sustainable head office, FIRST Rotterdam. Employees are increasingly mobile as journeys are getting simpler and more flexible. Robeco Group is aware of the opportunities this provides to enable employees to work and travel in different ways. For example, we enable lease drivers to park outside the urban area at a park+ride zone and to access the city using public transport. Transportation Robeco Group 2015 2014 2013 Road kms in leased cars 6,700,546 5,017,074 5,511,380 Our offices are located on public transport nodes. Within Road kms for business purposes with cars owned by employees 57,635 106,500 69,719 the city limits, we stimulate the use of public transport by Flight kms for business purposes 18,722,015* 13,140,109 8,576,697 offering employees a public transport service card. We also Public transport for business purposes 653,123 481,531 offer employees at Robeco in the Netherlands personal travel advice for commuting as part of our BREEAM-NL * The increase in flight kilometers is a consequence of Robeco expanding its business globally. transport plan. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 39 6.6 Carbon footprint compensation Robeco has implemented new ways of working, dependent on place and time, and supported by a new IT workplace Robeco Group compensates the carbon emissions generated concept. This means Robeco will continue to become a more on an annual basis. Robeco Group has signed a declaration paper-independent organization. The setup and facilities stating that it aims to reduce the CO2 emissions resulting at FIRST in Rotterdam stimulate this process, also in terms from the activities of every one of its employees. Robeco of digitizing documents that are then available across the Group has achieved CarbonNeutral® certification by globe for support and knowledge sharing. reducing CO2 emissions to net zero in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol. The concept of FIRST in Rotterdam places a priority on the vitality of the people who work in the building (‘fit for the 6.7 New sustainable head office job’). This runs via the setup of workplaces and meeting areas (including standing areas and deskbikes), but also in When building or renovating offices, Robeco Group the form of a new approach to catering. Good food is key, applies environmental standards with regard to the with local and seasonal products that require minimal ‘food buildings and the materials used inside the buildings. miles’. Sustainability is a salient characteristic feature of the FIRST building in Rotterdam, which is situated opposite FIRST is a low-energy office, partly thanks to the efficient the central train station. FIRST has been awarded a fourthermal storage system. For summer cooling, cold water star (excellent) BREEAM-NL new-building certificate by the stored in winter is used. And in the winter, the warm water Dutch Green Building Council. The site is easily accessible stored in summer is used for heating. Water for flushing in by public transport, car and bicycle; and it is a sustainable the toilets is rainwater. construction in the heart of Rotterdam. Robeco rents a large part of the building (16,000 m2). 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 7. Society Ambitions Highlights Provide funds and time to employees and initiatives throughout the – Budget spent in 2015 on social commitment by Robeco in the Robeco Group for meaningful, diversified and local commitment to Netherlands was EUR 53,240 (2014: EUR 52,254) programs that benefit society – Harbor, spent USD 315,363 in 2015 on social sponsoring (2014: USD 211,784) –A  number of employees in the Netherlands spent one day on voluntary work during paid office hours (total of 174.5 hours) – C ollaboration between Robeco Group and Het Concertgebouw (27 years), resulting in the Robeco SummerNights, was renewed in 2015. The 2015 summer program attracted over 70,000 visitors Robeco Group recognizes the importance of understanding to the Management Board of Robeco Group. The budget and managing its social impact. Earning the trust of the spent in 2015 was EUR 53,240 (2014: EUR 52,254). The communities in which we operate is fundamental to Social Commitment Committee submits proposals and also building our reputation and maintaining our social license decides which requests for financial support of community to operate. Our contribution to society incorporates a projects to approve. The main criteria are: a project should broad range of activities. This includes providing valuable aim to improve the living conditions (including the living employment opportunities, using local suppliers where environment) and the health or personal development possible, donations, employee volunteering and direct of people who suffer from a serious condition, are economic contribution through payment of taxes. underprivileged or the victims of circumstances for which As part of our social commitment, we select projects for they cannot be held responsible. The employees of the cash donations on condition that our employees are actively office concerned should actively participate in the project, involved. The Group encourages employee volunteering which should be located in the geographical area of the and supports the participation of its employees in social particular office in which the request originates. In 2015, initiatives. An additional priority for the Group is education: we supported 10 community projects sponsored from our many of our highly skilled employees are involved with social-commitment budget. academia or support educational initiatives. The Group maintains a bottom-up approach when supporting social 7.1.2 Robeco’s Christmas donations to a good causes, driven by engaged employees and initiatives taken cause by its local offices. 133 of Robeco employees in the Netherlands donated their Christmas gift (worth EUR 50) to one of three charities: 7.1 Social sponsoring – Robeco Roparun Team 266 (donations towards 7.1.1 Social commitment supporting people with cancer) Robeco Group actively supports projects that embrace social – Centre for Sustainability (CS) in the Philippines (CS is commitment in the Netherlands. A Social Commitment committed to preserving the coral reef and rainforest on Committee, consisting of the CIO of Fixed Income, the head the island of Palawan, which has a unique biodiversity of Global Marketing and a representative from International and is home to a UNESCO world heritage site) Sales, is responsible for maintaining and implementing – Stichting de Vruchtenburg (Location Rotterdam and this policy. The committee assesses requests for support Leiden) (a psycho-oncology center for people with cancer for social-commitment projects submitted by employees. and their friends and relatives) Once a year, the Social Commitment Committee evaluates the policy and its implementation and reports its findings Each employee donation was matched by Robeco. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 41 7.1.3 Robeco SummerNights in Het on a one-to-one basis up to USD 100,000 per employee, Concertgebouw in Amsterdam depending on officer level. Robeco Group considers music worth investing in. Music inspires and brings people from different backgrounds closer Employees, who donate to charities by providing their together. This is the reason why for 27 years Robeco Group services in a volunteer leadership role, receive a threehas sponsored the Robeco SummerNights, a set of concerts to-one match up to USD 30,000. In total, Harbor spent held in the world-famous Het Concertgebouw in Amsterdam. USD 315,363 in 2015 on social sponsoring (2014: USD The 2015 summer program at this celebrated concert hall 211,784) in cash, and USD 6,578 on in-kind giving. attracted over 70,000 visitors. Harbor believes this approach of matching gifts allows Robeco Group’s long-standing collaboration with Het Harbor to support a broad and diverse array of charitable, Concertgebouw, which took off in 1988, was renewed community and educational endeavors that are meaningful earlier in 2015. A special booklet was produced to celebrate to its employees. this and to give further concrete expression to this year’s theme of the Connecting Power of Music. 7.1.6 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM participates in Drink and Donate. Drinking 7.1.4 Beleggr Switzerland’s clean tap water leads to the donation of water Beleggr is a Robeco initiative in collaboration with Science to those lacking access. The goal of the initiative is to create Interchange, organized by Erasmus University in Rotterdam. awareness about water scarcity. In 2015, RobecoSAM’s It aims to generate financial awareness in young people Christmas charity contribution was donated to Aiducation at an early age, as this forms the foundation for greater International (www.aidcuation.org), an organization that autonomy when they grow up. In a game, children learn awards merit-based scholarships to bright and deserving the principles of investing: assessing risk, diversification and high-school students in developing countries. A partner trading with a long-term view. Beleggr is a class competition of the Swiss Climate Foundation since September 2015, for years 7 and 8 of elementary school. Each class begins RobecoSAM supports projects with an immediate impact with a virtual capital of EUR 1,000 with which they can buy on sustainability in environmental and business practices the shares of ten different fictitious companies. The winner is in Switzerland. The Swiss Climate Foundation awards funds the group with the most responsible investment approach. to small and medium-sized enterprises that help to protect the climate by improving the energy efficiency of their This is measured using returns realized, active response operations or offering new ways to protect our climate to news and the degree of risk the pupils are willing to through innovations. take. A total of 18 groups took part. The class of OBS De Wilgenstamschool in Rotterdam became Best Investment 7.2 Social activities Class in the Netherlands. The group received a check of EUR 1,000 for the Oranje Foundation (orange foundation: 7.2.1 Robeco’s voluntary work The Orange Foundation helps young people in arrears in Social commitment is promoted not only through financial tangible and intangible ways), the good cause they played support, but also by allowing Robeco employees in the for. A total of sixteen classes joined the new competition in Netherlands to spend one day per year doing voluntary work the school year 2015 2016. designated by Robeco Group. In 2015, many Rotterdam employees performed one day’s voluntary work during paid 7.1.5 Harbor office hours (174.5 hours in total). This time was spent Harbor strongly encourages the support of charities and on activities such as language workshops with migrants non-profit organizations through its company-wide giftand packing gift boxes for Jarige Job, a foundation which matching program. Within the scope of this program, enables underprivileged families to celebrate their children’s Harbor matches contributions to charities by employees birthday. 42 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 7.2.2 Robeco Hong Kong’s voluntary work students in the final phase of their study. The department has On Friday 28 August 2015, 32 volunteers from our Robeco many years’ experience publishing academic research and has Hong Kong office participated in a cleanup event in an extensive collection of internally generated and frequently partnership with HK Cleanup, a charity organization that cited investment research papers. In 2015, Robeco worked in aims to reduce waste in Hong Kong. The group cleaned up a association with the following academic institutions: three-kilometer walking trail and one of the beaches. During – VU University of Amsterdam (Netherlands); the three-hour cleanup, the teams picked up about 300 – Erasmus University of Rotterdam (Netherlands). kilograms of garbage. 7.3.2 Netspar 7.2.3 Roparun Netspar is a Dutch network for studies on pensions, aging and A team of Robeco Rotterdam employees participated in retirement, which aims to connect pension practitioners in the Roparun over the Whitsun weekend in 2015 for the the public and private sectors and policymakers with pension fifth time. This is a relay run from Paris (520 kilometers) or scientists. Netspar thus contributes to improving the pension Hamburg (580 kilometers) to Rotterdam. Our team was one system through academic and applied research, network of the 345 teams participating. The objective of the Roparun development and knowledge-transfer programs. Robeco is to raise money for initiatives that support people with became a partner to Netspar in 2011 and prolonged its cancer. In 2015, the Robeco Rotterdam team consisted of 22 partnership in 2015 for a four-year period. This partnership employees from various departments of our organization, means that Robeco employees can actively participate in working together to meet this physical challenge. Thanks to research projects, attend seminars, have access to research our Robeco colleagues and sponsors, the team was able to papers and executive programs, and co-draft Netspar raise EUR 31,210 for the Roparun Foundation in 2015. Over publications. In close cooperation with Netspar, Robeco the last five years, the Robeco Rotterdam team has raised and actively provides knowledge input and practical experience to donated a total of EUR 129,046. the EU and Dutch pension policymaking process. Robeco is a member of the Board of Netspar and of the Scientific Council, 7.2.4 Transtrend has hosted several Netspar meetings and events, and provides Transtrend supports initiatives that promote education. lectures for the Pensions Executive Master. Firstly, because inspiring education has enabled Transtrend to do the work it is doing; and secondly, Transtrend would 7.3.3 RobecoSAM not be able to survive without professionals. As Transtrend’s RobecoSAM implements a proactive approach to developing roots are quant-oriented, it focuses its efforts exclusively on its research partnerships with selected academic institutions. quantitative education. Transtrend supports math education In all research initiatives, RobecoSAM assumes an active role in for secondary school students in the Netherlands and is one designing, leading and actively supervising projects. In 2015, of the partners of the Dutch Mathematical Olympiad, which RobecoSAM was involved in research work in collaboration with is a math competition for students at secondary schools. the following academic institutions: Transtrend employees also give guest lectures in schools. – Harvard Business School, Organizational Behavior (US); – Harvard Kennedy School of Government (USA) and 7.3 Academic activities Foundation Strategy Group (USA); – University of Cologne (Germany); 7.3.1 Robeco Quantitative Strategies – Warwick Business School, University of Warwick (UK); Robeco Quantitative Strategies is the department that deals – Imperial College London, Centre for Environmental Policy with quantitative investment strategies and products. Its staff (UK); has a quantitative background in econometrics, mathematics, – University of Queensland (Australia) / University of economics or physics. Some hold part-time positions at Strathclyde (UK); universities. The department offers internship positions to – University of Siena (Italy). Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 43 Contact Robeco Group Weena 850 3014 DA Rotterdam The Netherlands www.robeco.com Important information This report has been carefully prepared and presented by Robeco Groep N.V., which is incorporated in the Netherlands. It is solely intended to provide the reader with information on corporate responsibility within Robeco Groep N.V. It does not constitute an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any investment product or program offered by any subsidiary of Robeco Groep N.V. and is not intended to be used as the basis for an investment decision. The content of this document is based upon sources of information believed to be reliable, but no warranty or declaration, either explicit or implicit, is given as to their accuracy or completeness. This document is not intended for distribution to or use by any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation. All rights relating to the information in this publication are and will remain the property of Robeco Groep N.V. No part of this presentation may be reproduced, saved in an automated data file or published in any form or by any means, either electronically, mechanically, by photocopy, recording or in any other way, without Robeco Groep N.V.’s prior written permission. 1141-0616 The local authorized subsidiaries of Robeco Groep N.V. provide investment-advisory services, including investment advice on investment products and programs. The subsidiaries and affiliates are registered with their respective local regulators.
