Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index referencing the Datwyler Annual Report 2015 Message from the CEO Long-term values 100 years of innovation for the benefit of our customers, employees, shareholders and the community – that is the hallmark of the Datwyler Group. Over this period, Datwyler has evolved from a family-owned Swiss company into an international group. Building on our strong roots, we have developed our own style with high standards and unique values: We are entrepreneurs. We bring value to our customers. We excel in what we do. We have respect for others. These values guide the way we run our business over the long term. We used our 100th anniversary in 2015 as an opportunity to consolidate awareness amongst our employees worldwide of our values and how they have evolved over time. We strive to deliver sustainable profitable growth for the benefit of our stakeholders as the foundation for adding long-term value and preserving the corporate independence of the Datwyler Group. In our efforts, we are addressing the challenges of our times. As early as 2008, we voluntarily adopted the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for the sustainability section of our Annual Report, and in 2009 we joined the UN Global Compact. This is an initiative launched by the United Nations which espouses ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and combating corruption. As a UN Global Compact participant, Datwyler undertakes to follow the ten principles and to accept its responsibility within society. In the 2015 reporting year the sixth progress report on the ten UN Global Compact principles was published. This endeavour is based on the Datwyler values and the Code of Conduct that lay down globally binding rules for all Datwyler Group employees. As far as our suppliers are concerned, we have set out our requirements in a dedicated code of conduct since the beginning of 2014. The systematic customer satisfaction surveys were continued in 2015. The next employee satisfaction survey will be conducted in autumn of 2016. Since 2013, the Datwyler Group has also reported its greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) standards. In this way we live up to our social responsibility every day as a reliable partner to our stakeholders. Dr. Paul J. Hälg, CEO Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 1 Integration of the Global Compact Communication on Progress in the sustainability reporting according to the Global Reporting Initiative Since 2008, the Annual Report published by Dätwyler Holding Inc. has followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines. Together with the detailed GRI Content Index, the Annual Report meets the requirements for Application Level C. Since 9 November 2009, the Datwyler Group has been a member of the UN Global Compact. The table below summarises the significant aspects related to the ten principles of the Global Compact. More information about the specific actions and outcomes can be found on the referenced pages of the Annual Report and this GRI Content Index. All documents are available for downloading at www.datwyler.com. Global Compact Summary of Actions and Outcomes Information in Information in Principles the Annual the GRI Content Report 2015 Index 2015 Human Rights Principle 1: BusiThe Datwyler Group’s Code of Conduct clearly stipulates that the Page 18: Page 10: LA7 nesses should companies and employees in the Group respect the human rights, Long-term values support and redignity, privacy and personal rights of every individual. Datwyler does and Sustainability Page 10: LA13 spect the protection not tolerate any form of discrimination, humiliation, oppression, haras a strategic of internationally assment or offence. In the reporting year 2015, the Compliance Officer direction Page 13: PR1, proclaimed human (currently the CFO) received no complaints of alleged discrimination in Page 19: StandPR2 rights. Datwyler companies. In its Code of Conduct, the Datwyler Group comardised processes mits to ensuring a safe and healthy working environment. assure quality Page 23: Workforce demographics and Fair employment conditions Page 24: Training promotes competence and safety Principle 2: BusiIn its Code of Conduct, the Datwyler Group commits to open and hoPage 24: Page 11: HR4 nesses should nest behaviour with integrity. The Datwyler Group gives its suppliers Fair employment make sure that fair contractual terms and reasonable valuable consideration. In return, conditions they are not comDatwyler also expects the suppliers to treat their employees and suppplicit in human liers fairly and honestly. Page 25: rights abuses. Fair and responSince 2014, the Datwyler Group also has a supplier Code of Conduct. sible partner Labour Principle 3: BusiThe Datwyler Group’s Code of Conduct explicitly states that employees Page 24: Page 10: LA4 nesses should upare free to join trade unions. The Datwyler companies maintain a conFair employment hold the freedom of structive dialogue with internal employee representatives. Employees conditions association and the of the Sealing Solutions Division in Switzerland are subject to the effective recognition Collective Bargaining Agreement of the Swiss mechanical and electriof the right to colleccal engineering industries. Group wide, 5’347 employees, or 76.2% of tive bargaining. the Datwyler Groups workforce, were covered by collective bargaining agreements in 2015. Principle 4: In its Code of Conduct, the Datwyler Group commits to protect human Page 18: SusPage 11: HR7 Businesses should rights. It categorically rejects the use of forced and compulsory labour. tainability as a uphold the eliminThe systematic sustainability reporting shows that all companies in the strategic direcation of all forms of Datwyler Group comply with this. tion forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: In its Code of Conduct, the Datwyler Group commits to protect human Page 18: SusPage 11: HR6 Businesses should rights. It categorically rejects the use of child labour. The systematic tainability as a uphold the effective sustainability reporting shows that all companies in the Datwyler Group strategic direcabolition of child comply with this. tion labour. Principle 6: BusiThe Code of Conduct lays down that Datwyler does not tolerate any Page 23+24: Page 10: LA2, nesses should form of discrimination, humiliation, oppression, harassment or offence. Workforce demoLA13 uphold the eliminaIn the reporting year 2015, the Compliance Officer (currently the CFO) graphics and Fair tion of discriminareceived no complaints of alleged discrimination in Datwyler employment Page 11: HR4 tion in respect of companies. conditions employment and occupation. Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 2 Global Compact Summary of Actions and Outcomes Information in Information in Principles the Annual the GRI Content Report 2015 Index 2015 Environment Principle 7: BusiFor the companies in the Datwyler Group, environmental protection is Page 22: Page 9: EN18, ness should supan important mission and, as such, is embodied in the Group’s Code of Focus on the EN30 port a precautionConduct. This encompasses both environmentally friendly production environment, ary approach to with efficient use of resources and the development of products that Certified environenvironmental are made of the most environmentally sound components possible. mental managechallenges. ment and EnviSince 2010 the environmental data in the sustainability reporting have ronmental perforincluded all sites in both divisions of the Datwyler Group. mance at a glance In 2015, the Group spent around CHF 1.0 million on environmental activities. Principle 8: BusiAt the end of 2015, 17 Datwyler companies were certified to ISO Page 19: Quality Page 8: EN3, ness should under14001. Other companies are working towards ISO environmental for customers EN4, EN6, EN8, take initiatives to certification. promote greater Page 21: SumPage 9: EN 16, environmental The Sealing Solutions Division and its Swiss affiliate have been mary of environEN18, EN22, responsibility. members of the Swiss Private Sector Energy Agency since 2002. mental data by EN23, EN28, During this time, Datwyler Sealing Solutions in Schattdorf reduced it’s division EN30 CO2 emissions according to Swiss set of laws to 0. Page 22: EnviPage 13: PR3 A wood-fired electricity generating plant has been in operation at the ronmental perSealing Solutions Division’s Swiss site since October 2008 to supply formance at a process and heat energy. The use of renewable energy sources enaglance bles Datwyler to save around 500,000 litres of heating oil annually and to reduce CO2 emissions by some 1,300 tonnes. At the same location, Datwyler uses only 100% hydroelectric power from naturemade-basiccertified power stations since October 2012. This saves around 500 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. Principle 9: Environmental protection at Datwyler encompasses both environmenPage 22: Page 8: EN6 Business should tally friendly production with efficient use of resources and the developFocus on the encourage the ment of products that are made of the most environmentally sound environment Page 9: EN18 development and components possible and, in many cases, directly help to protect the diffusion of environenvironment. One example is the new rubber gaskets for environmenmentally friendly tally friendly natural gas engines or for technologies to reduce nitrogentechnologies. oxide emissions from diesel-powered vehicles in the automotive industry. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: BusiThe Datwyler Group’s Code of Conduct strictly prohibits collusion, Page 25: Page 12: SO3, nesses should work bribery and corruption. The Code of Conduct is reiterated to employees Fair and responSO4, SO6 against corruption in constantly during internal training sessions. Once again, no legal sible partner and all its forms, includactions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices Social responsiing extortion and were brought against Datwyler during 2015. Nor were any significant bility bribery. fines or non-monetary sanctions imposed on Datwyler for noncompliance with laws and regulations during the reporting year. Since 2014, the Datwyler Group also has a supplier Code of Conduct. The internal auditors regularly monitor compliance with laws and observation of the Code of Conduct in all organisational units of the Datwyler Group. In accordance with the Code of Conduct, the Datwyler Group does not provide financial support to political parties, organisations or office holders. Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 3 GRI Content Index referencing the Datwyler Annual Report 2015 Integration of Sustainability Information following the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines This year’s Annual Report 2015 published by Dätwyler Holding Inc. follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines for the eighth time. The report, together with the information compiled in this detailed GRI Content Index, has been prepared according to the GRI Guidelines, at Application Level C. GRI is the world’s leading standard for corporate sustainability reporting (www.globalreporting.org). The GRI Guidelines require disclosures that set the overall context for understanding an organisation’s sustainability performance. Furthermore, they cover disclosures on the organisational profile and numerous performance indicators relating to Economic (EC), Environmental (EN), Product Responsibility (PR), Labour Practices (LA), Human Rights (HR) and Society (SO) issues. By adopting these Guidelines, Datwyler is seeking to provide its stakeholders with comprehensive and transparent information on the company’s sustainability focus. The GRI Content Index below shows where to locate specific information in the Annual Report. GRI requires a number of organisational profile disclosures (see sections 1 to 4 of the table). Core GRI performance indicators are shown in black type, while additional indicators that GRI has identified as possibly being relevant to an organisation’s reporting are shown in grey type. Aspects and indicators discussed in the report are highlighted in a green box giving references to the relevant sections and page numbers of the report. If you have any queries about Datwyler’s sustainability reporting, please contact: Guido Unternaehrer Head of Corporate Communications Dätwyler Holding Inc. Gotthardstrasse 31 6460 Altdorf / Switzerland T +41 41 875 19 00 F +41 41 875 12 05 guido.unternaehrer@datwyler.com www.datwyler.com Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 4 No. GRI G3 Content Index Page in Report/Comments Profile 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (e.g., CEO’s Statement, 18, and CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of Letter to Shareholders, 3-5 sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 2 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. Dätwyler Holding Inc. Back cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Datwyler Group: a focused industrial supplier, inside front cover Technical Components products and services, 8-9 Sealing Solutions, 12-13 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. Group structure, 28-29 Executive Management, 36 Datwyler Group, 108-110 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Imprint, back cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates. Datwyler Group a focused industrial supplier, inside front cover Subsidiaries and Investments, 89-91 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Group structure and shareholders, 28 2.7 Markets served. Segment information, 69 Net revenue by region, 70 Technical Components markets, 9 Sealing Solutions markets, 13 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation, including number of employees, net Highlights, 1 sales, total capitalisation, quantity of products or services provided. Capital structure, 29 Share information, 105 The Datwyler Group employs 7 013 persons. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, Transactions 2015, 68 or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 5 3 Report Parameters REPORT PROFILE 3.1 Reporting period. 2015 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 3 March 2015 3.3 Reporting cycle. Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Page 1 of this index REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 3.5 Process for defining report content, including explanation on how Datwyler takes a responsible attitude towards cusprioritiesof topics for inclusion in the report were defined and the tomers, the environment, employees and the comstakeholders identified whom the organisation considers to be interested munity that reflects the significance of the stakein using this report. holder groups as a key element of sustainable corporate management and has structured its reporting accordingly. Datwyler wants to reach important stakeholders such as customers, employees, investors and other decision makers. The “GRI Guidance on Defining Report Content” and the associated Principles have been applied to the extent permitted by data availability to the presentation of the indicators reported for these subjects. Since it is increasingly in stakeholders’ interests to have reliable environmental data on a manufacturing company such as Datwyler, the environmental data system has covered all Group companies since 2010. With a similar eye to current stakeholder interests, CO2 emissions are now presented as direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 3.6 Boundary of the report. The report relates to the entire Datwyler Group. Where information applies only to part of the organisation as an example or due to data availability, this is indicated. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. No particular limitations. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, The report covers all parts of the Datwyler Group’s outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect organisation. This includes the Technical comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. Components and Sealing Solutions Divisions. See also Datwyler Group, 108-110. 3.9 Not relevant for Application Level C. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in No re-statements of information provided in earlier earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. reports. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, In September 2015, Origom S.p.A., domiciled in boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Viadanica, Italy, was fully acquired by the Sealing Solutions division. GRI CONTENT INDEX 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. This Content Index. Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 6 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees and their Internal organisation, 30 composition. Audit Committee, 31 Remuneration Committee, 40 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an This is not the case. executive officer (and, if so, his function within the organisation’s See Corporate Governance, Members of the Board management and the reasons for this arrangement). of Directors (33-34) and Members of Executive Management (34-36). 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of There is a Board of Directors. None of the members members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or of the Board of Directors is also a member of non-executive members. Executive Management or has any other executive function within the Group. Corporate Governance, 28-29 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Shareholders’ participation rights, 36. recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Employees are not represented on the Board of Directors. 4.5 Not relevant for Application Level C. 4.13 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Sustainability as a strategic direction, 18 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to The Datwyler Group engages in close dialogue with engage. all stakeholders that influence its business performance and on whom its business activities have a particular impact.This also includes the following regular processes:  Evaluation of suppliers, 19  Customer satisfaction surveys, 21  Employee satisfaction survey, 24 4.16 Not relevant for Application Level C. 4.17 5 Performance Indicators Economic ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Consolidated Income Statement, 54 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, S.60 investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and Proposed Appropriation of Retained Earnings, S. governments (taxes). 101 Fair employment conditions, 24 Social responsibility, 25 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. Personnel expenses, 70 Pensions and other benefits, 71-72 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at Important contribution to regional development, 25 significant locations of operation. Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 7 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Partial information on EC8: Social responsibility, 25 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental ASPECT: MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ASPECT: ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Summary table of environmental data by division, 21 Non-renewable sources of energy: 149'972 GJ of which natural gas: 136‘177 GJ of which butane, propane, ethane: 194 GJ of which extra light fuel oil: 1‘566 GJ of which other fossil sources: 12‘035 GJ Renewable sources of energy: 15'300 GJ EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Partial information on EN4: Summary table of environmental data by division, 21 (electricity, district heating) EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products Partial information on EN6: Active for environmental and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these protection, 22 initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ASPECT: WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Summary table of environmental data by division, 21 Environmental performance at a glance, 22 Drinking water (communal water supply): 1.1 million m3 or 50% Industrial water (river water): 1.1 million m3 or 50% (Swiss production location Schattdorf in the Sealing Solutions Division) EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 8 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. ASPECT: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Summary table of environmental data by division, 21 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. The Sealing Solutions Division and its Swiss affiliate have been members of the Swiss Private Sector Energy Agency since 2002. During this time, Datwyler Sealing Solutions in Schattdorf reduced it’s CO2 emissions according to Swiss set of laws to 0. Due among other things to the commissioning of a wood-fired electricity generating plant and the renovation of façade insulation, Sealing Solutions’ Schattdorf location (Switzerland) has reduced its annual CO2 emissions by more than 1’000 tonnes in recent years. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. For data on waste by type and Division, see the summary table of environmental data by division, 21. In total, the Datwyler Group recycles more than 65% of the waste it generates. The remaining waste is either sent for incineration or to landfill. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. There were no significant spills during the reporting period. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary In the reporting year there were no significant fines sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. or non-monetary sanctions. ASPECT: TRANSPORT EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. ASPECT: OVERALL EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Partial information on EN30: Certified environmental management, 22 Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 9 Labour Practices and Decent Work ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Workforce demographics, 23 Chart of employees by division, 23 Chart of employees by region, 23 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and Partial information on LA2: Workforce region. demographics, 23 At present only data on Group level fluctuations are available. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. ASPECT: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 5’347 employees, or 76.2% of the Datwyler Group’s workforce, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Partial information on LA7: Training promotes number of work-related fatalities by region. competence and safety, 24. It is currently not possible to subdivide these figures by region. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Partial information on LA10: For information on investments in training and education, see Training promotes competence and safety, 24 Group-wide data on average hours of training are currently unavailable due to the decentralised structure of the company. By attending the Strategic Leadership Program, approx. 20 up-and-coming managers (high potentials) received some 40 hours of intensive advanced training during four days involving external specialists. LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Partial information on LA13: Workforce category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, demographics, 23 and other indicators of diversity. It is currently not possible to subdivide the figures by age group. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Fair employment conditions, 24 Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 10 Human Rights ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Fair employment conditions, 24 ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. ASPECT: CHILD LABOR HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, In its Code of Conduct established in 2008 and with and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. its participation in the UN Global Compact, the Datwyler Group has committed itself to protect human rights. This means that all legal entities categorically reject the use of child labour. ASPECT: FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or In its Code of Conduct established in 2008 and with compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of its participation in the UN Global Compact, the forced or compulsory labour. Datwyler Group has committed itself to protect human rights. This includes the categoric rejection by all legal entities of forced and compulsory labour. ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 11 Society ASPECT: COMMUNITY SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. ASPECT: CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption Fair and responsible partner, 25 policies and procedures. All employees undergo in-house training to familiarise themselves with the Group’s Code of Conduct. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. No cases of corruption became known in the reporting year. ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Social responsibility, 25 politicians, and related institutions by country. In accordance with the Code of Conduct we do not provide financial support to political parties, organisations or office holders. ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, Fair and responsible partner, 25 and monopoly practices and their outcomes. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Fair and responsible partner, 25 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 12 Product Responsibility ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and Impacts on health and safety and possible potential services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant for improvement are assessed primarily in the products and services categories subject to such procedures. following life cycle stages of all products: development, certification, production and application. Standardised processes assure quality, 19 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Standardised processes assure quality, 19 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Regulatory information requirements as minimum percentage of significant products and services subject to such standards, 20 information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Partial information on PR5: measuring customer satisfaction. Systematic customer surveys, 24 ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 13 Appendix: summary of the Global Reporting Initiative framework The G3 version of the GRI Guidelines has been in effect since October 2006. To allow companies to expand their sustainability reporting over time, an Application Levels system was launched, as shown in the table below. Datwyler has prepared the report according to the Application Level C, which already covers a large number of disclosure requirements. The highest level of coverage is A, for which all the required elements must be reported on. Dätwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2015 14
