Qwφιertyuiopasdfghjklzxερυυξnmηq σwωψerβνtyuςiopasdρfghjklzxcvbn mqwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnφγιτyu τioρνμpκaλsdfghςjklzxcvλοπbnαmqw Communication on Progress ertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnmσγqwφer (CoP) Report 2015 δγωmζqwertλκοθξyuiύασφdfghjklzx Communication On Progress 2016 A few words for us Cosmos Aluminium was founded in 2007 and is a Greek purely export company in the aluminium extrusion market sector. The company is located in the region of Larissa. Cosmos Aluminium employs more than 100 people and is one of the most technologically advanced factories of aluminium extrusion in Europe. Cosmos Aluminium contributes in the development of the local society by creating new occupations while at the same time by its exporting activities advertises the presence and productivity of Greece in a universal level. The combination of high skilled personnel and state of the art machinery allows Cosmos Aluminium to offer top quality aluminium products at exceptionally competitive prices. In a few years we have managed to lead the way in our field. This has been achieved through continuous improvement and investments, sophisticated human resourcing, flexible and creative leadership. With its emphasis on sustainability and responsible business practices, the United Nations Global Compact reflects our company. Communication On Progress 2016 A message from the president Despite the significant challenges and uncertainties of a continued European crisis, which nobody knows when it would end, I am proud to announce Cosmos Aluminium continued support of the United Nations Global Compact initiative and the Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. Our strong commitment and continuous support to the principles of the UN Global Compact Initiative is communicated across our company from the president down to our support staff and subcontractors as well as to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (CoP) report that describes our company’s efforts to promote the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency and, therefore, are submitting our CoP for 2015 activities and accomplishments. Kind Regards, Xenofon Kantonias President Communication On Progress 2016 The principles and our actions Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Humanity is one of the core values of Cosmos Aluminium. Our company fully supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the relevant national and European legislation with reference to the fundamental rights of every individual, such as protection of privacy, freedom of opinion and expression, freedom of association, non-discrimination and the right to be heard. Our commitments are not only reflected on our internal employment policies and partnership standards, but additionally our company, as a corporate citizen, provides active financial support to organizations dedicated to human rights protection and supporting the non-privileged. We promote specific measures to favor the protection of our employees facing family situation, particularly in the cases of serious illness among them or the members of their families. Communication On Progress 2016 Employees are encouraged to report to the upper management any behavior within the company that they believe may be a violation of the laws or the Code of Business Ethics. Cosmos Aluminium has no track record with incidents of human rights violations. Communication On Progress 2016 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We do not tolerate forced or compulsory labour, excessive overtime, hard behavior and harassment. We definitely comply with national laws and requirements concerning minimum age of employment, we would never employ any child in our workforce and we remunerate all overtime work. Cosmos Aluminium ensures that every employee is trained and developed according to their customized needs and ambitions. Every new employee attends a training program, especially designed to cover all subjects that affect their daily job. The employees in our company are treated fairly, with respect and humanity, compensated financially and morally according to their achievements and developed in a safe environment of motivation and no discrimination. Representatives of employees arrange meetings every 3 months with the presence of the staff, Safety engineer and the occupational doctor in order to express their opinions on health and safety and environmental issues. In 2015, Communication On Progress 2016 four meetings were accomplished. Our goal is in 2016 to double the amount of meetings held. Our company holds an annual voluntarily blood donation in the company premises according to our occupational doctor’s guides. Finally, Cosmos Aluminium participates in a basketball tournament in order to promote the warm relationships amongst employees and management. The selection, recruitment and remuneration of our personnel are based on their qualifications, skills, work experience, and on personal interview without gender, age, family status or other discriminations. Wages offered by the company are equal or greater than the minimum rates applicable for each job position. Communication On Progress 2016 Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Cosmos Aluminium operates its core business with emphasis on environmental protection ensuring full compliance to National and European legislation. Cosmos Aluminum complies strictly under the ISO 14001:2004 standard with one and only concern, the total environmental protection. We operate under environment friendly resources such as natural gas and compressed air with limited use of electricity. We recycle everything; row and secondary materials and any possible wastes that are produced from our daily operations, keep records of energy and water consumption. Paper, plastic materials, batteries and apparatus are stored in separate containers and collected by certified recycling companies. Finally, we promote an environmental conscious lifestyle to employees for both the office and home through regular seminars and we follow methods to reduce our energy consumption. Communication On Progress 2016 Cosmos Aluminium encourages the use of environmental friendly technologies, especially hazardous waste management. All the hazardous materials (solvents, hydraulic oil) are stored properly making sure they do not come in contact with soil or water. Once a year special certified companies collect and recycle these materials with a specific method. Communication On Progress 2016 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery We are fundamentally opposed to any kind of corruption and bribery, our activities conform in total with the applicable law, and this is one of our major criteria in our selection process of a new supplier, customer or employee. The group acknowledges the important role of chain markets for its growth and wishes its suppliers to act with responsibility, integrity, honesty and transparency. We evaluate suppliers based on the following standards: • The overall business activity should be guided by respect for and compliance with the applicable local and European laws and regulations. • Fair competition and refraining from unfair trade practices. Suppliers must also take care to safeguard the integrity, prestige and dignity of the profession to which they belong, with respect for the interests of consumers Our purchase department follows strict procurement procedures regarding all purchases of goods. All of our official documentation that regards operational data is intergraded in our ERP system.
