20 15 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our Responsibility We want to grow and we care about how we do it XXXXXX X 1 Arla’s principles for ethics and sustainable development are contained in Our Responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct. Arla’s Board of Directors approved the Code of Conduct and it is now available in 12 languages and can be downloaded from www.arla.com. The Code of Conduct serves as both a tool and a compass, guiding us on how we should behave and take responsibility within our business. The Code of Conduct Responsibility Working responsibly in Arla governs Arla’s responsibility work throughout our entire value chain In Arla, we strive to work in a responsible manner throughout our entire value chain; from the work at farms and with suppliers, through to operations and distribution, as well as inspiring consumers to adopt sustainable food habits. We want to grow and we care about how we do it. We operate our business in a sustainable and responsible manner in order to safeguard and develop the company’s reputation and profitability, while caring for people and delivering growth. To ensure internal adherence to Our Responsibility, Arla is a global company. Each of we have established routines and annual follow-up. our business groups deliver content and The Code of Conduct applies to all employees, and material to this annual report. The report it is the role of our leaders to secure that the describes how we are progressing in our responsibility culture is embedded. Areas that work with responsibility and also gives us need additional focus are prioritised by top the opportunity to readdress, and management and functional leaders to secure a clarify, the areas on which we need broad commitment throughout the organisation. to focus in the future. Embedding a Welcome to our responsible culture A holistic approach 2015 Corporate Responsibility report The 11 areas that the Code of Conduct describes are chosen to reflect our operations and what we see as Our Responsibility. The areas have been grouped into four themes: Responsible company, Confidence in products, Care for the environment and animal welfare, and Responsible relations. Responsibility highlights 2015 ROPBUTUATSIOTN FOOD SAFETY DEVELOPED HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY 95% of all sites have recognised GFSIstandard (Global Food Safety Initiative). RE Strong result from reputation survey on all core markets. ACTIONS AGAINST BRIBERY WHISTLEBLOWING 273 colleagues have taken Colleagues’ possibility to voice part in the face-to-face concerns, the whistleblowing anti-bribery training. function, has received nine reports, of which seven led to further investigation. 4 due diligence processes for new ARLAGÅRDEN® FOR ALL ARLA FARMER OWNERS -16% Arla’s total climate impact has decreased by 16 per cent, market performed. compared to the 2005 levels, despite increased production. 2 OPEN FARMS 400,000 consumer visits to farms in Denmark, Sweden and the UK. New marque to emphasise that Arla is farmer-owned. ENGAGED COLLEAGUES CODE OF CONDUCT The Barometer engagement ARLA®BRAND New Code of Conduct survey was distributed to – revised, updated NUTRITION CRITERIA 17,700 colleagues in 28 countries and available in and in 14 different languages. INTRODUCED 12 languages. The response rate was 89 per cent. No. 1 100% PROUD OF ARLA According to the engagement survey 83 per cent of the Arla is the world’s largest respondents are proud renewable producer of organic dairy to work for Arla. packaging products. introduced. 3 Content 6 Introduction 10 Responsible company 26 Confidence in products Foreword 6 Business principles 12 Food safety 28 About Arla 8 Case study 15 Food and health 30 Operational principles 16 External view 33 Case study 19 Case study 35 Market conduct 20 External view 23 Procurement and supplier relations 24 4 36 Care for the environment and animal welfare 48 Responsible relations 62 Detailed facts and references Workplace 50 Responsible business 62 Environment and climate 38 Case study 53 Arla’s organisation 63 External view 41 Human rights 54 Reference to Global Compact 64 Case study 43 External view 57 Which market is mentioned Dairy farming 44 Case study 59 where? 65 Case study 47 Society and community relations 60 Unless otherwise indicated, the facts and figures in this report cover Arla Foods’ fully owned dairy companies in 2015. Some examples from subsidiaries and joint ventures are also included. The report’s chapters correspond to the 11 areas of Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct, which was first published in the spring of 2008, and updated in 2015. More information is available at www.arla.com. 5 A sound cooperative … There is no doubt that this has been growing world population, and generally higher be improved so that we really take responsibility a challenging year for Arla farmers. living standards, the demand for healthy dairy for what we have promised. It’s when things are toughest that you products will increase. The Board’s priority is, and need to be strong, and I think Arla has will always be, to pay our owners the best price In this report, Arla explains openly and honestly shown its strength during these turbulent possible for their milk. about what has gone well during the year and times. The cooperative is the firm where there is room for improvement. This is foundation we farmers need. No matter Closely linked to the cooperative philosophy important for me to know as an owner, but also how much milk we choose to produce, is our work with long-term responsibility and for Arla’s colleagues and everybody else who is Arla will always ensure that it’s collected sustainability. Arla is involved with the entire interested in our business. and that the profits from it are shared supply chain, from the dairy farmer all the way to equally between us. the finished product. Although many farms are still finding it tough financially, I have confidence in Arla being a The financial hardship affecting many Arla farms To have a strong quality programme for the good place for farmers to be. We have a sound has caused Arla great concern and attracted work we do on our farms is the foundation – and business and we’re prepared to operate in an ever the attention of the outside world. Within Arla, a we have this. I feel proud that Arlagården® has changing world. series of measures have been taken to raise the now been introduced in all countries where Arla milk price over the long-term, and discussions farmers operate. This not only means a seal of Ösarp, Sweden, February 2016 between the Board of Directors, other elected quality that we can benefit from, but also that representatives in the cooperative and the rest we are able to use our raw milk as efficiently as of the owners have been intense. The current possible across markets. Åke Hantoft position of dairy farmers has been a much Chairman discussed issue among the general public and As owners of a significant food-producing decision-makers, which can hopefully lead to company, we must be mindful of the company’s both structural improvements and beneficial responsibility. This is set out in Arla Foods’ Code changes in consumer behaviour. of Conduct, which was updated during the year. What we do and how we conduct ourselves is The situation in general has put the cooperative seen by others. By virtue of our size, more is to the test, but at the same time, it has also required from us. We must set an example. demonstrated its strength. With our large pool of milk, efficient supply chain, strong brands and We must also be aware that things can happen in global presence, we are well equipped to meet Arla that could be done better. It’s important we both future challenges and opportunities. With a are open and transparent and address what can 6 … with great ambitions In 2050, there will be nine billion people on lifestyle diseases and malnutrition – and we aim for change are crucial to keeping our ambitions this planet. When you think about it, you to gain and promote this knowledge. stretched and our business dynamic. can either worry about it – or you can start acting. As a significant food producer, Arla Despite an increase in production, we have been Eight years ago, Arla signed up to the United intends to play an active role in addressing able to continuously reduce our impact on the Nations’ Global Compact – an important initiative the global challenges this will present and environment. Arla’s dairy products can therefore to promote ethical business practice. This means in fulfilling the United Nation’s Sustainable form an important part of a sustainable diet, as we are committed to adapting our corporate Development Goals that were presented in defined by the Food and Agriculture Organisation culture and our strategies to the 10 basic 2015. I believe that they resonate well with of the United Nations (FAO). principles of the Global Compact. To underline what we have set out to achieve in Arla. this, we have further developed our Code of Our farmer owners are among the best in the Conduct, among other reasons, to reflect a more Our main focus is on providing products that world when it comes to reducing greenhouse global Arla with operations in new markets. We contribute to nutrition, health and food security gas emissions per kilo of milk and, through our have adopted a new policy on human rights to while producing these in a responsible manner Sustainable Dairy Farming strategy, we will support strengthen and clarify what is written on this that addresses social and environmental impact. them to further improve their environmental subject in the Code of Conduct. performance. A key element for more efficient milk A core element in our new strategy Good Growth production is actually to ensure good conditions One of our commitments is also to communicate 2020, which was presented in December 2015, for the cows, as happy and healthy cows produce these principles to our stakeholders and the is that we will develop our position as the global more milk of higher quality. surrounding world. This report is part of that dairy company that provides ‘natural goodness’. work. It is also part of Arla’s Annual Report for For us, it’s a given that we do all this in a fair and Our supply chain plays an equally important role in 2015, which can be downloaded from arla.com. transparent way. reducing our impact on the environment through strong management practices and the use of new I invite you to follow our development as a leading To guide our innovation and category technology. During 2015, we have also increased and responsible farmer-owned dairy company development, we will draw upon the health our use of renewable energy sources. and let us know where you think we can improve. strategy that we launched last year. This focuses not only on product development, but also None of this would be possible without Arla’s Aarhus, Denmark, February 2016 on inspiring good food habits and developing dedicated colleagues. Our 2015 Barometer partnerships with scientists and influencers. survey clearly shows that we have great work There is still a lot more to understand about satisfaction, a strong positive culture and strong Peder Tuborgh milk’s role in fighting global challenges such as leadership. Engaged colleagues who are ready CEO 7 About Arla Arla Foods is a global dairy company and a decline of 3.3 per cent over the previous year. Expansion in Africa, Asia and Australia a cooperative owned by dairy farmers In order to maintain the company’s profitability In line with Strategy 2017, we continue our in seven countries: Denmark, Sweden, and a long-term competitive payment, a number expansion outside our European markets. UK, Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and of cost-cutting and efficiency programmes have During 2015, regional business units have been the Netherlands. Our products are sold been initiated. established in Lagos, Nigeria, and Kuala Lumpur, under well-known brands in more than Malaysia. Through joint ventures, we have 100 countries. We have operations in The milk price for the full year, the so-called Arla established strategic partnerships in Nigeria, 38 countries and production facilities in performance price, amounted to EUR 0.337. The Senegal, Egypt and Australia. The joint venture 16 of these. Arla is the world’s fifth largest low price paid to farmers has led to a difficult partners were all subject to Arla’s partnership dairy company, based on milk intake, and financial situation on many farms. Discontent selection model, which means they were the world’s largest producer of organic dairy among farmers has been considerable and the screened and evaluated against predetermined products. situation has attracted the attention of both financial, legal and corporate social responsibility consumers and the media. criteria. Tough year for dairy businesses High milk prices during 2013/2014 led to an Focus on the cooperative ARLA’S MISSION increase in supply. Coupled with the Russian To underline the fact that Arla is farmer-owned embargo and a sudden fall in import by China, and to explain to consumers how the cooperative To secure the highest value for prices plummeted in late 2014 and remained low business model works, we have initiated a our farmers’ milk while creating throughout 2015. The abolition of the European ‘farmer-owned’ campaign. opportunities for their growth. quota system in April 2015 increased supplies of milk in Northern Europe, making the imbalance Arlagården® – throughout Arla between supply and demand even worse. Arla continues its focus on high quality milk ARLA’S VISION and sustainable milk production. The quality Falling prices on the world market have affected programme, Arlagården®, has now been Creating the future of dairy to bring both Arla’s revenue and the price we are able to launched in all owner countries. health and inspiration to the world, pay our owners for their milk. Arla’s net revenue Diagram5: Revenue_market_p8 naturally. Diagram3: Raw_milk_p8 Diagram6: Revenue_product_p8 in 2015 amounted to EUR 10.3 billion, which is RAW MILK INTAKE, MILLION KILOS REVENUE BY MARKET REVENUE BY PRODUCT GROUP Denmark 4,705 UK 3,950 UK 28.2% Germany 2,124 Central Europe* 18.0% Sweden 1,966 Sweden 14.1% Fresh products 42% Belgium 531 Denmark 8.9% Cheese 25% Netherlands 310 Finland 3.4% Butter and spreads 13% Luxembourg 130 Growth markets 12.2% Powder products 8% Finland 277 Value markets 6.0% Whey products 4% Other countries 168 Others 9.2% Other products 8% Arla’s total raw milk intake amounted to 14,191 Arla’s total revenue has decreased by 3.3 per cent since The revenue by product categories were similar to 2014. million kilos, an increase of six per cent. Owners’ 2014. milk represents 88 per cent of total raw milk intake. * Central Europe includes the markets covered by Consumer Central Europe. 8 NEW ORGANISATION TO DELIVER STRATEGY 2020 NET REVENUE HR & Corporate Affairs CEO Finance, IT & Legal 10.3 EUR 10.3 billion (EUR 10.6 billion in 2014) of which 73 per cent comes from our markets in UK, Germany, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands. Profit for the year was EUR 295 million (EUR 314 million in 2014). NUMBER OF COLLEAGUES 19,025 Milk, Members Marketing & Supply Chain Europe International & Trading Innovation In February 2016, Arla communicated a change to the structure of the organisation in order to best execute its new strategy – Good Growth 2020. For more information see arla.com. For information about the organisation during 2015, the period covered by this report, please see page 63. Arla has 19,025 colleagues in 38 countries on all continents. The number of colleagues has decreased by one per cent since last year. MANAGEMENT NUMBER OF OWNERS 12,650 Chairman: Åke Hantoft Vice Chairman: Jan Toft Nørgaard CEO: Peder Tuborgh Vice CEO: Povl Krogsgaard OWNER DEMOCRACY Germany, Belgium, Denmark Sweden UK Arla is a cooperativeDiagram1: owned byMilkprice_p9 12,650 dairy farmers in Luxembourg and the Netherlands 3,027 owners 3,174 owners 2,654 owners 3,795 owners Sweden, Denmark, UK, Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. Denmark and Sweden 43 district councils Germany, Belgium, MILK PRICE, AVERAGE PER KILO UK Luxembourg and the Netherlands Local organisations Local organisations EUR Denmark and Sweden 6 regions 0.4 The Board of Representatives 0.3 179 members and 12 employee representatives 0.2 National Council DK National Council CE The Board of Directors National Council SE 15 members and 3 employee representatives National Council UK 0.1 The chart shows the number of members/owners on December 31, 2015. All elections and polls are held according to 0 the ’one member, one vote’ principle. The Board of Representatives is Arla’s top decision-making body. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 9 Responsible company In Arla, it is a given that profitability and ethical business practices go hand in hand. But it is not something that simply happens. It takes commitment, collaboration and integrity. BUSINESS PRINCIPLES We act credibly and with integrity in all of Responsibility comes from knowing right our operations. from wrong ■■ Revised Code of Conduct Arla is a global business as well as a dairy CSR committee focus in 2015 farmer-owned organisation with owners in At the CSR Committee’s ordinary meetings in ■■ Increased scope for whistleblowing Denmark, Sweden, UK, Germany, Belgium, 2015 discussions and actions have been based ■■ Anti-bribery agenda Luxembourg and the Netherlands. We on the findings from the 2014 Responsibility comply with local legislation in all the report as well as issues concerning responsibility countries in which we operate and we are that have been highlighted by the media, in committed to the principles contained social media or by NGOs. Furthermore, the CSR within our Code of Conduct. This enables us Committee has acted as the steering group to act credibly and with integrity, and sets for the revision of Arla’s Code of Conduct, a good example of responsible business Our Responsibility. It has also overseen the conduct. development of a new Human Rights Policy and Due Diligence process, see page 54, which Arla supports Global Compact aims to align Arla with UN Guiding Principles on In early 2008, Arla joined Global Compact, the Business and Human Rights and OECD Guidelines United Nations’ initiative to promote ethical for Multinational Enterprises. Arla’s governance business practices. As a participant, we are model in relation to corporate responsibility committed to aligning our corporate culture has also been on the agenda. The creation of a and strategies to the 10 basic principles of the cross organisational and cross functional Arla Global Compact, and communicating this to our Responsibility Community has been initiated. stakeholders and the world around us. This report describes the progress Arla has made and where Revised and updated Code of Conduct we see opportunities for improvement. See also First published in 2008, Arla’s Code of Conduct page 64. has been updated to reflect the company of today, our expectations of ourselves and those We also support the UN Sustainable of the world around us. The language in the Development Goals launched in 2015. Read Code has been strengthened and sharpened, more about this on page 15. and our commitments have been clarified. As WHISTLEBLOWING Nine Since its inception in 2012, Arla has received 26 reports from its whistleblowing function. Reports have come from most parts of the organisation and include areas like auditing, accounting, theft, entertainment, and health and safety. Half of the reports have been classified as inappropriate behaviour towards an individual, which means that we cannot register and process these due to legal reasons. Instead, the reporter is informed of which person to contact within the HR organisation. In 2015, the whistleblowing function received nine reports of which seven led to further investigation. Depending on the outcome of the investigation, appropriate measures have been taken. 12 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY a consequence of the expansion of the Code’s subjected to challenge, our internal processes scope, we are now including all companies and awareness campaigns have proved to be that are owned and/or controlled by Arla in the robust. whistleblower function. During 2015, fraudsters have, on several The Code is now available in 12 languages. To occasions, attempted to impersonate Arla or support the implementation, e-learning has been one of our colleagues to try to conduct fraud revised and a number of communication tools against our business partners or third parties. We made available for managers and colleagues. have also seen attempts to misuse our corporate We acknowledge the need to develop the identity, logos and letterheads, for example, to understanding of Our Responsibility in all parts of render services, obtain prepayments or enter the organisation. into loan arrangements. All attempts have been reported to the relevant police authorities. Action against bribery Following the updated anti-bribery directive in Cost culture focus 2014, Arla has appointed a global anti-bribery During an internal assessment of costs in Arla compliance officer and spent significant time Sweden, an unacceptable spending pattern has implementing the directive and the associated been found in a few isolated cases in specific new processes. One new element is the internal areas of the organisation, mainly related to register in which all material gifts and hospitality customer entertainment. Measures have been offered both to and by Arla are recorded. It is taken to rectify this including the implementation mandatory for colleagues to complete and gives of new policies, as well as a review of control Arla an enhanced overview of relevant activity. systems and processes. Fraud attempts prevented Non-compliance sanctions Diagram14: TeamGender_p13 As a large and well-known company, Arla is We have had no sanctions of non-compliance exposed to fraud attempts. However, when with laws and regulations. ANTI-BRIBERY TRAINING TEAM GENDER BALANCE 273 Face-to-face anti-bribery training has been taking place across the business and Arla’s commitment to anti-bribery is included in the induction programme. 273 colleagues have taken part in the training and approximately 600 On target, 27% >70% male, 60% >70% female, 13% Our 2020 target is maximum 70 per cent of team members to be of the same gender. 27 per cent of teams with more than five members met the target at the end of 2015. Information about diversity in Boards and top management more have been identified as requiring the training. is available in the financial annual report. See also page 54. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY 13 14 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY Arla’s ambitions complement the UN’s new sustainability goals THE GOALS ARE AN INCENTIVE FOR ARLA TO DEVELOP FURTHER AND TO TAKE AN EVEN CLEARER STANCE, SAYS ARLA’S SUSTAINABILITY EXPERT. In September 2015, the United “It’s interesting for us to see that we can make a Nations published its new Sustainable difference through the sustainability work we’re Development Goals. They take a broad already doing. The UN’s sustainability goals perspective and are relevant for all encourage us to challenge ourselves further and countries, rich as well as poor. For these take an even clearer stance on these issues. Our goals to become reality, all countries, basic philosophy is that sustainability work is part businesses and organisations should of our contribution to society.” embrace whatever change is necessary. For Arla, the journey has already begun. Kjell Lundén Pettersson also sees new opportunities for the dairy industry to achieve The new sustainability goals replace the previous common goals through cooperation. At the Millennium Goals, which largely focused on global climate summit, COP21, in Paris in tackling poverty. Health, peace and equality are December 2015, the industry showcased what now included alongside original areas including it is doing and how it is supporting sustainability poverty, education and climate. The aim is to targets. He also believes that the broad approach create long-term resilient communities. Another of the goals means that more people will feel new element is the expectation that not only that they can contribute. are countries and governments invited, but companies and organisations are also expected “Everyone cannot be everywhere, but everyone to cooperate and participate across borders. can do something, which will hopefully increase Kjell Lundén Pettersson, Ph.D., Senior Manager the involvement of the private sector.” Corporate Responsibility at Arla. “A comparison of the UN’s sustainability goals with Arla’s sustainability work shows that we In conjunction with the UN’s targets, Arla’s are already working in line with more than half CEO, Peder Tuborgh, along with the heads of of the 17 goals,” says Kjell Lundén Pettersson, several other leading global companies, signed sustainability and responsibility expert in Arla. an open letter published in the Financial Times international edition. As well as showing support The fact that Arla produces healthy and nutritious for the sustainability goals, it aimed to urge the food for people around the world and does so in a United Nations to work with the private sector to sustainable way, are clear examples. Kjell Lundén achieve the greatest possible change. Pettersson also believes that Arla’s environmental strategy and commitment to sustainable milk “At Arla, we already have a clear sustainability production, which is fundamentally about agenda. I believe that linking our agenda to reducing resource consumption, are fully in the new UN goals can contribute to a better line with the sustainability goals. So is the understanding of why this is important, and why company’s responsible sourcing of cocoa and we do what we do. Hopefully it will also inspire soy, for example, and its conscious efforts to others so that our impact will be even greater in continuously improve the working environment, the long term.” n to combat corruption and clearly standing up for human rights worldwide. uu Read more at sustainabledevelopment.un.org RESPONSIBLE COMPANY 15 OPERATIONAL PRINCIPLES We manage our business in a responsible and Low milk price, a tough challenge cooperative way that promotes the financial interests of our owners. ■■ Focus on low milk price Arla’s objective is to create value for its has met politicians and banks among others owners. Through the democratically in our owner countries in order to explain the ■■ Common settlement model governed farmer cooperative, all owners difficult situation for dairy farmers, with the ■■ Owner engagement have an opportunity to influence significant purpose to mitigate conditions for farmers. decisions. Owners elect representatives to the company’s governing bodies. The Common settlement model Board of Directors is responsible for Arla has merged with other dairy companies over making decisions about the company’s the years. Our settlement model for milk across general strategies and for ensuring that the countries has not been fully aligned. On 1 January company is managed with the cooperative 2016, Arla took a major step towards a common owners’ best interests in mind. settlement model in all owner countries, which after a transition period will provide all farmer Pressure of a low milk price owners with equal payment for equal milk. Arla’s Arla’s aim is to maximise the price paid to its milk price will be based primarily on the content owners for their milk so they can continue to of fat and protein, and payment will be made on develop their farms. However, in 2015, our a monthly basis. The model aims to be fair, easy farmers faced a low milk price, putting severe to understand, and is designed to support Arla’s pressure on farm finances. The main reasons for strategy because owners will produce milk that the low price have been the global rise in milk will deliver the best performance price. production in combination with the Russian import ban and decreased Chinese imports. The testing strategy and the deductions for antibiotics have been aligned in all owner Arla has addressed these challenges with countries since January 2015. However, some cost savings, efficiency programmes and by national legislative demands make complete transferring as much milk as possible from low alignment impossible. Our aim is to have aligned profit industry products to higher value and settlement models for all quality parameters in branded positions. Furthermore, top management force in 2017. Diagram19: Milk price changes_A_p16 MILK PRICE DEVELOPMENT 2015 EUR 0.5 The Arla performance price (payment to the members plus retainment) for 2015 was 33.7 eurocents/kg milk, which is a 19 per cent decrease since 2014. 0.4 The graph shows the on-account price, and the dots the average performance price. The performance price is shown once a year, at the time of the Board of 0.3 Representatives meeting in February, when profits are distributed. 0.2 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 16 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY Strong demand for organic milk Newly elected members of the Board of Demand for organic milk is strong in both Representatives are invited to participate in European and export markets. Arla’s goal is to an induction and mentoring programme, increase organic raw milk intake by 25–30 per Arla Kick In, which covers the role of elected cent. During the year, we have recruited organic representatives, knowledge about the company farms, or conventional farms ready to convert and meetings with members from the seven to organic production, covering about half of owner countries. The purpose of the programme this goal. However, competition for organic milk is to enable the representatives to build a good on the European market is tough and several network and a strong understanding of Arla. organic farmers in Denmark and Sweden chose Furthermore, we have launched an activity, to leave Arla and sell their milk to dairies that Arla Seminar, for Arla owners to increase their have offered a higher price. This postpones the knowledge of their company. Additionally, we fulfilment of our goal, but does not change our launched a new project aimed at increasing plan to grow our organic business. During 2015, farmers’ insight and interest in becoming the next we increased the additional payment for organic generation of elected representatives in Arla. milk several times. New democratic structure in the UK Member influence Following decisions during autumn 2015, the Every second year, Arla’s owners elect members British members in AMCo (Arla Milk Cooperative) to the Board of Representatives (Arla’s and AML (Arla Milk Link) merged and, on supreme decision-making body) and Board of January 1, 2016, became the UK Arla Farmers’ Directors. 2015 was an election year, and all Cooperative Limited. This fulfils the commitment representatives and directors are appointed for a to create one corporate member of Arla in the UK. term of two years. Diagram7: Owners_B_p17 SEMINARS FOR OWNERS OWNERS IN ARLA 12% 15,000 12,000 9,000 Netherlands Luxembourg 6,000 Belgium UK The goal set by the National Councils is that 25 per 3,000 Germany cent of the owners, within all our owner countries, have Sweden Denmark participated in at least one Arla Seminar meeting in 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015–2016. During 2015, 12 per cent of the owners participated. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY 17 18 XXXXXX RESPONSIBLE X COMPANY Low farm profitability – an acid test for the cooperative ARLA’S CHAIRMAN GIVES HIS VIEWS ON THE DIFFICULT SITUATION FACING BOTH DAIRY FARMERS AND ARLA AS A COOPERATIVE. In 2015, the milk price was cut four times “We’re battling on. This is the signal that I’m and raised twice. On an annual basis this getting from many owners. We know it’s tough, is equivalent to prices five years ago. At but we must get through this and Arla is our the same time, costs for farmers have common company that will take us through this continued to rise. A challenging financial crisis.” situation on many farms has caused concern and raised questions about the One of the year’s biggest challenges was cooperative’s ability to tackle the complex when the principle of equal payment for milk situation. for all owners – irrespective of country – was questioned by customers, the media, politicians Arla’s Chairman, Åke Hantoft, describes 2015 as and industry bodies. This led to an extraordinary an incredibly tough period. board meeting in September when the Board unanimously confirmed that the same milk “Nobody is unaffected by this, myself included, price for everyone is one of Arla’s fundamental neither as member of the Board of Directors principles and that nothing should be changed. nor as an individual dairy farmer,” says Åke The Board decided, however, on the possibility Hantoft. “For farmers, periods of low profitability of lowering the year-end profit target for 2015 in always prompt reflection and discussion at both order to protect the on-account milk price in the professional and personal levels.” remaining months of 2015. Åke Hantoft has been the Chairman of Arla since 2011. In order to ensure a long-term competitive milk One lesson from this period, says Åke Hantoft, He runs the farm Ösarp together with his wife Anna-Carin. price, Arla has implemented extensive cost is that the Board of Directors and Arla must saving measures and efficiency programmes. increase their dialogue with national industry Additionally, Arla focuses on transferring milk organisations. If they are to help improve volumes from the sale of milk powder on the legislation and other conditions for farmers global market to more profitable product areas. Arla needs to increase their understanding of Each litre of milk should give as high a return as how the company operates: that Arla follows its possible. In addition, Arla’s management has had mission and strategy to create the best possible meetings with politicians and banks in owner conditions for its owners in the long term. markets to explain the farmers’ difficult position and try to improve their circumstances. With owners in seven countries, the board has yet another challenge – different items top the agenda The critical situation has triggered a need in different owner countries at different times. for more communication, and the number of member meetings has increased. Board “The Board of Directors is always focused on Arla members and other elected representatives have delivering as good a performance as possible – so met many owners who have expressed their the company can pay a good price for the milk. dissatisfaction. The owners’ difficult situation has But our responsibility is also to communicate with also been discussed in many other forums and in our owners in a constructive way. I’m convinced the media. During the autumn, Åke Hantoft saw that through dialogue and through making sure that the turbulence started to transform into a that we share basic common values we will create shared understanding of the situation and that the conditions for Arla to continue to be a farmerthe sense of solidarity between farmers grew. owned and long-term profitable business.” n RESPONSIBLE COMPANY 19 MARKET CONDUCT We have open and honest relationships with all of our Competing on global markets with strong stakeholders. brands ■■ Responsible expansion in new markets We must constantly evolve within an When establishing a presence in new markets increasingly competitive, fast-moving and and in emerging economies, we follow a tried ■■ Consumers support dairy farmers dynamic global market. It is essential that and tested strategy to ensure that our business ■■ Strong reputation in all core markets consumers trust us. By acting responsibly, principles and Code of Conduct are adhered communicating openly and maintaining to. We begin by setting up a partnership with an ongoing dialogue with customers, a carefully selected local partner with whom consumers and other stakeholders, we can we can mutually develop. We let the business create the right conditions for trust. grow gradually as we learn more about the local market. Growth of brands to strengthen our position Arla is now the world’s fifth largest dairy company Handling the milk crisis in terms of volume of processed milk. In our new In the autumn of 2015, dairy farmers all over strategy – Good Growth 2020 – we state that we Europe protested against the declining milk will focus on growing our global brands – Arla®, prices citing that these were unsustainable for Castello®, and Lurpak® – to further strengthen them to run a profitable dairy business. The our position. intense media coverage provoked debate in a number of markets, and consumers got involved As well as our existing markets, we are focusing via social media in support of the farmers. on a number of countries with good economic development prospects, which are not selfIn addition to our internal cost saving sufficient in dairy. This presents us with the measurements, the milk price crisis has opportunity to bridge the gap between demand prompted several stakeholders to launch and local supply with imported Arla products, initiatives to show support for dairy farmers. while still leaving room for locally supplied dairy As well as individual consumers, these include products. Before entering a new market an governments, local communities, customers evaluation is made from several business and and retailers. The engagement is, of course, very ethical perspectives. Read more in the case study positive. We were however challenged when on page 59. FARMER-OWNED MARQUE HIGH RANKING OF ARLA BRAND We have launched a number of initiatives to be clear to consumers that Arla is farmer-owned, and that profits go back to Arla’s farmers. The marque is, or will soon be, on Arla® branded products in all countries. 12th According to a report from the global brand consultancy Brand Finance®, the Arla brand has increased in value and is now ranked as the 12th most valuable food brand in the world. Compared to all global brands in all sectors, Arla is number 364 (last year 444). 20 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY some retailers asked that the extra consumer Strong reputation in core markets payment be distributed only to farmers in their For a number of years we have been conducting own country. This presented us with a dilemma. annual surveys to monitor consumers’ opinions Arla was in the extraordinary situation of having of Arla. The survey now covers Denmark, Sweden, to tell its customers that Arla could not pay the Finland, Germany and the UK (since 2014). For extra money only to farmers in local markets. the first time, Arla’s reputation is ranked as strong This is because Arla is a cooperative that pays all in all participating markets. Increased scores in its owners the same price for their milk. A breach Finland and Denmark were particular highlights of this principle would be a breach of both our this year. See diagram below. cooperative philosophy and our mission. Read more in the case study on page 19. Governance and Citizenship have increased in importance as main drivers of reputation. Regional products versus production Consumers appear to agree on Arla’s quality efficiency of products in the majority of markets, and are Increasingly consumers are demanding foods starting to prioritise other qualities as reputation that they know are produced in a specific drivers. In Denmark, where we receive the lowest location, region or country. To meet this scores, although considered as strong, some demand, we are increasing the number of locally members of the public do not perceive us as and regionally produced Arla branded milk, being sufficiently transparent and fair. In Germany butter, cheese and creams that we offer. At the and the UK, Arla is less well known, allowing us to same time, it is important for us to coordinate build the brand. production across borders in order to build our global brands and achieve production Active consumer dialogue efficiencies. The Arlagården® quality programme Millions of people buy and eat our products helps us to ensure that the standard of raw milk is every day, and appreciate the cooking inspiration the same wherever it is produced. and recipes we offer. In the case of complaints and comments, these are answered by our Diagram8: Consumers_view_p21 CONSUMER VIEWS OF ARLA Sweden Finland Denmark Germany UK The diagram shows the overall score on a scale of 0–100, 80 with 100 being the highest and above 70 considered strong, awarded to Arla by consumers in a survey conducted by Reputation Institute in spring 2015. 70 The survey asks consumers, familiar with Arla, what they think about our company in seven areas: Product/ Services, Innovation, Workplace, Governance, Citizenship, 60 Leadership and Performance. For the first time, Arla’s reputation is ranked as strong across all markets surveyed. Increased scores in Finland 50 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and Denmark were particular highlights this year. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY 21 consumer relations service. In Northern Europe, and criticism. Customers have presented us our consumer relations services received more with awards and acknowledged our work in than 150,000 enquiries in 2015. Furthermore, Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden and the UK, consumers increasingly want to share their views of which we are proud. However, we have also in our social media channels on topics like animal received complaints, for example, about delivery welfare, packaging, the origin of milk, additives, performance in some markets. To address sustainability, for example. complaints, we initiate action programmes as we are committed to continually improving our Year on year, our consumers become more performance. and more active in digital channels. We want to engage with them in these channels and Arla signs up for fair business practices consider this dialogue as an opportunity to learn A supply chain initiative was launched by seven not only more about consumer needs, which can EU level trade associations to increase fairness drive growth and innovation, but also to spread in commerce and the relations between supplier information about our position on subjects and and customer. During 2015, Arla signed up to the way of working. Principles of Good Practice, together with 178 other companies across the EU. The principles Focus on customer relations ensure that disputes can be addressed in a We produce both branded and own label fair and transparent way and provide a good products for the retail and foodservice sectors framework for doing business. as well as products for the food industry. Distribution and service levels are important parts of our offering, and good relations and dialogues with customers are crucial. We adapt to our different markets and react to each market separately. Depending on customer expectations and our performance, we receive both praise SOCIAL MEDIA STRONG MARKET POSITION 64M No. 1 Our websites in our core markets receive many visitors. For example, arla.dk, arla.se and arla.fi together have 64 million visits annually. Our German Facebook page had over 27 million visits in 2015 and Puck Arabia In Denmark, Sweden and the UK we are the largest dairy company, in Finland and the Netherlands the second, and in Germany within the top three. In these countries we produce both Arla® branded and retailers’ own label Facebook has 525,000 followers. products, as well as ingredients for the food industry. 22 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY X T E RN A E LV 4 IEW IE W LV EX QUESTIONS FOR T E RN A A PROFESSOR OF MANAGEMENT Majken Schultz, Ph.D., is Professor of contributes to society. Although Arla is improving Management at Copenhagen Business and is doing well, the company still misses a School and International Research Fellow compelling narrative. The discussions last year, at the Centre for Corporate Reputation during which some retailers wanted to give at Oxford University. She specialises in money to the farmers because of the low milk Organisational Identity and Corporate prices, highlighted that there’s a lot of confusion Branding. about where the money would go. That lack of transparency and understanding of the European When a company has a very large market share, cooperative is important to address. The ‘farmerwhat is typically its biggest risk in terms of owned’ campaign is a very wise step, but time will corporate responsibility? show if it is enough. I think the biggest risk is falling asleep, because you are big and comfortable. The risk is that you Are there other areas in which Arla, in your don’t push and develop your categories and you eyes, needs to do better? don’t see pushing the boundaries on behalf of I think Arla has overcome its aversion about the whole industry as an opportunity. You also being a big player. Arla has developed a lot. To have to beware of becoming arrogant and taking me, it’s very interesting how the company is able advantage of smaller players. to leverage its cooperative past much more, because it is truly distinctive and difficult to copy. What can big companies gain from acting Arla is unique both in its heritage and in the responsibly in a market? fact that the milk is still produced by individual By acting responsibly you earn a loyalty and farmers. With consumers wishing to know more esteem from your stakeholders that can make about animal welfare and ethical standards in a difference particularly in times of trouble and farming, this is a huge asset that still needs to market disruptions. Being responsible is not be leveraged. Arla needs to make this a part of a easy. In Arla’s case the company has farmers, bigger responsible agenda and expand the story consumers and a lot of other people who need of ‘farmer-owned’ into how this ensures better to get on board, and that’s not something you and safer products and also how I can contribute achieve overnight. It’s a continuous learning as a consumer. process for all the stakeholders involved in the company. Arla has a leading position in most of its core markets. How do you think Arla is handling this? If you look at the recent reputation studies in Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Germany and the UK, Arla’s reputation has either improved or remained the same in the last five years. That’s quite an accomplishment. Arla has primarily achieved this based on excellent products and services, but could still improve the transparency around governance structure and citizenship, making it even clearer how the company positively RESPONSIBLE COMPANY 23 PROCUREMENT AND SUPPLIER RELATIONS We expect our suppliers to support us in our Sustainable sourcing commitment to abide by our Code of Conduct. at each stage ■■ Expectations of suppliers We source goods and services across More preferred suppliers the world. Our ambition is for our The global procurement department has ■■ Responsible sourcing suppliers to meet our code of conduct for overall responsibility for procurement in Arla, ■■ Holistic approach suppliers, which governs ethical, social the exception being the purchase of milk. Our and environmental responsibilities. We globally managed external spend represented encourage them to support us to meet our around 75 per cent of our total spend in 2015, aim of procuring goods and services in a compared to 72 per cent in the previous year. responsible manner. Arla now has approximately 1,130 preferred Statement sharpened in new Code of suppliers (1,050 in 2014) that are approved by Conduct the global procurement department. Signed In our updated and revised Code of Conduct, the contracts govern the relationship between text about procurement and supplier relations Arla and these suppliers and they are Arla’s first has been clarified and sharpened to reflect choice suppliers. Ensuring the compliance of our demands on suppliers and what they can purchases from preferred suppliers is a key focus expect of us. As well as basic quality and food area across Arla, the aim being to reduce risk safety requirements, we clarify expectations in and complexity as well as the release of capital relation to environmental, social and human and decreasing costs. A new purchase-to-pay rights aspects. Furthermore, we have increased system and process was introduced during 2015, our focus on how we collaborate with suppliers supporting this ambition. and highlight engagement in multi-stakeholder initiatives. Also included is sourcing of sustainable We continue to work towards our target of 100 and responsible agricultural and forestry-based per cent of all preferred suppliers having signed products. Following the revision of our Code of our code of conduct for suppliers. The code has Conduct, the code of conduct for suppliers has been updated several times and we have raised been updated. the requirements for which version of the code Diagram9: Global_contracts_p24 that is accepted. The process is not finalised, and GLOBAL CONTRACTS The diagram shows the external spend handled by Arla’s global procurement department, divided across product and service categories. Our 10 largest suppliers account Packaging 30% for 17 per cent (15 per cent in 2014) of our total external Business services 25% spend. Logistics 23% Denmark Ingredients 10% In 2015, the following companies were our five largest Maintenance, repair, suppliers in order of size of spend: Elopak (packaging operations 6% materials and machinery), PCL Transport (distribution), Energy 6% Carat (media), Moran Logistics (distribution) and SIG Combibloc (packaging materials and machinery). 24 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY currently 50 per cent of suppliers, in relations to Supplier audits across the world spend, have signed the latest version of the code. We carry out a number of audits every year, during which we visit suppliers and inspect Holistic approach relevant areas. In 2015, we conducted We continuously strive to engage with suppliers approximately 35 audits globally (40 audits in who can support us in our efforts to source 2014), focusing on food fraud, origin of raw responsibly as well as reduce costs. Our Total materials, allergens and traceability. Cost of Ownership (TCO) process helps us to identify cost saving opportunities for the entire As Arla is expanding globally, we have established life cycle of the products and services we a quality and responsibility function in our Asia purchase. The aim is to achieve a greater degree procurement office. This function will ensure all of transparency, as well as improved purchasing Asian suppliers are closely monitored, audited terms with suppliers. and reassessed if necessary. TCO provides a holistic perspective that includes Same demands on subcontractors considerations in relation to environmental In Sweden, we identified areas of concern sustainability, ethics and social responsibility regarding transport operations performed by when selecting a supplier. For example, the subcontractors to our preferred suppliers of process has been used for the new ’green’ liquid logistics services. Our main concern was the cartons launched in Denmark and Sweden, read working conditions for the drivers and their lack more on page 39, the light weight plastic bottles of familiarity with Arla procedures. As soon as in the UK and the continued standardisation of these issues were highlighted, our procurement corrugated packaging materials which reduces team initiated a dialogue with the preferred material usage. Another example is the decision suppliers. We are committed to ensuring that to install two new warehouses in Germany in our preferred suppliers and their subcontractors order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adhere to Arla’s requirements as well as the laws increase logistics efficiencies. of the countries in which they operate, when delivering to us. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL 100% RSPO All cocoa used by Arla and Cocio for branded products is UTZ certified. All soy used at Arla farms is covered with RTRS certificates or ProTerra certified, see page 45. Arla’s statements on cocoa, palm oil and soy are 90 per cent of palm oil purchased during 2015 has been segregated and certified according to RSPO (Round table for Sustainable Palm Oil) criteria. Plans to fulfill additional demands, e.g. traceability and protection of peat land, are available at arla.com. requested from our suppliers. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY 25 Confidence in products Supplying safe products is our top priority. And we strive to do even more – we aim to make it possible for consumers to make their own informed and healthy choices of products based on clear information and knowledge. FOOD SAFETY We ensure our products are safe, Safe products are our top priority no matter where they are manufactured. ■■ Improved manufacturing standards As a responsible food manufacturer we challenge us even further. Audits are used to are dedicated to ensuring that eating and measure our performance and therefore initiate ■■ Milk quality is key drinking our products does not cause more value driven improvement, performance ■■ Globalisation leads to new challenges illness or injury. We make every effort to and alignment across the business. ensure that our processes are safe, and that high quality standards are maintained, The importance of standardised routines and and continuously improved, throughout knowledge sharing is crucial during times of our supply chain, from the raw material significant change. One example is when we to the finished product. In the event of an transformed a closed cheese dairy in Falkenberg, issue, we have full traceability of our raw Sweden, into a modern cottage cheese site in a materials, ingredients and end products. short space of time. Thanks to tried and tested processes and engaged colleagues, production Raising the bar for manufacturing standards quickly reached full capacity and all food safety We want to continuously improve our certifications were achieved. manufacturing standards, no matter where our products are made. Most sites have already Focus on milk quality made the transition to GFSI (Global Food Safety We are continuously taking measures to avoid Initiative) recognised food safety standards and contamination of milk and dairy products, the remaining sites will transfer to the standards both on farms and at our sites. For example, in 2016. We are now in the process of setting we cooperate with national authorities and the same requirements for our subcontractors, stakeholders to develop our screenings for joint ventures and for relevant suppliers of, for foreign substances in milk, for example, heavy example, ingredients and packaging. metals and pesticides. We combine continued testing for important and well known substances By working with a select number of certification based on new knowledge about potential bodies that cover all Arla sites, the external problematic constituents. auditors will know us better and be able to PRODUCT RECALLS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 One recall was due to a failure in the management of allergens (an oat labelling issue) and one was due to Recalls 4 6 7 6 7 lactose being present in a lacto-free product. Two recalls were due to the potential presence of Listeria in imported cheese. Product quality deficiencies caused the remaining If we have to recall a product from consumers or stop a three recalls. All four food safety related recalls involved product that has been delivered to a retailer or another minor volumes, each affecting only one market in the customer, we have procedures in place to ensure that we Scandinavian region. can act immediately. Despite our efforts relating to quality and food safety routines, we have recalled products on Incidents like these always activate a thorough analysis seven occasions during the year, as the products did not of the causes and initiate actions so that the error we meet required standards. have made is corrected and the quality irregularity is not repeated. 28 CONFIDENCE IN PRODUCTS New testing procedures from farm to dairy network is different. To handle new requirements, regarding antibiotics have been decided. During we continuously focus on internal and external 2015, in most countries, we have stepped-up milk dialogue to ensure a common understanding as testing routines on farm and the new procedures well as research and innovation initiatives. will be fully implemented in 2017. All tankers will be tested for antibiotics before unloading milk at Increasing food safety knowledge among the dairy. If tankers are carrying milk containing subcontractors that produce our branded antibiotics, it is discarded at the dairy and the farm products is another important task. As we become supplying the contaminated milk is identified. a more global company, and the number of During each milk collection at Arla farms, a milk subcontractors rises, so does the need for global sample is taken and five times a month a random standardisation of subcontractors. A global sample is analysed for antibiotics. If the test shows subcontracting manager has been employed with traces of antibiotics, the farmer will have to pay a the task to drive standardisation and ensure any fine. He or she may also get support to uncover decision to subcontract is approved and signed off. the causes and advice to improve routines at the farm. Read more about antibiotics below. We now have one global ingredient specification procedure which allows Arla to more rapidly All Arla’s farmers also fulfil strict criteria on the use respond if there is a suspicion that ingredients and storage of chemicals and cleaning agents. don’t meet our quality standards or even in cases These are described and controlled through our of suspected food fraud. The new procedure will quality programme Arlagården®. also help us to strengthen the governance around introducing new ingredients, especially in the light New requirements for new markets of the innovation agenda. When we enter new markets outside the EU, food safety needs to be thoroughly considered and evaluated, for example, when products require longer shelf life, and/or the distribution Diagram10: Antibiotics_p29 ANTIBIOTIC MANAGEMENT 2015! Tonnes Arla takes seriously the management of the treatment of 6,000 ill cows and the presence of antibiotics in raw milk. When sick animals are treated with antibiotics, milk from the cow 5,000 is discarded at the farm during the period of treatment 4,000 and for a period of time afterwards. 3,000 In 2015, the volume of discarded milk has decreased by approximately 12 per cent. The most significant reduction 2,000 Germany has taken place in Sweden where no milk has been UK discarded at all. In Germany and Denmark a decrease 1,000 Sweden is also seen, whereas there has been an increase in Denmark 0 discarded milk in the UK. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The diagram shows the volume of discarded milk at our In total 5,215 tonnes of milk were discarded during 2015, dairies in Denmark and Sweden, and since 2013 also which corresponds to 0.037 per cent of the total milk including the UK and Germany. intake in Arla. CONFIDENCE IN PRODUCTS 29 FOOD AND HEALTH We make products based on nutritious milk We make it easier to live a and natural ingredients available to consumers around the globe to enhance the quality of people’s lives. healthy life ■■ Health strategy roll-out We are committed to meeting consumer the criteria will be used when developing new demand for healthy products and reliable products, but ultimately for existing products ■■ Inspiring good food habits nutritional information. We inform our within the brand. The criteria will guide us in ■■ New centre for nutrition and health consumers about the contents of all our developing dairy products that contribute to a products so they can choose those that healthy diet with high nutritional content and best suit their tastes and fulfil their needs. limited sugar, salt and saturated fat. Through research, we aim to increase our understanding of the role of dairy products Another example is the established team of Arla in a balanced diet. health coaches in Sweden who communicate with consumers through different channels. In Health strategy implementation blogs on the website vardagspuls.se, and via Following the launch of our global health the daily TV show ‘Vardagspuls’ sponsored by strategy in 2014, several projects have been Arla, the coaches inspire consumers to eat more initiated linked to consumers, for example, healthily and to understand the link between improved nutrition profile of everyday physical activity and a balanced diet. Presence on dairy products, products fulfilling specific health websites and on arla.se are other ways the requirements, inspiring good food habits and coaches reach consumers. Our health coaches spreading knowledge about the goodness of are four registered dietitians with expertise in milk. healthy everyday food, weight management, food and physical performance as well as gastric By creating criteria for nutrient content we aim and gut health and food intolerances. to improve the nutrition profile of our products. The recently introduced Arla® brand Nutrition In Denmark, Arla takes part in the health project Criteria includes clear guidelines for the nutrient ‘Mit Gode Liv’ that aims to improve male health content of all products under the Arla® brand and conditions while at work, in cooperation with it also includes the nutritional claims that can be the Danish Heart Association and the Danish used in conjunction with the products. Initially, Lung Association. Arla Denmark also joined the NUMBER OF LACTOSE-FREE PRODUCTS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 To give people who have difficulty digesting products Finland 30 37 46 68 93 containing lactose the opportunity to consume nutritious dairy products, we provide lactose-free products. In Sweden 32 32 35 43 43 addition, most yellow cheeses are practically lactose-free. UK 11 11 13 12 15 Denmark 3 3 8 11 15 Germany 2 5 5 5 6 Netherlands – – 4 4 4 30 CONFIDENCE IN PRODUCTS private/public initiative Danish Meal Partnership of organisations like ILSI (International Life in 2015. The aim of the partnership is to improve Science Institute), a worldwide foundation that health equality through healthy foods and meals. seeks to improve the wellbeing of the general public through the advancement of science. Arla Development of healthier products Foods Ingredients is a member of GAIN Nordic A lot of new and healthier products, in different Partnership, which is a Nordic unit of the Global categories, have been developed during the Alliance for Improved Nutrition with the mission year. For example, we have reduced salt content to reduce malnutrition within populations at risk. in cheeses and reduced added sugar in milk drinks and yogurts. In the UK, we have launched In spring 2015, Arla Foods Dairy Health and chocolate and strawberry milk drinks in small Nutrition Excellence Centre opened for business serving sizes and with less sugar. The idea is that in cooperation with Aarhus University and this would lead to a smaller energy intake and University of Copenhagen in Denmark. The mean there is more room for other important centre is a research lab and a hub for dairy health nutrients in the diet. Lactose-free products are and nutrition, well connected to the international increasingly requested in, for example, Germany, research network. Our aim is that the centre will and products with high protein content, such as enable fast and efficient translation of research skyr and quark, are now sold in all of Northern into competence building and prototyping Europe. of future healthy products and solutions. Additionally, the centre will provide knowledge Faster path from research to product sharing, training and education for all partners It is important for Arla that we carry out including 25 post graduates and 15 Postdoctorial continuous research into nutrition. We want researchers. to have as much knowledge as possible about the link between the nutrition our products Furthermore, we have joined a Clinical Research provide and people’s health. We contribute to Working Group, initiated by representatives of international research by being an active member leading nutrition companies. The objective is to HEALTHY LIFESTYLE ARLA FOUNDATION INSPIRE 1,550 Many of our activities focus on inspiring young people to take part in physical activity. One project, in collaboration Arla Foundation’s Food Camps for young Danes have this year been attended by 1,550 school children 13–14 years with the Swedish Olympic Committee, presents milk as old, learning about food, cooking, raw materials and nature ’Nature’s own sports drink’. For more examples, see next through various indoor and outdoor activities. page. CONFIDENCE IN PRODUCTS 31 reach a common international view on standards New dietary guidelines combining nutrition/ for nutritional research supported by the industry, health and environmental sustainability have and a correct and fair appreciation of the been issued by the National Food Agency in scientific value and credibility of such research. Sweden, including advice on consumption of dairy products. In our opinion it is both important Dietary guidelines with sustainability and positive that the agency has chosen to perspective include both perspectives in their guidelines. Sustainable diets have been publically debated and the consumption of dairy products has been Map of nutrition and health status increasingly challenged from an environmental Our global nutrition team has created a map point of view. We think it is important to stress of the current nutrition and health status of that milk and milk products are naturally different regions in the world, for the general nutrient dense foods that also contribute with population. This is updated regularly and significant amounts of vitamins, minerals and is an internal tool that directs new product macronutrients (protein, carbohydrate and fat) development through its overview of potential to an individual’s daily dietary requirements. consumer needs globally. Similarly, milk has many health benefits that are acknowledged by food agencies all over the world which is why they include dairy products in dietary recommendations. EXAMPLES OF LOCAL EVENTS ■■ Canada. Colleagues participate in a beach volley ■■ Nigeria and Ivory Coast. We sponsor health checks tournament, combining a sports event with a charity for by doctors and nurses who advise consumers on sick children. healthy products and a healthy lifestyle. ■■ Denmark. We sponsor the Team Rynkeby running ■■ Sweden. Through various sports events, we have met event for children (Skoleløbet), collecting funds for and provided approximately 800,000 consumers with Children’s Cancer Foundation. milk, communicating the connection between milk ■■ UK. We have supported the Milk Race cycling event and health. and distributed 12,000 product samples. ■■ UK. A representative of Arla’s sustainability team was ■■ Netherlands. We take part in campaigns to inspire invited to an All-Party Parliamentary Group in House of consumers to start exercising, and for children to live Parliament in London to talk about the role of dairy in a a healthy lifestyle by contributing to sport and play healthy and balanced diet. materials for schools. 32 CONFIDENCE IN PRODUCTS X T E RN A E LV 5 IEW IE W LV EX QUESTIONS FOR T E RN A A PROFESSOR OF FOODS FOR HEALTH Bruce German is Professor and Director of Are there important differences in consumers’ Foods for Health Institute at UC Davis in health focus in different parts of the world, and California, and a leader in dairy research. how do you think Arla is able to handle and He is well-connected in the global dairy adjust to such differences? industry, and a member of the Arla Foods There are important health differences within Executive Scientific Advisory Committee. a single family! You don’t need to go to Asia to realise that diet and health are marvellously In its health strategy, Arla sets out to ’make diverse. Until Arla realises that it is in the business it easier for consumers to live a healthy life’ of delivering health and not milk, the company by utilising the various nutrients in milk and will not be able to handle and adjust to such inspiring good food habits. Do you think Arla is differences. doing enough to achieve this ambition? Arla is, in many ways, leading the dairy industry Do you see a problem with dairy companies in vision and action by attempting to provide introducing milk and dairy products in consumers with a greater range of products countries where dairy has not been a traditional and an interesting portfolio of services to part of people’s dietary habits? support a healthier lifestyle. I am particularly Is there a problem with Apple introducing impressed with the company’s recipe-based computers and phones in countries where internet presence that both educates and computers and phones have not traditionally informs consumers. However, Arla could do more been part of people’s daily habits? If you don’t feel considering the nutritional value of milk and the that you have products and services that improve existing problems with health. people’s lives step aside and let someone in who does. Can a company that also produces butter, cream and rich cheeses credibly pursue a When it comes to helping consumers live health agenda as Arla does? healthier lives, what can Arla do even better? You should only be afraid to sell butter if you In my opinion, Arla owes it to its legacy of dairy believe the prevailing, but frankly illogical, idea farmer-owners to use the tools of modern that there are such things as good foods and science to understand why milk is so remarkably bad foods. Health is the result of the entire diet positive when it comes to health. The company and any one food is just a single step in that daily should advertise that they are doing it, and journey. There is no single food or beverage they should start the process of moving the product that, when consumed in excess, is not food industry from its current ‘crazily’ branded, toxic, including water. All of the dairy products product-centric food marketplace to a healththat were mentioned in the question are able to driven, complete diet, consumer-centric health provide unique health benefits. enterprise. CONFIDENCE INXXXXXX PRODUCTSX 33 34 CONFIDENCE IN PRODUCTS Is milk healthy? ARLA COUNTERS CRITICISM OF DAIRY’S HEALTHY PROPERTIES WITH SCIENTIFIC FACTS. In recent years, new dietary trends convinced of milk’s high nutritional density, but have become a hot topic. Milk and dairy we are not just looking for the pros, but also for products have been in the spotlight too, the cons – we want a realistic picture. If there are the pros and cons of which have been negative effects, we want to learn more about discussed by researchers as well as in them.” consumer forums. So, what stand does Arla take in the milk debate? To avoid nutritional information seeming biased, Arla has chosen to work with multi-stakeholder “We truly believe that dairy is an important part initiatives like Global Dairy Platform, dairy of a healthy diet,” says Anne Louise Mørkbak, organisations and with independent scientists head of Arla’s Global Nutrition team. “Globally, who communicate their work through scientific dietary recommendations are that milk and dairy papers. Anne Louise Mørkbak stresses that the are consumed as part of a healthy diet, not just studies are defined by the scientists and that during childhood, but throughout life.” Arla does not, and should not, regulate what is published. She believes that the findings – The recommendations she refers to are positive and negative – will increase general based on continuous reviews of nutrition knowledge about milk and health. science. According to these, dairy contributes significantly to an individual’s calcium and protein One obstacle that is cited in relation to Arla requirements, as well as a wide range of vitamins growing its business in markets like Africa and Anne Louise Mørkbak, Ph.D. in Biology/Biochemistry, and minerals. Asia, is that more than half of these populations Director Global Nutrition in ASIC, Arla Strategic Innovation Center, supporting all categories and all are said to have problems eating products high markets in the area of nutrition. “There is actually more to it. Science also shows in lactose. Anne Louise Mørkbak explains that that milk and dairy can have a positive effect scientific research shows that most people can on malnutrition, obesity and western lifestyle eat and digest some dairy with lactose, especially “In my opinion, we have forgotten to talk about diseases. We are collaborating with scientists to if consumed during a meal and over the course the goodness of milk, at least in Northern Europe. investigate this further.” of a day. To give consumers a choice and the We have lost a generation – many of today’s opportunity to avoid lactose, if they wish, in many children and young adults don’t know the Yet, there are claims that milk fat should be markets Arla offers lactose free products. Anne benefits of dairy. It’s a shame. We have a really avoided, that milk is only for children and that Louise Mørkbak also points out that most hard nutritious raw material, and the best starting there are alternatives that are nutritionally equal cheeses are naturally lactose free and yogurt is point to make healthy products.” n to cows’ milk. These are just a few examples. How better tolerated by lactose intolerant consumers. does Arla respond to these critical opinions? In fact, the cultures in yogurt ease lactose digestion in the gut. “We want to contribute to the discussion in an objective and science-based manner. We address In the majority of markets in which Arla’s dairy criticism with facts, and we are continuously products have been introduced recently, they are reviewing new scientific research. For example, regarded as quality foods with high nutritional we know that there are no vegetable-based value. Something that seems to be somewhat beverages that are nutritionally equal to cows’ neglected in the debate in other parts of the milk. They are often equal in energy but the world according to Anne Louise Mørkbak. content of protein differs and the natural amount of vitamins and minerals is lower. We are CONFIDENCE IN PRODUCTS 35 Care for the environment and animal welfare As a dairy company, we have a natural interest in good environmental and dairy farming practices. We work to continuously reduce our negative environmental impact, and maintain high animal welfare standards. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE We continually improve our environmental We continue to reduce our performance by applying sound and sustainable principles throughout our entire value chain. climate impact ■■ Increase in renewable energy Food production, packaging and sources. During the autumn, Bislev dairy in transportation of products invariably affect Denmark switched to biogas. It is in the plan ■■ Challenge to improve transport the environment by emitting substances that by summer 2016 Arinco and Rødkærsbro emissions into the air, the fields and the water. dairies in Denmark will also make the shift, ■■ Launch of 100 per cent renewable Therefore, our ambition is to minimise which will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by cartons such emissions and continually reduce our approximately 39,000 tonnes. By 2018, five more environmental impact within the entire dairies in Denmark will switch. supply chain in order to contribute to sustainable development. Furthermore, shifts to renewable energy, together with energy efficiency improvements, Environmental strategy 2020 have been made at Jönköping and Sundsvall Arla’s environmental strategy is the guiding dairies in Sweden. During 2015, the total energy principle for all environmental and climate work consumption in Arla has increased. See diagram within the company. The strategy states that we below. will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25 per cent within operations, packaging and transport, Our repackaging site in Ivory Coast, which compared to the 2005 level. Since 2005, Arla’s opened in 2014, is powered by solar panels, total climate impact has decreased by 16 per which account for approximately 75 per cent, despite increased production. See diagram cent of the site’s energy consumption. At our below. repackaging site in Bangladesh, solar panels with a battery bank will be installed during Energy and water use 2016 to provide power back up due to the site Our environmental strategy also includes experiencing many power interruptions each day. efficiency targets of three per cent annual reduction in water and energy consumption We are also working systematically to reduce up to 2020. By then, half of the energy we water consumption. Our total water consumption consume must originate from renewable energy shows a three per cent decrease during 2015, Diagram11: Energy_consumption_p38 ENERGY CONSUMPTION, 2015! TWh 3.5 The diagram includes all Arla facilities at the end of 3.0 2015. Previous years’ data has been updated. During 2015, energy consumption increased by approximately 2.5 0.3 per cent. This is an effect of a 1.0 per cent increase in 2.0 production and an increased share of powder production. 1.5 Oil Since 2014, the share of renewable energy has increased 1.0 Gas by 1.4 per cent to 19.1 per cent. Electricity 0.5 Bioenergy District heating 0 2005 2008 2011 2014 2015 38 CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE despite increased production. At Aylesbury Switching to biofuels is a bigger challenge in dairy in the UK, we harvest and use rainwater many other countries, for example in Denmark, and recycle clean waste water by passing it due to lack of economic incentives. Without through state-of-the-art filtration systems. At our alternative fuels, reaching our greenhouse gas Llandyrnog site, also in the UK, we have installed emission targets in these countries will be very heat recovery systems that can store and reuse difficult. hot water, which also save energy. Furthermore, Danmark Protein in Denmark has saved up to During the transportation of raw milk from farm 22 per cent water per kg of product by recycling to dairies, there have been several initiatives to water from whey powder production. We are increase the size of the tankers so that more currently looking into the possibility of rolling out milk can be transported by the same vehicle. similar initiatives to other sites. The combination trailers introduced in 2012 in the UK, which are equipped to carry both raw Transport improvements milk and finished dairy products, have achieved Optimising transportation and minimising fuel significant savings and are continually being consumption continue to be areas where we improved. Moreover, a general reduction of the can improve. In Sweden, a switch from fossil weight of trailers has made it possible to carry to biofuels has been ongoing since 2013, more milk. and during the last year was facilitated by tax incentives. Different fuel initiatives have reduced Renewable packaging greenhouse gas emissions by 65–90 per cent We strive to increase the use of renewable per truck, depending on what biofuel that is used raw materials in our packaging. As a result of and compared to fossil fuel. The most common partnerships with two of our largest suppliers in biofuels are RME (Rapeseed Methyl Ester) and Denmark and Sweden, we have introduced the HVO (Hydrated Vegetable Oil). In Sweden, it first milk cartons where both the carton and the is expected that by 2016, in total, we will use plastic in the caps, fittings and coating is made 85–90 per cent biofuel. Diagram12: Climate_impact_p39 from renewable raw materials. From one supplier CLIMATE IMPACT, MILLION TONNES OF CO2-e 2015! 2.0 total climate impact has decreased by 16 per cent, despite increased production. 1.5 The new dairy in Aylesbury, in the UK officially opened in 2014, has pushed the boundaries to reduce greenhouse 1.0 gas emissions as far as possible. The learnings we have gained are currently being implemented at other sites. 0.5 Packaging Transport In 2016, further focus will be placed on reaching the 2020 Operations goals. The greatest challenges to achieving the climate 0 goal lie within transportation. 2005 2008 2011 2014 2015 Arla’s goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from For initiatives to reduce climate impact on farm, please operations, transportation and packaging by 25 per cent see page 44. by 2020, compared to the 2005 levels. Since 2005, Arla’s CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE 39 the material is sugar cane-based, from the other International collaborations it is based on second generation renewable raw Arla supports different international organisations materials. The change is estimated to reduce with the aim to promote a sustainable global greenhouse gas emissions from the milk cartons dairy industry. Through Global Dairy Platform by approximately 20 per cent. (GDP) we collaborate with colleagues around the world to further improve the sustainability Reduced food waste of our industry and to communicate our Another goal within our environmental efforts. Arla has also endorsed the Dairy strategy is the ambition to reduce food waste Sustainability Framework, which is the Global from production. At Stourton dairy in the UK, Dairy Agenda for Action programme, which we previously sent liquid waste to anaerobic aligns and connects sustainability initiatives to digestion plants. We are now able to send the demonstrate leadership and progress globally. surplus to animal feed instead, about 1,000 In addition, we actively contributed in an EU tonnes per year. review with the objective of describing the best available techniques for the dairy industry We also strive to offer smarter packaging to regarding energy and water usage. This helps us help consumers reduce food waste. Our aim influence the use of future standards and receive is to maintain the product’s natural goodness information at an early stage. and taste for as long as possible. The newly introduced milk with extended shelf life in the Netherlands is also expected to reduce food waste. On the other hand, producing milk with longer shelf life requires more water and energy, which does create a dilemma. In Denmark, we participate in a project with a retailer with the purpose of identifying food waste through the value chain. ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 60% NCA Approximately 60 per cent of our production sites have achieved zero waste to landfill status. One of our environmental goals is to achieve zero waste to landfill for all our sites by 2020. Arla has started a project to map the total environmental impact from cow to consumer, using a method called Natural Capital Accounting (NCA). The method will be used as a complementary tool to help visualise environmental impacts in financial terms. Read more on page 43. 40 CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE X T E RN A E LV IEW IE W 4 LV EX QUESTIONS FOR T E RN A A SENIOR ADVISOR AT WWF Lena Tham, Senior Advisor at WWF Sweden, The use of soy in cow feed is an area that Arla has been Arla’s main contact person in is attempting to move in a more sustainable WWF for several years. She coordinates direction. How would you evaluate Arla’s efforts issues, activities and questions from WWF so far? towards Arla and from Arla into the WWF Arla is definitely a front-runner when it comes global network. to purchasing responsibly produced soy. Arla’s decision, in 2014, to take the big step of asking In what areas can a company like Arla make the for 100 per cent responsibly produced soy for biggest contribution to a better environment its global operations was very important. It came and climate? at a very critical moment and started to build Biodiversity, as well as healthy and welldemand for certified soy according to the RTRS functioning ecosystems, are the foundation standard and in some countries, ProTerra. for life on earth. Cows have a unique capacity to transform grass into valuable protein, Palm oil being sourced by global food particularly on land not suitable for crops. That companies is another controversial topic due is why protecting and enhancing ecosystems to the impact it can have on deforestation, for throughout the entire supply chain, including example. What do you think of Arla’s decision feed production, is an area where Arla can really to only purchase palm oil that is certified and help make a difference. Arla can, of course, also segregated? Does it make a difference? make an important contribution when it comes Yes it does. In WWF we do not believe in boycott. to reducing greenhouse gas emissions – both We think it’s very important that all purchasers from the animals but also from feed production. of palm oil ask for more sustainably produced Another important area is to continue to reduce palm oil, because the problem is not the palm waste in the entire supply chain. oil itself but where and how it’s produced. To ask for segregated palm oil is a very important step Compared to other food industries, what towards increased transparency in the supply unique environmental challenges do you chain. However, Arla also needs to continue consider to be the most urgent when it comes to work on its other commitments to avoid to the global dairy industry? deforestation, peat land and social conflicts. We The Food & Agriculture Organisation of the think that the RSPO Next programme, which is United Nations (FAO) predicts that global dairy currently being developed, could be one tool that production will have increased by 60 per cent Arla could consider using. We would also like to by 2050, and I think most of us recognise that encourage the company to continue to support land available for this is limited. Therefore, the the Palm Oil Innovation Group (POIG) which is a dairy industry needs to improve management of platform for innovators in the palm oil industry. pasture lands, develop local protein feed crops and also reduce and recycle waste, including RTRS – Round Table on Responsible Soy Association RSPO – Round Table for Sustainable Palm Oil manure, in the entire supply chain. ProTerra – a standard for responsibly produced soy XXXXXX CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFAREX 41 42 CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE Counting the environmental cost of production FOR THE FIRST TIME, ARLA PUTS A FINANCIAL FIGURE ON ITS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT. From cow to consumer, Arla’s production “For many years we have conducted lifecycle has an impact on the environment. It is assessments to understand our impact but something the business is conscious these have primarily focused on greenhouse gas of and takes very seriously. Producing emissions. When the opportunity presented itself products sustainably is a top priority. To to look beyond these, we jumped at the chance further increase its ability to do so Arla and now we have a clearer understanding of our has, for the first time, calculated the cost impact in lots of other areas, from biodiversity to of its impact on the environment. water supply,” explains Jan D Johannesen. With a grant from Denmark’s environmental “It is a really important step for us because, protection agency Arla has made its for the first time, we have full visibility of the environmental profit and loss calculation or true environmental cost of production. There natural capital account as it’s also called. weren’t any major surprises in terms of where the calculations revealed we have most impact, Natural capital is the world’s natural resources, for in fact, they have reinforced that we’re on the example, forests, rivers, atmosphere, land, wildlife, right course and given us the mandate to push oceans and other natural assets. By having a ourselves even harder in the areas on which we monetary value assigned to each of these Jan D are already focusing. Johannesen, head of environmental sustainability and his team have been able to calculate “One of the major benefits of having this new Jan D Johannesen, Director Sustainability, Health and Safety in Global Quality, Environment, Health and Safety the economic cost of Arla consuming these knowledge is that it will help us to prioritise in Arla. resources and also the impact of the pollution where to concentrate our environmental efforts the company generates. in the future. Similarly, the results will allow us to take into consideration the economic cost of The amount of information required to do natural resources and pollution impacts during the calculations was extensive and required a our decision making ensuring that we use our thorough investigation of Arla’s environmental owners’ money in the right way, focusing on the impact throughout the supply chain, over a right things.” period of 12 months. It took in data from all countries, all business groups and also Arla’s What is particularly important to Jan D Johannesen subsidiaries and included everything from raw is that by making an environmental profit and milk production to energy and water usage, all loss calculation, Arla is sending a very strong the way to final consumption of products and message to all its stakeholders: “We are the first even business travel. food company in the world to conduct such an extensive study and by doing so are clearly The calculations themselves are based on, demonstrating that we are passionate about the for example, the financial consequences of environment and that we take responsibility for greenhouse gas emissions, loss of natural our entire supply chain.” n resources, loss of ecosystem services such as carbon storage in forests and climate change. In addition, areas such as the cost of the healthcare uu The results of the project will be presented in a report being published in 2016. required due to air pollution are also calculated. CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE 43 DAIRY FARMING We support sustainable dairy farming. Towards increasingly sustainable dairy farming ■■ Focus on animal welfare We want to ensure that farms supplying Supporting the aim for the responsible use of milk to Arla operate in a way that shows antibiotics, a number of educational activities ■■ Arlagården launched in the UK ® respect for the milk, the animals and the have taken place including an informative poster ■■ Positive development for organic milk environment. Therefore, our owners, and to all Swedish farmers, educating Swedish other suppliers, must adhere to our high milk quality advisors and meetings with more standards for dairy farm management, than 100 Danish vets. Furthermore, we have animal welfare and feed, and to our introduced an online tool allowing individual collective goal to reduce greenhouse gas farmers and their vet to agree the best routines. emissions. We have also arranged farmer meetings in Germany. Sustainable dairy farming strategy Arla’s strategy for sustainable dairy farming 2020 Climate. The goal is to reduce greenhouse gas was signed off in 2014 and implementation is emissions at farm level by 30 per cent per kilo of ongoing. The work at farm level completes Arla’s milk, from 1990 to 2020. To support this goal, sustainability commitment throughout our value more than 600 farmers in the UK, Denmark, chain. We are aiming for the same goals within Sweden and Germany performed a carbon the different focus areas, but have to take into assessment in 2015. The assessment provides account the local context of our seven owner the farmer with estimates for the amount of countries. Some examples: greenhouse gasses emitted from their farm in one year, based on individual farm data. With Animals. We aim to continuously promote the estimates, the farmer can compare data animal welfare. Supporting this aim, more than with other farms and get recommendations for 500 UK farms have participated in a series of improvements. The first estimation of progress workshops covering themes like breeding, shows an 18 per cent decrease in greenhouse responsible use of antibiotics and reducing gas emissions in the period 1990–2012. mastitis. Each workshop takes place on a farm allowing for good discussions between farmers, Resources. We aim to reduce waste and the Diagram20: Cows_per_farm_p44 advisors and vets. Read more on page 47. amount of resources we use. In Denmark, we SUSTAINABLE DAIRY FARMING PROCESS NUMBER OF COWS PER FARM Carbon Energy Farm 150 assessassesswork2015 ments ments shops 2013 2011 UK 2010–14 1,103 – 265 100 UK 2015 309 – 123 Sweden 2013–14 400 150 40 50 Sweden 2015 130 170 – Denmark 2013–14 636 – 39 0 k nd UK S Lu wed s nm xe en Denmark 2015 200 9 – ar er m bo u la Be rg lg iu De th Ge m rm an Germany 2014 4 – – Ne Fin lan y d Total 2,782 329 467 The number of cows per farm is an average which includes all dairy farmers in each country. The table shows the number of activities carried out in Source: National trade associations. line with the sustainable dairy farming strategy. 44 CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE have developed and tested an evaluation of environment was launched in the UK. Already electricity spend at the farm, and will introduce in operation in Denmark, Sweden, Germany, this further during 2016. Analysis shows a Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, the potential reduction of close to 30 per cent in programme now ensures all Arla farmers are farm electricity spend. assessed to the same standards. Our UK farmer owners will also continue to adhere to the Red Nature. We have continued our engagement in Tractor Farm Assurance Dairy Scheme, since it is responsible sourcing. All soy used at Arla farms is the UK industry standard. To avoid duplication, covered with RTRS (Round Table on Responsible both schemes will be assessed at the same time, Soy) certificates or ProTerra certified. In Germany, every 18 months. By the end of the year more we are participating in the Sustainable Protein than 600 UK farms were assessed. Dialogue aimed at increasing the share of locally produced feed protein and the amount Arlagården® protects and enhances Arla’s of legumes in the crop rotation. In Denmark, we reputation for supplying quality milk. In addition, participate in a research project investigating it increases our ability to compete globally as how to extract proteins from green biomass and all owner milk has been produced to the same thereby provide alternative protein sources. standards. Customer acknowledgement Organic milk recruitment Arla’s work with sustainable dairy farming was Arla is the world’s largest supplier of organic dairy recently acknowledged by Unilever’s approval of products. The market for organic dairy products Arla as a supplier of sustainably produced dairy is developing positively and we are now recruiting products in core production countries. organic dairy farmers in Central Europe, Sweden and Denmark to fulfill increasing market demand. Arlagården® launched in the UK When recruiting new organic farmers we evaluate In October 2015, our quality assurance how the collection of the milk can be as efficient programme Arlagården®, which focuses on as possible to reduce costs and use of resources. milk quality, food safety, animal welfare and Read more on page 17. FARM AUDITS RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF SOY 71% 100% In 2014, Arlagården® was launched in Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. By the end of 2015, 71 per cent of our owners’ farms in these countries had been audited by an independent auditor. All Arla farms are All soy used at Arla farms is covered with RTRS certificates or ProTerra certified. There is a reduction in purchased certificates, which is due to a slight decrease in the use of soy at farms and to national soy coalitions now covering audited a minimum of once in every three year period. volumes in some countries. CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE 45 46 CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE Healthy cows are happy cows ANIMAL WELFARE AND SUSTAINABLE FARMING GO HAND IN HAND. IN THE UK, ARLA SUPPORTS FARMERS WITH BESPOKE ON-FARM WORKSHOPS. Five years ago, Arla blazed a trail in the to ensure that antibiotics are used as little as UK dairy industry when it unveiled a possible, but as much as necessary.” programme of over 250 on-farm workshops for its supplying dairy farmers. Building on Making sure that farmers understand and are the success of the initiative, its reach and comfortable with this new requirement has scope was extended in 2014 in line with been a primary concern. That is why veterinary Arla’s global sustainable dairy farming professionals have been consulted and, in strategy. The workshops are designed September, a series of eight workshops was to support Arla farmers to protect the organised specifically for vets. environment and be as efficient as possible. This means managing a herd of healthy In conjunction with these seminars, 60 vet-led cows that produce to their full potential. on-farm workshops commenced for Arla farmers. Topics to date have included lowering A key focus has been on the farm management culling losses, reducing lameness, measures that can be taken to minimise the risk improving fertility and reducing mastitis. of infection among cows in the run up to calving, particularly mastitis, and therefore reduce the “The welfare of dairy cows has long been the requirement for antibiotics. The workshops are subject of scrutiny in the UK,” explains Vicky very interactive with farmers working in small Porteus, who is responsible for this area in Arla groups to identify potential risk areas and discuss UK. “What is interesting and integral to our management strategies to address these. Vicky Porteus, Senior Manager Quality Assurance and strategy is that efficient farms, with high levels Sustainability, Consumer UK Milk and Member Service. of animal welfare and herd health, generally “To date, every single farmer who has attended have a lower carbon footprint and operate as a workshop, and completed an evaluation form, sustainable businesses. So, proactively working said that they would recommend the workshop with our farmers to achieve the highest standards to others,” says Vicky Porteus. of animal welfare is not only good for the environment, it is also financially beneficial for Farmer owner, Tim Dale, praises Arla’s approach: farmers.” “I have hosted one of the workshops at my farm. The professional, detailed and yet informal nature Recently the business group ramped up its of the workshop has put me at ease and given me programme of on-farm workshops in-line with the confidence that, with the support of my vet, I the implementation of Arlagården®, Arla’s global can put an antibiotic plan in place on my farm. quality programme. In order that it can run, and be assessed, side by side with Red Tractor “As a farmer-owner, I consider myself fortunate Assurance, the UK’s main farm and quality food that through Arlagården®, the programme of assurance scheme, 16 additional standards have on-farm workshops and with the support of Arla’s been introduced to UK farmer-owners. The most UK agricultural team, we can continue to strive significant relates to animal welfare, specifically for the highest standards of animal welfare.” the use of antibiotics and medicines. Globally, animal welfare is in the spotlight at Arla. “Arlagården® requires farmers to only use A statement on Arla’s position will be signed off in antibiotics for curing or alleviating diseases rather 2016. It centres around a common belief among than for preventive purposes. It places emphasis Arla owners: “Good animal welfare is key to the Tim Dale, Little Shrawardine Farm, in Shropshire, UK. on ensuring farmers work closely with their vet success of our business.” n CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE 47 Responsible relations We have relationships with people, organisations, and communities in many countries. No matter what the relationship is, we are committed to maintaining mutual respect and understanding. WORKPLACE We have competent, committed and engaged Together for a more global company employees, and we provide safe and healthy working conditions. ■■ High colleague engagement and Arla has 19,000 colleagues of 90 the overall results look very good, there is a team agility nationalities in 38 countries throughout variation in the underlying results this year. All the world. We strive to continually improve leaders will therefore need to dive into their ■■ Focus on workplace safety our work environment and organisation. report and give special attention to results within ■■ Cutbacks in training We also work to strengthen our culture by prioritised focus areas; sufficient, open and encouraging people to take the lead in their honest communication, unacceptable behaviour, function, sense new opportunities through simplification of processes and minimising collaboration and create better solutions bureaucracy, and, as always, their own leadership. for the future. If all colleagues enjoy good working conditions, and are committed to Work safety and wellbeing their work, together we can do the best job We want our colleagues to be healthy possible. and engaged at work and have a working environment that is free from accidents and Our engagement survey – Barometer work-related illnesses. We are constantly working The annual engagement survey, Barometer, to reduce accidents and illnesses related to was conducted in October and sent to 17,700 physical and psychological risks. In 2015, several colleagues in 28 countries and in 14 different sites in Denmark, Sweden and the UK focused on languages. The response rate was 89 per cent. behaviour-based safety. Due to the root cause of nine out of 10 accidents being related to human The results were available at the beginning behaviour, this method focuses on increasing of December and the analysis of the results colleague engagement in safe working practices. had just begun when this report was written. Arla outperforms the top 10 per cent of its To further improve safety and information given benchmark group. Furthermore, we can see to colleagues in high-risk areas, working on improvements in almost all areas; the score for international assignments or while travelling, a agility is particularly high. Colleague engagement head of security position has been established has continued to increase year-on-year. While Diagram13: Accidents_at_work_p50 with the task to develop and execute proactive WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS 20 The total number of accidents has decreased year by year, since 2007, but the total number for 2015 was at 15 the same level as 2014. The result varies from site to site, country to country. Overall, the British organisation continues to show an impressive development, with a 10 decrease of 66 per cent in accident frequency from 2010 to 2015. 5 Engagement and focus from colleagues and leaders, and a wide spectrum of initiatives as Behaviour Based Safety is 0 the driver behind the positive development. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of workplace accidents involving more than one Our target for work environment is 100 per cent day’s absence per million working hours. engagement, 100 per cent wellbeing, 0 accidents and 0 harassment. 50 RESPONSIBLE RELATIONS security strategies that promote and enhance module programmes within leadership, which colleagues’ security, safeguard Arla’s assets have already started, have also continued, for and appropriately respond to security related example, Arla Leadership and Talent Acceleration incidents. Programme (TAP), which are designed to strengthen our pipeline of globally mobile Arla Several sites have run projects which inspire leaders. colleagues to live a healthy lifestyle and engage in physical activities. One example is Apprentices and future colleagues Rynkeby Foods where half of the site, about 100 Welcoming apprentices and internships in colleagues, participated in the company’s cycling all parts of our organisation is part of our scheme, Team Rynkeby, from Ringe in Denmark role in society and a way to secure future to Paris, France. In Germany, we have introduced knowledgeable colleagues. Special focus is given health checks and in Danish distribution centres to dairy technology students. In the UK, we have we have offered tailor-made health programmes. participated in a project which inspires people to work in the food industry. In total, we have had Our Nigerian site now has higher safety standards approximately 450 apprentices in all parts of and better facilities than previously. our supply chain – dairy, laboratory, mechanics, automation and storage handling. Continued training despite cutbacks Due to significant cost savings during the year, all European labour relations face-to-face training events have been stopped, European Works Council (EWC) is our labour except compliance training like anti-bribery, relations forum, with members from Denmark, job certifications and occupational health and Sweden, UK, Germany, Finland, the Netherlands safety training. E-learning is however available and Poland. All Arla colleagues can provide input for all colleagues and covers many areas. to the agenda. Read more about our colleague On the jobDiagram4: trainingColleagues_p51 has continued as well as collaboration on page 53. induction and graduate programmes. MultiCOLLEAGUES PER COUNTRY SAFE WORKPLACE ZERO Denmark 36.8% UK 18.6% Sweden 17.6% Germany 9.8% Poland 2.4% Finland 1.7% Netherlands 1.7% Saudi Arabia 4.6% North America 2.5% Other countries 4.3% In 2015, our colleagues in Rødkærsbro (Denmark), Kalmar and Östersund (Sweden) could all celebrate more than The average number of full time employees (FTEs) in two years (730 consecutive days) without lost time due to Arla was 19,025. The diagram shows the distribution work-related injuries. Our colleagues and sites in Canada per country at year-end 2015. In our Global Graduate and in Arinco, Lillebælt and Cocio (Denmark), Skövde Future 15 and Supply Chain programmes we have (Sweden), Malpas and Llandyrnog (UK), are all celebrating 19 nationalities among the current 33 graduates. more than one year (365 days). RESPONSIBLE RELATIONS 51 52 RESPONSIBLE RELATIONS Close European cooperation between the trade unions and Arla CONSENSUS CHARACTERISES THE DIALOGUE BETWEEN ARLA’S TRADE UNION REPRESENTATIVES AND THE GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM. The European Works Council is Arla’s forum for trade union dialogue at European level. Twice a year, colleague representatives from Denmark, Sweden, UK, Germany, Finland, the Netherlands and Poland meet the Group management team for a briefing and the possibility of consultation regarding cross-border issues. This enables them to influence decisions ahead of them being taken. “We have a good and engaged dialogue,” says Lars Kaae, who heads up Arla's Global Employee Cooperation. “Of course we have our differences, but both sides have a positive attitude. We are not ‘fighting’, we try to find solutions that enable Arla to become a better workplace for everyone.” Mikael Larsson is Sweden’s union representative on the Select Committee working group, Mikael Larsson (left) is Chairman of Swedish Food Workers Union Arla and Lars Kaae is Senior Director of Global whose task is to prepare the two meetings held Employee Cooperation in Arla. each year, and to maintain a regular dialogue with senior management in the meantime. Besides Sweden, the working group comprises at national level, for example, what a decision “Everyone can read these impressive words,” says representatives from Denmark and the UK, based means for an individual dairy. Lars Kaae, “but we agreed to sit together and on the number of colleagues Arla has in different discuss what they mean and what impact the countries. The Select Committee meets several Workplace collaboration outside Europe is words have on workplaces in different countries.” times a year and Mikael Larsson points out the currently handled in the country concerned, but in benefits of the dialogue with the company. discussions about Arla's expansion into Africa and Both parties welcome the transition from pure the Middle East, for example, union representatives information to working together in this way. At “The unions and the company share the same underline the company’s responsibility for the same time, Mikael Larsson looks forward to objectives,” says Mikael Larsson. “We want Arla colleagues throughout the world. even closer cooperation. to perform as well as possible, for colleagues to be proud of their company and for our owners The European Works Council began more than “Of course it’s good if dialogue can begin even to make money. We have the same agenda, 15 years ago. Lars Kaae and Mikael Larsson earlier, and union representatives become although we and the management team do not agree that cooperation has gradually improved. involved at an even earlier stage, but I think always share the same views on how to get there.” A few years ago, the meetings mainly consisted we should give credit to, and be proud of, of senior management reporting on their plans the agreement and the cooperation we have The subjects discussed at the European Works and presenting their opinions. Now there is more between the unions and management,” he Council include the consequences of acquisitions collaboration. During the autumn, for example, concludes. n and mergers, the results of engagement surveys, the Select Committee met to discuss the content the relocation of production and the working and intent of the Workplace and Human Rights environment. Many subjects are then taken up section in Arla's revised Code of Conduct. RESPONSIBLE RELATIONS 53 HUMAN RIGHTS We respect and support internationally recognised Further steps to ensure respect for human rights. human rights ■■ Stronger focus on human rights We have operations in many countries and a workplace without harassment, embracing our products are sold throughout the world. diversity as well as nourishing equality and ■■ Zero tolerance for harassment We also do business in countries that do non-discrimination. ■■ New areas for action not fully protect human rights or do not yet live up to them. Regardless of where we are Developed Human Rights Policy located, we maintain a firm conviction that To support and put into practice the content in the human rights of every individual should Our Responsibility, Arla’s Code of Conduct, we be respected and upheld. have policies and strategies. In June 2015, we published a new Human Rights Policy, which Holistic view on human rights covers both our actions in the global marketplace Wherever we operate in the world, we want to act and locally at all our workplaces. Through as a role model. In Arla’s Code of Conduct, Our the policy we commit ourselves to meeting Responsibility, we acknowledge internationally international human rights principles in all our recognised guidelines. Arla is a participant of operations and in all companies that are owned UN Global Compact and we adhere to the UN and/or controlled by Arla. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational The policy specifies that we have an opportunity Enterprises. to positively impact the people and societies in which we operate, as a producer of healthy food, In our revised Code of Conduct, we also clearly but also by contributing to social, environmental express our responsibility towards our colleagues and economic development. We also specify that in relation to traditional human rights areas we are committed to respecting human rights in such as a safe and healthy workplace, labour all business areas and processes. Furthermore, practices, working hours, freedom to form and we will work proactively and continuously to join organisations of own choice, dialogue and identify, prevent and mitigate potential negative collaboration, child labour and forced labour. human rights impacts we may cause or to which Respecting human rights also means providing our business activities may contribute. Diagram16: Share_of_female_colleagues_p54 2015! SHARE OF FEMALE COLLEAGUES 30 There are significantly fewer women than men among our top managers. Out of 77 senior vice presidents and 25 vice presidents 16 per cent are female, same percentage 20 as last year, which is far from the 28 per cent among all colleagues, or the 42 per cent among white collar. 15 The development is slow, but goes in the right direction. 10 This is seen at ‘director level and above’ where we have 2013 2014 2015 achieved 21 per cent female representation, out of 377 Total individuals, which means that we have already reached Director and above the 2017 target of 20 per cent. For information about Vice president and above diversity at Board level, see the financial report. Top50 54 RESPONSIBLE RELATIONS We expect all our colleagues and business who have experienced unacceptable behaviour. contacts to inform us if they believe Arla related However, we still need to take strong action business activities go against our human rights to continue to reduce this number. We are policy. If we find that some of our business committed to ensuring a workplace in which activities have an adverse impact on human all colleagues treat each other with openness, rights principles we will change our processes. dignity and respect. We do not tolerate any kind of harassment and discrimination, and to Human rights assessments succeed, we need to engage everybody. As a result of our strengthened commitment to human rights both in our Code of Conduct and in Changed passport practice in Saudi Arabia the new policy, we have conducted human rights Arla’s subsidiary in Saudi Arabia, Danya Foods, assessments and due diligence processes in has changed its practice regarding the storing of Nigeria and Senegal. Read more on page 59. passports of foreign colleagues. It has been the normal procedure of many companies operating Results from engagement survey in the region to store passports during a person’s In Arla’s annual engagement survey, Barometer, employment. Arla has now changed this a new category reflecting Diversity and Inclusion formality and hands back passports to colleagues was introduced last year. A number of questions after compulsory registration. concerned colleagues’ perception of how they are treated at work. The old procedure has been criticised in Swedish and Danish media, and we acknowledge that the The result show a positive development, change has taken too long. Ten years ago, the but there is still room for improvement, for Swedish human rights organisation Swedwatch example, when it comes to the perception of observed the migrant workers’ situation, and equal opportunities regardless of gender, age, this year initiated a review. We have openly ethnicity and nationality. This year, there was a supported them with all information requested small decline in the percentage of colleagues and explained the situation as transparently ENGAGEMENT SURVEY RECRUITMENT FROM LOCAL COMMUNITY 15% 60% 15 per cent of respondents in our engagement survey, Barometer, report that they have experienced unacceptable behaviour that has affected them. Our joint venture company in Nigeria ensures that at least 60 per cent of the site’s colleagues are recruited from the local community. This provides employment opportunities and competence development as well as a means of livelihood for local families. RESPONSIBLE RELATIONS 55 as possible. Swedwatch’s report had not been develops positively. Arla will co-host the next published when this report was written. roundtable meeting to be held in Nigeria in 2016. Read more about Arla’s activities in West Africa Dialogue with West African farmers on page 59. Arla’s increased involvement in West Africa has concerned the local dairy industry. To mitigate Modern slavery act this concern, Arla met a number of West African In the UK, new legislation requires companies dairy farmers and dairy managers together with to disclose what they are doing to prevent the development organisation CARE Danmark, modern slavery in their workforces and supply the West African network organisation of a large chains. Our existing programmes for managing number of small scale dairy producers, Biilital agency workers and supplier assurance cover Maroobe, and the Danish trade organisation modern slavery. However, Arla UK is currently Danish Agriculture and Food Council, at a reviewing the best way to formally demonstrate roundtable meeting held in Copenhagen. its compliance to this new legislation. The roundtable aimed to find a solution as to how global dairy companies can increase their milk exports to West Africa without negatively affecting local milk production. The meeting concluded by all parties signing a joint declaration, ’The Milky Way to Development’, which forms the basis for further cooperation and future roundtable meetings. Arla’s view is that we can contribute at an organisational level as we have a great deal of knowledge about how farmers and dairies should organise themselves and what it takes to ensure the local dairy sector STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATIONS DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES 200 4 During the human rights assessment in Nigeria and Senegal approximately 200 stakeholder representatives were consulted. Read more on page 59. Prior to entering new markets, we perform human rights related due diligence processes. During 2015, four of these processes have taken place, and joint ventures have been started, among other countries, in Nigeria, Senegal and Ivory Coast. 56 RESPONSIBLE RELATIONS X T E RN A E LV 4 IEW IE W LV EX QUESTIONS FOR T E RN A A DIRECTOR FOR HUMAN RIGHTS Allan Lerberg Jørgensen is Department What next steps would you like to see Arla take? Director for Human Rights and Development You can, of course, always ask for more. Arla now at the Danish Institute for Human Rights, needs to integrate its experience of the past year one of the organisations that advised into the way it does business globally and when Arla when it conducted two human rights it enters new markets in the future. In particular, assessments in Nigeria and Senegal. in Africa where you could ask if it is sustainable to only import raw materials, or if you can build What mistakes, in terms of human rights, do the capacity to produce and source milk locally? international companies typically make when Coca Cola, Pepsi and Nestlé all have extensive they initially enter developing markets? local supply chains in the agricultural sector in Multinational companies usually comply with developing countries, which presents them with the legal requirements in each country where challenges but also gives them an opportunity to they do business, but they do not always uphold lift people out of poverty and build better lives. a global standard in all countries. Human rights are not always upheld by all countries, so it may Human rights in developing markets is one not be enough to comply with the local laws. You thing, what do you see as some of the biggest may need to go the extra mile and build global human rights challenges for companies in, standards into your operating systems. Also, for example, Europe, and what can Arla do to many of the challenges that we see multinational address those challenges? companies having to overcome are due to That’s a good question, because we have them either choosing the wrong partners or challenges in Europe, too, particularly around them not being close enough to these partners equal treatment such as the gender balance in to influence them to uphold global standards. the labour force as well as equal pay for equal Your business partners must agree that the work, for example. We also have a number responsibility to respect human rights goes of emerging challenges concerning migrant beyond the factory gate. workers, who are often very vulnerable and often not a member of a union. Similarly, they often When it comes to human rights, how would you work in agriculture, which is why it is important describe Arla’s efforts in the past year? for Arla to ensure that its human rights standards Our impression is that Arla has responded well are upheld regarding pay and other contractual to the criticism it received. Arla approached the labour issues. Institute for Human Rights for advice on how to integrate the guiding principles on business and human rights. The fact that Arla has done this in a quite transparent way – by publishing its policy and the two human rights assessments in Nigeria and Senegal – is a very strong signal that Arla takes this very seriously. RESPONSIBLE RELATIONS 57 58 RESPONSIBLE RELATIONS Arla’s human rights processes put to the test WHAT ARE THE CONSEQUENCES OF ARLA EXPANDING ITS MILK POWDER BUSINESS TO WEST AFRICA? THE COMPANY DECIDED TO DIG DEEP TO FIND OUT. During the year, Arla has strengthened Describing themselves as a team combining its commitment to human rights. First, business anthropology with international law the company developed its Human and politics, they used a number of methods Rights Policy and assessment processes. to generate data such as: desk-research and Secondly, it tested the processes by literature review, statistical data collection, performing in-depth human rights stakeholder mapping, field studies to local assessments in Nigeria and Senegal. The dairy farmers and processing facilities as well as purpose was to identify whether Arla’s interviews with stakeholders and partners. activities are linked to any adverse impact on human rights. Doing this, the company “In total, we talked to approximately 100 people both built competences and increased its in each country who represented the three main understanding of the complexity of the stakeholder groups in terms of human rights: task. local dairy farmers and producers, government bodies and finally NGOs and other experts, in For several years, the way Arla develops new order to get a comprehensive understanding of markets outside the EU has been scrutinized the situation,” explains Ivana Tsvetkova. by the Danish NGO ActionAid. In 2014, the Irene Quist Mortensen, CSR Senior Manager in Consumer International. organisation filed a complaint to the Danish Throughout the process, Arla was supported mediation and complaints handling institution in by external experts from NGOs, developing which it said that the processes Arla had in place organisations and governments as well were not in line with international human rights as representatives from local farmer and standards. Positively challenged by ActionAid, the trade organisations. The key findings of the subsequent dialogues led to an agreement; Arla assessments were that Arla seems not to directly would develop its processes and perform two cause or contribute negatively to the local dairy in-depth human rights assessments. farmers’ human rights. This is because, initially, Arla will not be directly involved with the local “It’s important to stress that ActionAid did not raw milk supply chain, which is more or less rural, claim that we had violated the human rights of where milk is sold the same day as it’s milked. anyone,” says Irene Quist Mortensen, heading up Nevertheless, it should not be neglected that CSR in Consumer International. “They wanted us Arla’s increasing sales of imported milk powder to make sure we had done our homework before relate to the underdevelopment of the local dairy entering new markets in West Africa.” sectors, when looking in a broader perspective. To mitigate future potential negative impacts, In August 2015, Arla announced new joint Arla has, and will be, engaged in cooperation ventures for the import and sale of milk powder in projects to support the local dairy industry. Nigeria and Senegal. During the summer months, Ivana Tsvetkova, CSR Coordinator, Middle East and Africa in Consumer International. Irene Quist Mortensen and her colleague Ivana “More than anything, this work has shown us how Tsvetkova, who handles the CSR area for the complex assessments like these are. You have to Middle East and Africa, performed assessments be very humble and remember that Nigeria and of the potential adverse human rights impacts Senegal are fast changing markets. Soon, we may related to the market effects of Arla’s new well have another situation,” concludes Irene businesses in the two countries. Quist Mortensen. n RESPONSIBLE RELATIONS 59 SOCIETY AND COMMUNITY RELATIONS We engage in open, respectful and We build relationships on knowledge and constructive community relations. engagement ■■ Contribution to society We accept the responsibility to work with In our emerging markets, our role is different as the communities within which we operate. we are a minor player, but in these markets, sales ■■ Global and local engagement In addition, we endeavour to involve of our products still contribute to more jobs and ■■ Knowledge about farm, food ourselves in wider social initiatives which improved quality of life. and cooking are relevant to our business activities. We want to contribute to the development of Influencing political and legal development communities and do so by building longAs a significant player in the food industry, Arla term relationships with people, businesses participates in public debate, both locally and and organisations. globally. We represent dairy farmers, and seek to ensure that scientific research and the regulatory Arla’s contribution to society framework benefit the industry as a whole. We Arla’s value chain – all the way from the dairy are represented in key stakeholder organisations farm to the consumer – contributes to society’s and strive to have an extensive global network. development in many different ways. In Europe, Our ambition is that the stance we take on our owners produce milk and create jobs in the subjects is fact-based, collaborative, proactive, countryside. Our business and our supply chain transparent and honest. partners create jobs, economic growth and tax revenues. Alone, and together with peers, we Globally, we are active in network organisations develop learning and training programmes within such as Global Dairy Platform, Sustainable the dairy sector, and we engage in scientific Agriculture Initiative and International Dairy research. We offer consumers safe and healthy Federation and contribute with expertise, products and we are involved in areas related to research funding and input on global challenges. our business, such as inspiration for cooking and To create conditions for growth for our farmerleading a healthy lifestyle as well as nature and owners, our priorities are to secure access to safe the environment. and high quality milk, to secure the role of dairy in a balanced and sustainable diet and to enter growth markets competitively and responsibly. COOKING INSPIRATION MILK CARTON COMMUNICATION @ We have had millions of visits to our popular cooking websites in Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Germany and the Netherlands during 2015. In Lebanon, Dubai and Qatar, 40 yrs The milk cartons are used in Denmark, Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands to provide information and inspiration. Facts about the farmers’ work and inspiration we invite consumers to our Lurpak® Baking Studio to for a healthy lifestyle are recurring themes. In Sweden, the develop baking skills and inspire them to do more home milk cartons have been used for this purpose for 40 years. baking. 60 RESPONSIBLE RELATIONS We want to position Arla as an important with organisations to ensure that surplus food, player and to strengthen the positive view of which cannot be sold to retailers as it is near Arla among the general public. We actively the end of its shelf life, is distributed to those in engage in main industrial organisations in all need. Our support for children in the Dominican Northern European countries. Additionally, in Republic and Bangladesh, by providing food Denmark, Sweden and Finland, we participate and supporting education through our Children in public meetings (for example Folkemødet, for Life charity, has also continued. The annual Almedalsveckan and Suomi Areena) in order to Rynkeby Foods cycling event, Team Rynkeby, engage in stakeholder networking and dialogue. engaged 1,750 individuals from all the Nordic countries and raised EUR 6.4 million for the We also work closely with NGOs to push common Children’s Cancer Foundation. Moreover, our agendas. For example, we are engaged in the owners donated a container of milk powder project ’Milky way to Development’ in West to a Syrian refugee camp, and colleagues and Africa to identify the main obstacles to the dairy visitors donated money to refugee charity development of a sustainable local dairy sector collections. and how we can help remove these. Read more on page 56. Knowledge of the origin of milk We wish to provide an insight into the origin of Engagement in local activities our products and the work that takes place on We would welcome involvement in a global the farms. We do this by showcasing our owners initiative that highlights our commitment to in external communications and by inviting society, food, farms and to the environment. members of the public and school children to To date we have prioritised local activities that visit our owners’ farms. For example, a popular engage our colleagues. For example, those that event in Denmark and Sweden takes place in contribute to local charities, good food habits, the spring when cows are put out to pasture, see conservation, sporting activities and a healthy chart below. lifestyle. In several countries we are also working Diagram18: Farm_visits_p61 ARLA FARM VISITS EXAMPLES OF LOCAL ACTIVITES ■■ Denmark. 1,550 children have participated in food Visitors to Cows out Farm visits by camps to learn more about cooking. to pasture events school children ■■ Netherlands. Activities to support a foundation that 150000 preserves landscapes and cultural heritage. 2015 ■■ Farm visits for schoolchildren. In Denmark, Sweden, 120000 2014 Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. In total, 2013 these events were visited by approximately 53,000 90000 children during 2015. 60000 ■■ Food as charity. In Canada, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands and the UK. 30000 ■■ Open farm days. In Denmark, Sweden and the UK, consumers can visit Arla farms to learn more about 0 dairy production and to enjoy Cows out to pasture Denmark Sweden Denmark Sweden Germany* events. In total, more than 400,000 consumers visited * Since 2014, including Luxembourg and since 2015 also the farms at these events. Netherlands. RESPONSIBLE RELATIONS 61 Responsible business Prioritisation, communication and risks As Arla is a company with ambitions should maintain our focus on our core activities consumers’ high ranking of transparency/ to constantly improve every part of – providing safe, healthy and affordable dairy traceability, owners’ prioritization of supply its business, this includes corporate products, while ensuring high standards in milk chain efficiency and innovation, customers’ of responsibility and reporting on progress. production and caring for people, animals, nature sustainable sourcing as well as an efficient supply In achieving our goal of being a truly and society. chain and NGO’s of different environmental responsible company, we also have to be impact aspects. Furthermore, the Materiality aware of the potential responsibility risks All groups of stakeholders ranked food safety, study serves as a basis when relating to the that can influence our business. healthy and affordable food and animal welfare Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. A within their top five. Yet, there are differences table showing how Arla corresponds with the Materiality study between different stakeholders. For example, guidelines will be available on arla.com. Arla’s operations have grown significantly over recent years, including our farmer owner base, customers, markets and colleagues. As the business develops and grows, so does our ambition to develop our stakeholder interaction. Through our structured Materiality study, we aim to identify material aspects in the views of our main stakeholders, and use this knowledge to MATERIALITY MATRIX better prioritise our activities. We will also use the results to help us improve the scope and focus of our reporting and communication processes. We Higher Food safety plan to update the study every third year. Healthy & affordable food Animal welfare Importance to external stakeholders Transparency Based on the results from the study in 2014, Responsible sourcing we have identified food safety, healthy and Greenhouse gas emissions affordable food and animal welfare as key areas Recycling & waste of focus. These are followed by transparency, Innovation responsible sourcing and environmental impact Employee health & safety aspects. The findings have been incorporated Water into our decision-making processes when Product labeling Ethical compliance in foreign markets entities prioritising activities and we use them to guide Supply chain efficiency our communications with stakeholder groups. Local community engagement Stakeholder dialogue In the study, there is a strong correlation Farmer development emerging markets between the prioritisations of Arla’s top Diversity & inclusion management and the opinions of external High Biodiversity stakeholders. This is considered proof that we Engaging in public affairs to promote High Importance to internal stakeholders Higher sustainable business 62 Organisation of the Arla group, Dec. 2015 Responsibility risks study Executive Board Additionally, we make a responsibility risk analysis with the purpose to clarify which issues or trends Corporate affect people’s trust in Arla, externally as well Corporate Affairs Supply Chain as internally, and thereby risk impacting our business in a negative way. The analysis helps Corporate HR Corporate Finance us to identify the risks that should be dealt with most urgently and how to mitigate such risks. It also provides us with a better understanding of our responsibility challenges. Global Categories Consumer Consumer Consumer UK and Operations Sweden Denmark Our Responsibility risk analysis suggests the highest overall responsibility risk is the increase Consumer Consumer Consumer Subsidiaries International Central Europe Finland in political and socio-economic instability in our markets. However, food fraud and contaminated food brought to market have, by far, the highest Corporate Affairs comprises group development and communication under the management of potential impact. Furthermore, there are Peder Tuborgh. severe responsibility challenges related to our Corporate Supply Chain handles contact with owners, global supply chain efficiency, global procurement and strategy of expanding geographically. Our global investments under the management of Povl Krogsgaard. Corporate Human Resources handles colleague and organisational development matters for the whole operations also involve a broadened spectra and group under the management of Ola Arvidsson. number of suppliers, sub-suppliers and third party Corporate Finance & IT handles finance, IT and legal affairs. Frederik Lotz was head of unit until July 2015. suppliers, increasing the risk of our responsibility From January 2016 under the management of Natalie Knight. demands not being fulfilled. Global Categories & Operations has global responsibility for Arla’s three global brands – Arla®, Lurpak® and Castello® – and responsibility for global categories, marketing, innovation, quality and environment. This Above all, the highest potential responsibility business area also handles milk planning and logistics, industrial sales, product development and production of impact relates to product quality and safety. This butter and spreads and milk powder in Scandinavia, as well as production of cheese in Scandinavia, Germany and is why food safety is one of Arla’s top priorities. outside Europe, under the management of Jais Valeur until October 2015. Thereafter, Povl Krogsgaard (except Among the external and internal stakeholders Global Categories, Marketing and Innovation managed by Hanne Søndergaard reporting to Peder Tuborgh). who were interviewed for the analysis, there is Consumer Business Groups are responsible for the production and product development of fresh produce, general agreement that Arla does have high logistics, marketing and sales of Arla products in their respective markets. product quality and safety standards. There is Consumer UK, under the management of Peter Giørtz-Carlsen. also broad consensus that mitigation of the Consumer Central Europe, including Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, France and Austria, majority of responsibility risks requires long-term under the management of Tim Ørting Jørgensen. Consumer Sweden, under the management of Henri de Sauvage, who also represents CDK and CFI commitments. in the Executive Management Group. Head of Consumer Denmark is Tomas Pietrangeli, and head of Consumer Finland is Reijo Kiskola. Consumer International, including all other markets, under the management of Finn S Hansen. Subsidiaries wholly owned by Arla: Arla Foods Ingredients, Rynkeby Foods and Cocio. 63 Arla supports the Global Compact Businesses should … Arla examples Page Human Rights 1. support and respect the protection of Business principles 12–13 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Case study 15 Market conduct 20–23 2. make sure that they are not complicit in Procurement and human rights abuses. supplier relations 24–25 Food and health 30–32 Case study 35 Dairy farming 44–45 WE SUPPORT Workplace 50–51 Case study 53 Human rights 54–56 Case study 59 Early 2008, Arla signed up to the Global Society and community Compact, the UN initiative to promote relations 60–61 ethical business practices. As a participant, we are committed to observing the Global Labour 3. uphold the freedom of association and the Business principles 12–13 Compact’s 10 fundamental principles. The effective recognition of the right to collective Case study 15 table shows where the content of this report bargaining; Market conduct 20–23 relates to each of the principles. Procurement and 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and supplier relations 24–25 compulsory labour; Workplace 50–51 Since 2008, Arla has been a member of the Case study 53 Global Compact’s Nordic Network. In May 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Human rights 54–56 2009, Arla signed up to Caring for Climate, a Case study 59 voluntary and complementary action platform 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect Society and community seeking to demonstrate leadership around the of employment and occupation. relations 60–61 issue of climate change. In 2010, Arla’s CEO signed a CEO Statement of Support for the Environment 7. support a precautionary approach to Case study 15 environmental challenges; Market conduct 20–23 Women’s Empowerment Principles, an initiative Procurement and from the Global Compact and UNIFEM (the UN 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater supplier relations 24–25 Development Fund for Women). environmental responsibility; and Food and health 30–32 Environment and climate 38–40 Read more about the Global Compact and its principles 9. encourage the development and diffusion Case study 43 at www.unglobalcompact.org, and more about Arla’s Code of environmentally friendly technologies. Dairy farming 44–45 of Conduct at arla.com. Case study 47 Society and community relations 60–61 Anti-corruption 10. work against corruption in all its forms, including Business principles 12–13 extortion and bribery. Case study 15 Market conduct 20–23 Procurement and supplier relations 24–25 64 Which market is mentioned where? The table shows where information about a specific Arla market or subsidiary can be found in this report. Page Global DK UK SE DE NL FI B LUX Other About Arla 8–9 • • • • • • • • • Australia, China, Egypt, Malaysia, Nigeria, Russia, Senegal Responsible company Business principles 12–13 • • • • • • • • Case study 15 • Operational principles 16–17 • • • • • • • Case study 19 • • • • • • • • Market conduct 20–22 • • • • • • • Saudi Arabia Procurement and supplier relations 24–25 • • • • • Asia, Cocio Confidence in products Food safety 28–29 • • • • • • • Food and health 30–32 • • • • • • • Canada, Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Arla Foods Ingredients, Rynkeby Foods Case study 35 • Europe, Africa, Asia, South America Care for the environment Environment and climate 38–40 • • • • • Bangladesh, Ivory Coast and animal welfare Case study 43 • • Dairy farming 44–45 • • • • • • • • • Case study 47 • • Respectful relations Workplace 50–51 • • • • • • • Canada, Nigeria, Poland, Saudi Arabia, North America, Rynkeby Foods Case study 53 • • • • • • Poland, Africa, Middle East Human rights 54–56 • • • • Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, West Africa Case study 59 • Nigeria, Senegal, West Africa Society and community relations 60–61 • • • • • • • • Bangladesh, Canada, Dominican Republic, Dubai, Lebanon, Qatar, Syria, West Africa, Rynkeby Foods © Arla Foods amba, 2016 Project coordinator: Arla Foods Production management: Anna Michélsen Text: Arla Foods in collaboration with Anna Michélsen Graphic design: Waldton Design Graphic production: Formalix Translation: Katie Schwark and Arla Photography: Hans-Henrik Hoeg (p. 4, 6, 10, 13, 15, 17, 18, 19, 23, 29, 31, 32, 35, 36, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 46, 51, 53, 57, 59), Mikkel Bache (cover, p. 14, 22, 25, 26, 31, 51, 52, 55), Thomas Carlgren (p. 25, 29, 39, 48, 55), Iréne Quist Mortensen (p. 56, 58), Pernille Tofte (p. 21), Dick Gillberg (p. 61 Årets Kock), LEAF’s Open Farm (p. 61), Arla’s archive and Arla Foods Ingredients’ archive. Printing: Scanprint, 2016. 65 Arla Foods amba Arla Foods UK plc Sønderhøj 14 4 Savannah Way DK-8260 Viby J Leeds Valley Park Denmark Leeds, LS10 1 AB England Phone +45 89 38 10 00 Phone +44 113 382 7000 E-mail arla@arlafoods.com E-mail arla@arlafoods.com www.arla.com www.arlafoods.co.uk
