Communication on Progress 2014 United Nations Global Compact www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com.au Statement of Support As CEO of Forensic Pathways Ltd I am once again proud to reaffirm our commitment to the Compact and also to continue in my role as a Director of the UNGC UK Network. DEBORAH LEARY, OBE, D.Univ, FRSA, CCMI Chief Executive Officer Throughout 2014 Forensic Pathways has continued to build on its commitment to developing technologies that are not only globally significant in terms of reach but impactive in terms of delivering solutions. In doing so our aim is to not only ensure our clients work effectively and securely, but ultimately to ensure that those they seek to protect and serve are at the heart of the technologies and services we continue to offer. Whilst we are predominantly in the business of developing technologies in the area of policing and security, this is not the business of zeros and ones. It is the business of stories. It is the business of storytelling. At the heart of every story is a human being: someone who has been adversely affected by events or who is responsible for piecing together the events as part of an investigation. In the world in which we live and the speed in which we live it we often can forget that data often equals people. We are committed to ensuring all stakeholders are fully aware of our ethos and always strive to ensure that we surround ourselves with those who understand and appreciate the journey we are taking and the passion that we have for it. Principle 1 & 2 Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Ensure non-complicity of human rights abuses OUR STAKEHOLDERS Since 2001 the Company has not experienced any incidents where it could be seen to be involved in human rights abuses. We take a proactive approach to all stakeholder relationships, ensuring full due diligence is undertaken before entering into any relationship. As an element of our business services relates to due diligence this is a process we are able to undertake internally with the current skill base of the employees engaged by Forensic Pathways. All stakeholders are aware of the Company’s reporting policy and are made fully aware of its stance on its responsibilities to the wider community. All employees and consultants go through a rigorous interview and induction process where information and awareness training is given, followed by the provision of a comprehensive handbook and relevant contracts, as well as information relating to the People Invest Programme (see Principle 6). Underpinning this documentation is our Communication on Progress. THE COMPANY Forensic Pathways focusses on the development of innovative technologies within the criminal intelligence arena, with clients in a wide range of sectors including law enforcement, security services, military, governments and lawyers. In addition it provides forensic due diligence services to private clients and multi-nationals. Our products and services are applicable to stakeholders involved in child exploitation investigation and also Counter Terror both of which focus on the provision of technology offering unique solutions for the advanced management and analysis of data. We view our work as helping to secure the rights of the individual and protect those most vulnerable in our society. Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) allows investigators to identify the camera or mobile phone that photographed an image with speed and accuracy, thereby reducing costs and closing investigations faster than previously achievable. Police Force, Intelligence & Security Service, LEA and Border Agency investigators recover large amounts of digital evidence from laptops, mobile phones, storage devices and the internet. The increased amount of evidence and potential intelligence being recovered puts a huge amount of strain on investigators, who are often looking to charge a suspect or act decisively within a limited and/or increasingly short time frame. Importantly, there is a crucial need to equip investigators and forensic practitioners with computational support to effectively process and manage the vast amount of image data being recovered from the above sources. Unfortunately the images being seized by Police Forces and intelligence agencies is often child sexual exploitation or content from terrorist groups. Currently investigators have technical constraints that limit their capability to link a digital image to the source device (mobile phone, digital camera) that created it. Forensic Pathways has developed a patent protected algorithm using sensor identification technology that will link digital photos to the source device that created them. This will provide Law Enforcement, Counter Terror and Border Force agencies with the opportunity to analyse digital photos and videos and which may contain images of child sexual exploitation, terrorist activities and other criminality and determine who is responsible for creating those images. This technology is proving invaluable in the area of child exploitation investigation and has been successfully used in investigations in a number of areas including Sussex Police and CEOP (Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre). One investigation as an example of the value of FIA is within the Lee Matthews case. http://www.sussex.police.uk/whats-happening/latest/news-stories/2014/07/08/hailsham-manjailed-for-nine-years-over-child-sex-offences “We understand that this is the first-ever conviction obtained using this technology, which provides law enforcement with an extra option to help detect offences of any kind in which the source of digital imagery is an issue. The assistance of Forensic Pathways was invaluable” (Detective Smith of Sussex Police) Hailsham man jailed for nine years over child sex offences: 08 July 2014 A Hailsham man is starting a nine-year prison sentence after admitting a series of child sex offences. Lee Matthews, 32, of Howard Close, Hailsham, was sentenced by Judge David Rennie at Hove Crown Court on Tuesday (8 July), having previously appeared at the same Court in April and June when he had pleaded guilty to 22 charges. The charges, authorised by the Crown Prosecution Service, followed an intelligence-led investigation by the Paeodophile On-Line Investigation Team (POLIT) of Sussex Police. Key to securing Matthews' admissions to two of the most serious offences was new patented scientific work by Forensic Pathways Ltd on his mobile phone. 11 of his offences concerned a young girl known to him one of sexual assault on a child, one of sexual activity with a child, two of causing a child to engage in sexual activity, four of taking indecent images of a child, and three of distribution of indecent images of a child. For these offences he received a total of eight years imprisonment. 11 other offences involved images from the Internet five of distribution of Internet sourced indecent images, five of making indecent images of children by downloading Internet sourced images, and one of possession of extreme pornography. For these offences he received a further one-year sentence, to run consecutively to the eight-year sentence. Three other charges, one of engaging in sexual activity in the presence of a child, and two of sexual activity with a child, were ordered to remain on the court file. Matthews was also ordered to register as a sex offender for life and was served with a Sexual Offences Prevention Order (SOPO). Detective Constable Chris Smith of POLIT said; At the beginning of April last year we received urgent intelligence suggesting that not only was Matthews exchanging indecent images of children via the Internet, but that he was also planning to imminently sexually abuse a young girl. We swiftly applied for a court warrant, then searched his address, seizing his laptop and two mobile phones, and arrested him. He did not make any admissions at first, or in later interviews, but at Court this April he admitted 20 of the offences when the evidence was put to him. In securing admissions to the other two offences, one of taking indecent video on his mobile phone and one of sexual activity with a child, which he was still denying right up to the moments before trial on those charges in June, we had valuable assistance from Forensic Pathways Ltd. They have developed a patented scientific technique to prove that digital images on a device were created on that device, as opposed to being sent to or copied into it a form of 'digital DNA' created by the camera itself'. Matthews had denied that the video on one of his phones, which showed sexual activity with a child, had been shot on that phone. Forensic Pathways were able to show that indeed it had. Faced with this he pleaded guilty to those last two charges at the last minute, saving the victim having to attend court and give evidence. We understand that this is the first-ever conviction obtained using this technology, which provides law enforcement with an extra option to help detect offences of any kind in which the source of digital imagery is an issue. We would also like to pay tribute to the young victim who showed courage in supporting the prosecution and in being ready to give evidence in court had it been necessary. All Matthews' offences are believed to have been committed within the past five years. There is no evidence that any other child has been abused. By 2016 it is our intention that this technology will be fully available to police forces internationally Forensic Digital Exchange (FDX) is designed to import and store data from mobile phone forensic acquisition tools. Its primary purpose is to act as a management system that normalises data acquired in different formats from multiple forensic tools, and as an automated data analysis platform. FDX provides case management facilities which allow examiners to organise phone acquisitions into a logical case structure, attach contemporaneous notes and produce output reports for investigating officers. It ensures that relevant operating procedures are followed during the acquisition process by requiring the examiner to complete a check-list of questions relating to the examination process. If a device is examined with multiple tools the data produced from each tool is merged into a single view to allow one report to be produced. In addition to case management FDX provides automatic data analysis functions. When mobile phone acquisition data is imported into the system unique identifiers such as phone numbers, email addresses and application identifiers are compared against previously imported data and customisable watch lists. The result of this is a link report that provides investigators and analysts an insight into networks of association. Currently this technology is being trialled with a number of agencies within the UK with international exploitation being targeted for 2015-2016 Ballistics Analysis Technology Forensic Pathways continues to work closely with Pyramidal Technologies in the further development of the ALIAS system and it is exploitation globally. The Company recognises that gun crime cuts across all crime types whether it is robbery, human trafficking, terrorism. Our aim is to provide a system that reduces time of investigation and offers a superior experience for the end user. Most importantly we are focussing on interoperability. One of the other key benefits is the ability to use this system as a Gun Registration System. We see the ability for authorities to create a comprehensive Gun Registration System as key to helping ensure awareness and tracking of guns within the respective regions and an aid to investigation. An example: Laboratorio Balístico y Biométrico dominicano del Sistema Nacional de Armas (SISNA) in Dominican Republic. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EVc1Jd-ZGsE. Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND TRADE UNIONS All employees have the right to join any Trade Union and to undertake collective bargaining. The Company actively encourages employees to join professional organisations that would be of benefit both from a professional and personal development level. These organisations include online social media networks and forums. Where fees are payable Forensic Pathways may either pay in full or a proportion depending on whether the subject area has a direct bearing on the employee’s work role or in some way supports them. PERSONNEL PROVIDER Citation remain in position as Forensic Pathways Personnel and Health and Safety Provider until mid 2015 when it is anticipated the Company will seek an alternative provider. All employees are in possession of full contracts which outlines working agreements and roles and responsibilities of both employee and employer. These contracts make clear the Company’s commitment to the UN Global Compact, its ethical stance and its range of independent policies including Bribery & Corruption and Environmental. Principles 4 & 5 Forced and Compulsory Labour Support Abolition of Child Labour To date we have no evidence of any issues related to forced or child labour that can be attributed to our company or associated stakeholders. We recognise that this monitoring is ongoing and as experts in the field of due diligence, a service which we provide to a range of clients, we apply the same level of scrutiny to our own suppliers and clients. It is essential that we are able to track any potential issues or changes which may have a detrimental effect on ourselves or our clients. We continually promote our commitment to the Compact across all stakeholder areas ie employees, suppliers, clients, agents/distributors and as part of ongoing training all employees and consultants are made aware of their responsibility to ensure there are no breaches and are made aware of the risks. It is essential that any breaches witnessed should be reported back to the CEO immediately in order that appropriate action is taken and all stakeholders are aware of this. Should an employee or consultant be found to be in breach of these principles it is viewed as gross misconduct and their employment/consultancy agreement terminated. Similarly where evidence is found of any agent/distributor being in breach contracts would be cancelled with immediate effect and where necessary the incident reported to the appropriate authorities. WORK EXPERIENCE We continue to support colleges and universities, providing placements to students. When requested to support students below the age of 16 via a work experience programme within a secondary school the Company requires contact from the school or placement organisation, or by a parent/guardian. The young person is expected to have a formal interview where he/she is informed of their responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Company. It is also at this point that the Company’s commitment to the Compact is explained. No student is accepted without the specific authority of the school and without the completed health and safety documentation and necessary insurance cover. Students under 16 are allowed to work between the hours of 9 am and 5 pm only with regular breaks. Report on 2013 -2014 Intern Ryan Patel, Intern, Studying for Bsc Business and Management at Aston University, Birmingham, UK 2013 Ryan completed an extremely successful internship with the Company, supporting the Sales and Marketing departments as well as being an immense support to the Directors. Ryan returned to his studies in September 2014 in order to complete the final year of his BSc at Aston University. All the team wish him well. He was an exemplary intern who contributed significantly to the ongoing success of the Company. Ryan will remain as part of Forensic Pathways Alumni and we will watch his career outside of the Company with great interest and excitement. 20142015 Interns Kelly Ashman Undergraduate Forensic Computing University of Derby Joining Forensic Pathways in May 2014 Kelly was given the role of Digital Forensic Analyst. She has already proven to be a great asset to the Company working closely with the Due Diligence and Fraud Investigation Team, providing support in the area of digital forensic investigation. A full report will be given on Kelly’s contribution to the Company and the impact working at Forensic Pathways has had on her own personal development in the 2015 Communication on Progress Report. Alex Blackwell Undergraduate Business & Management Aston University, Birmingham Alex joined Forensic Pathways as an Intern on a one year placement in September 2014. His focus is to work with the Sales and Market Departments within the company and to provide support to the Directors. Alex’s contribution to the Company and the impact working within industry has had on his own personal development and his studies will be reported in the 2015 Communication on Progress Report. Principle 6 Support the Elimination of Discrimination PEOPLE INVEST PROGRAMME Forensic Pathway’s People Invest Programme ensures equality of opportunity for all employees. All employees and interns are welcome to put forward opportunities for professional and personnel development as part of their own going development within the Company. It is the Company’s aim to create an alumni of employees and interns who have benefited from the programme as a means of knowledge sharing and also encouraging others to take steps to develop new skills. People Invest Programme 2014 Alumni Nir Tolkovsky, Senior Analyst graduated with a Master of Science (MSc) in Criminal Investigation from the University of Derby. Nir is currently undertaking a PhD on Corporate Fraud and Computing Science with the University of Derbyshire. Nir is due to complete in 2018. Nir continues to provide consultancy to Forensic Pathways and assists in the Company’s Due Diligence and Fraud Investigation services. Ben Leary, Director of Marketing commenced his MBA (Marketing) through Liverpool University, supported by Forensic Pathways. Having been with Forensic Pathways since 2002 he has continued to develop the Company’s global client base in addition to working closely with the Software Development Team. Ben is due to complete his MBA in 2016. 2015’s Communication on Progress will report on Ben’s final year of the MBA and his successes to date. Past Employees 2011 saw Jenny Thomas, Forensic Pathways’ Senior Analyst complete her PhD supported by the Company. Jenny qualified in September 2011 from Huddersfield University. 2013 Ahmad Ryad Soobhany successfully completed his PhD through Keele University Community Commitment Deborah Leary, CEO of Forensic Pathways continues to contribute to other organisations with a particular focus on the elimination of discrimination. She is an active contributor to a number of organisations including: Director of the UNGC UK Network As a member of the UK Network Forensic Pathways has always been extremely involved in the Network’s ongoing development. Having initially chaired the SME Working Group, Deborah is now a full director of the Network and contributes to the ongoing strategic development of the UNGC Network in addition to regularly speaking at events promoting the value of the work of the UNGC Network and the Compact as a whole. http://www.globalcompact.org.uk/ Chair of the Commonwealth Businesswomen’s Network Provides an overarching international strategy for women in business, building on business and financial intelligence and promoting a network that is focussed on creating and supporting the business ‘thought leaders’ of the present and future. www.cwbusinesswomen.org Director of the European Women in Leadership European Women in Leadership promotes gender equality and the advancement of women in Europe, providing a platform for executive women to come together and identify opportunities, providing mentoring and lobby for policy and regulatory changes across Europe. www.wileurope.org Member of the All Parliamentary Working Party Group on Women and Enterprise The APPG on Women and Enterprise chaired by Lorely Birt MP, focusses on advancing opportunities for women, lobbying and debating and driving positive change in the area of women’s enterprise; and to draw on global and best policy practice from the EU, US and other countries around the world. Principles 7, 8 & 9 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges Initiatives to Promote Environmental responsibility Encourage Environmentally Friendly Green Technology In August 2014 Forensic Pathways moved premises to a fully serviced office in Central Birmingham. Two Snow Hill forms part of the newly revamped Colmore Business District, a dynamic part of Central Birmingham attracting a number of large corporates to the region including KPMG, Barclay’s and the new HS2 team. Forensic Pathways identified this office as significant not only in terms of it situation with regards to transportation links (next to Snow Hill Station and a short walk to Grand Central New Street Station) but also its focus on environmental impact. Two Snow Hill was built following the Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) 2013 and is a BREEAM Excellent Design Building. The Breeam Assessment process evaluates the procurement, design, construction and operation of a development against targets that are based on performance benchmarks. Breeam measures sustainable value in a series of categories, ranging from energy to ecology. Each of these categories addresses the most influential factors, including low impact design and carbon emissions reduction; design durability and resilience; adaption to climate change; and ecological value and biodiversity protection. These categories include: Full information: http://www.breeam.com/ In addition to being built to a high specification appreciating environmental impact, internal processes are also focussed on reducing impact on the environment.  All glass, card, tin, plastics, paper is recycled  A variety of energy saving schemes already in place such as low lighting in car parks outside of peak hours, use of PIR’s and photocells to reduce unneeded lighting  A Green Team is being implemented to engage with tenants to reduce energy usage INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Forensic Pathways has continued to develop it use of web-based technologies to connect globally with its potential clients and distributors. International meetings are initially undertaken by video conference or SKYPE to reduce unnecessary travel and the Sales and Technical Sales Teams continue to use web-based technologies when initially demonstrating products. The Company has now committed to only producing hardcopy marketing materials for specific events, instead reverting to web based marketing. Our 2015 Communication on Progress will undertake a comparison on marketing spend against 2014 and 2013. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS DIGITAL FORENSIC GATEWAY PROJECT (DFG) (Awarded by the Technology Strategy Board) Forensic Pathways, along with its consortium partners, Staffordshire University and D2NA, an SME based in Staffordshire successfully completed its ‘Digital Forensic Gateway Project’ in March 2014, having had support from Innovate UK. This Project has developed a ‘cloud based approach’ for the delivery of innovative forensic technologies, services, intelligent analytics and training to End Users. It enables Users to take advantage of new and emerging technologies and services as well as build better supply chains for suppliers of innovative digital forensics and information based technologies in the knowledge economy. It enables delivery of existing and emerging technologies and services to End Users as software and hardware as a service in real-time. It is a cost effective approach and accelerates adoption and innovation cycles for new and emerging technologies, enabling organisations within the forensic arena to securely share data and knowledge across international borders via a cloud based technology, thereby reducing environmental impact and costs associated with international travel and freight. It enables access to suites of new innovative technologies of choice for use only when needed thus reducing cost, speeding up adoption, enhancing communications between ‘Users’ and ‘Innovators’ and encourage interoperability of forensic techniques and technologies. It will enable Innovators to get new and innovative technologies in-front of End Users in more cost effective, speedy and reliable ways thereby enhancing the value chain and the potential for early adoption. This in itself will encourage innovation and adoption cycles. Intellectual property has been generated as a result which will be easier to exploit as well as protect through a single portal approach. Training, knowledge management and intelligent analytics can deliver faster, cheaper, collaborative approaches enriching the User/Supplier relationship. This has the capability to revolutionise the delivery of digital forensic services with a global reach. Principle 10 Anti-Corruption and Bribery All stakeholders are made aware of the Company’s stance on Bribery and Corruption via the Company’s Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy and through our ongoing commitment to the Compact. New employees are made aware of the Policy at interview and during the course of their induction. Consultants, Distributors/Agents are advised during the course of contract negotiation. All Stakeholders are provided with a copy of the Communications on Progress Report. Employees, consultants, distributors/agents, suppliers are regularly reminded of our stance and any breach is seen as the termination of a contract with a requirement on the part of the Company to inform the relevant authorities. Our policy makes clear the employee’s responsibilities and also gives guidance on events that may be assessed as potentially corrupt. Any employee required to travel internationally is required to reacquaint themselves with the policy and encouraged to seek assistance prior to travel. The policy clearly outlines the rules and legislations and explains fully what an individual should do should there be a breach. This Communication on Progress is available on www.unglobalcompact.org, along with Forensic Pathways Ltd own website www.forensic-pathways.com and Forensic Pathways Australasia www.forensic-pathways.com.au In addition it will be communicated to all stakeholders directly ie employees, clients, suppliers, agents and distributors and all networks directly associated with Forensic Pathways Ltd. It will also form part of all presentations undertaken by the company in the course of its day to day operations. Email: enquiries@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter @forensicpathway LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/forensic-pathways NB: Where Forensic Pathways Ltd is mentioned this also encompasses Forensic Pathways Australasia.
