NP Profile As an industrial engineering group, Fives designs and supplies machines, process SALES € 1,718 M equipment and production lines for the world’s largest industrial players in the aerospace, aluminium, automotive, cement and minerals, energy, glass, logistics and steel sectors. ORDER INTAKE € 1,708 M EUROPE CLOSE TO 30% 8,300 employees Sales €512 M A NETWORK OF OVER 100 locations IN ABOUT 30 ASIA / OCEANIA AFRICA / THE MIDDLE EAST countries THE AMERICAS 18% 22% Sales 30% €316 M Sales €369 M Fives’ international network is based on operational units which include commercial, industrial, R&D and service Sales structures. €521 M In addition, eleven regional offices* and four operational subsidiaries located in Brazil, China, India and Russia help the TABLE OF CONTENTS Group companies in local markets by OUR BUSINESS OUR COMMITMENTS providing country expertise such as Innovation .............................................................................. 22 Fives, a responsible group .............................. 48 knowledge of the industrial structure, The Chairman’s letter ............................................... 2 Service ................................................................................... 24 Ethics and governance ....................................... 50 regulatory watch, relations with Corporate governance bodies ....................... 4 Aerospace and industry .................................... 26 Human resources ...................................................... 52 institutions, sourcing, local supply, etc. Aluminium ......................................................................... 28 Health & Safety .......................................................... 54 MILESTONES Automotive ........................................................................ 30 Energy and environmental * Fives Brazil, Fives China, Fives India, Fives Indonesia, Our expertise .................................................................... 8 Cement and minerals ..................................................... 32 performance ................................................................... 56 Fives Japan, Fives Mexico, Fives Middle East, Summary of financial information ....... 10 Fives Russia & CIS, Fives Southern Africa, Fives Thailand, Energy ................................................................................... 34 Fives Turkey Summary of non-financial indicators . 12 Glass ........................................................................................ 40 INDICATORS Highlights ............................................................................. 14 Logistics ................................................................................ 42 Financial indicators ................................................. 60 Highlights and territories ................................... 16 Steel .......................................................................................... 44 Non-financial indicators .................................... 62 Operational performance ................................ 18 UN Global Compact ................................................ 70 1 PROFILE • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives The Chairman’s letter Fives is preparing to become a key player on the technological solutions of the future. In 2015, Fives once again faced a challenging and volatile global major effect on economic models and the associated ecosystems. economy. In this difficult situation, while Group turnover was up Fives’ involvement also makes it a key player in pilot projects that over 2014 (1,718 million euros, compared to 1,560 million euros in foreshadow the factory of the future identified by the project’s 2014), this increase was essentially due to the contributions from roadmap. The Group has used the internet of machines and its 2015 acquisitions and the dollar’s rising value against the euro. digital production systems to accelerate the development of new At constant scope and exchange rate, Group sales increased by solutions and services, and offers its customers ways to record only 1 %. and manage operating data from their installations to optimize their operations and meet their various needs. In contrast to 2014, the year’s order intake included only one major turnkey contract, for a cement plant in Mexico. The high — In terms of acquisitions: Contributing to designing and building levels of small and mid-sized orders did, however, bring in the factories of the future was also the key motivation behind the satisfactory sales for the year (1,708 million euros in order intake) acquisition of Lund Engineering (now Fives Lund LLC), which and consolidated an already significant order book (at 1,556 million specializes in designing structural elements and composite parts, euros), which was better balanced at the end of the year. in late August 2015. Lund Engineering’s excellence and Due to all these factors, the gross operating result dropped (to technological edge in the design and execution of high-tech 116 million euros) for the first time since 2009. Despite these projects as well as its strong relationships with major American challenges, our solid balance sheet and increased cash and cash clients like Boeing and Google X make it a major asset for the equivalents mean that Fives’ future looks bright. Group. The July 2015 acquisition of ECL (now Fives ECL), which notably While 2015 saw a number of commercial and operational designs and installs Pot Tending Machines for primary aluminium successes, proof of customers’ trust in the Group’s technologies, plants, also enabled Fives to strengthen its position as world solutions and expertise, the most important events of the year leader on key process equipment in the sector. Fives ECL shares were those with a structural impact on the future of Fives. the Group’s high quality standards, strong capacity for innovation, and unique array of service entities in all of the world’s major — In terms of innovation, in September, Fives announced the aluminium-producing countries. creation of a metal additive manufacturing joint venture with The acquisition of Ernst Polack (now Fives Landis GmbH) extended Michelin, Fives Michelin Additive Solutions. The joint venture will Fives’ geographical presence on the German machine tool market. supply metal 3D printing machines and produce parts for The opening of a Regional Office in South Africa, with another applications which are just beginning to emerge. As a result of one soon to come in Iran, also highlights the Group’s drive to this new entity and a partnership with BeAM, Fives is diving into support the growth of its markets wherever they are. the metal additive manufacturing sector, reviving its old pioneering spirit and writing a new chapter in its history. Fives aims to — Last but not least, in terms of operational excellence, the become a key player on the digital technologies, new processes Group continued the roll-out of its FivesWAY program throughout and new materials of the future, by forming new partnerships 2015, with each subsidiary defining its own priority objectives with both major industrial players and start-ups. and a roadmap to achieve them. This program is the practical application of Fives’ objective of continued growth based on its The Group also increased its R&D investments. It continued to decentralized, fully empowered business model. It also aims to release new technologies and solutions and once again filed influence all the growth drivers by shifting them into higher gear large numbers of patents, significantly exceeding its objectives (People, Customers, Innovation and Operational Excellence) and and ranking as France’s 36th most prolific patent filer. Fives’ encouraging transparency and fairness in the Group’s innovation strategy is also more and more open, and the relationships with all of its internal and external stakeholders. partnerships established with major research institutions such as CEA Tech and IRT Jules Verne are promising. 2016 should be another year of transition and consolidation, contrasting with the Group’s forecast a year ago. Better results In 2015, the Group also continued to play a leading role in the are expected in 2017 and beyond, thanks to the effects of the French government’s “Alliance pour l’Industrie du Futur” (Alliance major cost-cutting measures implemented in 2015 and 2016 to for the Industry of the Future). As co-chair of the initiative, adjust the Group’s activity levels to meet market needs, and the alongside Dassault Systèmes, Fives can better anticipate the increased pace of order intake. Frédéric Sanchez, impacts of the current technological revolution, which has a Chairman of the Executive Board 2 3 THE CHAIRMAN’S LETTER • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Corporate governance bodies THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Sylvain Dulude Country Director North America FIVES’ GOVERNANCE Fives is headed by an Executive Board Michelle XY Shan Frédéric Sanchez overseen by the Supervisory Board. Country Director China Chairman of the Executive Board The Executive Board has three members and it has the most extensive powers to act on behalf of Fives under all circumstances, limited only by the company purpose and powers expressly vested by the Supervisory Board and shareholder meetings. The Supervisory Board exercises permanent control over the Hugues Vincent management of the company by the Head of the Aluminium Executive Board. It has six members: Business Line Philippe Reichstul, Jacques Lefèvre, Dominique Frédéric Renaud Gaillard, Lise Fauconnier, Antonio Marcegaglia Country Director Italy and Jean-Georges Malcor. Daniel Brunelli-Brondex Country Director India Bruno Carbonaro Lucile Ribot To support it in its decision-making, the Head of the Automotive Member of the Executive Board Executive Board has introduced an Executive Business Line Group Chief Financial Officer Committee and five Country Coordination and Steering Committees: ‒ As the body responsible for consultation, recommendation and implementation, the Executive Committee examines the proposals put forward by the Country Coordination and Steering Committees as well as the Functional Luigi Russo Departments, considers issues submitted to it Head of the Combustion Business Line and supports the Executive Board in reaching Alain Cordonnier those decisions that fall within its scope of Head of the Cement Business Line Martin Duverne competence. Member of the Executive Board Its members include the members of Fabrizio Mazzoni the Executive Board and the Group’s key Head of the Logistics Business Line operational and functional directors as well as the Country Directors. ‒ The Country Coordination and Steering Committees are responsible for the broad coordination of Fives’ strategy and situation, as well Group-wide policy for each geographic Benoît Caratgé zone. In addition to the members of the Head of the Steel and Glass Executive Committee, they are made up of Business Lines Chief Executive Officers (or equivalent Arnaud Lecoeur positions) and functional directors for Fives Group General Counsel or Country Directors. The Country Jean-Marie Caroff Coordination and Steering Committees are Head of the International chaired by the Country Directors for North Development Department America, China, India and Italia, and the Chairman of the Executive Board for France. Paule Viallon Head of the Group Human Xavier Becquey Resources Department Head of the Operational Performance Department 4 5 GOVERNANCE • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Milestones 8 Our expertise 10 Summary of financial information 12 Summary of non-financial indicators 14 Highlights 16 Highlights and territories 18 Operational performance 6 7 MILESTONES • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our expertise A FULL INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING OFFER With its worldwide multisector expertise, Fives has the assets and resources required to offer its customers high-performance solutions and services based on innovative and sustainable proprietary technologies from design to start-up. SERVICE: CONTINUOUS SUPPORT FOR CUSTOMERS Fives provides its customers with end-to-end support throughout every stage of the installed equipment’s life. The service offer covers three major activities: ‒ start-up and operational service activities which aim to maintain the equipment’s initial performance (the “Operational” Expertise in design and integration All of Fives’ technologies constantly strive to services range); Fives designs and delivers equipment, machines, provide the best operational performance and ‒ support to help customers achieve systems and services which are integrated into cutting-edge innovations in every market where maximum efficiency for their production operational industrial production lines. they are applied. Fives is a pioneering group processes with the Optimization Services that has always been a trailblazer in a long list range (the “Optimization” services range); Based on this equipment and its associated of industrial sectors. The Group continues to ‒ responses to the need to align production process expertise, Fives can also supply full lines plan the factory of the future to identify and equipment and processes with new uses or plants as an integrator and project coordinator. propose the promising technologies of tomorrow. through its revamping, retrofitting and rebuilding services (the “Upgrade” Services Innovative and sustainable A fully controlled production chain range). proprietary technologies Production and assembly of the key elements Fives owns an impressive catalog of proprietary of Fives’ offers, as well as its proprietary Fives’ service organization is centered on technologies. The Group filed 50 new patents in technologies, are done on its own industrial sites, service teams, organized by business lines, 2015, bringing its total portfolio of current which account for over a third of its sites and have locations near clients. patents up to 1,948 in all of its sectors of activity. worldwide. Many of these technologies offering improved Fives outsources the rest of its manufacturing to energy and environmental performance to help an international network of highly qualified and its customers meet their sustainable development experience machining and assembly workshops objectives. in Europe, the Americas, and Asia. Fives also has operational subsidiaries which handle its production in Brazil, China, India and www.fivesgroup.com Russia. MORE DETAILS OUR BUSINESS p. 20 OUR COMMITMENTS p. 46 8 INDICATORS p. 58 9 MILESTONES • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Summary of financial information “ In a complex and volatile commercial environment, Fives has proven its resilience.” A DIFFICULT Lucile Ribot, Member of the Executive Board, Group Chief Financial Officer ECONOMIC CLIMATE 1,718 M SALES ORDER INTAKE € 1,708 M In 2015, the economy was strongly affected € by the drop in oil prices, which had a serious impact on industrial investments in the US and SHAREHOLDER’S EQUITY limited the availability of financing in the main 447 M oil-producing regions (Russia, the Middle East, € Africa). More broadly, the drop in commodities prices brought growth in emerging countries to a halt, while in China the lack of financing and CASH POSITION 176 M structural over-capacity in several industries € dragged down investments. However, the major drop in the average value of the euro against the dollar and all of the other currencies used by Group companies had a positive effect on the main aggregate figures for fiscal year 2015. SALES AND EBITDA ORDER INTAKE AND CLOSING ORDER BOOK Consolidated sales reached €1,718M in 2015, with a scope effect of €47M and a favorable 1,708 exchange rate effect of €96M. At constant 2015 1,718 116.0 2015 1,556 scope and exchange rate, consolidated sales 1,865 were up very slightly (+€15M) over 2014 (€1,560M), demonstrating the Group’s 1,560 135.1 1,494 2014 2014 resilience in a challenging economic climate. 1,227 2013 1,626 133.0 2013 1,125 The 2015 gross margin was down from 2014 due to a less favorable balance between 1,324 current orders and turnkey contracts in the 1,508 115.1 1,379 2012 2012 sales mix and pressure on the margins in the 1,674 segments which were the hardest hit by the 1,268 99.0 1,552 economic situation, particularly steel (metals 2011 2011 division) and energy. General expenses also decreased at constant scope and exchange € million € million rate due to the implementation of cost-cutting Sales Order intake measures. In these conditions, the EBIDTA for EBITDA Closing order book financial year 2015 was €116M, compared to €135.1M for 2014. Consolidated cash and cash equivalents, which stood at €164M at December 31, 2014 reached BREAKDOWN OF SALES BREAKDOWN OF SALES €176M at end 2015 thanks to the positive BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA BY END MARKET operational cash flows generated during the course of the year. 14% 19% The Group ended 2015 with an order book of €1,556M, up €62M (with €49M due to the 30% scope effect) over 2014. The order book is 22% 19% slightly larger at constant scope than at the 11% 30% 18% start of the year and is better balanced between the divisions, so it should ensure a level of activity for 2016 comparable to 2015 www.fivesgroup.com on the historic scope. 21% 16%  erospace and industry A Energy MORE DETAILS Africa / The Middle East Asia / Oceania Automotive Logistics OUR BUSINESS p. 20 The Americas Europe Cement Metals OUR COMMITMENTS p. 46 10 INDICATORS p. 58 11 MILESTONES • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Summary of non-financial indicators INNOVATION ENVIRONMENT / SAFETY Research & Development ISO 14001 certification Work accidents The percentage of the R&D budget that is dedicated to new Safety results have been improving continuously since 2009, €35.5 million product/process development (44%) and breakaway research and innovation (13%) continued to increase in 2015, reflecting 74% driven by Group management and thanks to the involvement of all employees. of Fives’ industrial sites spent on R&D in 2015 the Group’s desire to maintain its position on innovative, are ISO 14001 certified 582 patent families high-performance technical solutions. 89 The drive to continue to 1,948 current patents 2012 7.49 Fives joins the top 50 French patent applicants released improve the environment is by INPI (the French Institute of Industrial Property). supported by the Group policy which requires all 72 2013 industrial sites to achieve 5.86 ISO 14001 certification. 0.182 In 2015, three more products combining operational excellence and high environmental performance earned the Engineered 9 77 Sustainability® brand: The Stein Digiflex® furnace for galvanizing 2014 products have been awarded 5.36 and annealing lines (Steel); the GENI-belt™ for courier, postal & the Engineered Sustainability® brand 0.207 distribution sorting system (Intralogistics); and the North in 5 business lines American Regenerative Furnace, a forging furnace (Combustion). 55 2015 3.91 0.135 Employees + temporary employees lost-time accidents Employees + temporary employees accident frequency rate Employees + temporary employees accident severity rate HUMAN RESOURCES Breakdown of employees by geographical area The number of employees increased by 7% between 2014 and 2015, mainly in Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Oceania. “For new hires the starter meeting 470 employees were interviewed during a starter proves that the company takes care of meeting them and listens to them.” 66% of employees headcount are engineers, Elaine Wang, Human Resources Director for China managers or technicians 66% 74% of employees attended at least one training course 22% 12% Employee integration Qualification and training Fives fosters integration of new employees with the starter The teams are increasingly qualified, due to the number of interview program. Starter interviews are confidential meetings new hires in 2015 who are engineers, managers or technicians, between each new hire and their Human Resources Division and the increasing hours of and focus on training at Fives. www.fivesgroup.com contact for a review, 6 to 18 months after their start date. Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Oceania The Americas MORE DETAILS Europe OUR BUSINESS p. 20 OUR COMMITMENTS p. 46 12 INDICATORS p. 58 13 MILESTONES • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Highlights September ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING May Michelin and Fives announced the creation of the joint venture Fives Michelin CEMENT Additive Solutions which aimed at developing and marketing industrial machines and production shops on a global scale via “metal additive Fives delivered a new grinding plant to Lafarge manufacturing” technology commonly known as metal 3D printing. Republic’s Teresa site in the Philippines. With In June, Fives also signed a partnership this grinding plant, equipped with FCB Horomill® technology, Lafarge will be able to produce 850,000 tons of cement per year, bringing with BeAM, a start-up that is a top builder of additive manufacturing RESEARCH AND the Teresa site’s annual capacity up to 2 million tons. machines using metal powder deposit technology. DEVELOPMENT Fives continued to file patents at an impressive pace in 2015, with 50 new July patented inventions. The Group owns a total of 582 patented inventions (patent families) FACTORY OF THE FUTURE in all of its segments, protected by 1,948 patents in force in the countries where it Within the “Alliance Industrie du Future” (Alliance for the Industry of the operates. Fives joins the top 50 French patent Future), a multidisciplinary group responsible for rolling out the French applicants (latest ranking list released by INPI, government’s Industry of the Future plan, Fives leads the “Vitrines the French Institute of Industrial Property). technologiques industrie du future” (Industry of the Future Showcases), which has already certified six emblematic technological projects which Fives also became a “Hi-Tech Enterprise”, are nearly mature on an industrial scale. a certificate the Chinese government awards to companies that are investing to develop sustainable technologies and with a strong capacity for innovation. July/August November ACQUISITIONS : ECL AND LUND ENGINEERING COOPERATION AGREEMENT Fives reinforced its offer in the Aluminium sector with the acquisition of ECL (now Fives ECL). Fives ECL specializes in the Fives and JD, one of China’s largest online design and installation of primary aluminium manufacturing retailers, signed a cooperation agreement equipment and has also developed a high added-value service during the visit of French President offer. François Hollande in China. Fives enhanced its aeronautics offer with the acquisition of Lund The objective of this new Engineering (now Fives Lund LLC), which specializes in designing partnership is to develop a new solution that will composite structural elements and components. optimize JD’s industrial facilities and support its OPEN rapid growth. INNOVATION Fives became a member of the Jules Verne IRT (French Technical Research Institute), joining research institutions and other major industrial groups. With this partnership, July Fives will be able to accelerate the CHINA development of new products and production processes, and will collaborate on strategic Baotou signed a 10-year technical assistance projects which relate to innovative processes agreement with Fives. The Group will (additive manufacturing) and the processing provide technological expertise covering of new materials (composites). December all phases of production as well as a full www.fivesgroup.com training program, and will assist Baotou in SOUTH AFRICA Fives Southern Africa is part of Fives international network. This new Regional developing and certifying its high-end steels Office will support all Fives companies in their business development in for the automotive industry. MORE DETAILS southern Africa. OUR BUSINESS p. 20 OUR COMMITMENTS p. 46 14 INDICATORS p. 58 15 MILESTONES • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Highlights and territories Flat steel: Fives, a valuable partner for Baosteel Fives was selected to design and supply two new Africa and the Middle East Stein Digiflex® vertical digital annealing furnaces as part of the new cold-rolling line on Baosteel’s South Africa Zhanjiang site, located in Guangdong province. Cryogenics: Fives’ longstanding partnership with Air Liquide Automotive: Over fifty fluid filling systems Air Liquide has selected Fives for the supply of supplied brazed aluminium heat exchangers (BAHX) and Fives was awarded major contracts which include Cryomec centrifugal cryogenic pumps for the an order from Chinese car manufacturer Geely Europe new air separation unit, the largest ever built, for 37 machines for five different plants, as well for Sasol in Secunda. as an order for 15 machines from SGM, a joint France and Spain venture of General Motors and Shanghai Automation: Renault relies on Fives’ expertise Bahrain Automotive Industry Corporation, which produces Regarding automated production systems, Renault A diversification project for secondary aluminium and sells cars under the Chevrolet, Buick has selected Fives to automate two crankshaft plants and Cadillac brands. production lines in its plants in Cléon (France) and Gulf Aluminium Rolling Mill Co (Garmco) awarded Valladolid (Spain). Fives with a contract for the expansion of the South Korea re-melt sector of its rolling mill. With an annual Flat steel: New contract with Posco France production capacity of 120,000 tons, this complete One of the world’s top steel sheet producers Industrial Maintenance secondary aluminium casthouse will allow Garmco for the automotive industry signed a contract Fives was awarded multi-year outsourcing to produce slabs from liquid metal, ingots or with Fives for the design and supply of a highcontracts for installation maintenance in the recycled aluminium. performance vertical annealing furnace transport, courier, defense and aerospace Mexico for the seventh hot galvanizing line in sectors. The SNCF once again selected Fives for United Arab Emirates A new clinker production line its Gwangyang plant. the maintenance on over ten “technicentres”, Supply in record time Cementos Fortaleza selected Fives for a turnkey specialized sites which handle rail equipment Fives completed the design and start-up of contract to supply a second clinker production line Japan maintenance, in addition to the six sites where a transfer gantry for the EGA (Emirates Global on its Tula site. This new line will feature Fives’ Logistics: Several successes in the express Fives has been present. Aluminium) plant in Dubai and the supply latest technologies with high energy courier sector Fives and the SNCF are also collaborating of a latest generation Xelios 2.0 vibrocompactor and environmental performances. Three of the leading Japanese express courier on digital transformation projects. in record time. companies, all historic Group customers, once Automated production systems again selected Fives technologies to automate The United Kingdom Turkey Eaton selected Fives to supply a state-of-the-art their sorting terminals in Tokyo, HigashiLogistics: A new hub to automate New tube lines 12-Speed Transmission assembly line at its San Matsuyama, and Kansai. One of the top express courier companies has Toscelik has placed an order with Fives for three Luis Potosi plant. selected Fives to automate its new hub, scheduled new tube lines for its new plant in the Marmara India for start-up in October 2016. Fives will provide region, near Istanbul. Flat steel: A contract signed with Primetals a sorting solution including three cross-belt Asia et Oceania Technologies Japan sorters, each with a capacity of 14,000 parcels Fives was awarded a contract for the design and per hour. The Americas Australia supply of two walking beam furnaces which will Logistics: Four cross-belt sorters delivered be a part of the hot-rolling line located on the The United States Fives delivered two new cross-belt sorters to SAIL steel production site in Rourkela. This new Logistics: A renewed confidence the Toll group for its sorting centers in Sydney line will supply rolls of high-quality steel for One of the US leaders on the transport and and Melbourne. Two more cross-belt sorters the SAIL and ArcelorMittal joint venture to supply package delivery services market once again were delivered to TNT Express for its Melbourne automotive steel. selected Fives to automate four new terminals. and Brisbane sites. Malaysia Grinding: A diversification outside automotive China Industrial chemicals: Proabd® MSC, a proven sector Aerospace: A great success for the Group’s latest technology Fives will supply a Landis LT2HHe orbital grinding generation of machines Fives was awarded an order for the supply of machine to Ariel Corp for its Mount Vernon, Ohio Fives won several tenders in machining and a menthol production unit for BASF Petronas plant. This large grinding machine is designed for milling supply: One Forest-Liné MINUMAC was Chemicals (BPC) as part of its Lemongrass project the final machining of crankshafts for large-scale sold to RISAC, and two new Forest-Liné AEROSTAR in Kuantan. This order marks the success of stationary compressors and will guarantee the were sold to Chengdu Aircraft, both of which a long testing phase carried out with BASF, same standards of precision as for small-scale are entities of the national aerospace group AVIC. which proved that the Proabd® MSC, to be used automotive industry parts. Harbin Aircraft Industry Group Co. awarded Fives in the project, is reliable. a contract for two Forest-Liné AEROSTAR, which will be used to machine aluminium helicopter parts. 16 17 MILESTONES • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Operational performance “The Operational Performance Department provides coordination and support to help all subsidiaries makes their activities more COORDINATING efficient.” Xavier Becquey, Head of the Operational Performance Department AND IMPROVING COLLECTIVE PERFORMANCE Fives’ objective is to ensure profitable growth in its businesses. A DEDICATED To achieve that objective, the Group leverages the energy of its subsidiaries, by helping them activate their key operational OPERATIONAL performance-related development levers. PERFORMANCE DEPARTMENT The Operational Performance Department helps the subsidiaries and their teams improve their execution performance, particularly in terms of safety, purchasing, project delivery and manufacturing. It is A program of excellence The subsidiaries use this information to define tasked with providing and sharing expertise, With over 100 subsidiaries operating in nearly areas for improvement, based on their positioning establishing standards and implementing best 30 countries and a worldwide business, Fives is and business. The objective is to provide optimal practices. a robust international group and has proven its performance to customers by managing the resilience. Competitiveness, agility, innovation, business-related risks and adopting a continuous The Operational Performance Department is and quality are at the heart of its development improvement approach for increased efficiency. made up of experts who support and advise model. In order to maintain and support its subsidiaries on the Group’s major areas for growth trends, Fives has gotten all of its Synergies and continuous development: Corporate social responsibility, subsidiaries involved in FivesWAY, a holistic improvement project management and supply chain, corporate program focused on four priorities: Fives, with its wealth of diverse experience and information systems and digital technology. Customers, People, Innovation and Operational in-depth knowledge of its customers’ processes, Excellence. All of the Group entities apply also has a vast network of experts who know FivesWAY, with a focus on specific areas for how to adapt to different markets and make the improvement which they define on the basis of most of skill sharing to increase efficiency and their activities. performance. The Group facilitates close cooperation on innovation, sales, and service A common, shared vision development through partnerships between its Fives’ operational performance depends on different subsidiaries and activities. each and every subsidiary understanding of: ‒ Its level of expertise related to design, In 2015, Fives pressed forwards with its continuous manufacturing and project management; improvement. It focused its efforts on lean ‒ The minimum requirements in all of these management and redesign to cost, measures areas; which increased productivity and cut costs and ‒ The best practices inside and outside the Group. execution times in many Group subsidiaries. www.fivesgroup.com MORE DETAILS OUR EXPERTISE p. 8 INNOVATION p. 22 SERVICE p. 24 18 OUR COMMITMENTS p. 46 19 MILESTONES • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our business 22 Innovation 24 Service 26 Aerospace and industry 28 Aluminium 30 Automotive 32 Cement and minerals 34 Energy 40 Glass 42 Logistics 44 Steel 20 21 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Innovation CUTTING-EDGE TECHNOLOGIES TO BUILD THE AGILE PLANTS ADDITIVE OF THE FUTURE MANUFACTURING Additive manufacturing, or 3D printing, is In 2015, Fives continued to invest in research and development and a revolutionary manufacturing procedure that offers flexibility in design and production, to stake out its position on innovative and high-performance technologies as well as other benefits. It can be used to which meet industrial companies’ needs in terms of productivity, produce fully customized complex parts. Production can be located near the end user reliability, versatility, people’s safety, ergonomics, the environment, and takes less time. Raw material losses are energy consumption, easy maintenance, and more. limited compared to traditional procedures like machining. Additive manufacturing: A highly Connected plants and smart plants f lexible production technique In 2015, Fives continued to combine its process In 2015, Fives entered the field of additive expertise with digital tools to create solutions that manufacturing, also known as 3D printing, a facilitate production system and machine sector to which it brings its expertise, experience, management and maintenance, as well as afterand ability to innovate on mechanical sales service offers. New digital offers for engineering, automation, and industrial process management. In June, the Group signed a increasingly precise management of industrial installations have been developed for a wide RESEARCH AND partnership with BeAM, a start-up which is a range of sectors, including steel and sugar recognized builder of additive manufacturing machines using metal powder deposit production, logistics, composite material implementation, maintenance, and more. DEVELOPMENT technology. In September, Fives and Michelin announced the creation of a joint venture, Fives Technologies for more eco-friendly €35.5 M invested in Research Michelin Additive Solutions, with the ambition of plants & Development, up 7% becoming a major player in metal 3D printing. Fives continued its efforts on designing technologies that combine operational excellence 50 new inventions patented in 2015 New applications for composite and high levels of environmental performance materials with its Engineered Sustainability® eco-design 1,948 current patents as of Dec. 31, 2015 In September 2015, Fives consolidated its approach: three new products in the steel, a erospace offer when it acquired Lund logistics and combustion sectors earned the 3 more products have been awarded the Engineering (US), which specializes in automated brand in 2015. The Group also develops solutions Engineered Sustainability® brand this year, composite part fabrication. Composite materials, to minimize energy losses in industrial processes bringing the total up to 9 which combine lightness and mechanical such as cement, sugar, steel and aluminium resistance, are key in the aircraft industry, as production, and potentially to recover and use well as sectors like renewable energy and that energy via recovery systems that can biomedical devices. There is also significant guarantee continuous production and manage potential to develop new uses for these materials. variable energy supplies. www.fivesgroup.com MORE DETAILS OUR BUSINESS p. 20 OUR COMMITMENTS p. 46 22 INDICATORS p. 58 23 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Service “Our customers’ performance is the core of our mission. Our teams always take great satisfaction in providing services that PURSUING improve it.” Denis Bouteille, Service Director LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIPS In all of its businesses, Fives has developed service A GLOBAL offers to support its industrial customers worldwide ORGANIZATION throughout the lifecycle of their equipment. Fives’ service offer relies on local teams based near the industrial sites they serve. In the aluminium sector, for example, the service-focused Fives subsidiaries are located near major producers in Australia, South Africa and the Gulf States. The teams which serve the aerospace sector are based in North America, Europe and China, near Fives’ global expertise in services analysis. Thanks to the combination of the teams’ the Group’s major customers and their Fives’ first commitment is to help its customers expertise and digital technology, Fives can offer production and assembly sites. A centralized ensure maximum availability of the equipment it operational industrial companies support, even logistics system, with an optimized stock of provided. The Group puts massive resources into remotely. These connected services form a link spare parts and a quick delivery process also making that happen, including teams totaling over between Fives and its customers, to identify, prevent contributes to providing responsive, flexible 1,800 people worldwide, stocks of spare parts, and respond to anomalies which arise in the customer service. dedicated workshops, and industrial-type processes installations. to guarantee consistent service performance. Service is about more than just resources: It is also Industrial maintenance: a state of mind. Fives’ teams are responsive, customer recognition committed, empowered, and really listen to their customers in order provide them with the support Fives’ service offer includes an industrial maintenance offer for complex systems. Fives KEY FIGURES they expect, every day. handles corrective and preventive maintenance and improvement of production facilities through Connected services for enhanced performance contracts and maintenance 1,800 employees dedicated to services performance engineering support services. In 2015, customers in activities around the world Expectations are constantly changing, and Fives’ service businesses are innovating to create modern the transport, courier, defense and a erospace sectors recognized this expertise and signed multi27%: Percentage of the Group’s total sales from services activities in 2015 solutions for new challenges. To provide an effective year outsourcing contracts for maintenance of their response to its customers’ performance installations. enhancement needs, Fives is developing a connected service offer based on production data www.fivesgroup.com Our business MORE DETAILS MILESTONES p. 6 24 A EROSPACE AND INDUSTRY p. 26 25 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our business AEROSPACE AND INDUSTRY P2M: A PORTABLE MILLING In the aerospace segment, 2015 saw the confirmation of a large number MACHINE of investments, leaving major manufacturers’ sub-contractors unable to The P2M (Portable Milling Machine), a new absorb the volumes required. In France, some industrial decisions rigid and compact milling machine, was were implemented at a very slow pace, while in the US the situation developed by the Fives teams for surfacing generated a concentration in the sector’s supply chain and the on structural aircraft components. It is a 4-axis or 5-axis machine tool which can be consequent postponement of a number of rank 1 and 2 sub-contractors’ used in a variety of configurations (stand projects until the end of the year. In the industry segment, the businesses alone machine or included in a robotized which serve the oil and gas industry as well as the mining and heavy cell), and offers more flexibility than traditional milling tools. It meets the different MORE DETAILS machinery industries were hit hard and faced a simultaneous drop in needs and configurations of aircraft www.fivesgroup.com the prices of oil and other key raw materials. For many industrial players, manufacturers. — Metal Cutting | Composites the scale of this correction meant not only halting new investments — Maintenance but also shutting down certain production sites. However, the industrial maintenance sector continues to develop, mainly in France. Offer Metal cutting and machining solutions for large complex parts, ‒ Services: Evolution of new production lines, refurbishment and/or as well as composite processing machine tools, designed for retrofit of machine tools and other services such as: Upgrading, the aerospace and heavy manufacturing (primarily in the repair, industrial transfer, production support, after-sales, technical AEROSTAR, based on the excellent finished surface Fives, a key player on industrial maintenance mining and hydrocarbons sectors) industries assistance and customer support. quality guaranteed by this high-speed chamfering In the industrial maintenance sector in Europe, ‒ High-precision machines and high-performance composite machine, which will be used to machine aluminium mainly France, Fives won multi-year outsourcing processing systems: Large vertical gantry mills, high-speed Maintenance helicopter parts. contracts for installation maintenance in the machining centers, profilers, stack routing machines, fiber Corrective and preventive maintenance solutions with contracts with transport, courier, defense and aerospace sectors. placement and tape layer systems, boring mills and vertical turning performance objectives and maintenance engineering support In Japan, Fuji Heavy Industries once again chose Thus, the SNCF once again selected Fives for a lathes, grinders, extrusion machining cells, broaching machines, services. Fives to supply an additional Forest-Liné ATLAS five-year contract for the maintenance of its automated drilling units and portable milling machines. composite tape laying machine and Forest-Liné “technicentres”, specialized sites which handle rail ACCESS pre-cutting machine as part of its Boeing equipment maintenance. In addition to the six sites 787 wing capacity increase. The Group will also where Fives has been present since the early deliver the country’s first two aluminium bar 2010s, located in northern and western France, Main customers Top aircraft manufacturers prefer Fives machine tools. In France, Dassault and Airbus have Fives’ teams will now be responsible for technologies ordered Forest-Liné ATLAS and Forest-Liné ACCESS maintenance on over ten additional sites in the AEROLIA AIDC AIRCELLE AIRBUS GROUP ALENIA Fives won several large orders during the year, machines as part of their drive to increase production Lyon region, the Provence-Alpes-Côte d’Azur AEROMACCHI ASCO ASTRIUM ATK AVIC BACO BAE particularly in the Chinese market. For example, of RAFALE and A350 aircraft respectively, while in region of southeastern France, the Paris area, and SYSTEMS BELL HELICOPTER BOEING BOMBARDIER AEROSPACE BREK MANUFACTURING CESSNA COMAC the latest generation machines developed by the the US, the American and Canadian teams designed Normandy. Fives and the SNCF are also DASSAULT AVIATION EMBRAER EXELIS FIGEAC AERO FUJI Group were selected by two entities of Chinese and installed several machine tools for Boeing. collaborating on digital transformation projects HEAVY INDUSTRIES GENERAL DYNAMICS GENERAL ELECTRIC national aviation group AVIC: One Forest-Liné involving connected sensors, which are currently GKN AEROSPACE GOODRICH HAL HAWKER BEECHCRAFT MINUMAC (5-axis machine with a high-speed, On the industrial equipment market for the under way. HÉROUX DEVTEK HITCO CARBON COMPOSITES HONEYWELL high-precision vertical broach with linear motors) mining and oil industries, despite the generally HORSBURGH & SCOTT IAI INDONESIAN AEROSPACE (IAE) IPT KAMAN AEROSPACE KAWASAKI KIA KnAAZ was sold to RISAC, and the first two Forest-Liné bleak outlook, Fives leveraged the quality of its KONGSBERG KOREAN AIR – LOCKHEED MARTIN MAGELLAN A EROSTAR (5-axis machines with a palletized technologies and its expertise to win several initial AEROSPACE MESSIER & DOWTY MITSUBISHI HEAVY horizontal broach) were sold to Chengdu Aircraft. contracts, including the first orders for its INDUSTRIES MTU AERO ENGINES NASA NORTHROP Harbin Aircraft Industry Group Co., one of the Giddings & Lewis V Series vertical lathes, which GRUMMAN NRC-CNRCPREMIUM AEROTEC RAYTHEON ROLLS major Chinese a erospace manufacturer, also were released on the US market during the year. ROYCE SAAB SABCA SAFRAN SAMSUNG TECHWIN TAI TECHNOCAMPUS EMC TRIUMPH AEROSTRUCTURES UAC awarded Fives a contract for two Forest-Liné VOLVO A ERO PCC XIAN AIRCRAFT ZODIAC AEROSPACE… 26 27 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our business ALUMINIUM In the primary aluminium segment, demand continued to increase modestly in 2015 (3-4%), largely due to the drop in consumption in MIREA , A PIONEERING SOLUTION TO ENHANCE GLOBAL emerging countries. At the same time, while demand has exceeded the SMELTER PRODUCTION offer in recent years, two factors are leading to a gradual correction: PERFORMANCE China is now releasing its large surplus on the global market, and the significant drop in energy prices has enabled the majority of Mirea (“Mesure Instantanée de la Résistance Électrique des Anodes” or “on-line automatic producers to stay profitable, encouraging them to keep obsolete anode electrical resistance measurement”) is, smelters running. This led to particularly low aluminium prices in 2015 as its name implies, a process used to test and made 2015 the third consecutive year in which no large-scale the electrical resistance of anodes in order to MORE DETAILS assess their quality and the quality of www.fivesgroup.com capacity projects were launched. the electrolysis process. This innovation, — Aluminium developed by the AP Technology™ teams, — Chemtec was industrialized by the Fives teams and tested at the Aluminerie Alouette plant in Canada. Mirea, which revolutionizes anode quality control, is a simple, profitable solution which is easy to set up and operate. Offer Fives designs key manufacturing processes and supplies Carbon equipment and integrated solutions for the carbon, reduction Bath processing units Green anode plants Firing and Control and casthouse sectors of aluminium plants. Systems (FCS) for anode baking furnaces Fume Treatment Centers (FTC) for anode baking furnaces Carbon butts Raw materials recycling units Furnace Tending Assembly (FTA) machines Coal tar distillation Liquid pitch marine terminal Anode rodding shops, anode stacking cranes and anode re-melt sector of its rolling mill located in Bahrain. In Russia, Rusal, the national aluminium giant, handling systems This complete secondary aluminium casthouse, started to operate its new production unit equipped Reduction with an annual production capacity of 120,000 tons, with Fives’ gas treatment center for its new Gas Treatment Centers (GTC) Pot Tending Assembly (PTA) Casthouse will allow Garmco to produce slabs from liquid Boguchansky plant, after put on standby the project machines Pot equipment, potroom cranes and transfer Holding and melting furnaces Heat treatment furnaces metal, ingots or recycled aluminium. for five years. Fives’ dry scrubbing technology on systems Casthouse water cooling systems Global casthouse solutions electrolysis pots can reduce up to 99.7% of pot Numerous equipment commissionings room fugitive emissions. worldwide Fives’ teams supplied and successfully comFives: Expertise and customer service missioned several key pieces of equipment for the Fives continued to earn more recognition as an Owing to the recognized expertise of its teams and replacement of the old Soderberg lines at the Rio expert and service provider, winning contracts with the performance of its technologies, Fives did, Tinto Alcan plant in Kitimat (Canada) with a new Pacific Aluminium in 2015. The Group upgraded the however, manage to achieve a successful year, in smelter using AP40 technology: Ten pot tending Level 2 Control System on Tomago Aluminium’s Main customers particular by continuing to develop its service offer assemblies and a transfer gantry, as well as three anode baking furnaces at their aluminium smelter and expanding into the secondary aluminium tilting holding and melting furnaces, a green anode with the supply of the new Fives software suite, ALBA ALCOA ALRO ANGANG STEEL ANYANG BAOSHUO market. In addition, the acquisition of ECL completed plant, a rodding shop, an anode handling system, allowing controlling the three furnaces that are TAR CHEMICAL BHP BILLITON CENTURY ALUMINIUM the Group’s technological offer and extended its two furnace tending assemblies, and two stacking using different technologies, from a single CHALCO EGA HINDALCO HYDRO MA’ADEN ALUMINIUM base and service offer in the market’s key zones: cranes. redundant machine. Fives also signed audit RIO TINTO ALCAN RUSAL SHANXI COKING GROUP SOHAR The Middle East, Canada, Australia and South Africa. In the Middle East, as part of the line 2 revamping contracts for the two Pitch Fume Treatment Systems ALUMINIUM VEDANTA… of the Green Anode Plant for the EGA (Emirates (PFTS) at Boyne Smelter Limited (BSL) and the two Fives: The partner for secondary Global Aluminium) plant in Dubai, the Group Fume Treatment Centers (FTCs) at Tomago, in aluminium producers completed the design and start-up of a latest Australia. Fives’ expertise in smelter technology and its ability generation Xelios 2.0 vibrocompactor and a to execute large-scale projects made the difference transfer gantry with ECL™ technology in record and enabled it to win a contract with Gulf Aluminium time. Rolling Mill Co. (Garmco) for the expansion of the 28 29 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our business AUTOMOTIVE The year 2015 was successful, largely due to the dynamic US market. The US automotive industry is in excellent shape and is planning the launch of multiple new models in the coming years. SEALING: A NEW PROCESS The machining sector has also seen a number of new projects, due to the drop in energy prices and updates to high-powered Fives’ teams developed a new vision system allowing an automated quality control of the vehicle motors. In this vein, Mexico remains a buoyant market. bead dispensed on the car window during In China, the increase in demand generated a wave of capacitythe sealing process. This new solution, which building programs. In Europe, manufacturers are continuing their includes a traceability data base, a vision camera, as well as laser and sealing pump rationalization programs, which have featured targeted investments solutions, is currently the only one on the MORE DETAILS in new plants and certain existing sites, mainly for the premium market that enables manufacturers to check www.fivesgroup.com both height and length at the same time all — Automation and SUV sectors. around the surfaces. This solution was — Filling | Sealing — Grinding | Ultra Precision developed together with the camera maker — Cutting Tools | Abrasives and was already implemented in both Toyota — Maintenance and Nissan, which are partners on the test project in Japan. In the grinding sector, the technologies developed Offer by Fives are recognized by major manufacturers for their micron-level precision and speed. Ford Fives designs, manufactures and installs equipment, machining systems, has once again selected Fives as a supplier, and automated production systems and fluid filling systems primarily for the General Motors signed a multi-year contract with automotive industry, and related services. the Group for the supply of Landis LT2 orbital grinding machines for crankshafts as part of its Equipment and automated systems with high production rates for new Cylinder Set Strategy (CSS) engine project. foundry, machining, automation, assembly, integration of industrial Fives will deliver 60 machines in the space of just processes and production of panels. over two years. Corrective, preventive and enhanced maintenance with contracts with In the automated production systems sector, the performance objectives and maintenance engineering support services. Fives teams are highly appreciated in both the United States and Europe. In the United States, Eaton selected Fives to supply a state-of-the-art, 12-speed truck transmission assembly line at its San Luis Potosi plant. The Group supplied Chrysler with automated Main customers clutch assembly lines as part of the 8-speed transmission program at its Kokomo, Indiana site. ALFING KESSLER ALSTOM ATLANTIC AUDI BAJAJ MOTORS Over the Christmas shut-down, it also started In the fluid filling and sealing sector, the Group of HFO (HydroFluoro-Olefin: new refrigerant for air BAOSTEEL BMW BOSCH BOMBARDIER CATERPILLAR process improvements (conveyor solutions, robotic benefited from the continued construction of new conditioning) modules into the RapidCharge® CHANG’AN CHRYSLER CLAAS COPELAND COSKUNOZ tools) to the cylinder head assembly lines at the final assembly plants in China that is now the machines on its Düsseldorf and Vitoria sites. In CUMMINS DAIMLER DALIAN DIESEL DELPHI EATON Cummins plant in Columbus, Indiana. In Europe, world’s leading automotive market. Major contracts China, GAC Fiat selected Fives for its Guangzhou EMERSON FEINTOOL FIAT POWERTRAIN FAW FORD Renault selected Fives and its expertise to automate included an order from Chinese car manufacturer site. In the US, Ford purchased RapidCharge® units FOURNIER FUDA GENERAL MOTORS GMCH GOODRICH GROUPE SCHMIDT HONDA INGERSOLL RAND JAGUAR two crankshaft production lines in its plants in Cléon Geely for 37 machines for five different plants as for its Dearborn and Chicago sites, and also had LAND ROVER JOHN DEERE LEXMARKMAHLE MERCEDES(France) and Valladolid (Spain). In Italy, Fiat Chrysler well as an order for 15 machines from SGM, a joint HFO modules integrated into machines supplied by BENZ MERCEDES-BENZ TECHNOLOGY METALDYNE Automobiles (FCA) Italy entrusted Fives with an venture of General Motors and Shanghai Automotive competitors. In France, Renault selected Fives for a MITSUBISHI OPEL PACCAR POLYNORM GROUPE PSA order for the automation of a crankshaft production Industry Corporation. SGM produces and sells cars framework agreement for the integration of HFO RENAULT-NISSAN RKS ROLLVIS SAAB SALM SANDEN line, with an annual capacity of 200,000 units, in under the Chevrolet, Buick and Cadillac brands. modules on all of its production sites. In Japan, SATEBA SAULNIER DUVAL SCANIA -SEAT SGM SIEBENWURST SKODA SVW TATA THALES THYSENKRUPP TOYOTA its Termoli plant. When Fiat made its first automation Fives benefited from its position as technological Toyota Motor selected Fives to supply a new sealing VALLOUREC VOLKSWAGEN VOLVO WHB ZENHDER… order, it selected Fives for its recognized expertise leader worldwide. In Germany and Spain, Daimler system. in mechanization. signed a contract with the Group for the integration 30 31 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our business CEMENT AND MINERALS PILLARD NOVAFLAM® The increasing concentration of the major market players, symbolized by the mergers of Lafarge and Holcim and of Heidelberg With the Pillard NovaFlam® burner, which has been awarded the Engineered Sustainability® and Italcementi, has further contributed to a tendency to “wait and brand(1), cement manufacturers can improve see”, leading customers, both the newly merged entities and their the consistency and grindability of the clinker, major international competitors, to freeze projects planned several increase production and reduce NOx emissions, while offering increased flexibility years ago, including single equipment orders. to respond to changing operating conditions. MORE DETAILS Furthermore, the low growth in demand in emerging countries and Its advantages include the fact that it enables difficulties in finding financing of certain regions (South America and producers to use a wide range of fuels, www.fivesgroup.com — Cement | Minerals including alternative fuels. — Combustion Southeast Asia and later in Africa and the Middle East due to falling oil prices) are discouraging regional producers from making (1) More information on the Engineered Sustainability® eco-design program p. 56-57 investments. Despite the limited number of opportunities, Fives Offer won a turnkey contract for a cement plant in Mexico (one of the few remaining dynamic markets) with a Fives’ offer ranges from supplying single process equipment to grinding new local player that purchased the old Lafarge plants and turnkey cement plants, as well as associated services assets. Thus, Cementos Fortaleza selected Fives for a turnkey contract to supply a second clinker Process equipment for the cement industry and mineral grinding production line with a capacity of 3,300 tons per (FCB Kiln, FCB Zero-NOx Preca, FCB Preheater, FCB By-pass system, FCB day on its Tula site, located in the central Mexican Horomill®, FCB B-mill, FCB Rhodax®, FCB VIF™, FCB TSV™ Classifier, FCB state of Hidalgo. Fives had already supplied the Flash dryer, FCB Aerodecantor). site’s first production line several years ago. This new line will feature Fives’ latest technologies, Engineering and clean combustion systems for rotary kilns, providing the customer with optimized energy and calcination and drying processes (Pillard NovaFlam®, Pillard RotaFlam®, environmental performances for both the burning Pillard HeatGen, etc.). line (FCB Kiln, FCB Zero-NOx Preca, FCB Preheater and Pillard NovaFlam® burner) and the grinding Gas treament equipment (TGT®, Sonair™ filters and EAD™ dry-scrubbers) plants (FCB Horomill® and FCB B-mill, FCB TSV™ for kilns, coolers and mills. Classifier). The line should start up by the end of 2016. Proven proprietary technologies With offers like its FCB TSV™ separation technology, Haldor Topsoe has entrusted Fives with an order The Group also started up the new cement grinding Fives is recognized by all industrial producers for for the supply of an FCB Rhodax® in Denmark for plant, which operates with FCB Horomill® Main customers both the performance of its technologies and its iron ore grinding. technology, for Republic Cement in Norzagaray. ability to implement them. As part of the firing In addition, Fives successfully started up two ARMSTRONG CEMENT ARGOS BUZZI-UNICEM CDMconversion to coal and petcoke, Fives delivered to Fives, serving major national and baghouses systems on two old wet furnaces for CLEAN HARBOR CEMENTIR CEMENTOS FORTALEZA Suez Cement Co. a new FCB TSV™ Classifier in international cement producers Armstrong Cement in the US; the Group’s TGT® CEMENTOS MOCTEZUMA CEMEX CIMPOR CONCH CRH order to modernize a vertical ball mill and optimize Fives commissioned a new grinding plant to filters enabled the customer to comply with the DANGOTE GICA HEIDELBERG CEMENT ITALCEMENTI LAFARGEHOLCIM NGHE AN CEMENT CO OCP QATAR the operation of the solid fuel grinding plant. In Lafarge Republic’s Teresa site in the Philippines. new US environmental standards for cement NATIONAL CEMENT COMPANY SACCI SAINT GOBAIN Egypt, Fives supplied a new high efficiency With this grinding plant, equipped with FCB plants. BRYANT TITAN VICAT VINACONEX VINAINCON separator for the Lafarge Cement Egypt petcoke Horomill® technology, Lafarge will be able to VOTORANTIM… grinding unit as part of its conversion from open to produce 850,000 tons of cement per year, bringing close circuit. The goal of the project is to relieve the the Teresa site’s annual capacity up to 2 million stress on the cement plant due to the energy crisis tons while reducing electricity consumption by met in Egypt. 40% compared to conventional plants. 32 33 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our business ENERGY COMBUSTION Activities linked to oil exploration were hit hard by the dramatic drop in oil prices, which drove oil and gas players to revise their projects, to pressure EPCs* to reduce costs, and even to stop non-profitable units. This situation has had a negative impact on industries which are high energy consumers. However, in the US, aluminium production remained strong, driven by demand from the automotive and aircraft industries, leading producers to continue to invest in new thermal processing units. In Europe, the market was still driven by the refurbishment of boilers for urban heating networks and sugar plants and efforts to bring them up to code. MORE DETAILS www.fivesgroup.com — Combustion — Cryogenics | Energy — Piping Solutions — Sugar | Bioenergy Against this backdrop, Fives, recognized as a top In the energy business, in Qatar, Nooter Eriksen — Tube and Pipe performer on energy efficiency and environmental selected Fives to supply six latest generation 160 MW quality, won several major contracts worldwide. Pillard InductFlam burners for cogeneration on its Fives’ offer is based on Pillard, North American and Umm Al Houl site. ITAS technologies. Offer In South Korea, Samsung, which has committed to Fives designs and manufactures a variety Industrial equipment primarily used in energy In the United States, Superior Aluminum Alloys, reducing the environmental impact of its sites, of industrial equipment for the energy sector, production: based in New Haven, Indiana, which specializes in particularly NOx emissions, selected Pillard primarily in high-performance industrial ‒ Brazed aluminium plate-fin heat exchangers secondary aluminium, selected the Group to supply technologies for its new boilers. combustion systems, tube and production (for air separation units, ethylene production an aluminium melting furnace with a capacity of finishing equipment, cryogenics equipment for or liquified natural gas) 105 tons. This furnace features excellent structural hydrocarbon processing and air separation and ‒ Cryogenic piston and centrifugal pumps (for air integrity and is designed for easier maintenance, bioenergy and sugar industries. Plus, on the separation units, hydrocarbon production and will be fed by two North American HiRAM® burners. nuclear piping segment, the Group is involved in distribution of any liquified gas) The Group also supplied Essar Steel with a North maintenance contracts as well as some new American Ultra-Low NOx combustion system for its construction projects, mostly in France. High-performance industrial piping: new greenfield pelletization plant in Minnesota. Engineering, supply, manufacturing and assembly With this system, Essar will be able to produce 7 Combustion systems designed for electric of highly technical piping (new construction million tons of pellets per year in optimal Main customers and thermal energy production and for industrial or refurbishing). environmental conditions, in a location on the edge processes of a national park where environmental issues are ADGAS ADM AIR LIQUIDE AK STEEL ALBEMARLE ALERIS Tube and pipe solutions: particularly important. ALFA LAVAL GE POWER ARAMCO AREVA ARKEMA ARCELORMITTAL BAOSTEEL CERREY CHEVRON TEXACO Equipment and complete plants primarily used ‒ Production lines: slitting lines, tube mills, CMI CNIM DALKIA DOOSAN EDF ELLWOOD GROUP in sugar and bioethanol production; advice finishing lines, quench and temper The Group also finalized the development of its ENFAB ENGIE ENGIE COFELY ENI ERAMET ESSAR ESYS for optimizing production ‒ ERW mills and related equipment North American Tempest® DMC ultra-low NOx EXXON MOBIL HYUNDAI HEAVY INDUSTRIES KOBESTEEL ‒ Finishing equipment technology, which enables metal producers for the KWB LINDE MAPNA GROUP METSO MICHELIN – NATIONAL ‒ Automation aircraft and automotive industries to increase their GYPSUM NEMAK ALUMINIUM NEREFCO NOOTER ERIKSEN NOVELIS OUTOTEC OWENS CORNING PETROFAC furnace capacities while maintaining their PROSERNAT SAIPEM SAMARCO SAMSUNG SNECMA environmental performance and with guaranteed MOTORS SOLVAY RENAULT TATA TECHNIP TECNIMONT temperature uniformity. TEREOS TESORO THERMAX TOTAL VALE US STEEL… * EPC (Engineering, Procurement, Construction): Companies whose offers include engineering, supply and construction. 34 35 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our business SUGAR AND BIO ENERGY Investments remain at low levels as the excellent harvests in Brazil (the world’s leading producer) caused a significant drop in sugar prices. At the same time, in the bioenergy segment, the drop in oil prices makes ethanol production unprofitable. MORE DETAILS www.fivesgroup.com — Combustion — Cryogenics | Energy — Piping Solutions — Sugar | Bioenergy — Tube and Pipe The reputation of the technologies developed by The Group delivered a set of continuous vacuum Fives enabled the Group to retain a number of pans to the Gardel sugar and distillation plant in projects worldwide despite the difficult economy. Guadeloupe. This investment is part of an ongoing In China, the local Fives teams completed the first energy savings and equipment replacement project launched in 2012. The different equipment supplied CRYOGENICS drying workshop (Cail & Fletcher multitube dryerby the Group has helped Gardel become the first cooler) for the Cofco group’s Caofeidan refinery French sugar plant to earn ISO 50001 of its Energy and set up the fifteenth Fletcher continuous vacuum Management System from AFNOR. The certification Activities linked to gas, coal and hydrocarbon processing were hit hard pan for Mitr Phol, the world’s fourth largest recognizes a process which has led to saving by the dramatic drop in oil prices forcing major customers to freeze all producer, at its Tuo Lu plant. Chinese turnkey 30,000 tons of water vapor per year since 2014, of their planned investments. In the cryogenics segment regarding air contractor CAMCE, which is handling the Welkait equivalent to the electricity consumption of 500project in Ethiopia, selected Fives for two sugar 600 households. separation, however, the main players in the market ultimately decided cane distribution installations with a 12,000 tons of to go ahead with several major air separation unit projects despite the daily capacity. On the service side, in Chad Somdiaa has once unfavorable economic climate. again proven its trust in Fives’ solution by selecting Fives supplied 25 centrifugals for the new PT Sungai the Group for a tenth retrofit contract for the refinery in Indonesia. In France, the Tereos group modernization of its mill drivers, based on the has ordered the first Cail & Fletcher ZUKA® 1750 MultiDrive concept, which offers improved centrifugal for its Chevrières plant. It will be performance and lower installation and operating As part of the development of the world’s biggest In the hydrocarbon sector, Fives successfully equipped with Cail & Fletcher SMART Control™ costs. For Somdiaa, the long-term objective is to Air Separation Unit (ASU), Air Liquide, a leading increased its penetration of the US market with technology, so the operator can stay connected to increase sugar production at its CST plant by 25% industrial gas producer, has selected Fives for the several equipment orders from new customers the Group’s Service teams during sugar production. due to enhanced performance, modernized line supply of brazed aluminium heat exchangers despite the difficult economic context. This will be the Group’s second connected site. operations, and optimized maintenance. In Brazil, (BAHX) and Cryomec centrifugal cryogenic pumps. the Fives’ teams performed maintenance on over With a daily capacity of 5,000 tons of oxygen 100 centrifugals for various customers. Fives also (equivalent to 5,800 tons at sea level), this new ASU completed the “connected” aspect of its equipment will be dedicated to oxygen production for Sasol in Main customers Main customers range. As a result of Cail & Fletcher SMART Control™, Secunda, South Africa. during production Group customers can now stay ADNOC AIR LIQUIDE AIR PRODUCTS ARAMCO CB&I directly connected in real time to Fives’ teams of In China, the Group has also been selected to fit out LUMMUS CRYOGENMASH DAELIM DOW CHEMICAL AB SUGAR BUNGE COSUMAR CRISTAL UNION ETHIOPIAN ENTERPRISE EXXONMOBIL GAIL GS E&C HANGYANG SUGAR CORP. GRUPO GLORIA GUARANI INCAUCA experts trained on predictive maintenance. The several separation units for refineries. HYUNDAI INEOS JGC KAIFENG KBR LG LYONDELL LEDESMA LOUIS DREYFUS COMODITIES MITR PHOL Group has also extended its consulting (Fives Sugar OPDPETROCHINA POSCO PRAXAIR QATARGAS PANTALEON PRODIMEX PT SUNGAI BUDI RAIZEN SAINTConsulting) on industrial sugar production RELIANCE S&B SABIC SAIPEM SAMSUNG SASOL LOUIS SUCRE / SÜDZUCKER SIPH SOMDIAA SUCDEN TEREOS WEST KENYA SUGAR WILMAR… optimization from sugar cane (CAMEIO™) to beets SHELL SIAD M.I. SK E&C TECHNIP TOTAL TOYO (BEMEIO™). E.C. WARTSILA… 36 37 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our business INDUSTRIAL PIPING On the high-performance industrial piping segment, in France, EDF’s clear drive to cut costs led to a decrease in the volume of nuclear maintenance orders. The industrial maintenance market remains highly competitive, while on the new construction market it continues to be driven by projects linked to the Flamanville EPR. TUBE AND PIPE SOLUTIONS Industrial players from gas extraction and transport were also hit hard MORE DETAILS by the dramatic drop in oil prices. They froze all of their planned www.fivesgroup.com investments. A number of them were even forced to stop several — Combustion — Cryogenics | Energy installations which had become unprofitable virtually overnight. — Piping Solutions However, emerging countries increased their demand in tube — Sugar | Bioenergy — Tube and Pipe and pipe manufacturing for the building and structural applications. On the new construction side, Fives, the historic On the industrial side, Fives recently won a tender Worldwide, Fives is recognized for the quality and At the same time, Fives teams’ installed a cuttingpartner of the Chinese nuclear market, was selected to carry out piping work for GRTgaz, one of the performance of its manufacturing and finishing edge hydrostatic testing system for anti-corrosion by CNPEC (Chinese Nuclear Power Engineering Europe’s largest natural gas transmission system equipment for welded tubes, through their Abbey, alloy tubes on one of Vallourec’s German sites. Company) to supply nuclear primary coolant operators. Bronx, OTO and Taylor-Wilson brands. In Italy, the Group’s teams also commissioned a piping. The order, which includes both design and The commission covers the replacement of a new soldered steel tubing line for Ilta Inox (Averdi fabrication of two units of pressurizer surge lines switching station and the addition of two sectioning Despite a depressed market, the Group has Group); the line’s innovative design makes it (PSL), is for the Hongyanhe plant (units 5 and 6), terminals to the Fauville power station (Hautemanaged to position itself on a number of projects. possible to produce a full range of tubes with no with delivery is scheduled for 2017. Normandie, France). The service includes In Turkey, Toscelik, which already has a plant in need to change sizing tools. management of the civil engineering works, southern Turkey, has placed an order with the Fives has been present on the Chinese nuclear prefabrication of the piping and its assembly on Group for three new tube lines for its new plant in market since 2008, and has made its mark despite site. Borealis also selected Fives to replace the the Marmara region, near Istanbul. stiff local competition. Moreover, the Group has collectors in its Ottmarsheim plant. produced almost all of the PSLs for Chinese In Mexico, Perfiles Y Herrajes, the biggest local CPR1000-type reactors. In 2015, the teams in charge of this business also implemented an operational excellence program in manufacturer, and Prolamsa Group which owns the Axis company in the United States already Main customers order to ensure optimal levels of quality and supplies with equipment by Fives have both Main customers performance in their workshops and on all contracted Fives to supply tube production lines to ALCOA ARCELORMITTAL BAOJI PETROLEUM STEEL CO BAOSTEEL CORUS EVRAZ FORTACERO GROUP FUNDIA customer sites. complete their existing range. GERDAU ILTA INOX MARCEGAGLIA NEXTEEL – PERFILES Y ALSTOM POWER AREVA ARKEMA BOREALIS CNPEC HERRAJES PROLAMSA SEVERSTAL STEEL DYNAMICS DRT EDF GRT GAZ MICHELIN MEKONG ENERGY SUMITOMO CORPORATION TATA STEEL TENARIS TMK COMPANY STX TEMBEC TIGF TOTAL WESTINGHOUSE… TOSCELIK – USS VALLOUREC... 38 39 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our business GLASS The flat and hollow glass markets continued to expand, with up to 3% growth in 2015 over 2014. The increase in demand for high added-value applications FLAT GLASS (automotive and ultra-thin glass) enabled several producers to confirm their investments, particularly in Southeast Asia, the US, India and Iran. The Fives’ teams developed new types of “top-rolls” including movable roller heads for In the specialty glass industry, producers took advantage of the periodic thin, ultra-thin and automotive glass shaping. replacement of their installations to choose high energy Prium® Bath TR Edge Control offers a unique and environmental performance technologies. top roller head, with advanced kinematics, for better band control. This ensures enhanced optical qualities and greater operational flexibility. MORE DETAILS www.fivesgroup.com — Glass Offer Fives provides specialty glass and flat glass production lines, including all of the equipment for the melting and annealing lehr sections. Thermal equipment and production lines for: ‒ Flat glass: Melting furnaces, tin baths and annealing lehrs ‒ Hollow glass and special glasses: Melting furnaces, conditioning equipment, feeders, boosting and ancillary equipment Fives: a technological benchmark for major producers of flat glass... In the flat glass sector, the Group’s recognized expertise and skill were the deciding factors in its Main customers selection for the supply of lehrs offering high capacities (1,200 tons per day) or extreme formats ASAHI GLASS COMPANY CHINA SOUTHERN GLASS – CHINA (0.33 millimeters thick and 5,400 millimeters wide), ... and specialty glass On the service side the organization was YAOHUA GLASS GROUP DÜZCE CAM EUROGLAS particularly in Malaysia for Xinyi and in China for The Fives’ teams commissioned two specialty glass implemented in 2014 with expert teams based in JIANGMEN FARUN GLASS EUROFLOAT FUYAO GROUP Fuyao, both historic Fives customers. furnaces ordered by SGD, the world leader on China, France and the UK. These teams were GUARDIAN INDUSTRIES INTERNATIONAL COOKWARE KCC LG CHEM NIPPON SHEET GLASS OBËIKAN GLASS CO. pharmaceutical flask production, based in northern instrumental in Fives being selected for a number PITTSBURGH CORNING EUROPE SALAVATSTEKLO SAINTThe completed projects include the set-up of the France. The first furnace is electric and has a 70 tons of audit, support and design contracts. On the GOBAIN SGD SWAROVSKI TAIWAN GLASS VALMIERAS second 800 tons per day float glass line for Turkish capacity. The second, a 55 tons oxy-borosilicate revamping front, the Fives teams assisted teams VIVIX… glassmaker Düzce Cam and the finalization of start furnace, features HRA (Hot Recovery Area) from Eurofloat, a joint venture by Saint-Gobain and up of an 800 tons per day production line for technology and set a new consumption standard Riou Glass, with their flat glass line in Salaise producer Vivix (CBVP) in Brazil. The unit installed for for oxy-combustion on the pharmaceutical market. (France) and helped International Cookware Vivix features L.E.M.® (Low Energy Melter renovate its table glass line in Châteauroux (France). Technology) combustion air float glass technology that uses 10-15% less energy than standard melters by acting on the three glass melting stages. 40 41 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our business LOGISTICS GENI-BELT™ The market keeps being driven by the increasing volume of shipped The GENI-belt™ a new cross-belt sorter goods due to the growth of e-commerce, where the needs of handling for automated sorting in postal terminals, parcel flows and of high throughput are boosting demand for automated courier hubs and distribution centers, is designed to meet the sector’s increasing sorting centers. In Japan, the market is strong because of the aging need for operational flexibility. population and high density, therefore major logistics industry leaders It features increased precision and continued their investment programs. National postal services and major exceptional performances and reliability, and offers gentle handling, speed adjustment, international shipping concerns in northern Europe, the United States sorter cell acceleration, controlled loading and Australia are speeding up multi-year efforts to upgrade and unloading trajectories, and reduced their networks. maintenance. It also provides environmental benefits, thanks to energy savings. MORE DETAILS The GENI-belt™ is an eco-designed www.fivesgroup.com — Intralogistics Engineered Sustainability®(1) product. — Maintenance (1) More information on the Engineered Sustainability® eco-design program p. 56-57. Fives, an unrivalled international player Offer in the express courier and postal sectors Fives designs automated sorting systems for logistics, express parcel, The performances of the technologies developed by postal and distribution companies Fives enable it to serve top international customers in the logistics industry. These products include a Design and installation of tailor-made logistics solutions based on wide range of sorting solutions such as the cross-belt proprietary technologies, such as high-speed cross-belt sorters, shoe sorters, sorter that can handle extremely heterogeneous flat belt sorters, parcel singulators, pushers and diverters, as well as packages and has become the benchmark in the computerized order fulfillment and robotics solutions. market for reliability and productivity. United States A leader in the transport and parcel Design of customized software solutions (real-time, destination servers, delivery services, and a customer since the 1990s, has WCS, SCADA, etc.). again selected Fives to automate four new terminals. Japan Three of the leading Japanese express Customer service, such as system maintenance, 24/7 hotline support, courier companies, all historic Group customers, preventive maintenance, full maintenance, as well as retrofit and system again selected Fives to automate their sorting upgrades. terminals in Tokyo, Higashi-Matsuyama, and Kansai. United Kingdom One of the top express courier companies has selected the Group to automate its new hub, scheduled for start-up in October 2016. Fives will provide a sorting solution including three cross-belt sorters, each with a capacity of 14,000 to TNT Express for its Melbourne and Brisbane sites. with a sorting capacity of up to 6,300 parcels per Main customers parcels per hour. Denmark Fives was awarded a turnkey contract hour to 98 destinations. Australia In 2014, Fives was awarded a contract by PostNord Denmark to supply one sorting system In the distribution sector, Fives won several AEROPORTS DE PARIS ARATA BENETTON BCS CANADA by BCS, its local partner, to supply two sorting for both packages and postal parcels up to 50kg. contracts for order preparation center automation. POST CORPORATION CANPAR CHRONOPOST C-LOG systems for parcels up to 50kg to leading express PostNord Group already entrusted to Fives the Customers include OCP, a French pharmaceuticals CORREOS COLIPOSTE DEUTSCHE POST DHL EURODEP road freight business, Toll IPEC, part of Toll Group, supply of three sorting systems in Sweden in 2011, distribution company based in Orléans. FEDEX FEDEX GROUND FUKUYAMA GEODIS INTERMARCHÉ JP SERVICEKOREAN EXPRESS LA POSTE in Sydney and Melbourne. As a result of the high2013 and 2014. The proposed turnkey solution for LDLC LECLERC MANGO MICHELIN MNG KARGO performance achieved with the system installed in the existing postal building located in Aalborg NIPPON EXPRESS OCP PIXMANIA POCZTA POLSKA 2014, Fives was once more chosen to supply a includes one 253 meters long cross-belt sorter, POSTNORD PUROLATOR SAGAWA SAMMY SCACHAP system to sort envelopes (up to 15 kg) and parcels roller cage tippers, telescopic conveyors, one SEA MALPENSA AIRPORT SEINO SNATT LOGISTICA SODIS (up to 30 kg). The new sorting center will be located ACCORD® singulator, upstream lines as well as data SOMFY SONEPAR STIHL SYSTEM LOGISTICS TOLL IPEC TEMPO ONE TNT EXPRESS UNITED AIRLINES UPS USPS south of Sydney and is scheduled to open in capture and control systems including WCS (high YAMATO… September 2016. Two more cross-belt sorters with level management software). When completed in a capacity of 20,000 items per hour were delivered June 2016, the system will provide PostNord Denmark 42 43 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our business STEEL The market, negatively impacted by structural overcapacity, saw China, the world’s leading market, slow down significantly and reduce its investments in a climate where only the best-known STEIN DIGIFLEX® MORE DETAILS state owned companies are capable of obtaining the authorizations www.fivesgroup.com The Stein Digiflex® furnace for galvanizing — Steel and financing required. and annealing lines, which has been awarded — Induction Activity levels remained solid in other parts of the world, including the Engineered Sustainability® brand(1), is — Manufacturing fitted with the latest-generation AdvanTek® India and South Korea, despite lower levels of investments. WRT 2.0 combustion system. This combustion technology offers a high energy recovery capacity and low NOx emissions and the ability to produce using either the Offer site’s mixed gas supply or heavy fuel. Fives has both mechanical and thermal expertise and supplies Long product straightening (1) More information on the Engineered Sustainability® eco-design program p. 56-57 rolling mills, high-capacity heating furnaces and steel strip treatment lines. Surface treatment Pickling Degreasing Thermal equipment Reheating furnaces – Processing line furnaces Heat treatment Integration of sections and complete processing lines furnaces High flux induction heating AdvanTek® combustion systems Cooling solutions Virtuo™ level 2 optimization systems Expertise and services Operator assistance systems Metallurgical assistance Mechanical equipment for flat products Automation systems Support & expertise Maintenance Cold rolling: Reducing rolling mills and Skin-pass rolling mills Spare parts Strip processing Shearing Strip & tool handling equipment – Strip transport In India, Primetals Technologies Japan awarded the Fives will provide technological expertise for all Group a contract for the design and supply of two phases of production: Steel making, hot rolling, Main customers walking beam furnaces, each with a capacity of 300 tons per hour. These two reheating furnaces pickling, cold rolling, annealing and galvanizing, as well as a full training program. Fives’ teams will ACERINOX GROUP AK STEEL ALCOA APERAM will be a part of the new hot strip mill, which has also assist Baotou in developing and certifying its ARCELORMITTAL ASCOMETAL ATI ALLEGHENY BAOJI an annual capacity of 3 million tons and will be high-end steels for the automotive industry, PETROLEUM STEEL PIPE CO. BAOSTEEL BAOTOU IRON & Flat steel: Fives, the preferred designer for high-end automotive steel located on the SAIL steel production site in Rourkela. including its latest high-strength steels. Fives and its STEEL BEHAI CHENGDE BENXI IRON & STEEL BLUESCOPE processing lines This new line will supply high quality coils for the teams also work on equipment revamps. Customers TEELBOKARO STEEL PLANT BOOMERANG TUBE BORÇELIK In China, Fives was selected to design and supply two new Stein Digiflex® SAIL and ArcelorMittal joint venture to supply for these projects include: ArcelorMittal Etxebarri CELSA GROUP CNOOC CNPC ÇOLAKOGLU CORUS ERDEMIR – ESSAR STEEL EVRAZ FUNDIA GERDAU – GRUPO vertical digital annealing furnaces as part of the new cold rolling workshop on automotive steel. Stein Digit@l Furnace® AT 2.0 (AME) – a flat sheet production plant in Spain with CONDESA GURPPO ARVEDI HANDAN IRON & STEEL Baosteel’s Zhanjiang site, located in Guangdong province. The equipment will technology, which is fitted with the AdvanTek® an annual capacity of 350,000 tons – entrusted HYUNDAI HEAVY INDUSTRIES ISDEMIR – JINDAL STEEL be part of a continuous annealing line (CAL) with an annual capacity of combustion system and controlled by the level 2 Fives with a project to modernize the annealing JISCO JMC STEEL GROUP KINGLAND MAANSHAN 700,000 tons and a galvanizing line (CGL) with an annual capacity of Virtuo® Edge-R system, will guarantee optimal slab furnace supplied in the early 1990s; Wisco (Wuhan MACSTEEL MAGNITOGORSK IRON & STEEL MARCEGAGLIA 270,000 tons. Since 2005, Baosteel has chosen Fives to build five complete reheating, thus reducing environmental impact. Iron and Steel Corp.) also selected Fives for the GROUP MARUICHI STEEL TUBE NANJING IRON & STEEL NORTH AMERICAN STAINLESS NORTHWEST PIPE COMPANY – processing lines and six processing line furnaces, making Fives its partner and modernization of two silicon steel rolling mills; NOVAMERICAN STEEL INC. NOVOLIPETSK STEEL NUCOR supplier-of-choice for high-quality processing line technologies and annealing Fives’ expertise in process management and Wisco’s project aims to reorient the production into OMK – OUTOKUMPU PADANA TUBI PANZHIHUA IRON & furnaces for advanced automotive steels and high added-value products. operation assistance valued by customers high-permeability electrical steels (HiB) designated STEEL PEASA POSCO PROLAMSA PYTCO RIVA GROUP In addition to its solid range of products and its for manufacturing of electrical motors and RUUKKI SAIL SALZGITTER SEVERSTAL SHOUGANG Posco, one of the world’s top steel sheet producers for the automotive industry, expertise as an integrator, Fives has teams of transformers with better electromagnetic JINGTANG – SICHUAN SOUTHWEST STAINLESS STEEL SISECAM AS – STEEL DYNAMICS SUMITOMO TATA STEEL TENARIS renewed its confidence in Fives and signed a contract with the Group for the process experts who can help steel producers with performance. THAINOX THYSSENKRUPP STAHL TISCO TMK TRIDENT design and supply of a high-performance vertical annealing furnace for the their operations. Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel STEEL USIMINAS US STEEL USS VALLOUREC – VAMA seventh continuous galvanizing line (500,000 tons per year) in its Gwangyang Union Co., northeastern China’s leading steelmaker, VIZAG STEEL VOESTALPINE STAHL WELSPUN WUHAN IRON plant in South Korea. signed a 10-year technical assistance agreement & STEEL XINYU STEEL YUSCO… with the Group. 44 45 OUR BUSINESS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Our commitments 48 Fives, a responsible group 50 Ethics and governance 52 Human resources 54 Health & Safety 56 Energy and environmental performance 46 47 OUR COMMITMENTS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Fives, a responsible group ETHICS The Group’s corporate social responsibility CSR program reflects its determination in relation to 77% of executives attended Ethics, energy and environmental Performance, 4 COMMITMENTS a business ethics training course Health & Safety and Human Resources. HUMAN RESOURCES ENVIRONMENT Minimizing the environmental footprint of 37 % of women are engineers Fives and its customers and managers ECONOMICS 85% of employees said they were Promoting fair practices satisfied by the interest of their work in the marketplace HEALTH & SAFETY 74% of employees attended SOCIAL Providing a safe and at least one training course motivating working ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 3.91: The 2015 accident environment frequency rate steadily declined in the past 7 years GOVERNANCE 9 products earned the Engineered Incorporating CSR priorities Sustainability® brand since the Fives into the organization of all eco-design program was launched Fives entities in 2012 74% of industrial sites were ISO 14001-certified 5 KEY STEPS 2008 Launch a structured Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program RATING 2011 Voluntary decision to publish the first Annual and CSR report TOP 2 % of the EcoVadis panel 2012 Creation of the Engineered with a score of 71 out of 100, Sustainability® eco-design program THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT representing a 13 points increase and launch of Fives’ ISO 14001 process since 2012. for industrial sites. In 2011, Fives became an official signatory of the United Nations This assessment has four sections: Global Compact, affirming its membership in a global business Environment Labor practices Business 2013 Target frequency rate of less community that believes in respect for Human Rights, workplace ethics Sustainable procurement than 4 announced for 2016 standards, the environment and anti-corruption. “We use the United Nations Global 2015 Business Ethics program enhanced Compact to regularly re-assess our commitments, and provide official accountability for our actions.” www.fivesgroup.com Frédéric Sanchez, Chairman of the Executive Board MORE DETAILS OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE p. 18 INNOVATION p. 22 48 INDICATORS p. 58 49 OUR COMMITMENTS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Ethics and governance “Having clear, consistent guidelines on preventing corruption is extremely helpful for the teams.” ACTING Daniel Brunelli-Brondex, Country Director India RESPONSIBLY Fives has grown while maintaining the commitments PREVENTING and responsibility of its subsidiaries. Its unique culture of CORRUPTION: entrepreneurship is founded on a set of principles and rules A PROGRAM THAT SPARKS that are shared by all. CONVERSATIONS In 2015, Fives began to roll out its business ethics program to its subsidiaries. During the training session held in India, Country Director Daniel Brunelli-Brondex discussed the topic with managers from all of the Indian subsidiaries. The session provided an The Directives Manual: A resource measures have been stiffened since 2014, a opportunity to present clear and decisive for Group governance trend which continued in 2015 with: rules which provide strong support to the The Directives and Guidelines Manual, which is ‒ A new Business Ethics Directive, which defines teams in the field. Employees can talk about based on the Group’s experience and lays out the Group’s expectations and prohibitions for their practical questions during the meetings Fives’ policies in all of its areas of activity, is the all countries; held by the subsidiaries. common framework for all subsidiaries. The ‒ A training and awareness program, intended Directives clearly define the Group’s to spark a dialog on these sensitive issues and All job levels are covered by the program, requirements, while allowing each subsidiary to clarify the rules; as are all countries, including those where meet those requirements in the way that best ‒ A division-by-division risk analysis process. corruption risks are considered minimal fits its context. or non-existent. The program is based on the three principles of The Directives Manual is updated regularly and dialog, responsibility, and proportionality is reviewed annually by each subsidiary to go over its implementation. between actions and risks. These principles enable a determined roll-out in compliance with KEY FIGURE the Group’s governance procedures. Business ethics: A current hot topic Regulatory changes are increasingly frequent as An international Code of conduct 77% of executive managers have taken part of the drive to create a clear ethical The Code of conduct lays out Fives’ fundamental a training course on preventing corruption. framework for business and increase sanctions values for all its employees. It is the only Group for violators. In light of these factors, it is document which must be distributed to all important to ramp up efforts to prevent corruption employees, and has been translated into the and anti-competitive practices. 13 languages spoken in the Group. Distribution The Group’s actions in this area focus on three of the guide is tracked, and increased work on targets: Its subsidiaries, its teams, and thirdon-boarding will be added to the business ethics parties that Fives works with to develop its program. markets or execute its projects. Attention was previously solely focused on third-parties, with www.fivesgroup.com strict regulations governing contracts and selection and monitoring criteria. Those MORE DETAILS MILESTONES p. 6 OUR BUSINESS p. 20 50 INDICATORS p. 58 51 OUR COMMITMENTS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Human resources “Fives is going further on supporting all of its employees for the long-term, to reconcile employee well-being and corporate FOSTERING performance.” Paule Viallon, Head of the Group Human Resources Department TRUST AND DEVELOPING TEAMS MANAGEMENT Fives and all of its teams share a human resources policy CULTURE AND which is based on dialog, career development, LEADERSHIP and promoting diversity. As an international and multicultural group, Fives strives to create a management culture based on shared values for all of its subsidiaries, while respecting their local practices. In 2015, to help managers develop their teams and organization, Fives launched Manager@Fives, a training program for all Group managers, as part of its global training program, the Fives Leadership Building trusting relationships encourage regular, constructive exchanges. The Factory. Listening and dialog are the essence of Fives’ career booster, which started in 2008, meets human resources policy. They are a vital with employees looking to change positions and ingredient in building trusting relationships with offers them openings in other Fives subsidiaries. Group employees. In June 2015, Fives ran its third In 2015, a local program, the company career internal opinion survey of employees from subsidiaries worldwide. 5,300 of them took the booster, was added to help match each subsidiary’s needs with its employees’ career KEY FIGURES opportunity to express their vision of the Group. goals. A breakdown of the results shows that employees are satisfied overall (74% are happy to work for Retaining skills and talents by pooling 8,298 employees of 61 nationalities their company) and feel strong attachments resources 74% of employees received training (84% of employees are attached to their In response to the temporary setbacks faced by during the year company). They are also generally happy with some of its activities, over the past decade Fives the quality of their relationships with their has developed a temporary assignment program 470 employees were interviewed during colleagues and managers and find their work which meets certain subsidiaries’ needs for a starter meeting in 2015 interesting. additional staff while helping others cope with a drop in activity. The idea is to allow employees 126 employees benefited from the Supporting employee development with low workload in their current subsidiary to resource pooling program Fives has several programs which aim to transfer to another subsidiary which has a understand and meet employees’ expectations: temporary or permanent need for a specific annual appraisal interviews, the career skill. This enables them to work to their full management committee (CEDRE), the career potential while allowing the Group to retain booster, and the starter meeting. These programs talent. www.fivesgroup.com Careers MORE DETAILS MILESTONES p. 6 52 INDICATORS p. 58 53 OUR COMMITMENTS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Health & Safety “We have a collective requirement to continuously make our operations safer. The tragic accident which occurred in 2015 clearly illustrates the risks involved in our activities and the importance of safety, something of which A STRONGER we must be fully cognizant.” Frédéric Sanchez, Chairman of the Executive Board SAFETY CULTURE SAFETY ON Safety culture and practices are progressing year on year in all of the Group companies’ activities. For Fives, however, WORK SITES the real objective is to achieve zero severe accident. The turnkey cement plant project in Algeria involves from 100 to 1,000 people depending on the phase. Safety is a core element of coordination on the project, thanks to regular safety awareness activities and HSE events. Constant vigilance is essential if we are to continue making progress. On-site safety challenges allow the involvement of Fives and sub-contracting teams, and closer Safety culture and practices are increasingly completed with the implementation of a field relationships with the customer. well-integrated into the subsidiaries’ habits. safety observation and dialog program in the Progress is particularly visible in the Fives companies. This will help make safety a real part workshops, which accounted for under half of of management practices. lost-time accidents in 2015, down from two-thirds in 2014. Despite these improvements, 2015 was not a good year: A supervisor passed away in Increased awareness on work sites Accident cause investigation and management KEY FIGURES an accident on a work site in China and four commitment in safety have proven their other severe accidents occurred during the year. effectiveness in the Fives workshops. They are Fives continued its actions in 2015, leading also essential to make Fives’ activities on work to a decrease in the number and severity Improving investigations to prevent sites safer. However, due to the wide range of of lost-time accidents. accidents players involved, the weak culture of safety in In 2015, safety coordinators in the Group certain regions, and difficulty of controlling 3.91: Lost-time accident frequency rate companies were trained to investigate the root conditions for site supervision activities, causes of accidents. This means teaching entities additional measures are required for these 0.135: Severity rate to identify the right preventive changes to make after each accident, for a long-term impact. This activities. Work sites which take safety into account from 55 lost-time accidents process, along with Fives’ higher standards for the earliest stages of the process are also those 5 severe accidents including incident investigation and better sharing of which are the best managed overall, thus proving feedback among the companies, should reduce that safety tends to reveal a site’s operational 1 fatal accident the number of accidents. performance. Clear ways for the teams on-site to make improvements have been identified, and Getting management involved several initiatives have been or are being in day-to-day safety implemented to that end. In all of its companies, Fives has rolled out resources and actions to put managers at the heart of safety initiatives. Experience has shown that to improve a company’s safety culture, www.fivesgroup.com managers and executives must be directly involved in day-to-day safety measures. Starting in 2016, the measures already in place will be MORE DETAILS MILESTONES p. 6 54 INDICATORS p. 58 55 OUR COMMITMENTS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Energy and environmental performance “Improving the environmental and energy performance of our activities requires implementing a collective approach which involves all of our teams.” THE ENVIRONMENT Bruno Réaud, QMS HSE Coordinator Fives ECL AS A DRIVER OF TRANSFORMATION ENERGY AUDITS: WORKING TOWARDS IMPROVEMENT Environmental performance is now a key criterion in assessing Energy audits provide a key opportunity to bring together people from across the overall industrial performance. Environmental concerns affect Fives company to make improvements: Optimizing on two levels: both directly through its own activities and because operations systems and thus potentially optimizing production, quickly identifying it supplies machines and industrial units for long-term use in plants. anomalies and issues as a result of energy and water consumption tracking, spreading best practices and increasing skills in these areas. Working with all environmental Increasing the number of players eco-designed technologies Because environmental issues involve purchas­ Fives is continuing implementation of its ing practices, innovation processes and Engineered Sustainability® program, created in environmental management systems, in 2015 2012, which aims to develop technologies which Fives created an ad hoc environmental combine operational excellence and high committee to: standards of environmental performance. In ‒ Organize work on common topics, like compliance with REACH (European regulations 2015, three new projects have been awarded the Engineered Sustainability® brand, including the KEY FIGURES that aim to secure chemical manufacturing Stein Digiflex®. This continuous annealing line and usage in European industry); for steel coils saves an annual average of ‒ Better understand the existing programs in 1.4 million m3 of gas per site, for a 14% reduction 37 ISO 14001 certified sites order to contribute to them effectively; ‒ Assess Fives’ position on emerging and often in gas consumption compared to rival technologies. 3 more products have been awarded the Engineered Sustainability® brand this year, complex issues, like logistics. The principles of eco-design are gradually being bringing the total up to 9 This approach gets everyone involved to ensure applied to the entire Fives offer, starting with that Fives’ environmental efforts are consistent products which have a major environmental 100 people trained on eco-design and effective. impact and are strategic on their markets. This in 2015, for a total of 250 since process is supported by the development of the program’s creation in 2012 From environmental management to tools to help the Fives R&D teams learn to use energy consumption coordination eco-design methods and eco-design training 22% of new patents filed are related to After its initial drive to implement management sessions. environmental performance systems on Fives’ industrial sites, the second phase of the program is focused on energy management and greenhouse gas emissions monitoring. In 2015, eight Group companies performed energy audits of their sites, including industrial www.fivesgroup.com sites, testing centers and offices. The feedback from these audits will be used to develop a structured Group-level approach. MORE DETAILS INNOVATION p. 22 56 INDICATORS p. 58 57 OUR COMMITMENTS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Indicators 60 Financial indicators 62 Non-financial indicators 70 UN Global Compact 58 59 INDICATORS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Financial indicators SALES BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA BY END MARKET SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED FIGURES € million 2013 2014 2015 € million 2013 2014 2015 2015 2015 constant € million 2013 2014 2015 constant scope and Americas 531.2 450.4 521.1 Automotive 362.1 356.6 333.0 scope exchange rate Asia and Oceania 457.9 396.4 369.0 Logistics 202.2 146.0 179.2 Europe 458.3 547.0 511.6 Metals (aluminium and steel) 401.5 262.1 277.9 Sales 1,626.2 1,560.5 1,718.2 1,671.2 1,575.6 Middle East and Africa 178.8 166.7 316.5 Energy 386.2 408.8 364.5 Cement 170.0 150.6 318.5 Gross Margin 360.2 393.0 377.4 365.3 340.2 Total 1,626.2 1,560.5 1,718.2 Aerospace and industry 104.2 236.4 240.0 General expenses (244.0) (277.3) (294.1) (284.6) (268.5) Holding and sourcing co. 5.1 Other revenue and expenses (3.1) (3.5) 7.4 (4.0) (3.9) Contribution from mature economies 53% 60% 58% Contribution from emerging countries 47% 40% 42% EBITA 113.3 112.6 90.7 77.3 69.6 Total 1,626.2 1,560.5 1,718.2 Current operating profit (EBIT) 104.4 92.6 64.0 52.6 48.0 EBITDA 133.0 135.1 116.0 101.2 92.2 8.2% 8.7% 6.7% 6.1% 5.9% Operating profit 98.0 88.3 56.5 Net financial result (17.3) 23.1 19.2 ORDER INTAKE Profit before tax 80.7 111.4 75.7 BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA BY END MARKET Net profit 44.6 75.4 55.6 Net profit (Group Share) 43.4 74.9 54.4 € million 2013 2014 2015 € million 2013(*) 2014(*) 2015 Americas 305.2 408.7 635.9 Automotive 391.4 273.6 314.5 Asia and Oceania 330.2 360.3 364.0 Logistics 151.4 180.3 218.7 Europe 486.1 539.3 532.5 Metals (aluminium and steel) 197.6 213.1 259.2 Middle East and Africa 105.8 556.7 175.4 Energy 306.6 398.1 334.9 Cement 102.3 587.8 232.7 Total 1,227.3 1,865.0 1,707.8 Aerospace and industry 78.0 212.1 342.6 Holding and sourcing co. 5.2 Contribution from mature economies 64% 51% 62% Contribution from emerging countries 36% 49% 38% Total 1,227.3 1,865.0 1,707.8 (*) revised operational segmentation ORDER BOOK BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA BY END MARKET € million 31.12.13 31.12.14 31.12.15 € million 31.12.13 31.12.14 31.12.15 Americas 269.3 255.3 400.9 Automotive 275.9 189.7 188.1 Asia and Oceania 368.4 344.2 359.6 Logistics 89.7 117.9 165.2 Europe 364.8 366.2 394.4 Metals (aluminium and steel) 298.8 256.1 262.2 Middle East and Africa 122.7 527.9 401.0 Energy 253.9 275.2 250.5 Cement 98.9 536.4 447.6 Total 1,125.2 1,493.6 1,555.9 Aerospace and industry 108.0 118.3 237.8 Holding and sourcing co. 4.5 Contribution from mature economies 48% 40% 45% Contribution from emerging countries 52% 60% 55% Total 1,125.2 1,493.6 1,555.9 MORE DETAILS Financial report 60 61 INDICATORS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Non-financial indicators The Group’s progress on social and environmental issues, innovation and ethics is monitored year-round 2013 2014 2015 for analysis and strategic purposes. Our reporting system is designed so that we can track progress on the Group’s initiatives and keep all Fives stakeholders informed of these changes. Employees by region The HR (social indicators) and Innovation reports cover the financial consolidation scope. Health, Safety, The Americas 24% 22% 22% Ethics and Environmental data, on the other hand, is based on headcount and activity criteria which France 50% 51% 52% may lead to differences in scope. Europe (excl. France) 16% 16% 15% Asia and Africa 10% 11% 12% Employees by business sector Aluminium 4% 4% 10% Steel/Glass 16% 16% 14% Cement 7% 9% 8% SOCIAL INDICATORS Energy 28% 28% 24% Europe Logistics and maintenance 8% 8% 10% The Asia and 2013 2014 2015 France excl. Automotive and transformation industries 20% 19% 16% Americas Africa* France Aerospace and special machines 13% 12% 13% Others 3% 4% 4% Employees 7,825 7,745 8,298 1,808 4,302 1,205 983 Workforce at the end of the year from acquisitions completed in the year 1,304 65 641 155 380 10 96 Skills and mobility management Workforce at the end of the year in companies entering % of employees reviewed by the CEDRE* career management committee 47% 54% 46% the consolidated scope 1 69 54 15 % of employees receiving regular appraisal interview 70% 68% 66% Number of new hires (all types of contracts) 1,150 966 989 % of employees having attended at least one training course 70% 73% 74% Number of employees shared between the companies 84 85 126 Workforce by gender Number of people who underwent a starter meeting** 337 470 Percentage of men 84% 84% 84% 86% 84% 86% 78% Percentage of women 16% 16% 16% 14% 16% 14% 22% *CEDRE: Career management committee (Human Resources Evaluation and Development Committee) Percentage of engineers and managers among women 30% 36% 37% 30% 46% 20% 32% ** Starter meetings: Assimilation reports completed 6 to 18 months after new hires arrive Share of women in management total 14% 14% Share of women among CEOs 2% 2% Share of women in Management Committees 13% 14% At end 2015, the Fives group had a total of 8,298 employees, a 7% increase over 2014. Fives ECL and Share of women managers who report directly to its subsidiaries, Fives Keods, Fives Cinetic Mexico, Fives Lund and Ernst Polack (which became Fives a management committee member 16% 15% Landis GmbH), boosted the number of employees when they joined the Group’s consolidated scope in 2015. These acquisitions also led to a 6-point increase over 2014 in the Aluminium division. Number of nationalities 46 53 61 Employees by category The inclusion of these companies in the scope did not affect the Group’s gender balance, which Engineers and managers 36% 41% 42% 40% 42% 35% 55% remains stable compared to 2014 at 84% men and 16% women. The age and seniority structure also Technicians, designers and supervisors 25% 24% 26% 17% 31% 26% 17% remained stable, with the 50+ age group still accounting for 35% of staff and employees with less Staff 15% 11% 11% 15% 7% 16% 15% than 5 years’ seniority making up 36%. The proportion of female employees who are managers and Operators 24% 22% 19% 28% 16% 23% 13% Alternates 2% 2% 1% 3% 0% 0% engineers has slightly increased. Employees by age range The continued rise in the percentage of employees who are managers, Less than 20 1% 0% 0% 0% 1% 0% 0% engineers and technicians reflects our teams’ increased level of qualifications, From 20 to 29 14% 14% 14% 12% 14% 12% 19% although production remains a very significant part of our activities. From 30 to 39 23% 25% 26% 16% 28% 20% 42% From 40 to 49 25% 25% 25% 18% 27% 29% 26% From 50 to 59 29% 28% 27% 34% 27% 30% 11% The need to adjust headcount in line with the volume of business while preserving skills led to a 60 and more 8% 8% 8% 20% 4% 8% 3% decrease in headcount in certain businesses, additional hiring in others, and an increased focus on resource pooling among subsidiaries. In France, staff loans increased by nearly 50%. Fives ECL was Employees by length of service the main “source” subsidiary and Fives FCB, in the cement and minerals sector, was the main Less than 5 36% 37% 36% 38% 33% 31% 55% “recipient”. From 5 to 10 23% 22% 23% 13% 27% 22% 26% From 11 to 15 9% 9% 10% 6% 13% 11% 8% From 16 to 20 8% 8% 8% 7% 9% 11% 4% Starter meetings, a key step for new hires in which the employee meets with an HR From 21 to 25 8% 7% 6% 6% 5% 9% 4% representative, were carried out more frequently, with a Group-level increase of close From 26 to 30 From 31 to 35 5% 5% 5% 5% 5% 4% 7% 6% 4% 4% 9% 4% 1% 1% to 40% in 2015, making this step an essential part of successfully joining the +40% From 36 to 40 6% 5% 5% 9% 4% 2% 0% company. 41 and more 2% 2% 2% 6% 1% 1% 0% * Including the Middle East and Australia 62 63 INDICATORS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives INNOVATION INDICATORS After undergoing a stringent process, three more products earned the internal Engineered Sustainability® 2013 2014 2015 brand: Stein Digiflex®, a continuous annealing line for steel coils, mainly for the automotive market; the R&D expenditure in € million 28.1 33.1 35.5 GENI-beltTM for courier, postal and distribution sorting system; and the North American Regenerative Furnace, a forging furnace with regenerative burners. Breakdown of R&D expenditure As part of the Engineered Sustainability® program, 98 people received eco-design training in 2015, bringing Costs of patents and trademarks 7% 9% 9% Standard design and formalization of know-how 8% 8% 9% the total number of people trained in the Group to nearly 250. Continuous improvement of products and processes 32% 27% 24% Development of new products and processes 42% 43% 44% Research and radical innovation activities 11% 12% 13% Patents and trademarks Number of patents and patent applications in force 1,784 1,859 1,948 Number of patent families in force 504 532 582 Number of first patent applications (new patented inventions) 61 53 50 Number of first patent applications relating to energy and environmental performance 16 17 11 Percentage of patents relating to energy and environmental performance 26 % 32% 22% Number of ‟product” trademarks registered 98 113 111 The eco-design program INTRODUCTION TO THE DATA BY SITE AND THE STATISTICS ON Number of products carrying the Engineered Sustainability® brand 2 6 9 ENVIRONMENT/HEALTH & SAFETY/ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE Number of products currently being analyzed 12 10 7 Number of subsidiaries participating in the program 12 14 14 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reporting covered all sites with an average workforce of 10 or more in Percentage of eligible subsidiaries participating in the program 29% 33% 39% Number of people trained in eco-design in 2015 48 54 98 2015 and all sites with an industrial activity. Fives Innovation Awards In 2015, the changes to the scope were caused by four factors: Number of subsidiaries taking part in the Group Innovation Award contest 44 45 46 ‒ the increase in headcount at an entity in Bahrain, bringing it up to the CSR reporting threshold; Percentage of Group employees invited to compete for the Group Innovation Award 62% 82% 79% Number of ideas submitted for the Group Innovation Award 443 407 481 ‒ the integration of Fives ITAS, a company in the combustion sector acquired in 2014; ‒ a policy of rationalizing the Group’s legal entities, which led to the merger or dissolution of five legal Research and test centers Number of research and test centers (*) 27 27 28 entities; France: 17, the Americas: 6, Europe (excl. France): 4, Asia: 1 ‒ the creation and closure of sites within the legal entities. (*) All of the subsidiaries conducting their own R&D product testing in designated locations are counted. As a reminder, unlike HR and Finance reporting, this reporting excludes companies that had not conducted their business in the Fives group for the full year 2015. Fives ECL and its subsidiaries in the Aluminium division, The Group R&D program saw a renewed emphasis in 2015, with a 7% spending increase on research and Ernst Polack (now Fives Landis GmbH) in Germany in the automotive division, and Fives Lund, a company innovation. At constant scope (excluding the 2015 acquisitions), R&D spending reached €34.9 million in 2015, located on the west coast of the US in the aerospace division, which were acquired in 2015, were not included a 5% increase. in the CSR reporting scope. The percentage of the R&D budget which is dedicated to new product/process development and breakaway research and innovation continued to increase in 2015, reflecting the Group’s desire to CSR CROSS-SECTIONAL INDICATORS maintain its position on innovative, high-performance technical solutions. The Europe excl. Asia and 2013 2014 2015 France Americas France Africa* Fives continued to file patents at an impressive pace in 2015, with 50 new patented inventions. The Group has a broad range of 582 patented inventions, covering all of its activities and protected by a total of 1,948 Number of subsidiaries included in the scope of the CSR policy 53 62 59 12 20 15 12 current patents in different countries. Fives ECL, which joined the Group in 2015, contributed to these strong Subsidiaries acquired in n-1 that entered the CSR scope in n 1 7 1 0 0 1 0 results with 7 new patents in 2015 as well as a solid portfolio of 37 patent families and 186 current patents. Subsidiaries newly included in the CSR scope 1 2 1 0 0 0 1 Total number of sites 79 92 98 20 42 18 18 Five ECL also brought the number of Group research and test centers up to 28. Industrial sites 30 37 38 11 15 8 4 Offices 26 29 31 5 13 4 9 2015 was a good year for the innovation competition, with a strong increase in the numbers of ideas Combined sites, test centers and regional facilities 23 26 29 4 14 6 5 nominated (+18%) and competitors (+16%). These results highlight employees’ drive to contribute to developing innovative solutions. While the number of people invited to participate in the Group Innovation Award CSR Coaching continued to increase in 2015, the percentage of Group employees involved dropped slightly due to the Number of subsidiaries already embarked on a CSR coaching program 35 38 37 11 17 3 6 Percentage of employees accounted for by these subsidiaries changes in Group headcount. 68% 63% 64% 46% 88% 20% 48% (total and by region) Management system Number of sites with ISO 9001 certification 49 56 61 9 33 12 7 The roll-out of the Engineered Sustainability® eco-design program, an innovation Number of sites with pending ISO 9001 certification 3 7 7 4 0 3 0 process which aims to optimize the environmental and operational performance of Fives’ Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) community products, continued in 2015 with the selection of Group products with a strong environmental Number of Group HSE representatives 48 58 59 impact which are strategic for the Group’s markets. EY certified the program in October 2013. Number of Group HSE auditors 15 15 20 Number of Group HSE audits conducted 22 21 20 Percentage of companies audited (cumulative) 75% 79% 81% * Including the Middle East 64 65 INDICATORS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives The development of the Group’s Service activities indirectly contributed to the increase in the number of sites, HEALTH & SAFETY INDICATORS in order to have locations closer to the customer sites. However, industrial sites still account for the largest 2013 2014 2015 proportion of Group sites, a proportion which increases every year. Number of industrial sites 30 37 38 The roll-out of the Health & Safety program continues, with a focus on getting management involved and Number of sites with safety certification* 18 22 25 preventing the main risks of severe accidents within the Group. To support these initiatives, the HSE community continued to grow in 2015 at both the subsidiary level and the Group-wide Health & Safety Number of sites engaged in safety certification 6 5 4 Percentage of industrial sites with safety certification 23% 30% 32% coordination level. Percentage of subsidiaries having written and distributed a Health & Safety Policy 77% 79% 83% Number of FTE(1) Health & Safety staff in the Group 46.0 50.7 53.0 The Group HSE audits, which are a key resource for coaching and continuous improvement Accident statistics (employees + temporary employees) in the subsidiaries, were carried out in workshops and on customer sites. Several work sites Number of severe accidents** NA NA 5 were audited in 2015, mainly in the cement and steel businesses. In 2016, the focus will Number of which were fatal 1 shift to supervision and services sites where the Group operates in order to prevent accidents Number of lost-time accidents (≥1 day) 73 77 55 on these sites over the long term. Percentage of lost-time accidents occurring on customer/subcontractor sites 34% 31% 42% The CSR coaching program, which was launched in 2011, was not extended to any new subsidiaries in 2015, Percentage of lost-time accidents occurring in workshops 53% 64% 45% Percentage of lost-time accidents occurring in offices 5% 5% 7% in order to prioritize the roll-out of a series of themed programs on environmental issues, ethics, and above Percentage of lost-time accidents occurring on business trips 7% 0% 5% all safety. The decrease between 2014 and 2015 is due to the merger of two entities. In 2016, the Group will decide whether to continue or overhaul this program, in light of the Group’s overall transformation program Lost-time accident frequency rate 5.86 5.36 3.91 for 2020. (Number of lost-time accidents (≥1 day) x 1,000,000 / Number of hours worked) Severity rate 0.182 0.207 0.135 (Number of lost-time accidents (≥1 day) x 1,000 / Number of hours worked) ETHICS INDICATORS 2013 2014 2015 (1) FTE: Full-Time Equivalent * OHSAS 18001 or MASE (“Manuel d’Amélioration Sécurité des Entreprises”) certifications (Corporate Safety Improvement Manual), Percentage of CEOs and Financial Directors who attended business ethics training in 2014-2015 96 % 77 % French safety management system ** Severe accidents: Accidents which could have severe reversible or irreversible consequences, or which could cause death (monitored Number of subsidiaries which have created a business ethics management committee 5 from January 2015) Code of conduct Number of languages into which the Group Code of conduct has been translated 13 13 13 Despite all of the Group companies’ hard work and the overall decrease in the number and severity of lostPercentage of companies in which the Code of conduct has been distributed 98 % 87% 88 % time accidents, 2015 was not a good year. A supervisor died following an accident on a work site in China Percentage of employees accounted for by these companies 94 % 76% 84 % and four other severe accidents occurred over the course of the year, some with lasting consequences (this Percentage of subsidiaries that hold an annual presentation of the Code of conduct involving is the first year for which severe accidents have been distinguished using a clear definition shared by all 13 % 16 % 10 % at least 25% of the workforce subsidiaries). Real progress has, however, been made on corporate culture and practices. This progress is seen in the fact that the target frequency rate for 2016 was achieved in 2015 and that subsidiaries are continuing to acquire safety certification, which is a voluntary measure. The Group frequency rate was 3.91, down from 5.36 The roll-out of the business ethics program, which started in 2014 with training in 2014. In 2016, the focus will be on redefining the objectives for the coming years in order to continue sessions for all Group executive officers, continued. The second phase, launched at the this trend. subsidiary level in 2015, aims to provide practical guidelines to the management teams and uses an entity-specific risk analysis process to identify the actions to take in order to improve the For the first time, the distribution of accidents changed: 42% of lost-time accidents occurred on corruption and anti-competitive practices prevention measures. The first subsidiaries to apply customer or sub-contractor sites, up from 31% last year. This reflects the efforts made in Group the approach served as pilots in North America, the United Kingdom and India. workshops, where the number of lost-time accidents has dropped significantly, while it stayed essentially stable for work sites and service activities. The drop in the Group’s number of lost-time accidents in 2015 is thus due to the work done in the different workshops, particularly in France and The drop in the number of executive officers who have been trained is due to the Group’s natural turnover. the United States. Another session will be held for new arrivals in 2016. The level of severity of accidents returned to its 2012 level, which corresponds to the period before the In addition to the work done with the management committees, a more ambitious Code of conduct initiative integration of the MAG group (now Fives Machining Systems and Fives Machining) and OTO Mills (now Fives remains to be carried out to quickly and thoroughly distribute it to all subsidiaries, including the most recently OTO). Note that this calculation does not include fatal accidents. acquired. The severe accidents which occurred in 2015 confirm the 2016 priorities: ‒ Implementing the Group’s Safety Golden Rules, ‒ Training the management teams on Field Safety Observation and Dialog (FSOD) visits to develop a shared culture of vigilance, ‒ More stringent requirements for analysis of the underlying causes of accidents. In 2015, the Group Health & Safety Coordination team was boosted by the creation of dedicated coordination teams for North America and Europe, which will improve monitoring of the action plans formalized during internal audits. 66 67 INDICATORS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Fossil energy consumption (gas and oil) was roughly the same as in 2014, with variations on different sites mainly due to the weather, with a relative decrease in consumption due to milder temperatures in North The Europe excl. Asia and 2013 2014 2015 France America (Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin, where the Group highest-consumption sites are located) and colder Americas France Africa* temperatures in Europe. Certain sites have, however, already updated their heating systems, which improves Number of sites with ISO 14001 certification (all types of sites) 21 31 37 8 15 7 7 their energy performance. The actual effects of these changes in terms of gas consumption remain difficult to isolate from variations in activity and weather. Objective of ISO 14001 certification for industrial sites Industrial sites 30 37 38 11 15 8 4 Number of industrial sites with ISO 14001 certification 16 25 28 8 11 6 3 The increase in water consumption, in terms of both volume and value, is due to the activity of the Suzhou Number of industrial sites with ISO 14001 certification in progress 13 3 6 0 3 3 0 site in China, the Group’s top water consumer, and the fact that Fives ITAS, a new industrial site in Italy which Percentage of industrial sites with ISO 14001 certification 53% 68% 74% 73% 73% 75% 75% accounts for 8% of the Group’s water consumption, was included this year. ISO 14001 certification for other types of sites (offices, combined sites, test centers, regional facilities) Number of non-industrial sites with ISO 14001 certification 5 6 9 0 4 1 4 Percentage of non-industrial sites certified 10% 11% 15% 0% 15% 10% 29% Environmental management system Percentage of sites that have written and distributed an Environment policy 62% 61% 64% 50% 71% 78% 50% Number of FTE(1) Environment staff in the Group 19.5 20.8 20.0 3.5 10.95 3.7 1.8 Energy consumption in GWh Electricity consumption in GWh 48.7 65.2 63.0 27.9 21.4 7.1 6.7 Natural gas and heating oil consumption in GWh 56.8 61.6 62.2 32.0 19.4 10.2 0.6 Total energy consumption in GWh 105.5 126.8 125.2 59.9 40.7 17.3 7.3 Energy consumption in €000 Electricity consumption in €000 4,604 5,857 6,451 2,359 2,146 1,084 860 Natural gas and heating oil consumption in €000 2,018 2,140 2,124 680 877 521 46 Total energy consumption in €000 6,622 7,997 8,575 3,040 3,023 1,605 907 Water consumption Water consumption (industrial sites) in m3 84,739 83,816 89,316 32,533 19,684 14,376 22,723 Water consumption (industrial sites) in €000 190 178 213 108 51 43 10 (1) FTE: Full-Time Equivalent * Including the Middle East The drive in favor of the environment continues, supported by the Group policy which requires all industrial sites to achieve ISO 14001 certification. In 2015, 74% of industrial sites had earned environmental management certification. However, in addition to this policy, other sites are voluntarily getting involved: for example, three non-industrial sites obtained ISO 14001 certification in 2015. Following the European Directive on energy efficiency, eight Group companies based in Italy, France and the United Kingdom, carried out energy audits, leading to consumption reduction plans, the full effects of which will be felt from 2016. Electricity consumption (electricity is the Group’s top energy source) dropped 35% in 2015 despite the integration of a new industrial site in Italy. This decrease is mainly due to variations in activity levels (at constant scope the drop is roughly 4%) at the major Aerospace and Energy workshops in Europe and the United States. The opposite trend was seen in Asia, where the top consumer, the Fives Cryo Suzhou plant (Energy division) saw an increase in production in 2015. The relative drop in consumption was not reflected in costs, since the average price per kWh rose. 68 69 INDICATORS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives UN Global Compact FIVES ADOPTED GOOD PRACTICES ON ALL KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMS WELL ON SEVERAL LESS MATERIAL STAKES Fives’ ESG performances* + 2. CSR strategy and risk management PROGRESS ON DEPLOYMENT OF THE GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL 1. Governing bodies 4. Human resources management 5. Diversity and equal opportunities RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAM 14. Relations with communities 3. Social policy and strategy 6. Health and safety Good 7. Social dialogue 8. Environmental policy and EMS A yearly assessment of the progress done by the Group in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility is being practices 13. Responsibility towards clients carried out since 2012. In 2014, Fives decided to publish its annual objectives in addition to the year-on-year changes in order to highlight its priorities for the coming year. The firm Exfi-Partners has also assessed the Group’s corporate social responsibility process annually since ≈ Average 9. Energy and emissions 10. Water 2013. This analysis is based on a materiality matrix (facing). 11. Waste practices 12. Purchasing process and of sector responsibility towards suppliers Their findings provide information to the Group for talks about priorities and determinations to make across the whole corporate social responsibility program. Source: Exfi-Partners The following table (see opposite) details the overall progress made by the corporate social responsibility program of the Group and how that progress relates to the commitment made by Fives to respect and No formalization promote the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. / weak practices Their correlation with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact is indicated by “GC 1” (Global Compact 1) for the program that corresponds to Principle 1 of the United Nations Global Compact, and so on, as detailed below: Materiality level** Low Medium High Human Rights ENVIRONMENTAL STAKES * Governance, social and environmental performance ** Materiality level: Material topics for an organization should include those topics that have a direct GC 1. Businesses should support and respect the ARE MANAGED IN LINE or indirect impact on an organization’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; WITH THE PRACTICES OF THE SECTOR and social value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large (source Global Reporting Initiative GRI) and GC 2. Ensure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. External evaluation by Exfi-Partners For the second year in a row, Exfi-Partners has conducted an evaluation of the Group’s corporate social responsibility Labor program. The evaluation was based on documents, questionnaires and interviews that were used to balance out GC 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of the evaluation guidelines Fives applies and to measure Fives’ performance against these guidelines. association and the effective recognition of the right to The materiality matrix above provides an overview of these two working strategies: collective bargaining; ‒ On the x-axis, materiality reflects the significance of each topic in relation to Fives’ business (according to GC 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and the Global Reporting Initiative(1), these are “topics that have a direct or indirect impact on an organization’s compulsory labor; ability to create, preserve or erode [...] value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large”) GC 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and ‒ On the y-axis, Environmental and Social performance and Governance (ESG) pertains to Fives’ ability to GC 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of understand these topics. employment and occupation. The findings are informing Group talks about priorities and determinations to make across the whole social responsibility program. Environment “We use the United Nations Global Compact to GC 7. Businesses should support a precautionary According to Exfi-Partners, the key areas of social responsibility for Fives are part of the following Fives programs approach to environmental challenges; (detailed on pages 72-75): regularly re-assess our commitments, and GC 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater 2. CSR strategy and risk management: Good practices / Embed the CSR priorities into the organization of each provide official accountability for our actions.” environmental responsibility; and Fives entity (CSR coaching and Fives Directives and Guidelines Manual) Frédéric Sanchez, Chairman of the Executive Board GC 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of 4. Human resources management and 6. Health & safety: Good practices / Provide a safe and motivating environmentally friendly technologies. workplace 8. Environmental policy and Environmental Management System (EMS): Good practices / Environmental Anti-corruption ISO 14001 certification program GC 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all 13. Responsibility towards clients: Good practices / Engineered Sustainability® eco-design program its forms, including extortion and bribery. (1)  The Global Reporting Initiative is an organization that advocates for the standardization of sustainable development reporting practices to encourage the use of best practices and comparisons of organizations. 70 71 INDICATORS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Co Co m Level m Level m Program Achievements at end-2015 2016 goals mitm Program Achievements at end-2015 2016 goals itm en of maturity en of maturity t t Engineered Sustainability® Significant increase in sales of Engineered 7 products are currently undergoing Responsible purchasing Purchasing Directive updated to require Include HSE and ethics in purchasing Internal eco-design program which Sustainability® branded products: analysis, and 2 of them will receive the Incorporate our social responsibility goals subsidiaries to take CSR criteria into performance self-assessments. Promoting fair practices on the marketplace meets (and exceeds) the requirements 3 products branded in 2015, for a total Engineered Sustainability® brand in into our relations with subcontractors and account. Go further with Reach implementation in of the ISO 14062 standard. of 9 early 2016: CTD Flex+ (coal tar suppliers. Subsidiaries increasingly integrate HSE Europe. It’s an innovation process that can lead to 7 products undergoing analysis distillation) and Lineos (pitch fume GC 1 – GC 2 – GC 3 – GC 4 – GC 5 and CSR criteria in the broadest sense Start the process of ensuring that the award of a brand identifying 39% of target subsidiaries involved in the treatment for port storage). into their sub-contractor selection subsidiaries comply with the “UK best-in-class products in terms of program process: 15% of them consider it the key Modern Slavery Act”. environmental and safety performance. the number of people trained has Review the second Fives Engineered criterion in their decision. EY awarded this program an insurance doubled since 2014, bringing the total up Sustainability® branded product: Stein certificate in 2013. to 250. Digit@l Furnace® AT 2.0. Promote social responsibility EcoVadis rating: Confirmed (Gold), Enhance multi-channel internal GC 8 GC 9 The CO2 emissions prevented by these in our commercial offer 71/100, top 2% of the panel of 20,000 communications on CSR: Intranet, technologies throughout their lifespans are Implement the eco-design approach Figure out how to make social and businesses assessed by EcoVadis at end corporate social network, distribution of estimated at 1.4M tCO2-eq for products sold even earlier in the pre-project phase environmental impacts part of the offer 2015. our customers’ CSR reports. in 2015 alone. and in the design offices, thanks to and the CSR performance levels for Fives Provide sales staff with a document Minimizing the environmental footprint dedicated resources and guides. and every subsidiary part of the sales which recaps the key events and 2015 also saw the triennial review of the pitch. figures. first Engineered Sustainability® branded GC 9 product, the CentriSprayTM Chamber Washer. Safety roadmap for 2016 2016 frequency rate target achieved in Roll out the Group’s Safety Golden Rules. Redesign studies have been launched in Move the Group towards a safety culture 2015: 3.91, despite the tragedy of 1 fatal Roll out a field safety and observation shared by all. accident and 4 severe accidents. dialog visit program: of the Group and its customers order to better meet the automotive market’s needs. The CentrisprayTM Chamber In three years, halve the accident Group Health & Safety Coordination › Ambassador training Washer will go through brand re-approval frequency rate for employees and team enhanced: North America and › Management team training in 2016. temporary staff, with the ultimate goal Europe. › Objectives for number of visits in 2016. remaining zero severe accidents. Safety community trained to investigate Create a working group to identify ways Mandatory environmental certification At the end of December 2015, 37 sites 8 industrial sites to be ISO 14001 Our aim is to reach a maximum accident the underlying causes of accidents to improve accident prevention on program for all Group industrial sites had received ISO 14001 certification, certified by end 2017. frequency rate of 4 in 2016 for Targeted actions implemented to increase supervision sites. based on the date they joined the Group including 28 industrial sites (74% of Launch the support program for entities employees and temporary staff. management involvement in safety. (the first phase ended in 2014 for sites industrial sites). which recently joined the Group. Promoting diversity and raising awareness Gender equality Age there prior to 2012). All 8 of the subsidiaries subject to the Assist the subsidiaries in formalizing of non-discrimination 16% of employees are women. The intergenerational agreement will GC 7 GC 8 European Directive on energy efficiency action plans to improve their energy Gender equality: Tracking of the 37% of women are engineers or expire on September 30, 2016, meaning successfully completed the energy performance. Providing a safe and motivating working environment percentage of women hired, access to managers. that new negotiations must be held to: audits of their sites. training and promotion; awareness raised Older people Propose a new support plan for older Environmental committee involving the of discriminatory practices. 35% of employees are 50 or over. employees. Group’s Purchasing, Innovation and CSR Employment of older people: Tracking of 41% of employees have been with the Use awareness initiatives to increase the departments created. The committee’s the agreement on older people signed in Group for over 10 years (16% for over percentage of young employees at objective is to ensure that the Group’s France. However, the over-50s 25 years). Fives. environmental approach is consistent employment rate is high, and the Disability awareness campaign Disabilities and effective. challenge for Fives in many of its The communication resources are still in In France: The reductions listed in the subsidiaries is to transfer know-how. place in the subsidiaries. annual declarations must be analyzed, Fives Code of conduct All subsidiaries present the Code of Train the subsidiaries’ management Employment of disabled people: A new review completed at end 2015 particularly those related to people over Adoption of the Code of conduct by all conduct to new hires before signing teams on preventing corruption and Awareness-raising campaign since 2012 shows that the Group met 86.6% of its age 50. employees by: their contract. anti-competitive practices. and sharing of best practices. employment requirements for France. Implement an action plan to stabilize the Distributing it to all employees Code of conduct distributed in 88% of Remind the directives on distribution of GC 6 Anti-discrimination training employment rate at Fives, despite the Promoting fair practices on the marketplace Writing a reading guide for the Code of companies and to 84% of those the Code of conduct. In India: Creation of a training course on risk of retirements. conduct, and practical examples to train companies’ employees. sexual harassment prevention. Training all Group managers, to feed into an The number of subsidiaries which hold In France, 233 people received Conduct sexual harassment prevention annual discussion of the Code in each an annual presentation dropped to 10%. anti-discrimination training in 2014 and training in all Indian subsidiaries. team. 2015. GC 10 In the US, over 600 people were trained in 2014 and 2015. Business ethics Agent management procedures Make the new Agent management Special initiative: In the US, an initiative Intensify the program on corruption overhauled. Directive official and distribute it. has been launched to encourage hiring prevention and anti-competition practices Second phase of deployment launched: Continue the roll-out of the Business military veterans. through special training sessions, rollout 2 pilot sessions on risk analysis in North Ethics Directive with training and Harmonization of the employee welfare Mostly harmonized progressive social Formalize the Group’s benefits policy. of the new Group Directive on these America and the United Kingdom. working sessions in the subsidiaries. protection regime coverage plans, in France, China and Continue harmonization in India and issues and enhance the Group agent Harmonize and challenge the employee India. China and extend to the United States management toolbox. welfare protection regime in the main Creation of a Group savings plan in and Canada. GC 10 domains where the Group has a France. presence. Topic non identified Emergent In construction Defined, with deployment in progress Fully and satisfactorily deployed 72 73 INDICATORS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Co Level Co Level m m m Program Achievements at end-2015 2016 goals mitm Program Achievements at end-2015 2016 goals itm en of maturity en of maturity t t Identification and management of 46% of employees have been assessed Bring Fives ECL and its subsidiaries World employee opinion survey 70% responded to the internal Set up employee working groups in employees with potential (CEDRE) by a CEDRE career management (acquired in mid-2015) into the program. An opinion survey conducted among satisfaction survey. each subsidiary to develop action plans Providing a safe and motivating working Annual career management committee in committee which includes at least one all Group employees every three years, The criteria with the most positive to improve the weak points identified. each subsidiary, attended by the member of the Fives Executive designed to measure satisfaction levels responses are relationships with management team and a Human committee. and any organizational malfunctions, and co-workers (93% satisfied) and Resources representative, to: In 2015, certain recently acquired which gives rises to the implementation of feeling safe at one’s workstation Determine which measures need to subsidiaries were included in the action plans proposed by employee (92% satisfied). be taken to improve employee program for the first time: Fives ITAS, bodies. The main expectations involve internal environment performance. Fives OTO, Fives Machining Systems in organization and management of Approve personal career plans. Shanghai (its US-based sister companies variations in activity levels. were included in 2014). Overall, 74% of respondents are happy to work for their company, a slight drop Training and career path support Fives Leadership Factory: Fives Leadership Factory: compared to 2012. for promising employees Second session of LeadershipRise@Fives. Objective of 25 people New employee programs A total of roughly fifty people have for the LeadershipRise@Fives. Ongoing training gone through the course over the past Objective of 165 people for Dedicated training for promising two years. Manager@Fives. Distribute best practices Improve internal communications Continue to update the Directives to take employees. Launch of Manager@Fives: 80 people Launch BusinessManagement@Fives: and Group Directives by creating a section on the Group into account the changes to Fives’ involved in 2015. First session planned for June, for 25 Providing a safe and motivating working environment Compilation of Directives and Guidelines intranet portal. Governance and business. Starter meeting: Group-wide consolidation people. covering all Group jobs, linked to internal Directives and Guidelines Manual Improve the integration of new of the program, with an overall 40% Continue the starter meeting and career control rules. presented to the new subsidiaries. subsidiaries. Incorporating CSR priorities into the organization of all Fives entities increase. The United States saw booster programs in all zones. GC 1 to GC 10 particularly strong progress, doubling the number of people covered. Career booster: This program has also been implemented worldwide, but France remains over-represented with 70% of interviews. Develop an anticipatory strategy on jobs Local HR community expanded to Continue this project, particularly by and organizations at each company encourage closer relationships, with the listing the subsidiaries which already use Develop this strategy with a 5-step creation of the position of HRD India in this type of process outside France. program: addition to the existing positions in CSR coaching The program was stabilized in 2015, Reposition the program in light of the Define the company strategy. France, the US, China and Italy. One-day working meeting with each and no new subsidiaries have joined Group transformation project: FivesWAY. Determine the business goals In France, program finalized or under subsidiary’s management committee, the program. and the operational goals. way for 95% of companies. to identify the key CSR challenges Identify the skills required to achieve and priority improvement areas. these goals. Annual tracking of the action plan. Qualify the existing positions in GC 1 à GC 10 the company and the associated required skills. Analyse the shortfall and build action plans. Maintenance of know-how within the Staff loans increased by nearly 50% Continue the resource pooling program, by Group in France: 126 people were involved seeking to extend it into more zones. Process existing in France since 2009. in the program in 2015. Sharing meetings held two or three times First loans in North American in 2015. a year, to review the workloads/ under-loads and make staff allocation decisions, ranging from several weeks to several months. Topic non identified Emergent In construction Defined, with deployment in progress Fully and satisfactorily deployed 74 75 INDICATORS • 2016 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT 2015 Financial Year • Fives Fives French limited company (Société Anonyme) with Executive Board and Supervisory Board Share capital €102,723,764 Registered office: 27-29 rue de Provence, 75009 Paris (France) 542 023 841 R.C.S. PARIS – APE 7010Z Phone: +33 (0)1 45 23 75 75 Fax: +33 (0)1 45 23 75 71 E-mail: contact@fivesgroup.com www.fivesgroup.com Edited by the Communications Department of Fives This document is printed on Gardamatt, certified FSC Created by Le Square: +33 (0)1 45 06 56 44 (Forest Stewardship Council) paper, guaranteeing Photography: Fives and Le Square, Michelin the long-lasting management of forests. Inks used are Copyright © 2016 Fives All rights reserved plant-based, with an alcohol-free dampening solution.
