COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2015 CONTENTS 1 DRAHTZUG STEIN CONTENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 03 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS 04 LABOR 06 ENVIRONMENT 09 ANTI-CORRUPTION 12 CONTENTS 02 DRAHTZUG STEIN CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Drahtzug Stein joined the United Nations Globcode of conduct that are fully in line with the al Compact in early 2015. We will continue to principles and the goals of the Global Comsupport the Global Compact’s mission to turn pact. Therefore, from our point of view, ensurbusiness into a force for good. We share its ing compliance with all legal regulations and commitment to sustainability and we share the our own set of ethical standards is the best belief that businesses can take responsibility way to further human rights, children’s rights for achieving a better world. In pursuance of and labor rights, as well as to fight corruption. the goal of creating a sustainable and inclusive Since we already have established a compreeconomy that delivers lasting benefits for peohensive environmental management system at ple, communities, and markets, we made the all our locations, ensuring compliance with our 10 universal principles of the Global Compact own rules and working towards achieving the a guideline for everything we do. environmental goals we have set for ourselves is our most effective way of protecting the enBy engaging in the Global Compact initiative, vironment. we are also publicly communicating our ongoing commitment to protect human rights, labor In accordance with the spirit of the Globrights and the environment, as well as to fight al Compact, we hereby disclose our actions corruption. We are proud to openly demonby submitting our annual Communication on strate the values we stand for and we hope to Progress Report. This report shows our coninspire others to join us. tinued support for the goals of the Global Compact and provides a good overall sense In 2015, we made corporate compliance a foof our activities and their results. Our support cal point of our activities. We are in the process will continue. of establishing a corporate philosophy and a CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Sincerely, 03 Wolfgang Stein President and CEO DRAHTZUG STEIN DRAHTZUG STEIN holding Communication ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Drahtzug Stein is unconditionally committed to code of conduct as binding; not only for all of BUSINESSES SHOULD respecting and promoting human rights. As a our employees but for everyone involved with SUPPORT AND RESPECT company, we will not tolerate any infraction of our company, including our customers and THE PROTECTION OF human rights in our sphere of influence and will suppliers. Our corporate philosophy and code INTERNATIONALLY act appropriately if informed about any such of conduct will constitute the main documents PROCLAIMED HUMAN violations. for our corporate guidelines. These guidelines RIGHTS; AND will be publicly accessible via our website PRINCIPLE 2: At our company, we hold ourselves to high when they are released later this year. This MAKE SURE THAT THEY ethical standards. The way we treat each other means that the values we stand for are clearly ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN is characterized by respect and acceptance. visible to any interested parties. HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES. We respect social manners and strive for polite cooperation. We always act with integrity and The introduction of a code of conduct is part are aware of our responsibility as role models. of a wider effort to establish a compliance We consider a pluralistic personnel structure to management system at Drahtzug Stein. By be an enrichment. We explicitly condemn any providing our staff with reliable guidelines, we form of discrimination, regardless of whether it give them a point of reference in their everyday is because of the person, his or her behavior or business and reduce the risk of involuntary and his or her actions. We respect the legal rights deliberate misconduct. All employees receive of our employees. Throughout our company, special training concerning the laws, rules and we communicate in an open, goal-oriented pitfalls in areas we have identified as especially and clear manner. We encourage the open vulnerable to compliance risks. This way, we exchange of opinions, criticism and ideas. ensure the well-being of our employees and Conflicts help us to look at our positions critensure to the best of our abilities that no memically and to learn from them. We encourage ber of Drahtzug Stein takes part in actions that all colleagues to act on their own initiative. At violate any of the ten principles. the same time, we expect them to observe the responsibility that comes with this and to Another way for us to open up opportunities for work towards our common goals. We have self-realization for our employees is to provide HUMAN RIGHTS laid down these standards in our soon-to-beeducational offerings. At our site in Cusset, we published corporate philosophy and code of provided extensive English language training conduct. These guidelines specify the ideals courses for 13 employees. Every week, for 04 we adhere to and the values we strive to fulfill seven months, participants had the opportuDRAHTZUG STEIN in our daily work. Furthermore, we regard the nity to improve their language skills. In Lodz, we offer our employees the opportunity to take In addition to improving the lives of the people language courses in English or German. We involved with our company, Drahtzug Stein is subsidize the courses and provide rooms for committed to helping less fortunate people. In the learning groups. At our Altleiningen facili2015, we continued our long-standing comties, we support our employees by providing mitment to Lebenshilfe Bad Dürkheim e.V., foreign language training and also offer various which helps people with disabilities to lead health courses, including an anti-stress semmore fulfilled lives. We support the association inar and a back pain prevention program. In financially and are also a partner of the workaddition, we promote a health-conscious lifeshops they operate. For the second year in a style with campaigns such as fruit and juice row, we also made a donation to support a vital days or by organizing health screenings and expansion of their organic farm, which had aleducational seminars. ready reached its capacity limits. With new EU regulations threatening its status as an organic We also care deeply about the social security farm, Lebenshilfe either had to shut down the of our employees. In Western European counproject or expand the farm. The farm, which tries the level of social security is comparatively occupies land less than one kilometer from our high. This is not really the case in the USA and Altleiningen facilities, was purchased by LebPoland. At our two locations in these counenshilfe nearly 30 years ago. Over the years, tries, we have negotiated a group insurance they have made it a place where able-bodied policy that allows our employees to profit from staff and people with disabilities work side-byour bargaining power and benefit from better side, building confidence and earning recognicoverage at a better price. At our location in tion. The farm gives everyone who works and New Bern, NC, USA, we also provide differlives there a place they can call home. It has ent employee-friendly payment models, which also become a place where people meet and make it possible for them to afford insurance exchange experiences. Visitors to the farm, cover that would normally be out of their reach. many of them from schools, get the chance to Also in 2015 in New Bern, we started offering come into contact with people with disabilities free flu shots to all employees with a valid inand experience what it means to treat nature HUMAN RIGHTS surance policy. Around 20 percent of staff took and each other respectfully. This project has the opportunity to get vaccinated. become very dear to us, in part because of its proximity to our site. 05 DRAHTZUG STEIN LABOR PRINCIPLE 3: Just as a company relies on its employees, In fact, the opposite effect has been achieved: BUSINESSES SHOULD those employees must be able to trust their these measures have meant we have been UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF employer. To promote and protect this mutual successful in permanently securing their jobs. ASSOCIATION AND THE trust, we make every effort to ensure that all EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF our employees are treated with respect and At Drahtzug Stein, we strive in all areas to THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE honesty. For us, this also means ensuring their create a work environment that enables every BARGAINING; social and health security. Naturally, we comemployee to produce his or her best perforPRINCIPLE 4: ply with the statutory employment protection mance. We support the personal development THE ELIMINATION OF ALL guaranteed by law in all countries we operate of all employees, in particular, the expansion FORMS OF FORCED AND in. We regard these social achievements as of their expertise through training. We thereCOMPULSORY LABOR; something of great value. But we have set our by explicitly condemn any form of discriminagoals even higher. We do everything we can to tion, regardless of whether it is because of the PRINCIPLE 5: avoid redundancies, even in tough economic person, his or her behavior, or his or her acTHE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR; AND situations. tions. Naturally, we respect the legal rights of our employees. We pay fair wages – at least PRINCIPLE 6: Naturally, ensuring the economic welfare of our the statutory and collectively agreed minimum THE ELIMINATION OF company is fundamental to meeting our social standards – and respect the statutory and colDISCRIMINATION IN responsibility towards our employees and the lectively agreed standards on working hours, RESPECT TO EMPLOYMENT community. Most of our employees have been holidays and public holidays. We respect the AND OCCUPATION. with us for many years; some even for their legal rights of co-determination and we obentire working lives. We can only continue to serve all legal, trade association and occupaprovide them with secure long-term jobs if we tional safety regulations at all times. We rigorare successful as a company. To protect the ously reject any form of child labor or forced trust placed in us by our employees – and to labor. ensure that we remain a reliable employer and social partner in the future – we constantly upDuring the past year, we have carried out sevdate our production and business processes, eral activities to promote these values. The and corporate structures. These measures following examples showcase some of our have made both our individual sites and the efforts to put these aspirations into practice. LABOR Drahtzug Stein family of companies as a whole more productive and more competitive – 06 without placing added pressure on our staff. DRAHTZUG STEIN In 2015, we expanded our Total Producan external partner and the local fire departtive Management (TPM) program at our ment. Production staff receive at least two Altleiningen facilities. TPM gives employees hours of training four times a year, while ofmore autonomy in their field of work and fice staff receive at least two hours every six thus more responsibility. TPM also enables months. During these sessions, they learn us to sustainably increase productivity while how to handle and transport dangerous improving transparency. For example, prosubstances correctly and what to do in the duction targets can be broken down to event of an emergency or accident. A numshow exactly which workstation needs to ber of employees have also received spegenerate which output to meet the target. cial training as members of a fire prevention This makes it easier to detect bottlenecks and first-aid team. and identify issues that are impeding production. As our employees are the ones To increase safety at our saprofil facility, we manning the machines, they are the ones have updated our fire alarm and put up a most familiar with the procedures. TPM number of additional visual markings. In the gives them the opportunity to optimize proevent of an emergency, it is now easier for cesses and provides them with the resourcemployees to identify and follow the escape es to improve their workplace environment routes. We have also provided our employand working conditions. To enable our emees at saprofil with custom-made ear proployees to leverage this opportunity, we first tection. The specially molded earplugs are and foremost invested in education, with more comfortable than standard models several employees receiving special trainand last longer. ing. Some even earned certificates from Ansbach University, our academic partner. At our facility in Lodz, we organized a safeWe have now successfully introduced TPM ty-training day in cooperation with an exin three production areas overall. ternal provider. The event was designed to raise overall awareness of everyday The safety of our employees is, of course, dangers inside and outside the factory. At important to us. In addition to mandatory one station, for example, participants could LABOR work safety training courses, we provide experience the effects of intoxication: slowregular emergency training for all employer reactions, impaired eyesight and so on. 07 ees at our omim facility in cooperation with The knowledge acquired is beneficial both DRAHTZUG STEIN at work and at home. We also had a station where employees’ children could dress up in the work safety equipment usually used by their parents. We then took photos of the kids and used the images to produce posters. Displayed in the workplace, these posters provide a constant reminder to their parents and everyone else of the importance of following safety instructions and wearing protective equipment. Last but not least, in Lodz, we support our employees’ sports activities. Having formed a football team, our employees in Lodz have also founded running and biking teams. As a company, we encourage our colleagues to take part in different races, where we can cheer them on. We already provide a sports hall for the football team, where they can practice during the cold months. LABOR 08 DRAHTZUG STEIN ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: For far too long, resource consumption and of natural resources is as limited as possible. BUSINESSES SHOULD environmental impact have been an afterThat is why we have made the environment a SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY thought in manufacturing industries. Only in cornerstone of our corporate guidelines. Every APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENthe last two decades has sustainability benew measure must now be checked for its enTAL CHALLENGES; come a factor in business decisions on a widvironmental impact before being implemented. er scale. For years, we at the Drahtzug Stein Furthermore, each new capital purchase must PRINCIPLE 8: UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO Group have been campaigning for a more enimprove our energy efficiency. This is because PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONvironmentally friendly approach to production in today’s world environmentally conscious MENTAL RESPONSIBILITY; AND and other areas of business. We have backed practices are simply good business sense. this commitment with action. PRINCIPLE 9: In 2015, our cusset site successfully passed ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPWe have already made significant steps in this the ISO 14001 environmental management MENT AND PROLIFERATION OF direction with the introduction of new manufollow-up audit. As cusset was the last Group ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES. facturing techniques, advanced equipment site to achieve this distinction, the entire and environmentally friendly building services. Drahtzug Stein family of companies is now For example, all our facilities are now certified ISO 14001 group-certified. Because we recin accordance with the international environognize the value of this ISO standard, we have mental management standard ISO 14001. We audited all suppliers to our Italian plants with also strive to make more efficient use of availregard to their environmental standards. We able resources through more effective manare pleased to report that none of them failed. agement of our business processes. All existing suppliers have implemented environmental management systems according to These measures represent important progress ISO 14001. From now onwards, this will be a in moving away from purely resource-drivnon-negotiable criterion for companies wishen growth and towards creating growth that ing to become a supplier to either Drahtzug draws on the knowledge and skills of our emStein come or Drahtzug Stein omim. ployees. We are convinced that sustainable growth can only be realized in a way that does Also in 2015, we successfully completed the ENVIRONMENT not come at the expense of future generations. ISO 50001 certification of our energy management system in Altleiningen. This system supWe make every effort to remodel our producports us by providing a robust framework for 09 tion and manufacturing processes to ensure monitoring energy consumption, and enables DRAHTZUG STEIN that their impact on the environment and use us to identify optimization potential. The main target for our Corporate Environment Another major project to improve our energy Manager Thorsten Adam is to translate all the efficiency is underway in Italy. We have perlessons learned during the Altleiningen pilot formed energy audits at all our Italian facilities. project into guidelines for our other locations. The findings will guide our efforts to increase Our next milestone is to introduce an energy energy efficiency at our come and omim sites management system according to ISO 50001 for years to come. The measures include reat our facility in Lodz by the end of 2016. placing conventional lighting with more energy-efficient LED systems and will establish Because saving energy is one of our primary energy consumption measurement systems at ambitions in becoming more environmentally both sites. We also intend to start producing friendly, we have realized several measures our own electric energy by installing photovolto increase energy efficiency during the past taic systems. While the order of implementayear. Following a series of positive results tion has yet to be decided, we intend to have from replacing conventional lighting with LED all these measures in place by 2018. lights, we decided to refit more facilities. In Altleiningen, we replaced all the lights in the A major investment at several of our locations production areas, saving 300,000 kWh per in 2015 was the renewal of air pressure sysyear. At Drahtzug Stein cusset, replacing half tems and the commissioning of new, more the lights in one workshop means that we now energy-efficient air compressors. We replaced save 15,000 kWh per year. We are planning to three air compressors at drahtwaren, one at complete the refit of all 450 neon lights in the saprofil and two at our site in Cusset. Variable factory by the end of 2017 at the latest. This speed means that they can adjust to changwill achieve annual savings of 210,000 kWh. In ing load better and consume significantly less Lodz, alongside replacing conventional lights, energy. We are also able to recover the waste we have begun installing an intelligent lighting heat from the compressors. Furthermore, we system that connects the lights to motion senreplaced the old cooling unit at cusset with a sors. In addition to more energy-efficient LED more energy-efficient system. Besides conlamps, we are saving energy by only turning suming ten percent less energy, the new unit ENVIRONMENT lights on where they are needed. One building uses a more environmentally friendly refrigerwas retrofitted in 2015; the other three will be ant. completed by 2017. The planned overall sav10 ings are 120,000 kWh per year. DRAHTZUG STEIN In New Bern, we installed a new burner in rials used for plating, and the amount of toxic the oven of one of our coating lines. The new waste we create. We have arranged for special burner gives us more control, resulting in lower training courses on how to safely handle hazgas consumption, a reduction in scrap parts ardous materials and have also ensured the and a cleaner, more efficient, burning process. proper handling and disposal of toxic waste resulting from shutting down one of the nickAside from employing more energy efficient el-chromium baths at the site. Although reductechnology, our employees are an important ing waste by decreasing production is quite element in achieving our environmental goals. simple, reducing waste in relation to the hours This is why we have organized several trainthe plant is running is a challenge. In 2015, we ing courses at our saprofil site in France to were able to reduce the total amount of toxic teach our employees how to save energy. For waste generated by our production processes example, consistently closing doors and curat omim by roughly four percent. This is a sigtains that separate different compartments in nificant improvement and one of which we are the facility prevents warmth from escaping and rather proud. saves a lot of heating energy. To preserve natural resources, we have increased our efforts to recycle materials that would otherwise be wasted at our site in New Bern. We have begun a collaboration with a local scrap recycling company to repurpose pallets and powder octabins. In addition to our ongoing recycling effort to collect PE bottles, we have extended the recycling program to include aluminum cans. Protecting the environment from hazardous ENVIRONMENT materials we use in our production is another focal point of our activities. At our omim site, we have implemented several measures 11 aimed at reducing risks from hazardous mateDRAHTZUG STEIN ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Naturally, we comply with applicable law. We our business partners that Drahtzug Stein will BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK respect the relevant national and international have no part in illegal business practices. We AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL law regardless of our location or the location do business only in accordance with the law ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORof the business. We also respect several interand with our own principles of integrity and TION AND BRIBERY national conventions that we have chosen to mutual respect. By complying with these stanrecognize, such as the Global Compact. dards, we minimize any risk of illegal business transactions that could result in severe fines, At Drahtzug Stein, we condemn corruption, jeopardizing the future of our company. While taking advantage and bribery. We respect the there is still much to be done in the future, in relevant laws and conventions. We neither of2015 we took significant first steps. But, as is fer business partners gifts or benefits with the customary with such a system, monitoring and aim of influencing a business decision, nor do improving it will be an open-ended process. we accept such gifts or benefits. We aim to prevent even the appearance of such influBy providing our staff with reliable guidelines, ence and will not tolerate application of unfair we give them a point of reference in their everymeans. Furthermore, we do not accept any day business and reduce their risk of involunbenefits, gifts or entertainment that could lead tary misconduct or committing acts for which to a conflict of interest. We avoid situations they could be prosecuted. All employees will that could lead to conflicts of interest between receive special training concerning the laws, our personal or financial interests and the interrules and pitfalls in areas we have identified as ests of Drahtzug Stein. especially vulnerable to compliance risks. To assist our employees in complying with these standards, we began emphasizing compliant behavior throughout our company in 2015. We started preparations for implementing a company-wide compliance manANTI-CORRUPTION agement system to protect the company and our employees from the fallout of any misconduct. By taking an active stance against illegal actions such as corruption, infringements of 12 antitrust law or acts of fraud, we communiDRAHTZUG STEIN cate to our employees, our stakeholders, and DRAHTZUG STEIN drahtwaren DRAHTZUG STEIN service Talstraße 2 Talstraße 2 67317 Altleiningen 67317 Altleiningen Germany Germany Tel: +49 6356 966-0 Tel: +49 6356 966-0 Fax: +49 6356 966-118 Fax: +49 6356 966-118 DRAHTZUG STEIN cusset DRAHTZUG STEIN saprofil 12, Boulevard Alsace Lorraine Z. l. des Fruchardières BP 20045 5, rue Clément Ader 03300 Cusset Cedex 85340 Olonne-sur-Mer France France Tel: +33 4 70 30 97 60 Tel: +33 251 211309 Fax: +33 4 70 30 97 69 Fax: +33 251 957410 DRAHTZUG STEIN come DRAHTZUG STEIN omim Via Monferrato, 4 Via J.F. Kennedy, 8 15030 Conzano (AL) 30027 San Donà di Piave (VE) Italy Italy P.I. 02106020064 P.I. 02106020064 Tel: +39 0142 925545 Tel: +39 0421 497511 Fax: +39 0142 924211 Fax: +39 0421 497598 DRAHTZUG STEIN łodź DRAHTZUG STEIN usa ul. Techniczna 8/10 197 Bosch Blvd. 92-518 Łodź New Bern NC 28562 Poland USA Tel: +48 4225 42000 Tel: +1 252 637-9660 Fax: +48 4225 42020 Fax: +1 252 635-9473 CREATED 04.2016 DRAHTZUG STEIN holding Tel: +49 6356 966-0 info@drahtzug.com 67317 Altleiningen (Germany) Fax: +49 6356 966-118 www.drahtzug.com
