Communication on Progress in 2015 General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 01-01-2015 To: 31-12-2015 07-09-2015 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Beter Bed Holding (BBH) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication, our Annual Report and corporate website www.BeterBedHolding.com. BBH is listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange (in the Small Cap Index AScX). Our core activity is the retail trade in the market for sleeping comfort operating in 7 countries in Western Europe. Across all of our formulas and the countries in which we operate, we offer high-quality products that we sell to consumers for the best possible ‘deal’ based on advice that is better than that of the competitors. BBH is an organisation in which a large number of stakeholders are involved: our suppliers, our employees, and the people who purchase our products. In addition, there are our shareholders, our business associates, governments, competitors and any other parties affected by our work, from the start of the manufacturing process through to the use of the products in our customers’ bedrooms. We feel it is important to maintain long-term relationships with each of these partners. However, such long-term relationships create responsibilities. The manner in which working conditions are organised is just as important to us as the fact that our products do not damage the health of end users and are safe to the environment, humans and animals. Accordingly, our vision the 10 principles of the Global Compact serves as a guideline for our business operations, containing as it does the core values that determine our day-today conduct. In addition, it serves as a blueprint for the future, for our continuous quest for sustainability, as we are aware that there is always room for improvement. Therefore Page 1 of 8 Communication on Progress in 2015 the foundation of our values for doing business is based on the 10 principles of the Global Compact. For the internal operations we have installed an internal code of conduct in 2011. All employees working for the several store formulas’ of Beter Bed have been informed and instructed how to apply the code. To ensure the right execution of the code in the daily routines at work, employees can anonymously report violations with our whistle-blower facilities, which are implemented companywide. In 2011 we renewed our suppliers code of conduct by including the 10 principles of the Global Compact. We have provided our suppliers a two-year period to adhere to our supplier code of conduct, or to raise a signal when they face problems living up to our standards. Since 2013 all our first tier suppliers have signed our supplier code of conduct that demands from our suppliers to respect the human rights. Therefore we recognise limited risk of violations of human rights at our direct suppliers. In 2014 we have 4 new suppliers that have not signed the code yet. In 2014 we have conducted an in debt stakeholder dialogue. Our stakeholders appreciate the actions we have taken, so far. However they advise us to put more effort in securing our supply chain and the assortment of the products sold. In 2015 we have installed the CSR Board, including employees from our main subsidiaries from several countries. The CSR Board will come forward with new goals and intentions in 2016, that complies to the suggestions made by stakeholders. We have also committed ourselves to fair contributions of tax in all countries where we operate. When it comes to responsible and sustainable business, we set the bar high. We believe growth is about more than investing in order to increase revenue – it is also about building an organisation that respects people, animals and the earth. Using this vision as a foundation, we can all make a contribution. We firmly believe that this both enhances our reputation and increases our work satisfaction. Sincerely yours, Ton Anbeek CEO Beter Bed Holding Page 2 of 8 Communication on Progress in 2015 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses BBH operates in countries part of the European Union, that all signed the OECD Guidelines. Therefore we consider the risk of violations of the Human Rights in our operations as extremely limited. Nevertheless BBH has explicitly included the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights into both the • internal code of conduct; • supplier code of conduct. For the status of both codes we refer to the first chapter of this Communication on Progress: General. To ensure the right execution of the code in the daily routines at work, employees can anonymously report violations with our whistle-blower facilities, which are implemented companywide. BBH internal code of conduct: http://bit.ly/1mq40qe Reporting on employees of BBH: http://bit.ly/2cwDpHa BBH supplier code of conduct: http://bit.ly/OQX730 Reporting on suppliers of BBH: http://bit.ly/2coPRIz BBH whistle-blower policy: http://bit.ly/1KMEmDA Reporting on Whistle-blower policy: http://bit.ly/2ccHGTE Page 3 of 8 Communication on Progress in 2015 Labour Principles Principle3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation BBH in countries part of the European Union, that all signed the OECD Guidelines. Therefore we consider the risk of violations of the Labour Principles as extremely limited. Nevertheless BBH has explicitly included the Labour rights into both the • internal code of conduct; • supplier code of conduct. For the status of both codes we refer to the first chapter of this Communication on Progress: General. BBH intends to be a preferred employer, and therefore invests in the relationship with our employees. Therefore we regularly perform employee satisfaction surveys and invest generously in health and safety programmes and procedures. More detailed reporting in chapter “Quality of our staff”: http://bit.ly/2cwDpHa We fully support the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. To effectively manage and formalise consultation with our employees we have installed an employees council. We consider forced and child labour as an extremely low risk within the boundaries of our company, as we operate in Western Europe only. To avoid these misconducts in our supply chain, these issues are included in our supplier code of conduct. Discrimination is a problem that we do not tolerate at BBH and can be reported anonymously with help of the whistle-blower procedure. We consider it a best practice to have a diverse workforce and management. Diversity in the composition of management and other teams is a major ambition pursued by BBH. Page 4 of 8 Communication on Progress in 2015 In Beter Bed Holding’s view, women tend to have the final say in decisions on purchases. The efforts in this area have led to an increase in the number of women in management positions from 27 to 32 in 2015. As a result 25% of management is female. In Germany, a female marketing manager joined the management team. Additionally, three women were added to sales management in Germany. BBH signed the Charter ‘Talent to the Top’ in 2014. This initiative is a code with clear agreements and a public commitment for achieving diversity at the top of the company. More detailed reporting in chapter “Diversity”: http://bit.ly/2cwDpHa Page 5 of 8 Communication on Progress in 2015 Environmental Principles Principle7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies BBH is active in the retail trade in the market for sleeping comfort. We consider the environmental risk of our industry as extremely limited. Obviously we have an obligation and possibilities to enlighten our pressure on the environment. Our main goals are to: • reduce our environmental footprint; • increase the percentage waste recycled. Nevertheless BBH has explicitly included the protection of the environment into both the • internal code of conduct; • supplier code of conduct. For the status of both codes we refer to the first chapter of this Communication on Progress: General. Our efforts to reduce our environmental footprint In order to reduce our environmental footprint, we have invited our employees to come forward with ideas to improve our processes. Since 2012, the organisation has put forward proposals to improve performance in CSR. Some improvements proposed and implemented in an effort to save energy include: • The central and timer-managed lighting. • The management of energy meters to take specific location-based measures. • The use of LED lighting in electronic signs at sites. • The purchase of new lorries to the higher European standard (Euro 6). More detailed reporting in chapter “The environmental footprint”: http://bit.ly/2cgnWx8 Electricity consumption per square meter retail space has been reduced by 15% since 2010. The consumption of electricity per m2 floor surface has reduced from 87.5 to 73.3 kWh, this is a reduction of 16%. Page 6 of 8 Communication on Progress in 2015 More detailed reporting in chapter “Electricity”: http://bit.ly/2bUvC7x The carbon footprint per square meter retail space has lowered over the last 6 years from consequently from 62 to 50 kg. The carbon footprint per FTE has lowered over this period consequently from 10,767 to 8,251 kg. More detailed reporting in chapter “The CO2 footprint”: http://bit.ly/2cwa6Hs Our efforts to increase the percentage waste recycled In most countries our customers themselves are transporting our goods. This does not give us the opportunity to manage the waste recycled. However in The Netherlands we deliver and install the goods we sell. Our goal is to take back packaging materials from all home-delivery customers in the Netherlands and segregate and reuse them. This goal, which will benefit both our customers and the environment, was again achieved in 2015. More detailed reporting in chapter “Materials and circular economy”: http://bit.ly/2cwJymA Our efforts to reduce environmental risks in the supply chain Beter Bed expects from all its strategic suppliers of mattresses and across all formulas that the matresses have been tested and certified. Since 2013 this goal has been achieved. In 2016 the steering group will inspect if certification can be applied on more products. More detailed reporting in chapter “Strategy and objectives”: http://bit.ly/2cwKqI5 Page 7 of 8 Communication on Progress in 2015 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Beter Bed operates in countries part of the European Union, that all signed the OECD Guidelines. Therefore we consider the risk of violations of the Anti-Corruption Principles as limited. Nevertheless Beter Bed has explicitly included the Anti-corruption principles into both the • internal code of conduct; • supplier code of conduct. For the status of both codes we refer to the first chapter of this Communication on Progress: General. BBH assumes that competitors operate in a similarly honest and ethical manner. Accordingly, employees of BBH are not permitted to discredit competitors or disadvantage them by illegal means. The organisation does not abuse any economic power position it might enjoy, nor does it make (secret) arrangements with third parties that violate the applicable competition laws. BBH has long term relationships with most of its business partners, reducing the chance of being corrupted. Nevertheless we understand that corruption is a problem that occurs worldwide. We strongly condemn both corruption in business and the practices to persuade government to change its politics into our favour. More detailed reporting in chapter “CSR Governance”: http://bit.ly/2ccHGTE Page 8 of 8
