Communication on Progress March 2016 Contents Statement of continued support ................................................................................................. 2 Organisational Profile .................................................................................................................... 3 Contact information ................................................................................................................... 3 Policy commitment ......................................................................................................................... 4 Focus on communication .............................................................................................................. 4 Due diligence process ................................................................................................................. 4 People in the centre ......................................................................................................................... 6 Demography and work/life balance ...................................................................................... 6 Employee well-being ................................................................................................................... 7 Locals at our destinations ......................................................................................................... 7 Guest experience and satisfaction .......................................................................................... 8 Environment and climate .............................................................................................................. 9 Office environmental awareness ............................................................................................ 9 Nature conservation ................................................................................................................. 10 Albatros Travel’s cruise ships ................................................................................................. 10 Animal welfare ............................................................................................................................ 11 Business ethics and anti-corruption ......................................................................................... 11 Anti-corruption training ........................................................................................................... 12 Albatros Travel projects ............................................................................................................... 13 Supporting orphaned children in Delhi ............................................................................... 13 Supporting a local community in South Africa .................................................................. 14 Conservation of heritage in Borneo ...................................................................................... 15 Contributions and clothes collections ................................................................................. 15 1 Statement of continued support I am pleased to confirm that Albatros Travel continues to support and implement the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to all areas of concern. With this COP we show how we integrate the ten principles in our strategies, policies and daily practices. Albatros Travel will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. I have only been Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Albatros Travel since the fall of 2014, but I am not new to the organisation. My husband founded Albatros Travel 30 years ago, as a small tent safari company and I have worked beside him for many years. Despite not having a formalised corporate social responsibility framework in the past, social responsibility has always been a big priority for us. Our company slogan, translated from the Danish, ‘Travel with heart, head and mind’, reminds us of that on a daily basis. The first few years as a UN Global Compact signatory has been educational and we learned that training on all levels is essential to progress. Working in a structured manner and strategically with CSR by applying international principles for sustainable development to all three bottom lines is now a long-term commitment. We take our responsibility very seriously and we have a CSR manager who is in charge of CSR strategy and implementation. This CSR manger is in charge of our projects, but our CSR goal is to get the whole organisation involved. As stated in this COP, our CSR strategy has been on communication, including initiation of public communication and demonstration of concrete actions. At the compliance level we have established due diligence processes which enable us to identify, prevent and mitigate any adverse impacts on the core principles for human rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Another Albatros Travel strategy is to buy locally where possible, to support local economy, and to educate and share knowledge. Albatros Travel arranges package tours with tour leaders, so we have an opportunity to disseminate knowledge and awareness about cultural differences and the environment to our guests. We already have knowledgeable and experienced tour leaders, but we will strengthen our sustainability performance further by providing training in human rights and other sustainability-related topics specific to the destination. The focus on education reaches beyond our own organisation and also directs any philanthropic projects, such as the establishment of sustainable guest donation projects. We have identified our greatest environmental adverse impact to be the carbon footprint of our products. We cannot produce travel products without a significant carbon footprint with the technology available, but we strive to reduce our carbon footprint wherever possible and we have included demands for this in our new Code of Conduct, which will be included in all contracts. With this Code of Conduct we will integrate CSR in our whole organisation and to our substantial supply chains. But, even though eco-tourism has been known and practised for many years, working strategically and holistically with sustainability on all three bottom lines is new to 2 the travel industry and we will be faced with a challenge in encouraging suppliers to work with sustainability. The COP mainly covers our Copenhagen headquarters. We are in the initial phase of formalising our work with sustainability and still need to integrate our country offices in the process. The Copenhagen headquarters produce almost all of our products and thus the greater part of our organisation is covered in this report. Berit Willumsgaard CEO and owner, Albatros Travel Organisational Profile Albatros Travel A/S was established in 1986 by Søren Rasmussen, now chairman of the board. We provide travel packages for private guests primarily travelling out of the Danish, Swedish, Norwegian and Finish markets. The guests travel mainly in groups of 20-50 persons and are accompanied by a tour leader. All Scandinavian operations are conducted from the company’s headquarters in Copenhagen. In addition, small subsidiaries have been established in India, China, Greenland, Kenya, Tanzania and South Africa to handle local operations and destination management services, and we own several safari camps and small cruise ships. The company is headed by the Board of Directors, including the main shareholder of the company. The management team reports to the Board of Directors. Our head office is divided into departments, each of which with specialised work functions in relation to the types of tours. Within the different work areas there is a person with in-depth knowledge on the specific area. This ensures that our guests are being served with the best expertise available in the field. We currently employ 160 persons in our office in Copenhagen. In addition, we employ approximately 600 freelance tour leaders with Danish, Swedish, Norwegian and Finnish backgrounds, who work with the local tour operators at the travel destinations. On an annual basis we handle approximately 1,000 tours serving more than 40,000 travellers, with net sales of approximately 700 million Danish Kroner (DKK). Contact information Questions regarding the content of this COP report should be addressed to: Cæcilie H. Willumsgaard, CSR Manager Albatros Travel, cw@albatros-travel.dk 3 Policy commitment Albatros Travel is still in the phase of the implementation of the UNGC principles in all aspects of our organisation. Our CSR policy is now publically available on our websites. The policy commitment stipulates our human rights expectations of our personnel and business relations. The policy is formulated as a general CSR policy and includes environmental and anti-corruption commitments. Our Ethical Requirements (Code of Conduct), which includes human rights, environmental and anti-corruption requirements are still in the process of being incorporated in all business contracts. Focus on communication In 2014 our CSR strategy was increased focus on communication. We focussed on familiarising all employees with our CSR policy and projects. CSR is still a fixed agenda point in our monthly morning meetings for all staff at our head office. To further involve and educate all employees in our CSR activities, our CSR manager, upon request from the different team managers, provides training sessions at team meetings. All new employees have a one-week rotation programme, where they get lessons on the workflow of the different departments and teams. In this programme they also learn about Albatros’ company history and CSR strategy. We have knowledgeable and experienced tour leaders, but we will further strengthen our performance by continuing to educate them in our CSR policy. Our tour leader coordination team hosts regular seminars in Copenhagen in which tour leaders from Denmark, Sweden and Norway participate. In these seminars, CSR is part of the agenda. In August 2015 our CSR manager went to Finland to host a seminar for our Finnish tour leaders. As we are a travel agency, it is difficult to gather all our tour leaders from around the world at these seminars so we also update them on our CSR initiatives through newsletters. The communication focus also includes external communication with our suppliers and our guests. As mentioned above, we have finalised our CSR policy and our Ethical Requirements for our partners. Our CSR policy is available on our website, together with our CSR manifest and descriptions of some of the projects we support. Since 2014, we have communicated CSR externally through Facebook, travel fairs and by distributing small pamphlets with information on our CSR activities. This external communication focus continues. Due diligence process We have established a due diligence process on all aspects of our sustainability platform, enabling us to identify, prevent and mitigate any adverse impacts on the principles for human rights, the environment and anti-corruption. In the basic setup all employees contact the CSR manager in case of any possible negative impact (see the figure on next page). The information flow of adverse impacts identified by guests or tour leaders currently flows through both the quality department and tour leader coordination, who because of their basic due diligence training now redirect 4 it to the CSR manager. We are in the process of implementing the direct flow from the tour leaders to the CSR manager, who then contacts the product manager to take action through the supply chain. We believe we will get the best results from letting the product managers who have the daily contact with the suppliers be the key implementing agents of mitigation throughout the supply chain. Internally, the human resources department takes care of the function of collecting and reporting all accidents and staff grievances, identifying trends and initiating mitigating actions. Accidents occurring while travelling are a possible adverse impact on the health of our guests. Travelling always involves the risk of accidents, especially in less developed countries with poor infrastructure and lack of traffic regulations. Albatros Travel demands high safety standards from suppliers, which is also included in our Ethical Requirements document. In case of an accident involving clients of Albatros Travel, the company has an emergency contingency plan in place. The contingency plan delegates responsibilities between staff for dealing 5 with the emergency situation in the best way. Tour leaders can always contact the Copenhagen office through a 24-hour emergency phone service, where our experienced staff provides support. People in the centre At Albatros Travel, we are aware that our operations have an impact on many people’s lives and therefore our impact on people is at the heart of our concern. We recognise the right of everyone to work in an environment where individual dignity is respected, and will not condone any form of discrimination or harassment. We had a workplace assessment of our head office in Copenhagen in 2014, where 93% of the participating employees answered that they were satisfied or very satisfied with their jobs as a whole. Even though that result was fine, other results showed that adjustments were needed, as the organisation had some communication problems. The assessment was carried out just before our CEO chose to leave the company, due to a difficult economic period. This was followed by extensive organisational adjustments, with redundancies and several changes in the executive management team. Even though we continue making adjustments we find that there has been an improvement in communications and we expect to see an increase in employee satisfaction in the next assessment. Demography and work/life balance Albatros Travel seeks a diversity of people and equal rights for men and women. A head count on the 1 January 2016 showed that we had 160 employees at our head office in Copenhagen. The average age of the staff is 40 and there are more female employees then male, which has been the case for several years. The biggest change has been in the executive and management teams. In 2014 the CEO was a man and there were more men than women at the management level. Presently the CEO is a woman and the gender distribution in the management team is 54% women. Demographic Employees Average age Gender Gender distribution all distribution in employees the management 2014 162 39 63% women 40% women 2015 145 40 64% women 54% women 2016 160 40 65% Women 54% Women Not all employees are employed on a full-time basis, as we do offer part-time jobs for those who need less working hours to juggle family life and work life. We also have some colleagues who have flexible job arrangements due to illnesses. The 160 employees equals 142 full-time employees. We try to help the struggling job market by taking in students from business programmes wherever suitable, for instance when we need new sales employees. Our salaries are in line with the industry average and all employees have the right to negotiate their salaries once a year. 6 Employee well-being Albatros Travel strives to be an attractive workplace, were we focus on employee health and overall wellbeing. We have an intranet forum were all employees have a profile and access to an employees’ handbook. In this handbook all our employee policies are available including a noise policy and a stress policy. In the stress policy, employees can find a number for a twenty-four hour stress coach in case of an emergency. We also have our own vaccination doctor at our head office twice a week, where our employees are welcome to seek counselling and get a general health check. All our employees have a health insurance, which gives them the opportunity to get treatment at a private hospital and bypassing the public waiting list. We offer our employees a warm lunch at the in-house canteen where the company pays 2/3 of the price. We get fresh organic fruit every day, special teas and all of our coffee is organic. We have several extra staff offers at the head office, including a certified masseuse twice a week, yoga classes, a choir with a professional singer and table tennis. We believe that a good social environment is very important to employee well-being, so we encourage all employees to get together at social events. In 2015, these included several Friday bar events, a summer party and a big Christmas party. Our tour leaders have their own Christmas gathering. As we are a travel agency, we live for travelling and where it is relevant we send employees on study trips to expand their knowledge. All employees have the opportunity to buy trips at net prices for themselves and their families and we regularly send out special in-house offers when we have some last minute cancelations. Locals at our destinations When we talk about the ethical dimensions of travel, a priority is treating people with equality and respect. This applies to both the people we work with in other parts of the world (as well as in Denmark) and the people whose country, neighbourhood and homes we are visiting. Albatros Travel wishes to be precautionary and we have included our standpoint on child labour in our Ethical Requirements. We demand that suppliers not only assure us that they respect our views against child labour but also the respective country’s labour laws with special emphasis on minimum wages, working hours and union participation. One of our important CSR strategies is to generate local cash flow. We want to contribute to the local economy, make sure that the right people benefit from our presence and create job opportunities for locals. To achieve this we collaborate with small local businesses wherever it is possible. We work with local agents, small hotel, local restaurants and use local guides. At our own safari camps we employ local staff. To further strengthen these strategies for locals we have begun collaborating with the Fairtrade brand. Fairtrade is an internationally recognised brand and is “about 7 better prices, decent working conditions, and fair terms of trade for farmers and workers”. We are trying to incorporate visits on Fairtrade plantations on some of our tours. In this way we support those places that have good working conditions for their workers and we can tell our guests their story. On those tours where we already visit plantations we try to push the farmers to become certified by Fairtrade, and in this way help the community get higher standards. Facilitation of our guests’ access to knowledge about other people’s cultural life is an important part of our business. All our tours are conducted with experienced tour leaders who generally speak the local languages and have a special insight into local conditions. In this way we can ensure good working conditions locally and we are able to make sure that all cultural encounters are done in the right spirit so that there is no negative impact on local societies. Furthermore we always seek counselling and consent from locals before visiting their communities and we continue to have a dialogue on the form and frequency of visits. In this way responsible tourism creates the opportunity for indigenous people to continue their traditional lifestyles in relatively remote areas with only little adaptation to modern economy and culture. Guest experience and satisfaction Albatros Travel’s main customer group is mature couples (60+), often retired and well-travelled. The group is as a whole more interested in experiencing culture and nature than relaxation. We have designed our online and offline experience to suit our main customers, by having a website that is simple, easy to navigate and search. We have always strived for high customer satisfaction and a high percentage of returning customers. We have an experienced quality assurance team that takes care of all customer feedback and customer complaints. Since 2014, Albatros Travel has initiated a new customer experience strategy. We have had focus on satisfaction, transparency and ease of use. It started by analysing our customer experience and creating detailed customer journey maps. Based on this, we implemented an automated customer communication flow that insures that the customer gets relevant information at the relevant time and has knowledge of what is going to happen next through the full flow. In 2015, we implemented a new review system that allows us to publish authentic customer reviews directly on our website. We have partnered with Bazaarvoice and have fulfilled the requirements of the Bazaarvoice authentic reviews trustmark (http://www.bazaarvoice.com/trustmark/). Trusted online reviews give our customers unprecedented transparency and internally we use the reviews actively to follow up on customer complaints and to improve and develop our products. In 2016, we will expand the programme to cover our international Adventure Marathons. 8 We have also improved our loyalty programme “Royal Albatros” with perks and discounts for our loyal customers (+3 trips with Albatros) and expanded the programme to Sweden, Norway and Finland. We now have approx. 10,000 members of Royal Albatros in the four countries combined. Furthermore we are initiating programmes to improve and develop our customer service team, and creating a personalised “My Albatros” aiming to make everything even easier for the customers. Environment and climate As a service provider, Albatros Travel only has a small direct environmental impact, but a more significant indirect footprint from our supply chains. Our most significant environmental impacts are those from the use of flights and cruise ships. These are impacts we cause through our suppliers mainly. We have little opportunity to affect the environmental performance of these suppliers, but we have included several environmental demands in our Ethical Requirements. What is easier to affect is the environmental performance of our offices and how our clients act while travelling with us. In this way, our initial environmental efforts have been on improving environmental performance in offices and raising awareness with our customers to follow the towel saving guidance in hotels, using less plastic while travelling and to leave nothing but footprints in fragile environments. Office environmental awareness In our Copenhagen office we strive to lower our energy consumption. Albatros Travel is a Climate Partner with DONG Energy, a Danish energy company. This partnership means that we buy all our electricity with RECS (Renewable Energy Certificate System) certification from Dong Energy’s wind turbines. Furthermore DONG Energy has helped us with mapping our potential for saving energy in our Copenhagen office. We have replaced conventional light bulbs with energy saving and LED ones and put a timer on our ventilation system to ensure that it only runs during office hours. We have two company cars that are electric cars. Our CEO drives one electric car and the other is used for daily trips to embassies to collect visas for our guests and similar short errands in the city area. In this way we eliminate particle pollution in the city from these daily errands. In our Copenhagen office we have reduced our paper use significantly by printing on both sides. This is now done automatically by all computers in the office. We have also reduced paper usage by upgrading our IT system so that we now send a lot of our letters by email. We only use recycled paper for all purposes. Our brochures are printed on recycled paper and we sort paper, cardboard, glass and aluminium from the conventional waste. This level of sorting is what the Copenhagen municipality waste infrastructure allows for at present. We bought a pallet of organic fair-trade coffee for office consumption from a supplier in Germany and we get organic fruit every day. 9 Nature conservation Nature conservation is of big importance to us, as the company was built on the foundation of nature experiences on tented safari tours in Kenya. Over the years we have been involved in several nature conservation projects, especially in Africa. One of these was a big elephant research project in Kenya, conducted in collaboration with a renowned scientist and Copenhagen University. The research was performed from our previously owned Karen Blixen Camp in the Masai Mara. The camp itself continuously into a comprehensive sustainability project with focus on environmental improvements, nature conservation and protection of wild animals, education and improvement of work conditions for local employees. To focus on new projects, the Karen Blixen Camp was sold in 2012 and new camps were bought in South Africa. The Entabeni game reserve, where one new camp is situated, lies in an area of high density of cattle and crop farms, where most wild animals aren’t welcome. For instance, leopards that have been shot by farmers for many years, because they hunt the cattle. Entabeni game reserve and its tourists – give the animals a safe place and is important for wildlife conservation. The goal of the reserve is to become a nature park, with the capacity to house a self-sustainable animal population. This is done by expanding the park area and regulating the animals until the balance is restored. The reserve mainly focuses on endangered animals species. In a special enclosure they have some breeding programs for rare antelopes and a successful breeding programme for tuberculosis-free buffalos, which is highly needed in South Africa where tuberculosis is a threat to a lot of animals. Some of these animals are released in the reserve and some are sold to other nature reserves. Entabeni also has a special rhino protection programme. Rhinos have a fragile status due to poachers, but the Entabeni game reserve has now reached a healthy population of white rhinos. They achieved this by rearming their security system with a helicopter and extra guards. Furthermore they take care of injured and orphan rhinos. Other new Albatros camps are Khoka Moya and Mantobeni on the edge of Kruger National Park. In the future we hope this can be a new sustainability project as Karen Blixen Camp was and we have initiated several environmental actions, including cost/benefit analysis on solar panels. The camps are active in the fight against poachers by supporting patrols in the park and giving the rangers extra rifle training. The camps have made some boreholes for the animals to find alternative water resources, because of the extremely dry winter (2015-2016). The camp also has a community project with a small village called Welverdiend (see more under Albatros Travel’s projects). We help organise field trips for children from the village, where the children learn about the nature and how important it is to protect it. Albatros Travel’s cruise ships As mentioned above, most of our flights and cruises are provided by suppliers, but we also charter and own a few ships ourselves. On these ships we plan the sailing routes and we do that with a big focus on fuel consumption. Fuel is a growing 10 financial burden, meaning that any reduction in its consumption leads to an improvement in both the environmental and financial bottom lines. Albatros Travel is a fully paying member of the Association of Arctic Expedition Cruise Operators (AECO). The association was founded in 2003 and has since become an important organisation representing the concerns and views of arctic expedition cruise operators. AECO is dedicated to managing responsible, environmentally friendly and safe tourism. Apart from the membership fee, Albatros pays AECO a certain amount for every guest we send to the Arctic. All funds from membership fees and from fundraising, are used by AECO to achieve our mutual goal of setting the highest possible operating standards in the Arctic. Animal welfare We have partnered with the organisation World Animal Protection, to get help with evaluating the living conditions of animals in places where our guests are in close contact with them. This resulted in some changes in our trips, especially in Thailand where we visited some elephant camps that didn’t live up to the standards that these big and highly social animals require. Albatros Travel does not offer trips where wild animals are used for commercial entertainment, including elephant rides. We believe that all wild animals should be viewed in nature, unfortunately that is not always possible, but we don’t want to contribute to an industry that captures wild animals for commercial use and we don’t want animals in captivity to be forced to perform for tourists. But we will continue to support the locals whose livelihood depends on the tourist industry and who treat the animals well. In Asia we send our guests to those places where elephants are kept in their natural environment in the nature and where they have the opportunity to be social with other elephants. Business ethics and anti-corruption Albatros Travel has identified no major adverse impacts on anti-corruption. However as a travel agent that provides services all over the world, we operate in countries where there are significant risks of unregistered workers, kickbacks, local ticket sharks and corrupt border police. Much of these relate to informal practices that are hard to change and require a long-term industry initiative to do so. We are able to show data on income and expenditure for the last six years on request and maintain accurate books and records, available for inspection. These properly and fairly document all financial transactions. We do not maintain off-thebooks accounts, and any contribution to bribery and corruption is unacceptable. Internal controls are in place in order to prevent this. Furthermore we do not offer or accept gifts, apart from gifts related to anniversaries, birthdays etc. Albatros Travel has chosen to register their main organisation in Denmark, where most of the operations work is done from the head office. This means that we pay most of our taxes in Denmark, in line with Danish law. We collaborate with Danish 11 tax authorities when we hire new suppliers for our head office, to ensure that we don’t support any illegal work or moonlighting. Anti-corruption training The implementation of our Ethical Requirements (Code of Conduct) will be followed up by training of relevant employees. The primary target groups for this training are the product managers who handle the supply chains and our tour leaders, who may come up against corrupt institutions in the countries in which they operate. We don’t include tips in our prices, because we want the guest to have influence on the gratuity amount. In the written itinerary we provide recommended amounts and on most of our tours the tour leaders are expected to handle gratuities. To minimise the risk of the tour leader ending in an uncomfortable situation where some guests might assume that he/she didn’t pass on the money to the rightful receiver, we have made a tip history sheet. On the sheet, the tour leader writes the collected amounts from all guests and then writes all receivers and amounts. The tip sheet is then sent to our tour leader coordination team in the Copenhagen head office where it is checked and saved. 12 Albatros Travel projects We have been aware of our responsibility since day one, and we will continue in this way. We focus on the areas where we can make the biggest difference, and we have chosen some projects that make sense for us to support. Supporting orphaned children in Delhi Albatros Travel supports the organisation Karm Marg, which operates an orphanage in Faridabad outside Delhi. We purchase a variety of their self-made Jugaad products, including fabric bags as a gift for all our guests in India. Our guests do not visit the orphanage, but they are informed about the organisation and have the opportunity to support it by donating their remaining rupees after the tour. Karm Marg was established in 1997 and started by teaching children at the local train station on how to sell bags they made from used newspapers that they found in the trains. Today Karm Marg’s orphanage shelters 60 children from the age of 4 to 18. The orphanage provides food, medical care, education, recreation and counselling. Karm Marg means the way of action, and in line with this name, the organisation places great emphasis on the children becoming self-reliant. The organisation finances about half of its expenses by producing and selling environmentally friendly Jugaad products mainly made from recycled materials like newspapers. We also support the orphanage in other ways. This year we purchased custommade travel purses as Christmas gifts for all our partners. And we repeated our Christmas hearts success from last year. All employees had the opportunity to buy small red hearts for 25 DKK for our Christmas tree, on behalf of themselves or a family member. Each heart symbolised a present for a child at the orphanage. By the end of December the tree was again filled with hearts and all children got their very own wristwatch (see picture below). Additionally Albatros Travel gave a donation for them to use on shared toys for the orphanage. 13 Supporting a local community in South Africa Welverdiend is a small village in the Kruger area of South Africa with about 12,000 inhabitants. It is located close to Albatros Travel’s two safari camps, Khoka Moya and Mantobeni. Albatros Travel has frequently donated money to the village and continues to support them by paying for guest visits every week. To further support the community, we hire workforce from the village and train them in the hospitality business. 90 per cent of Albatros Travel staff at our safari camps in the area comes from Welverdiend. The village has a kindergarten and five schools, three from 1st to 7th grade, a high school from 8th to 12th grade, and a school for the mentally disabled. Albatros Travel has been a major sponsor of the schools. One school purchased new books for the library and bought a new television and a DVD machine for teaching from our donations. At another school we just finished a big building project. With donations from our Copenhagen office and from our camps we have built a new school building with two rooms; one for a library and one for a computer science room. The school held a big opening ceremony for the new building in January. Several Albatros Travel guests have expressed their wish to donate money to the village. With the new library in place we can make a collection system where our guests can buy a book for the school, so the money goes directly to this specific project. Welverdiend has its own football team Welverdiend Masters , which Albatros Travel has sponsored with uniforms and tournaments. The new school building in Welverdiend, with children in school uniforms at the opening ceremony. 14 Conservation of heritage in Borneo Albatros Travel has supported the Penan, a hunter-gatherer people in Sarawak, in the Malaysian part of Borneo, for more than twenty years. It started as support of their battle against the destruction of their last remaining forests and their way of life. Later we initiated support within medical care and food supply. It all culminated with a village project where two large houses were built for one of the last nomadic groups of the Penans who had to abandon their traditional nomadic lifestyle, due to the logging of the rainforest. We hope to find new ways to support the Penans in the future. Contributions and clothes collections We give our guests the chance to make financial contributions to some of our local projects, which we have assessed to make sure that any donated money has the intended effect. All work Albatros Travel does in this area will always be funded by the company and never by external sources. We are in the progress of structuring the work with donations to provide 100% transparency. In the summer of 2015 we had a big collection for Greenland where both employees at Albatros and guests donated clothes and toys. One guest donated a big box of beautiful children clothes which she had knitted over the winter. In total we had 230 kg consisting of clothes and toys. It was sent in three shipments and delivered to families in Greenland by our tour leaders on our summer cruise ship (see below). We try to help where we think the need is big and where we think our small scale contributions can be of help. We are not philanthropists but we help to make a small difference. In this sense we donated money for the Red Cross’ work in Nepal after the big earthquake in 2015. We have five internationally renowned marathons. One is the Petra Desert Marathon in Jordan. As Jordan takes in many refugees from Syria we decided to donate 50% of our profit from the run last year to buy books for one of the big refugee camps. Through the Danish organisation World Children (Verdens Børn) we donated a solar panel for a school in Uganda. Most of our donations goes to developing countries in which we have operations. But sometimes we help smaller organisations that needs funding for fighting diseases or that are in other ways helping struggling people. In 2014 we participated in the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge and initiated a challenge in the Danish travel business. 15
