10th July 2016 H.E. Ban Kimoon, Secretary General, United Nations, New York, NY 10017, USA. Your Excellency, I am pleased to confirm that Aspirations Education which became a signatory to the United nations Global Compact on 11th June 2008 continue to pledge our support to the ten principles of the Global compact which respect to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. In this 2016 Annual Communication on Progress, we had outlined our strategies to improve the situation of less privileged communities based on the all principles of Global Compact. We are happy that a lot of International and national Universities and donor institutions have established partnership with Aspiration Education Foundation to assist the underserved communities more effectively. A detailed account of our “Social Duty” programs could be found in our web site; www.aspirations.edu.lk/foundation. Sincerely Yours, Ajith Abeysekera Chairman 1 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. During the year 2016, Aspirations Education Foundation for Community Development (AEF) has extended its project portfolio further to the rural and underserved community in line with the Principles of Global Compact Initiatives. AEF Program direction is based on both right based and need based approaches as well as Community Participation and Stakeholder Engagement. We facilitate the development process to realize the aspirations of the marginalized communities to meet the basic rights. We also engage in the role of advocacy with the Government and the regional level authorities to facilitate the development needs in relation to basic human needs and Poverty Alleviation. AEF further consolidated the School based development programs in the year 2016, to ensure the Right to education for more needy children. We ensure all the children engage in compulsory education and complete the compulsory education up to secondary level. Therefore, all of our projects in schools would facilitate a child friendly environment for the child to engage in the education process. AEF conducts need based, participatory assessments in all its project schools with the participation of the School Community; The School Principal, Teachers, Students, Parents, School Development Societies, Well Wishers and the Government Authorities. Thereby AEF would be able develop a Holistic involvement process and ensure the right to Education. The following are some of the salient activities completed during the year 2016. Student Scholarships:  The Apeksha” scholarship financial assistance project continued to absorb more children in rural, underserved schools. The children were able to purchase basic educational materials, stationary, Uniforms, shoes and also attend much needed additional tuition. Water & Sanitation:  Access to water and Sanitation is another basic right of children. AEF continued to assist needy schools in this aspect. The children of Am/Aluthela Primary School did not have access to toilet facilities at all. About 30 Primary school children studying at this school were going to nearby houses or jungles to perform this basic need. AEF with the assistance of Deakin University, Australia and funds from AEF constructed three toilets at the school premises. AEF also supported to streamline the water system at this school. 2 Literacy & Reading:  Access to basic literacy is a very important principle in Education. AEF organized a number of seminars, workshops and training programs for children, teachers and parents in Ampara districts to address this factor. AEF conducted a workshop for 30 teachers from 15 schools in Ampara Education Zone on the teaching techniques on Reading Habits development of Primary school Children. The second workshop was conducted at Okkampitiya Junior School to enlighten parents on the principles of Literacy improvement. The primary school children and the Primary teachers also took part in this workshop. The Third workshop in this series was conducted at BA/Ritigha Arawa Primary School in Ridimaliyadda in Badulla district. Recruitment of Volunteer Teachers:  AEF continued to recruit and pay monthly allowance for Volunteer teaches who were teaching English and Tamil languages, Science, Mathematics, Library management in needy schools in remote areas in Badulla, Monaragala, Ampara and Kurunegala districts. More than 1,500 children were benefitted from this program. Early Childhood Development:  AEF strengthened its assistance to the development of Early Childhood Development in the year 2016 as well. Thereby, AEF ensures the right to education for pre-school children in rural Sri Lanka. The pre-school system does not come under purview of Ministry of Education. Therefore, we have to take a big responsibility and an important role to make this sector more professional. Under the pre-school assistance project, AEF rehabilitated an old pre-school building at Aruanalu pre-school and provided safe and child friendly environment for about 60 children. Child Play Areas:  These are very necessary to mental and physical development exercise and entertainment for the child. AEF has constructed Child Play Areas with all necessary equipment at AM/Kiwulegama Secondary School and AM/Kotawehera Secondry School with funds from Aspiration Education Foundation and Deakin University, Australia. Small Scale Infrastructure Development:  AEF has also assisted minor and medium scale infrastructure development at partner schools. We have re-constructed a dilapidated school building at AM/Wavinna Secondary School. This building now has a stage and a large hall which has provision to conduct 3-4 class rooms. More than 200 school children could study here and the stage and hall can be used for meetings, presentations, drama theatre and workshops. 3 IT Education:  AEF conducted teaching of English using computer tablets. This was a novel experience for teachers and senior students. A one day training class was conducted at AM/Polwatta Secondary School in Ampara and AM/Paragahakele Secondary school. These tablets are to be distributed to rural schools and to be used to teach English and simple education programs. The Tablets were donated by Deakin University, Australia. Sports Development:  Sports plays a vital role in developing mental and physical health in school children. Most of the schools in rural Sri Lanka have no facilities to develop this sector. During the year 2106, AEF donated financial assistance to PO/ Kurulubedda Vidyalaya to conduct its InterHouse Sports meet. AEF has also provided financial assistance to KE/Weddeniya Primary School, BA/Pethiyagoda Secondary School, and TRI/Padaviya Senior School, for this same purpose. Agriculture Development:  AEF has consolidated its Agriculture projects and fruit growing at Schools during this year. We continued to assist the schools with technical advice, fertilizer, and water for agriculture, training and development. The final goal of the agriculture program is to have an additional income generation for schools to continue their development activities. In addition to that Teachers, Senior students, Parents and Community members are trained in modern agriculture practices and Organic Agriculture through this agriculture implementation project. Enterprise Development:  AEF is implementing School Enterprise development projects in schools with the support and guidance from UK based INGO,Viz “Teach A man To Fish”. During 2015, We implemented this project at BA/Kandegama Senior school and trained 35 Children and 25 community members in making Baskets using Bamboo. In 2016 we have enlisted 15 schools for this venture. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupati AEF operates its mandate with great deal of transparency, Integrity and accountability. The 4 employees’ rights are protected by implementing the best HR practices. We have one Vision and Mission shared by all employees. AEF does not tolerate any form of discrimination and all are treated equally irrespective of the race, color, sex, sexual orientation, religion or belief, family circumstances, political opinion, trade union membership, age, nationality or disability. AEF’s philosophy is based on democratic principles and encourage team work and stakeholder engagement in all projects implemented throughout the Country. Community participation is encouraged in all school projects and community development projects. In additions to the schools development programs, AEF has taken efforts to address community issues to assist them in poverty alleviation. We have formed a Women’s Organization at MO/Okkampitiya Primary School from among the Mothers of School children. They will commence various income generation activities. They have already commenced a school “home garden” as an income generation activity for the school and the families involved. This group was given a two day training of basic agriculture and home gardening process by AEF Agriculture consultant. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. AEF is concerned about the environment issues of the present World and incorporated the environmental supported concepts into all projects. One of the main objective of AEF’s agriculture projects is to support and maintain a green environment. We also discourage deforestation and encourage reforestation at all times. AEF has planted over 3000 Mango trees of a special variety, in over 30 schools project across 4 districts. Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. AEF principles are based on Integrity, transparency and accountability. Therefore, AEF practices best accepted policies and procedures nationally and internationally. We are accountable to the donors as well as to the Government Authorities and Law and Order of the country. We are against all types of corruptions, bribery and extortions. 5
