CONTENTS ◀ 000 ▶ How to Use This PDF ●The table of contents CONTENTS button and the arrow ◀ ▶ navigation buttons are located at the top right of each page. Click the left arrow to go back 1 page Click the right arrow to go forward 1 page CONTENTS ◀ 002 ▶ Click “CONTENTS” to see the table of contents Click a title to go to its page ●Click on the arrow ➡ or Web symbols in the text to go to that page or web page. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 001 ▶ Contents How to Use This PDF................................................................ 0 2015 Activities Editorial Policy........................................................................... 2 Conservation The Kao Way............................................................................. 3 2020 initiatives based on the Kao Environmental Statement..... 36 CEO Message........................................................................... 4 Reducing CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle....... 38 Sympathy and response to vitiligo-like symptoms Measures for water resources conservation...................... 41 experienced by some customers of Kanebo Cosmetics Sound management of chemicals...................................... 43 products containing the quasi-drug ingredient “Rhododenol”...... 6 Measures for biodiversity conservation.............................. 48 About Kao Group....................................................................... 8 Other environmental topics................................................ 53 Financial and non-financial highlights.................................... 8 Environmentally-conscious containers and packaging........ 56 Kao’s businesses................................................................ 10 Product lifecycle and environmental impact....................... 59 Principal locations and business development................... 11 Environmental accounting.................................................. 61 Kao Sustainability Statement................................................... 12 Environmental communication........................................... 63 Highlights Community Conservation Product quality management.............................................. 68 Reducing CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle....... 21 Universal Design................................................................. 72 Contribution to safeguarding regional biodiversity.............. 25 Communication with consumers........................................ 79 Communication with corporate customers........................ 84 Community Corporate citizenship activities........................................... 89 Raising awareness of the importance of good hygiene habits..................................................................... 27 Supporting people to live healthily..................................... 28 Culture Integrity............................................................................... 99 Monozukuri from a Universal Design perspective............. 29 Human rights initiatives.................................................... 104 Culture Partnering with our suppliers............................................ 106 Striving to maintain sound business practices.................... 31 Human capital development............................................. 110 Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human rights... 113 Promoting Health and Productivity Management............... 32 Promoting dialogue with employees................................ 117 Responding to the hopes and expectations of the global community..................................................... 33 Work-life balance.............................................................. 119 Consideration for employee health and lifestyles............. 122 Governance Occupational safety and health, process safety Corporate governance/Risk and crisis management.......... 34 and disaster prevention.................................................... 125 Governance Corporate governance...................................................... 129 Information disclosure...................................................... 134 Information security and protection of personal information.... 136 Risk and crisis management............................................. 138 Responsible Care Activities................................................ 140 Recognition by outside organizations.................................... 145 Independent assurance report............................................... 147 Third-party opinion................................................................. 148 GRI/ISO 26000 content index................................................ 149 Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 002 ▶ Editorial Policy Editorial policy Organizations covered ◦‌The Kao Group developed the Kao Sustainability Statement ➡List of Kao Group companies in July 2013 as its global policy on sustainability. The Kao http://www.kao.com/group/en/group/gateway.html Sustainability Statement clearly defines Kao’s policy of contributing to the resolution of global issues through the Kao Group’s business activities as well as the key areas of Period covered these activities. Fiscal 2015 (January 1, 2015–December 31, 2015). ◦‌This report (HTML and PDF versions) introduces the Kao Kao’s fiscal year end was changed in fiscal 2012; therefore, Group’s various activities along with detailed performance the environmental and social performance data covers the data in each of the three key areas of Conservation, period from April 1 to March 31 until fiscal 2011, and from Community and Culture that represent material issues for fiscal 2012 covers the calendar year (January 1 to December the Kao Group. 31). Data for the period from January 1, 2012 to March 31, ◦‌In addition to independent assurance to enhance the 2012 is therefore overlapping. Those figures calculated based credibility of reporting regarding environmental, occupational on a data period other than the above are noted as such. health and safety data, we also publish third-party opinion Some qualitative information includes those of the activities from an outside expert to provide objective evaluations of performed in fiscal 2016. the report. ◦‌The Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Highlights is also Independent assurance published as a booklet that We have had our reports independently assured since 2003. summarizes representative efforts KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. provides independent excerpted from this report. assurance for this report covering activities of 2015. Indicators on which assurance is provided are marked with a star (★). Issuing period Previous report issued in August 2015 Next report scheduled for issue in June 2017 Guidelines referenced ◦‌GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ◦‌Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012) and Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005) by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan Scope of reporting ◦‌Environmental Accounting Guidelines for Chemical In general, we report the activities of the Kao Group (Kao Companies (November 2003) by the Japan Chemical Corporation, its subsidiaries and affiliates as of December 31, Industry Association 2015). Environmental and social performance data covers Kao ◦‌ISO 26000 (guidance on social responsibility) Corporation and its subsidiaries. Some data pertaining to employees, such as occupational health and safety data, covers Kao Corporation, its subsidiaries and Nivea-Kao Company Limited. Exceptions to this have been clearly stated in the text. In this report, “Kao” means the Kao Group. We have stated the names of individual organizations covered if it is necessary to identify the scope. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 003 ▶ The Kao Way Mission Satisfaction and enrichment of the lives of people Vision To be closest to consumers and customers Values Yoki-Monozukuri* Innovation Integrity Principles Consumer Driven Genba-ism** Respect & Teamwork Global Perspective * ‌We define Yoki-Monozukuri as “a strong commitment by all members to provide products and brands of excellent value for consumer satisfaction.” This core concept distinguishes Kao from all others. ** ‌Genba literally means “actual spot.” At Kao, Genba-ism defines the importance of observing things “on-site,” in the actual location and environment, both internally and externally, in order to maximize our understanding of the business and optimize our performance. The “Kao Way” embodies our corporate philosophy, and is the foundation of the business activities of the Kao Group. As our cornerstone, the “Kao Way” provides consistency to Group activities from the formulation of midto long-term business plans to each business decision that we make every day. Accordingly, it acts as a guiding principle for all of our members, bringing together the growth of our company and that of our individual members. As such, it is an essential element in making the work we do more rewarding and instilling in us a sense of purpose. Kao Group companies and members share the “Kao Way” not merely as a manual or set of rules but as a foundation from which we are able to determine both the value of our work and the concerns that we face. Mission Our mission is to strive for the wholehearted satisfaction and enrichment of the lives of people globally and to contribute to the sustainability of the world, with products and brands of excellent value that are created from the consumer’s and customer’s perspective. This commitment is embraced by all members of the Kao Group as we work together with passion to share joy with consumers and customers in our core domains of cleanliness, beauty, health and chemicals. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 004 ▶ CEO Message The Kao Group’s Yoki-Monozukuri is evolving to make even greater contributions to a sustainable society. Aiming for both “profitable growth” these frameworks. Based on the Kao Sustainability Statement, the Kao Group and “contributions to the sustainability seeks to achieve both “profitable growth” and “contributions of the world” to the sustainability of the world.” We are helping to tackle social issues through environmentally friendly products that In 2015, the world reached agreement on two important help to conserve water and electricity, and also help to improve frameworks aimed at sustainability. One is the Paris health and sanitation. At the same time, 2015 was the final Agreement adopted at the 21st Conference of the Parties year of the Kao Group Mid-term Plan 2015 (K15), and we (COP21) to the United Nations Framework Convention on achieved all of its targets. Climate Change, and the other is the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). An international framework to fight global warming from 2020, the Paris Yoki-Monozukuri since our founding Agreement aims to keep the rise in the average global temperature below 2°C. The UN SDGs target global-scale In 1890, our founder Tomiro Nagase launched Kao Soap with problems, such as poverty, that need to be addressed by the the wish to contribute to people’s cleanliness and comfort. international community. Recognizing the importance of taking Since then, we at the Kao Group have conducted business action to realize a sustainable society, both industrialized and activities aiming to enrich the lives of people around the world developing countries have reached agreement on adopting through Yoki-Monozukuri values in our corporate philosophy, Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 005 ▶ the Kao Way. As times have changed, our Yoki-Monozukuri has placed Kao on its World’s Most Ethical Companies List every also gradually changed to include additional perspectives such year since it began the list in 2007. This year marks Kao’s 10th as global environmental conservation and a variety of other straight appearance. social issues. The culmination of these changes and additions We are also continuing initiatives to promote employee has brought us to where we are today. In the 2009 Kao diversity, including support for women’s career advancement. Environmental Statement, we pledged to actively undertake We are working to develop our human capital based on the environmental initiatives, working together with consumers, belief that people have infinite potential and that their business partners and other stakeholders under the theme of capacities are drawn out through taking on challenges. We will “eco together.” Then in 2013, we released the Kao promote HR development and appointments according to Sustainability Statement, which defines the three key areas of people’s desires and capacities, and strive to create a corporate Conservation, Community and Culture, and also clarifies our culture in which diverse employees can readily make approach to environmental conservation and the tackling of contributions. social issues through development of innovative products and services. Earning the trust of global society Contributions to a sustainable society in three key areas At Kao, we continuously deepen Yoki-Monozukuri, make contributions to solving social issues, and strive to offer new value. At the same time, we conduct fair business activities in In the area of Conservation, we are working to reduce accordance with guidelines and standards shared in the environmental impacts throughout the entire product lifecycle, international community. from raw material procurement, manufacture, distribution, In 2005, we declared our support for the United Nations sales, usage, waste disposal and recycling. Because the Global Compact, which are ten principles across the four areas environmental impacts of products used in the home are of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. especially large during the usage stage, we are developing and The impact of corporate activities on human rights is an issue offering products that contribute to reducing CO2 emissions that has received greater attention in the international and the amount of water consumed during use. community in recent years. On that front, we adopted and The driver for this product creation is our research and released the Kao Human Rights Policy in June 2015, based on development capability, which seeks to identify the essence of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human everything we examine. The Kao Group’s R&D divisions Rights. conduct fundamental technology research to thoroughly In the area of corporate governance, we are continuing to investigate the essential aspects of human beings and implement various reforms in order to rapidly realize efficient, substances in a range of scientific fields. We then integrate sound, fair and highly transparent management. In July 2015, and mobilize the in-depth research results in each field in our we systematically organized our corporate governance product development research, to offer unique Kao products activities and described the implementation status of each with new value and to create products that can contribute to principle stated in the Corporate Governance Code established solving social issues. by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. In the area of Community, we offer products that contribute We at the Kao Group will work closely with various to solving various issues facing society in relation to sanitation, stakeholders to realize the Kao Way’s Mission “to strive for the health and aging. In addition to offering products, we also wholehearted satisfaction and enrichment of the lives of conduct educational activities, for example to teach hygienic people globally,” as we contribute to the creation of a habits. We are actively undertaking initiatives to nurture the sustainable society. next generation, such as fun lessons to teach children proper hand washing techniques. In the area of Culture, we are conducting sound business activities founded on integrity together with our employees and business partners. This culture of integrity has earned recognition from outside groups. The Ethisphere Institute, a Michitaka Sawada U.S. think tank specializing in ethical business practices, has President and Chief Executive Officer Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 006 ▶ Sympathy and response to vitiligo-like symptoms experienced by some customers of Kanebo Cosmetics products containing the quasi-drug ingredient “Rhododenol” Regarding Kanebo Cosmetics products that contained the quasi-drug ingredient “Rhododenol,” we at the Kao Group offer our sincerest sympathies for the trouble and worry caused to customers who have experienced vitiligo-like symptoms and everyone else who has been affected. Kanebo Cosmetics is continuing its voluntary product recall and is placing top priority on the recovery and treatment of customers who experienced symptoms, while the Kao Group is making concerted Group-wide efforts to investigate the cause and prevent a recurrence. Kanebo Cosmetics: Problems relating to Kanebo Cosmetics products containing quasi-Drug ingredient “Rhododenol” Web http://www.kanebo-cosmetics.jp/information/ (Japanese) Overview Of the brightening products manufactured and sold by Kanebo complete recovery (based on examinations by doctors or Cosmetics, some customers who used products containing reports from the customers themselves). Settlements have the quasi-drug ingredient “Rhododenol”* 4-(4-hydroxyphenyl)been reached with 15,350 people, and a total of 702,497 2-butanol reported the appearance of white, vitiligo-like products have been collected. blotches on their skin. Outside Japan, product recalls are being conducted in the Upon learning of these cases, Kanebo Cosmetics began a countries and regions following the policy of the respective voluntary recall on July 4, 2013. pharmaceutical authorities. As in Japan, Kanebo Cosmetics is Kanebo Cosmetics employees are personally visiting providing care for customers who have experienced vitiligo-like customers who have experienced vitiligo-like symptoms to symptoms until they have recovered. offer their sympathies and provide information on treatment *Rhododenol and other matters. As of April 30, 2016, the number of people Rhododenol is the name Kanebo Cosmetics gave to the chemical compound confirmed to have vitiligo-like symptoms was 19,584 in total. 4-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-2-butanol. Rhododenol is a quasi-drug ingredient approved by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare that works by binding with and inhibiting the activity of the Of these people, 11,872 have made a complete or almost enzyme tyrosinase involved in melanin synthesis. Response to customers experiencing symptoms in Japan Basic policy 2. Support in daily life for affected customers Customer Care Centers have been set up at the Head Office K  anebo Cosmetics is providing care for customers who have and branches of Kanebo Cosmetics throughout Japan. A experienced vitiligo-like symptoms after use of products dedicated team of about 400 staff assigned to each region of containing Rhododenol until they have completely recovered. Japan is visiting customers on an ongoing basis and providing Action policy information on treatment and skin condition checks. The team 1. ‌Efforts to investigate the cause and establish treatment also provides special coverage make-up and make-up advice methods for customers at their request. 2. Support in daily life for affected customers 3. Fair compensation Special coverage make-up 1. ‌Efforts to investigate the cause and establish treatment We have developed special coverage make-up products methods that bring the affected areas closer in appearance to the A project team comprising Kao Group researchers is conducting skin’s natural color. Liquid, concealer, and powder type research that is relevant for investigating the cause and foundations, BB cream, color powder, and loose powder establishing treatment methods, and shares such information are available, depending on the location and size of the with groups including the Japanese Dermatological Association area to cover. As individual skin condition varies, and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Kanebo customers are asked to first see their dermatologist about Cosmetics has provided grant funding totaling 60 million yen to using special coverage make-up products. After receiving the Fund for Research into Vitiligo-like Symptoms Experienced the dermatologist’s consent, Kanebo Cosmetics staff visit by Some Users of Products Containing Rhododenol for eight the customer to confirm the skin condition and provide projects over its two years of operation from January 23, 2014 to information and products March 31, 2016. The findings of research conducted by the based on symptoms and Japanese Dermatological Association, research groups and many usage needs. Kanebo research institutes, including treatment methods, have been Cosmetics has published published and incorporated in the FAQ published on the and provides the Skincare Japanese Dermatological Association’s website (revised August Advice Book, and staff 7, 2015). We will continue to fully cooperate with development also provide daily skin care of treatment methods at research institutes. advice tailored to customer FAQ page, Japanese Dermatological Association website needs. Web https://www.dermatol.or.jp/modules/public/index.php?content_id=5 (Japanese) Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 007 ▶ 3. Fair compensation ◦‌Compensation similar to damages payable for aftereffects ❶ Basic approach Kanebo Cosmetics will pay compensation similar to damages Appropriate compensation will be offered to customers who payable for aftereffects, as a compensation for customers who have experienced vitiligo-like symptoms after use of have not recovered from vitiligo-like symptoms after using products containing Rhododenol manufactured and sold by Rhododenol-formulated products at a certain point in time.* The Kanebo Cosmetics. amount of this compensation to the customers who desire to receive this, will be determined based on the standards used by ❷ Details of the compensation Japanese courts and standards applied to accidents in the ◦Medical and travel costs workplace by considering the affected area of the body, the size Kanebo Cosmetics will pay the actual medical and travel of the affected area, contrast between the affected area and the costs incurred to receive treatment for vitiligo-like surrounding areas, presence or absence of a recovery trend and symptoms. Specifically, the company will reimburse other factors. Kanebo Cosmetics will in principle determine treatment-related costs covered by the health insurance whether a customer has recovered or not based on the diagnosis system and costs incurred through use of public by a medical doctor. Customers who received compensation transportation to receive treatment. similar to damages payable for aftereffects will not receive any ◦Compensation for emotional distress further compensation of any kind, although Kanebo Cosmetics In principle, compensation for emotional distress incurred as will continue to inform such customers when a new effective a result of vitiligo-like symptoms is based on a standard treatment method has been established in the future. * ‌“Certain point in time” refers to the time when said information is provided by determined through consultation with legal experts with Kanebo Cosmetics as described in paragraph ③ “Compensation similar to damages reference to judicial precedent. Separate sums are payable for aftereffects.” calculated and paid to each affected customer in accordance with the length of time required until recovery, the nature of ❸ Dates of payment the symptoms experienced, and other relevant factors. ◦Medical and travel costs ◦Compensation for time taken off work Medical and travel expenses are paid on an as-needed basis. Kanebo Cosmetics will pay compensation to customers ◦Compensation for emotional distress and for time who lost income as a result of time off from work caused taken off work by vitiligo-like symptoms. Customers forced to leave work Compensation for emotional distress and for time taken for hospital visits will be paid according to Kanebo off work is paid at the time a settlement is reached. Cosmetics’ own standards based on documentation ◦Compensation similar to damages payable for aftereffects confirming both the customer’s hospital visits and the time Kanebo Cosmetics started by contacting customers whose away from work. When vitiligo-like symptoms result in vitiligo-like symptoms continued to exist over a large area of absences from work not entailing hospital visits, Kanebo the face from December 2014, and since July 2015 has Cosmetics will pay the actual sum of lost income after been working to contact all other customers who have not confirming that the customer was obliged to take time off yet recovered. Compensation will be paid to customers who work due to the nature of symptoms and the content of request it and who meet the conditions for compensation the work. To receive this compensation, the customer similar to damages payable for aftereffects at the time a must present documentation indicating the day or days of settlement is reached together with compensation for absence from work and the amount of income lost. emotional distress and for time taken off work. Steps to ensure a similar situation does not happen Kanebo Cosmetics’ Safety Standards ❶S  trict selection of safe materials  1. ‌Product manufacturing based on Kao Group safety The safety of materials is thoroughly assessed using standards safety information from a broad range of fields and In April 2014, the Kao Group introduced more rigorous and even more rigorous conditions and testing methods than in the past. Materials are also selected based broader cosmetics safety standards to verify safety. Kanebo on how gentle they are to people and the Cosmetics also conducts product manufacturing based on these environment. new standards. ❷ Verification of formulation safety  The absence of skin reactions is verified using patch 2. ‌Promotion of “Listening to the Voices of Customers” tests or other methods for all products developed. Activities ❸ Verification through a variety of use tests  To improve our ability to hear directly from customers, we placed Before products are launched, use tests using postcards at stores from late May 2014 to December 2015 to monitors are conducted for a longer time and on a obtain customers’ opinions and requests. We also opened the larger scale than in the past to verify that the products do not cause skin problems. Kanebo Cosmetics Skin Consulting Center in July 2014, where ❹ Customer counseling  customers can receive advice about make-up at their While verifying individual customers skin problems convenience. and skin conditions, we offer advice on recommended products, how to use them, and how 3. ‌Internal mindset reforms to care for skin. For customers with concerns about the use of cosmetics, we also provide a “skin and (to continue our quality management organization with cosmetics compatibility check” that customers can the participation of all employees) do on their own. We have created a system to collect feedback related to ❺ Continual safety inspections after market launch products from employees in real time. All information received The details of every report received from customers from customers, medical institutions, employees, and other and medical institutions are verified individually and used in safety inspections. At stores we listen stakeholders is verified by the Quality Improvement Study intently to our customers. Opinions and requests Meeting with involvement by the Kanebo Cosmetics from customers are used in improvement activities. management team and corrective actions examined. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 About Kao Group CONTENTS ◀ 008 ▶ Financial highlights (consolidated) Net sales 1,471.8 billion yen Operating income 164.4 billion yen 5.0% increase from the previous year 23.3% increase from the previous year (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 1,500 200 1,401.7 1,315.2 1,220.4 150 1,000 1,012.6 133.3 124.7 111.8 100 101.6 500 50 0 0 2012*1 2012*2 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 2012*1 2012*2 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Ordinary income 169.3 billion yen Net income 98.9 billion yen 22.0% increase from the previous year 24.2% increase from the previous year (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 200 100 79.6 150 75 138.8 64.8 128.1 114.1 52.8 53.1 100 104.2 50 50 25 0 0 2012*1 2012*2 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 2012*1 2012*2 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Net income per share 197.19 yen ROE 14.8% 26.0% increase from the previous year (%) 2.4 percentage point increase from the previous year (yen) 200 15 12.4 156.46 10.7 150 9.8 9.4 10 126.03 100 101.12 101.77 5 50 0 0 2012*1 2012*2 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 2011 2012*3 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Notes: 1. Listed amounts have been rounded to the nearest 100 million yen. 2. The Kao Group’s fiscal year end changed from March 31 to December 31 from the year ended December 31, 2012. *1 ‌Due to a change in the fiscal year end, the term of consolidation for the fiscal period ended December 31, 2012 consisted of the nine months from April to December for Kao Corporation and its subsidiaries whose fiscal year end was previously March 31 and the 12 months from January to December for subsidiaries whose fiscal year end was December 31. *2 Figures for the year from January 1 to December 31, 2012 for Kao Group companies whose fiscal year end was previously March 31. *3 FY 2012 is for the transitional period associated with the change in fiscal year end. Cash dividends per share 26th consecutive period of increase (Yen) 80 80 70 62 64 60 57 58 60 54 56 50 52 40 38 30 32 24 26 20 20 14 15 16 10.5 11.5 12.5 7.1 7.1 8.87 9.09 10 0 1988 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 (FY) *Impacts of share splits are retroactively reflected. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 About Kao Group CONTENTS ◀ 009 ▶ Non-financial highlights Based on the Kao Sustainability Statement, Kao is conducting a range of activities in three key areas. The following are results for some of Kao’s representative activities. For details of activities, please see the Kao Sustainability Report 2016 available on the Kao website (http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/reports.html). Conservation Reducing environmental impacts across the product lifecycle CO2 emissions across the product Water use during product use★ Percentage of sales from products displaying the lifecycle★ (Kao Group in Japan)*1 (Kao Group in Japan)*2 “eco together” logo (consumer products in Japan)*3 (Thousand tons) (%) (Million m3) (%) (%) 12,000 0 3,000 0 30 -17 -16 -17 27 28 0 -20 -18 0 -21 -20 -22 -22 -20 -24 -20 25 23 23 8,000 -40 2,000 1,937 1,916 -40 20 6,838 6,965 7,327 7,415 Target 1,763 1,828 1,860 1,871 Target 6,248 6,522 -30 -35 4,000 1,000 10 0 0 0 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 (Year) 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 (Year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) ■ CO2 emissions ー●ー Per unit (of sales) reduction rate ■ Water use during product use ー●ー Per unit (of sales) reduction rate Offering products and communication to contribute to resolving social issues with consideration for the Community diversity of consumers Products improved with UD considerations and implementation Cumulative number of children who have taken rate (cumulative, consumer products in Japan)*4 hand washing lessons (Kao Group in Japan) (Product) (%) (No. of children) 4,000 91 100 40,000 80 36,200 79 3,000 2,876 75 30,000 28,400 2,000 2,066 50 20,600 41 20,000 1,303 13,700 1,000 25 10,000 8,900 420 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) ■ Improved products (cumulative) ー●ー Implementation rate Promoting Integrity including communicating the Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) to all Group employees Culture and Diversity and Inclusion Number of annual BCG refresher test takers Percentage of female managers and participation rate (Kao Group) (People) (%) (%) 50,000 96 100 30 27.7 27.6 27.5 87 87 25 23.2 23.6 40,000 80 70 32,397 34,229 20 30,000 27,471 60 23,484 15 20,000 40 9.6 9.6 10.5 10.1 10.4 10 10,000 20 5 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) ■ Refresher test takers ー ●ー Participation rate ー ●ー Kao Group ー■ー Kao Group in Japan *1 ‌CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle is defined as the total of emissions from production and distribution, and those from other stages calculated by multiplying lifecycle emissions, excluding those from production and distribution, mainly of individual consumer products in Japan by their annual sales quantity. However, this does not include CO2 emissions from use and disposal of industrial products. Some data entries through 2005 have been retroactively modified. *2 ‌Water use during product use is defined as the amount of water during product use stage mainly of individual consumer products in Japan, multiplied by their annual sales quantity. Some data entries through 2005 have been retroactively modified. *3 ‌Kao displays the “eco together” logo on products that reduce their environmental impacts and meet Kao’s original strict certification standards. Details about “eco together” logo display standards: http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/eco_activities_01_07.html *4 ‌Products improved with UD considerations represent products improved from considerations including accessibility, safety, and usability. The implementation rate of improvements is the percentage of products improved with UD considerations among all new and improved product items. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 About Kao Group CONTENTS ◀ 010 ▶ Kao’s businesses Consumer Products Business ■Beauty Care Business In order to allow every consumer to achieve their own unique beauty with leading technologies, Beauty Care offers products including cosmetics, skin care products such as facial and body cleansers, and hair care such as shampoos and conditioners. ■Human Health Care Business Human Health Care offers products that help consumers to live healthy and comfortable lives. These include sanitary products with unique proprietary technologies, functional health beverages with innovative benefits, and other products such as toothpaste and bath additives. ■Fabric and Home Care Business Fabric and Home Care offers fabric care products such as laundry detergents and fabric softener, as well as home care products such as dishwashing detergents and kitchen cleaners. These products are designed for quality, functionality and ease of use, allowing consumers to enjoy a clean and comfortable lifestyle. Chemical Business ■Chemical Business Our Chemical Business offers a broad variety of chemical products to the world, including oleo chemicals manufactured from natural fats and oils, surfactants, toners and toner binders, and fragrances and aroma chemicals. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 About Kao Group CONTENTS ◀ 011 ▶ Principal locations and business development ■ Beauty Care Business ■ Human Health Care Business ■ Fabric and Home Care Business ■ Chemical Business Germany ■■ Norway ■ Hong Kong ■■■ * ‌Please see our website for a list of Kao Group companies. http://www.kao.com/group/en/group/gateway.html The Netherlands ■ Denmark ■ China ■■■■ Belgium ■ Sweden ■ Korea ■ Canada ■ France ■ Finland ■ United Kingdom ■ Russia ■■■ Japan ■■■■ U.S.A. ■■ Spain ■ Taiwan ■■■■ Switzerland ■ Philippines ■ Mexico ■ Italy ■ Thailand ■■■■ Brazil ■ Austria ■ Malaysia ■■■■ Czech Republic ■ Singapore ■■■■ Australia ■■ Vietnam ■■■ New Zealand ■ South Africa ■ Indonesia ■■■■ Net sales by segment (Year ended December 31, 2015) Net sales by geographic area (Year ended December 31, 2015) ■Beauty Care Asia s u s in e s Con su Business lB m 247.9 billion yen ic a er 607.7billion yen m % Ja 35 p e Pr Ch 16.9％ od uc ■Human Health Care Europe an Japan 41.3％ ts B Business 133.7billion yen 956.1billion yen sid e J a p a n 65 % Consolidated Consolidated 280.7billion yen Net Sales usine s s Net Sales 1,471.8 Americas 1 , 471.8 billion yen ■Fabric and Home 22.7％ billion yen Care Business 134.2billion yen O ut 334.4 billion yen 19.1％ * ‌Sales are classified based ■Chemical Business on the location of customers, and the 249.0 billion yen inter-area sales are eliminated. *The inter-segment sales are eliminated. Global commitments External recognition Network Japan WE SUPPORT 4-0024-07-100-00 The United Nations Dow Jones RSPO FTSE4Good Global Index Global Compact Sustainability World Index Participation in the United Nations The Roundtable on Sustainable The Dow Jones Sustainability World Developed by the British FTSE Global Compact represents Palm Oil (RSPO) is an international Index is among the world’s most Group, the FTSE4Good Global commitments by corporations from non-profit organization working to renowned socially responsible investment Index is one of the world’s leading around the world to support and act in address issues associated with (SRI) indices. It is administered by S&P SRI indices. It is made up of accordance with ten key principles on palm oil production such as Dow Jones Indices LLC in the United companies meeting high standards human rights, labor, the environment ecosystem destruction due to the States and RobecoSAM AG in on environmental, social and and anti-corruption. These principles felling of tropical forests and harsh Switzerland, who conduct evaluations of corporate governance criteria. Kao were initially defined at the 1999 labor conditions on palm oil a company’s sustainability using has been included in this index for Davos World Economic Forum. Kao plantations. Kao has been a economic, social and environmental each of the past eight years. has participated in the Global Compact member of the Roundtable since criteria. Kao has been listed in DJSI World since 2005. 2007. for two consecutive years. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 012 ▶ Kao Sustainability Statement The Kao Group developed the Kao Sustainability Statement to represent its approach to sustainability and announced it both inside and outside the group in July 2013. The Statement defines the ways in which Kao aims to contribute to a sustainable society through business activities, including the three key areas of Conservation, Community and Culture. The Kao Way & the Kao Sustainability Statement The starting point of all of Kao’s sustainability activities is The Kao Way Mission Yoki-Monozukuri, as defined in our corporate philosophy, the Satisfaction and enrichment of the lives of people Kao Way. In the Kao Way, we define Yoki-Monozukuri as “a strong commitment by all members to provide products and Contribution to the sustainability of the world brands of excellent value for consumer satisfaction.” Our mission as defined in the Kao Way is “to strive for the Vision wholehearted satisfaction and enrichment of the lives of To be closest to consumers and customers people globally and to contribute to the sustainability of the world.” As members of the Kao Group, in order to fulfill this mission, we commit fully to working together to share joy with Values Yoki-Monozukuri consumers and customers through products and brands of Innovation value, contributing to clean, beautiful and healthy living and, in Integrity the chemical business, contributing to the development of industries. Principles Consumer Driven Based on the Kao Way, the Kao Sustainability Statement Genba-ism communicates our approach to building a sustainable society Respect & Teamwork Global Perspective and the key areas in which we must focus our efforts. Materiality for Kao To further contribute to a sustainable society through our issues described below, we defined the three key areas of business, we must clearly identify the material issues for the Conservation, Community and Culture. Kao Group. Through the process of identifying the material Process to identify material issues Five perspectives 1. Assessing the current situation 1. Aligned with the Kao Way The Sustainability Department led a project to identify and 2. Linked to Kao’s midto long-term management plan assess social issues recognized by the Kao Group and Kao’s 3. Social urgency of solving the issues current Group-wide efforts to solve these issues. 4. ‌Availability of effective resources in the Kao Group to solve the issues 2. ‌Identifying opinions from stakeholders and the 5. Impact on the sustainability of the Kao Group expectations of society We then interviewed experts and reviewed the opinions of our stakeholders including consumers and employees. We conducted a review of international standards related to Kao Sustainability Statement corporate social responsibility and surveys by global evaluation organizations to identify the expectations of the Kao Group. Three Key Areas 3. ‌Reviewing priority from the perspective of business strategy Conservation We then discussed the priority of the issues in terms of the Kao Group’s business from the five perspectives on the right. Community Culture 4. Determining the material issues We selected and finalized two target issues as where to focus our efforts for each of the three key areas. Day-to-day Work/Basic Activities Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 013 ▶ Kao Sustainability Statement Kao Sustainability Statement Kao’s mission is to strive for the wholehearted satisfaction and enrichment of the lives of people globally and to contribute to the sustainability of the society. By developing innovative products and services, we work to conserve the environment and foster well-being in the communities we serve now and in the future. To do this, in partnership with our stakeholders, we promote a culture of integrity in everything we do and we provide a workplace that maximizes the potential of each and every one of our employees. To advance our business responsibly and sustainably, we are focusing our efforts on the three key areas of Conservation, Community and Culture. Three Key Areas and Target Fields Conservation Community Culture Kao commits to reduce our Kao commits to make a positive Kao’s people are our most important environmental impacts, to conserve difference in the communities we asset in successfully bringing to life biodiversity and to conduct serve through our business and our sustainability plans. We conduct environmental activities through partnerships. business with integrity, respect community engagement so that we diversity among our employees, and contribute to the conservation of the create new values for society through planet, as stated in the Kao improvements and innovation in our Environmental Statement. products and ways of working. Reducing environmental impacts ‌Engaging with communities Integrity of our business activities through business By operating under the spirit of We work to understand and reduce We build close connections with integrity handed down to us from our the environmental impacts of our consumers by developing products founder, we will build trust among all business activities through the whole that foster well-being in the our stakeholders worldwide. We will lifecycle of the products, from raw communities we serve, focusing promote a culture of integrity from materials procurement to production, particularly on issues related to aging our executives and employees, logistics, sales, use and disposal. populations, health, cleanliness and through to our external business hygiene. partners. Environmental activities in partnership with stakeholders Engaging with local communities Diversity & Inclusion We partner in a broad range of through partnerships We will build a culture that respects environmental conservation activities We partner with local communities to the diversity of each and every one with consumers, business partners, improve quality of life. We empower of our employees and allows them to and communities, in line with the employees to engage with their work to the full extent of their theme of “eco together.” communities in the spirit of potential and commitment. volunteerism. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 014 ▶ Kao Sustainability Statement Gaining employee understanding and support To develop activities based on the Kao Sustainability Education through online learning Statement, all Group members need to fully understand the An e-learning program was held for all employees with Internet thinking behind it. We have been conducting educational access in the Kao Group in Japan to facilitate their understanding activities for employees using various approaches since July of the thinking behind Kao’s approach to sustainability. The 2013, when we announced the Kao Sustainability Statement. curriculum included the social background of demands for sustainability, the Kao Sustainability Statement and specific Briefing sessions for all divisions and Group companies examples of activities. About 90% of the eligible 16,000 We conduct briefing sessions for managers in all divisions of employees participated in the e-learning program. Kao Corporation and Group companies. The sessions cover the background to developing the Kao Sustainability Statement and include specific examples of activities in each key area and time for exchanging opinions. In 2015, we held 11 briefing sessions at Kao Group worksites in Japan, mainly at production sites. One session was also held at a Kao Group outside Japan. An e-learning program Internal publications Our in-house magazine for all Kao Group members, KAO FAMILY, is published four times a year in both English and Informational materials (in English) Japanese. It features a series of articles aimed at deepening employees’ understanding of the Kao Sustainability Statement. A special feature in the October 2013 issue just after the Web-based communications Statement was announced described the background to We publish information on the company Intranet system to aid developing the Statement as well as details of its content. understanding of the Kao Sustainability Statement. Articles published in 2014 and 2015 introduced examples of Each month, we release on the Intranet a Sustainability specific activities in the three key areas. The magazine will Essay written by leaders from each division about their thinking continue to feature articles on Kao’s sustainability activities in toward sustainability. We also release Sustainability Tips, which 2016. introduces social trends and initiatives by Kao and other companies in an easy-to-understand format. In 2015, these efforts were expanded to the Kao Group outside Japan so that by the end of the year, the same information that is available in Japanese could be shared by all Group companies using the Intranet. Articles in our in-house magazine KAO FAMILY Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 015 ▶ Kao Sustainability Statement Sustainability promotion structure Under the Sustainability Committee, chaired by the President, responsibility to set targets, implement the PDCA (Plan, Do, divisions engaged in each of the three key areas take Check, and Act) cycle and manage Group-wide activities. Structure to promote activities in key areas Board of Directors Management Committee Sustainability Committee Internal Control Committee Divisions engaged in the key areas Sustainability Department of Kao Sustainability Statement Conservation Community Culture Consumer Products Business Eco-Strategy Group Planning and Administration Legal and Compliance Responsible Care Group Corporate Communications Human Capital Development Business units Functional divisions Kao Group in Japan Kao Group outside Japan Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 016 ▶ Kao Sustainability Statement Stakeholder communication Kao takes in expectations of society through dialogue with stakeholders and incorporates these expectations into its activities and targets. Consumers/Customers Kao aims to utilize feedback in developing new products and services and improving products by listening to the concerns and opinions of consumers and customers and engaging in close communication. Chemical and Professional-use Consumers Product Customers Consumer Product Retailers ◦Consumer consultations ◦‌Opinion exchange meetings with ◦‌Management policy information ◦‌Environmental/Communication distributors sessions events ◦‌Workshop and plant tour for new ◦‌B usiness planning meetings with ◦‌Communication center for adult employees at distributors retailers diaper Relief users ◦Lectures on sanitation ◦New product presentations‌ ◦Home visits to consumer monitors ◦Product study meetings Employees Suppliers Recognizing that the vitality born from diversity We consider suppliers as our business supports our business growth, Kao creates the partners vital to Yoki-Monozukuri and conditions and culture that allow diverse undertake procurement activities according employees to demonstrate their capacities and to Guidelines for Supplier’s Assessment, individuality to the maximum extent as well as including compliance with laws, regulations enable both personal and company growth. and social norms, protection of human rights, assurance of health and safety and fair trade. ◦Kao Forum ◦Welfare committees ◦Find (employee opinion survey) ◦Quality Improvement Meetings ◦Health and safety committees ◦Guidelines for Supplier’s Assessment ◦Standardization of systems ◦Supplier satisfaction surveys ◦Equal Partnership promotion activities ◦Vendor Summits ◦Support for employee health Kao Shareholders/Investors Local communities/NGOs, NPOs Kao earns the trust and meets the expectations of Kao engages with communities through shareholders and investors inside and outside Japan by business and corporate social activities and striving to raise its corporate value, proactively disclosing works together with communities and NGOs/ information and engaging in communication activities. NPOs to offer local citizens better, richer lives. ◦General Meeting of Shareholders ◦Corporate social activities ◦Financial results briefings ◦Education in the Classroom ◦IR road show ◦Plant tours ◦Small meetings with the President ◦Meetings and collaborations with local residents ◦Business briefing and facility tours ◦Partnerships with NGOs/NPOs ◦One-on-one meetings ◦Reports to shareholders ◦Annual Report ◦‌IR information provided on website and through RSS ◦Facility tours for shareholders Government/Industry groups/Peer companies Kao upholds the principle of Integrity and contributes to a sustainable society together with government and industry. ◦Government-organized committees, events, communication events ◦Information exchanges with industry groups, participation in independent standard creation ◦Joint research with academic societies and research institutes ◦Joint research with other companies Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 017 ▶ Kao Sustainability Statement 2015 Results & 2016 Targets Conservation Material issue: ●Reducing environmental impacts of our business activities Target issues Activities 2015 targets 2015 results 2016 targets Develop environmentally ◦Expand and improve ◦Launched improved Bath Magiclean ◦Expand and improve waterconscious products water-saving products ◦Launched refill pack for Attack Antibacterial EX Super saving products ◦Expand water-saving ◦Expand and improve refill Clear Gel ◦Expand and improve refill products products ◦Expanded refill products for CuCute, skin care products products ◦Promote product ◦Expand introduction of ◦Used 30% bioplastic in Merit Shampoo and Conditioner ◦Expand introduction of downsizing, bioplastics in packaging bottles bioplastics in containers concentrated formulas and 4R’s*1 for packaging Promote energy<Production> <Production> <Production> saving activities at ◦Reduce steam loss through ◦Improved efficiency of heat-source equipment including ◦Switch to LED lighting from <CO2> production sites, use of steam traps (all sites) refrigeration equipment through changes in set mercury-containing and 35% CO2 reduction offices and in ◦Improve efficiency of temperature of chilled water in intermediate seasons fluorescent lighting (ongoing) in consumer distribution heat-source equipment and winter (Wakayama) ◦Introduce power with low-GHG products by 2020 including refrigeration 17% ◦Converted from fluorescent to LED lighting (ongoing) emission coefficient (Kawasaki, (across the product equipment reduction Kashima) lifecycle, per unit of <Distribution> <Distribution> <Distribution> sales in Japan, ◦Introduce energy-saving air ◦Introduced energy-saving air conditioning facilities (2 ◦Develop energy-saving air relative to 2005) conditioning facilities LCs) conditioning systems ◦Develop new routes with ◦Opened 2 new routes with modal shift ◦Open new routes with modal shift modal shift ◦Shared delivery with other companies and direct ◦Reduce the number of vehicles ◦Shared delivery with other shipments from plants (shared use of rail containers through rail transport companies and direct with 1 business partner, shared use of freight ◦Expand shared delivery with shipments from plants transportation. Shipped directly from plants to 1 other companies and direct <All> business partner) shipments from plants ◦Convert from fluorescent to ◦C ompleted switch to LED lighting at logistics centers ◦Promote recycling of logistics LED lighting materials <Office> ◦Introduce power with low-GHG Medium-term Objectives of the Kao Environmental Statement emission coefficient (Kayabacho) <Water> Expand water-saving ◦Expand water-saving products ◦Launched improved Bath Magiclean ◦Expand water-saving products 30% reduction in products ◦Expanded CuCute and Attack Neo water use during 24% product use by 2020 reduction (per unit of sales in Japan, relative to 2005) Appropriately manage ◦Conduct risk assessments ◦Conducted risk assessments and prepared risk assessment ◦Conduct risk assessments and chemical substances and preparation of risk reports on priority assessment substances*3 in 2015 according prepare risk assessment reports throughout their assessment reports on to the medium-term plan, and prepared Safety Summaries on priority assessment lifecycles in priority assessment ◦Studied re-establishing the SDS system introduced in 2000 substances*3 according to the accordance with substances*3 according to the ◦Completed risk assessments at sites that handle PRTR medium-term plan (ongoing) SAICM*2 medium-term plan substances, VOC substances and poisonous and deleterious ◦Establish a fundamental base for ◦Establish a fundamental base substances, and implementation of risk mitigation measures is a chemical substances lifecycle for a chemical substances ongoing management system (ongoing) lifecycle management system ◦Conducted trial hazardous labeling according to GHS at some ◦Propose and implement risk ◦Plan and implement risk plants according to plan mitigation measures at handling <Chemical mitigation measures at ◦Publicly released the status of SAICM progress activities and sites based on chemical Substances> handling sites based on SAICM deliverables (Safety Summaries, etc.) on the Kao and substance risk assessments chemical substance risk Kao Chemical website in May 2015, and also publicly released (ongoing) assessments on the Kao Group website in October and on the Kao Chemical ◦Begin hazardous labeling ◦Study hazardous labeling Corporation Shanghai website in December according to GHS at production according to GHS at ◦Continuing to release GPS Safety Summaries*4 for chemical sites production sites products (12 summaries released, and 89 cumulative*5 for the ◦Disclose SAICM activities and ◦Publicly release deliverables Kao Group) deliverables to the public for SAICM activities ◦Studied ways to utilize communication with local residents (ongoing) ◦Study two-way conducted at plants in Japan ◦Study two-way communication communication methods with with stakeholders (ongoing) stakeholders Expand use of certified ◦Percentage of RSPO certified oil purchases using the Mass Balance raw materials system*6 2014: 88% 2015: 28% ◦RSPO certified oil purchasing ◦RSPO certified oil purchasing ◦RSPO certified oil purchasing Total of palm oil, palm kernel 2014: 5.2 kt of palm oil, 17.9 kt of palm kernel oil Total of palm oil, palm kernel oil and derivatives: 40 kt 2015: 5‌ kt of palm oil, 12.5 kt of palm kernel oil, 6.7 kt of derivatives oil and derivatives: 40 kt ◦No. of RSPO SCCS certified ◦RSPO SCCS certified plants ◦RSPO SCCS certified plants plants 2015: 15 companies, 2014: 9 companies, 12 plants (of them, 9 outside Japan) 2016: 20 companies, 25 plants 18 plants 2015: 16 companies, 19 plants (of them, 16 outside Japan) Promote biodiversity ◦Promote activities at ◦Kashima Plant received Association for Business Innovation in ◦Promote activities at sites in <Biodiversity> conservation activities Wakayama and at other sites Harmony with Nature and Community (ABINC) certification (a first Japan at business sites in Japan for plants in Japan) ◦Survey the current situation at ◦Survey the current situation ◦Kashima Plant received the Environment Minister’s Prize in the fourth sites outside Japan at sites outside Japan Contest for Corporate Activities on Biodiversity ◦Held a field observation at the Employees’ Forest at Kashima Plant for the Eco-College, sponsored by the Ibaraki Prefectural Environmental Management Association ◦Held a forest foraging and wreath-making workshop in the protective pine grove of the Wakayama Plant, sponsored by the Wakayama City Children’s Museum ◦Conducted educational activities at plants outside Japan Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 018 ▶ Kao Sustainability Statement Conservation Material issue: ●Environmental activities in partnership with stakeholders Target issues Activities 2015 targets 2015 results 2016 targets Promote communication Promote communication at diverse ◦Distributed “eco together” diaries to 515 schools Promote communication at diverse at diverse points of contact points including schools, ◦Conducted guest lectures on the environment at 43 schools contact points including schools, contact and cooperate plant tours and stores, and partner ◦71 schools visited the Eco-Lab Museum plant tours and stores, and partner with government bodies, with government bodies, NGOs, ◦Provided subsidies to 52 groups in the Kao Creating Forests with government bodies, NGOs, NGOs, etc. etc. for Everyone program etc. ◦Provided 9 teacher fellowships in the Kao Earthwatch Environmental Teachers’ Fellowship communication and ◦167 incidents of communication at business partners and conservation activities local government events ◦Received 12,456 entries in the Kao International Environment Painting Contest for Children ◦Received visitors in the event of Nationwide Cleanliness and Water-saving Initiatives (conducted jointly with Chinese government) *1 4R’s: Reduce, Renewable, Reuse, Recycle *2 SAICM: Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management *3 ‌Priority assessment substances: Chemicals defined by Kao in 2013 as chemical substances that should receive priority risk assessment at Kao due to their production volumes, applications, etc. In addition, the Substance List is regularly revised according to trends in global chemical substances management and internal and external circumstances. *4 ‌GPS Safety Summaries: Documents providing a summary of safety information for chemical substances highlighting the chemicals’ risk as a reference for the general public, in line with the Global Product Strategy advocated by the ICCA (International Council of Chemical Associations). *5 Progression rate of 59% for target disclosure summaries of 150 by 2020 *6 Mass Balance system: Certification system allows for mixing of RSPO certified and non-certified palm oil Community Material issue: ●Engaging with communities through business Target issues Activities 2015 targets 2015 results 2016 targets Develop products and ◦Continue product improvements ◦Implementation rate of products with UD considerations: ◦Continue product improvements information in with UD considerations 91% with UD considerations consideration of diversity ◦Continue awareness-rising ◦Conducted UD awareness-rising activities for employees (13 ◦Continue awareness-rising (Universal Design, TV activities (lectures, etc.) Workshops for Promoting Empathy with Elderly People) activities (UD lessons for commercials with ◦Activities for the next step ◦External activities promoting Kao's UD efforts (16 lectures, elementary schools, lectures, captions, etc.) toward full-scale broadcasting 4 events) seminars, etc.) of TV commercials with ◦2 product information sessions for cancer patients ◦Activities for the next step captions (Aim for trial ◦UD lessons for elementary school students (7 schools) toward full-scale broadcasting broadcasts in programs ◦Ongoing activities to prepare for full-scale broadcasting of of TV commercials with captions sponsored by multiple TV commercials with captions (Ongoing simultaneous trial (Aim for trial broadcasts in companies) broadcasts with 2 TV stations, information-sharing with programs sponsored by multiple other companies and related groups) companies, approaches to captioning promotion council, etc.) Help prevent and treat ◦Sponsor walking events ◦Sponsored walking events with 150,000 participants in ◦Sponsor walking events obesity and Lifestyle(Target participation in Japan: Japan (Target participation in Japan: related Diseases 100,000 people) 100,000 people) ◦Target QUPiO participation in ◦QUPiO participation in Japan: 69 participating companies, ◦Target QUPiO participation in Japan: 60 companies 2.5 million QUPiO users Japan: 60 companies Promote baby health in ◦Expand local production and ◦Developed disposable baby diapers in Asia (Indonesia) ◦Expand local production and consideration of local country development for country development for living environments and disposable baby diapers disposable baby diapers habits ◦Conduct educational activities ◦Conducted educational activities and provided product ◦Conduct educational activities and provide product samples at samples at childbirth and parenting classes and provide product samples at Provide solutions to childbirth and parenting classes (Japan: 680,000 people, Asia: 3.66 million people) childbirth and parenting classes social issues including (Japan: 680,000 people) (Japan: 780,000 people, Asia: health, the aging 3.70 million people) society, and hygiene ◦Distribute samples of Merries ◦Distributed samples of Merries Tape Diaper for newborns & ◦Distribute samples of Merries Tape Diaper for newborns & size S Tape Diaper for newborns & size S (Japan: 1.81 million samples, Asia: 3.66 million samples) size S (Japan: 1.21 million samples) (Japan: 2.01 million samples, Asia: 3.70 million samples) Improve hygiene through ◦Educational activities by visiting ◦Educational activities by visiting preschools and elementary ◦Educational activities by visiting hand washing education preschools and elementary schools to give lessons preschools and elementary schools to give lessons (160 preschools, 111 elementary schools in Japan) schools to give lessons (160 preschools, 100 elementary (160 preschools, 120 schools in Japan) elementary schools in Japan) ◦Distribute samples for hand ◦Distributed samples for hand washing education ◦Distribute samples for hand washing education (Japan: 370,000 samples for preschool and elementary washing education (Japan: 540,000 samples for school students, etc.; 30,000 samples for seniors; Asia (Japan: 370,000 samples for preschool and elementary total: 9,000 elementary school students in Taiwan, preschool and elementary school students, etc.; Asia Thailand) school students, etc.; 30,000 total: 78,000 elementary school samples for seniors; Asia total: children in Taiwan, Thailand, 9,400 elementary school Indonesia) students in Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia) Expand well-rounded ◦Provide educational materials ◦Provided educational materials and educational activities ◦Provide educational materials education on beginning and educational activities on on beginning menstruation and educational activities on menstruation to realize beginning menstruation (Japan: 6,300 schools, 460,000 kits; Asia total: 499,000 kits beginning menstruation greater comfort in daily (Japan: 6,000 schools, 480,000 in Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia) (Japan: 6,400 schools, 480,000 life kits; Asia total: 482,000 kits in kits; Asia total: 664,000 kits in Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia) Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia) Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 019 ▶ Kao Sustainability Statement Community Material issue: ●Engaging with local communities through partnerships Target issues Activities 2015 targets 2015 results 2016 targets Encourage employees to ◦Propose activities that nurture ◦Information on volunteering provided through the Intranet ◦Continue to propose activities Invigorate corporate volunteer in corporate the spirit of volunteering 31 times that nurture the spirit of citizenship activities citizenship activities in ◦Publicized information internally and externally 122 times volunteering each global region Culture Material issue: ●Integrity Target issues Activities 2015 targets 2015 results 2016 targets Continually enhance ◦Introduce Anti-Bribery ◦Completed introducing Anti-Bribery Guidelines and ◦Plan and hold regular educational activities on Guidelines and Guidelines for Guidelines for Avoiding Conflicts of Interest globally compliance training for the the Kao Business Conduct Avoiding Conflicts of Interest entire Kao Group Guidelines (BCG) globally (regions where they ①Conduct the BCG refresher have not been introduced) test held every year for all Kao Appropriately operate ◦Plan and hold regular ◦Planned and held regular compliance training for the entire Group employees compliance hotlines compliance training for the Kao Group ⇒95% target participation entire Kao Group ①Conducted the BCG refresher test held every year for all rate ①Conduct the BCG refresher Kao Group employees ②Hold compliance training for test held every year for all ⇒‌96% participation rate Kao Group managers in Japan Kao Group employees⇒95% ②Held compliance training for Kao Group managers in ⇒100% target participation target participation rate Japan rate for 2nd round of training ②Hold compliance training ⇒‌74% participation rate since 2015 starting in 2015 for Kao Group managers in ③Held Integrity Workshops for Group company employees ③Hold Integrity Workshops for Japan⇒70% target outside Japan Group company employees participation rate for 2nd ⇒‌85% cumulative participation rate since 2009 outside Japan round of training starting in ⇒90% target cumulative Promote 2015 participation rate since implementation of the ③Hold Integrity Workshops for 2009 principle of Integrity Group company employees outside Japan⇒85% target cumulative participation rate since 2009 ◦Study BCG revisions to be ◦Studied BCG revisions to be made in 2016 ◦Revise the BCG made in 2016 ⇒‌C reate BCG Casebook in local languages ◦Study and implement self-checks (Create local language versions ⇒‌Submitted BCG revision proposal to the Compliance related to compliance activities at of BCG Casebook issued in Committee divisions and Group companies 2014, Study BCG revisions for ◦Conducted the Listening to Employees’ Opinions Activity and ◦Conduct survey on compliance 2016) third-party verification by an accounting consulting company awareness in Japan ◦Verify validity and ⇒‌H eld Compliance Awareness Month in October (displayed appropriateness of current posters with a message from the Committee Chair, ◦Hold Compliance Awareness compliance promotion activities Executives communicated messages to the divisions they are Month globally responsible for, held a vote for the compliance logo, etc.) ⇒‌Reviewed the criteria for selecting distributors to prevent bribery Give more consideration ◦Conduct procurement based on ◦Completed traceability back to the mill for palm oil and ◦Conduct procurement based on to the environment and Guidelines for Supplier’s palm kernel oil used in consumer products Guidelines for Supplier’s human rights in Assessment and Guidelines for ◦Conducted procurement based on Guidelines for Supplier’s Assessment and Guidelines for procurement Sustainable Procurement of Assessment Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials Raw Materials Promote sustainable ◦A chieve 2015 targets in ◦Conduct education for 100% of procurement Guidelines for Sustainable employees transferring into Procurement of Raw Materials Procurement Division (traceability back to mill) ◦Conduct education for 100% of employees transferring into Procurement Division Culture Material issue: ●Diversity & Inclusion Target issues Activities 2015 targets 2015 results 2016 targets Strengthen management ◦Propose and implement action ◦Planned D&I promotion plan in line with actual conditions at ◦Implement D&I promotion plan training of diverse plan each organization in each organization employees ◦Made proposals to advance the participation of women and ◦Gain understanding of issues seniors in the Kao Group in Japan through HR utilization projects for Kao Group outside Japan ⇒‌Introduced leave of absence for accompanying spouse on ◦Address the Act to Advance international assignment (Kao) Women’s Success in Their ⇒‌Revised the work style system (revised the flex time system Working Life Promote Diversity & and introduced hourly leave system) (Kao) Inclusion ⇒‌Expanded content of career trainings for young employees (Kao CMK) ⇒‌Extended period to use shortened working hours for Beauty staff/adjusted store shifts (Kao CMK) ⇒‌C reated system for Beauty staff re-employed after compulsory retirement to support Beauty staff who work reduced hours ◦Percentage of women managers 27.5% (Group-wide) and 10.4% (Kao Group in Japan) Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 020 ▶ Kao's recognition of social issues In December 2015, the 196 countries and regions participating in the 21st Conservation Conference of the Parties (COP21) reached the Paris Agreement, which aims to limit the rise in global average temperature to less than 2°C. The impacts of global warming include more frequent occurrences of extreme weather, rising sea levels, ecosystem changes, and increased risk of infectious diseases. The international community, including both developed and developing countries, must urgently address this issue. Many other issues affecting the global environment are also increasing in severity, including water shortages due to rising populations and economic development, and loss of biodiversity due to deforestation and other causes. Kao’s approach In the Kao Environmental Statement released in 2009, we committed to partnering with various stakeholders to reduce environmental impacts across the product lifestyle and are conducting initiatives related to this. In the product lifecycle, the usage stage accounts for a very large portion of the environmental impacts, and we are therefore developing and offering products that contribute to reducing CO2 emissions and the amount of water consumed during use. As a manufacturer that handles chemical products that can cause environmental damage, we are striving to properly manage chemical substances according to the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM) and advancing initiatives aimed at goals such as conserving biodiversity in raw materials procurement and other processes. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 021 ▶ Reducing CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle Kao is using innovative technologies to develop products with low CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle. We are also actively promoting initiatives aimed at realizing zero deforestation, and working with policymakers to contribute to limiting the rise in the average global temperature to less than 2°C by reducing CO2 emissions that cause global warming. Lifecycle assessments Based on a product development policy of ensuring the safety at stages other than development, production, sales and and high quality of products while reducing environmental distribution, where Kao’s efforts alone are able to achieve impacts, Kao conducts Life Cycle Assessments on the reductions. Therefore, to reduce CO2 emissions at these other environmental impacts of products lifecycle from raw materials stages, we are conducting “eco together” activities with procurement, manufacture, distribution, sales, usage, waste various stakeholders comprised of consumers, business disposal and recycling. Looking at a breakdown of the 7.42 partners, and society. million tons of CO2 emissions generated from Kao products across their lifecycle, a much larger volume of CO2 are emitted Ratio of CO2 emissions at each stage of Kao products’ lifecycle 50% 28% 15% 6% 1% Procurement of Development/ Disposal/ Distribution Use raw materials Manufacture/Sales Recycling * 2015 results ➡p.33 Highlights: Culture > Responding to the hopes and expectations of the global community > Sustainable procurement of raw materials Global CO2 emissions reductions in development, manufacture and sales We are conducting initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions at research laboratories, plants, logistics centers and offices in the areas of improving energy usage efficiency and using energy with low environmental impacts. To improve energy usage efficiency, we are introducing energy-saving facilities, precisely controlling boilers for efficient operation, and effectively using steam heat. These facilities and technologies are producing results, while we are also quickly sharing relevant information among multiple plants. We are advancing initiatives to use fuel with low environmental impacts, such as natural gas at plants, a leading form of low-carbon energy. We have no plants that use coal. We are also advancing activities aimed at eliminating use of fossil fuels. For example, our plants that do not use large amounts of steam have aimed not to use any fossil fuels. In addition, we are continuing other daily efforts including Fatty Chemical (Malaysia) plant working to effectively use steam heat practicing fuel-efficient driving techniques by using hybrid vehicles and telematics data to reduce CO2 emissions generated from the company cars used by our sales companies. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 022 ▶ Reducing CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle We are also working to reduce our indirect CO2 emissions from the use of electricity. To improve electricity usage efficiency, in 2015 we announced a policy of switching mercury-containing lighting and general-purpose fluorescent lighting to LED lighting at plants, logistics centers and offices. In Japan alone, this represents a switch of about 90,000 mercury-containing and general-purpose fluorescent lights. We are also reducing CO2 emissions at all plants and worksites by switching to all LED lighting. In order to use electricity with low environmental impacts, Kao Germany and Kao Manufacturing Germany have been obtaining 100% of their electricity from renewable sources since 2014. In Japan, we plan to give consideration to CO2 emissions in determining electricity vendors. In addition, we have introduced solar photovoltaic power generation at sites Solar photovoltaic power generation system installed at Wakayama Research Laboratories including Wakayama Research Laboratory and Atsugi Logistics Center, which produced 493 MWh of electricity in 2015. We CO2 emissions will continue to install solar photovoltaic power generation systems at newly built facilities. (%) 0 0 -10 -21 -20 -27 -28 -29 -22 -30 -40 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) ー●ー Per unit (of sales) reduction rate * ‌Boundary: Through 2014, all Kao Group production sites as well as non-production sites within Japan. 2015 includes some non-production sites outside Japan as well. Global CO2 emissions reductions during distribution In the distribution stage, we separate our activities into shipping of products from plants to logistics centers and delivery of products from logistics centers to stores. In product shipping, our activities include building logistics centers in appropriate locations to shorten the transportation distance, using larger containers to efficiently ship goods by truck by shipping larger volumes at once, improving loading efficiency by making beneficial use of space in truck beds, and modal shift to switch to transportation methods with lower environmental impacts (switching from truck to rail and ship transport). In 2015, the Japanese Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport, and Tourism recognized our Wakayama Plant's efforts to shift to marine transport by awarding the plant “Eco-Ship Mark” certification. Marine shipping is able to keep CO2 emissions down to about one-fifth of truck transport. Truck loading a container of products onto a ferry 33 In product delivery, we are reducing the number of delivery shipments by revising ordering methods and frequency through “eco together” activities conducted together with stores. We are also using safety recorders to improve fuel efficiency. Product packaging taking into consideration higher % reduction efficiency of product shipping from plants and ease of CO2 reduction rate in the distribution stage (Japan) restocking products at stores is also being done as needed. (per unit of sales, 2005 baseline) Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 023 ▶ Reducing CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle Global CO2 reductions during product use The usage stage of the product lifecycle, which is when customers are using our products, accounts for the largest volume of CO2 emissions, at 50%. This fact is particularly noticeable for products that use hot water during use. For example, about 90% of the total CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle for shampoo are from the CO2 emissions to provide tap water and the CO2 emissions from fuel to heat it. Therefore, we are proposing water-saving products as an approach to reduce the volume of CO2 emissions during the usage stage. If the amount of water use can be reduced with water-saving products, this will reduce the CO2 emissions generated from the energy used to provide tap water and heat water. To increase the use of water-saving products, we are engaging in “eco together” activities with society. These include environmental lessons taught at elementary schools, educational activities at business partners and local governments, and the Nationwide Cleanliness and WaterWater-saving laundry detergents available in 7 countries and regions saving Initiatives conducted jointly with the State Environmental Protection Administration of China. Meanwhile, Wakayama Plant operates the Kao Eco-Lab Museum, where visitors can experience Kao’s latest eco-technologies. Products to help save water in the usage stage In the home, laundry detergent is responsible for a large amount of water use. In 2009, we launched the concentrated liquid laundry detergent Attack Neo as a product that not only saves water but also electricity and time by employing new cleansing technology that requires only one laundry rinse cycle. In 2013, we launched Ultra Attack Neo, which uses new cleansing agents. Ultra Attack Neo makes high-performance, Products that save water in the usage stage high-speed washing possible by thoroughly removing dirt and odors in just five minutes of washing time. We are also making water-saving detergents available in seven countries and regions including China, Australia and Singapore. For dishwashing, which uses a lot of hot water, we are also developing technologies that deliver this strong cleansing power and lower environmental impacts. We launched an improved CuCute dish detergent in 2014 that offers enhanced cleansing ability and faster rinsing. In the bathroom, where a lot of water is also used, in 2010 we launched Merit Shampoo, which rinses away using about 20% less water than the previous product. In August 2015, we launched an improved Bath Magiclean bathroom cleaning liquid featuring enhanced cleansing power and easier rinsing. Reducing environmental impacts beyond the product lifecycle Research on detergent technologies to reduce environmental impacts Revising and improving product features from other 24 approaches besides saving water also creates products with reduced environmental impacts. The Essential Free & Smooth Shampoo we launched in 2014 coats the cuticle on the hair’s surface with a thin coat to reduce tangles and shorten drying % reduction time by allowing the heated air to pass through the hair easier. This results in shortened dryer use and contributes to reduced Water usage during product use environmental impacts beyond the CO2 emissions from the (per unit of sales, 2005 baseline) product lifecycle. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 024 ▶ Reducing CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle Global CO2 reductions during disposal and recycling The disposal and recycling stage accounts for 15% of the CO2 emissions volume of Kao products, which is 2.5 times more CO2 than during the production stage. In other words, this CO2 is emitted after customers have used the products. Most of this CO2 is generated by incinerating product packaging. Our Package Development Research Center is cooperating with suppliers and other partners to develop packaging and packaging with low environmental impacts. We are working to develop these technologies from the perspective of the 4R’s of Reduce, Renewable, Reuse and Recycle. In the area of reduce, we employ thinner bottles, based on a policy of making products lighter. For some products, we make them even more compact by increasing the concentration. In the area of renewable, we are introducing Examples of the 243 refill products available in Japan 84 renewable plant-based raw materials such as polylactic acid and bio-polyethylene. In the area of reuse, we are developing reusable and refillable products so that bottles and other product packaging can be used again and again. And in the area of recycle, we are introducing and utilizing recycled % materials including paper and resin. Proportion of refill product sales quantities for Kao products (unit basis) Topic Environmental improvement activities at Pilipinas Kao Pilipinas Kao in Philippine received permission from the Philippine Economic Zone Authority (PEZA) in 2001 to produce higher alcohol and industrial chemical products using coconut oil and other raw materials. PEZA is a government organization that provides operational support to companies in regions declared Special Export and Economic Zones by the Philippine president. Started in 1995 to attract foreign investment, there are currently 300 Special Economic Zones with 3,500 participating companies. Pilipinas Kao proactively undertakes environmental improvement activities, and in 2014 reduced its total CO2 emissions by about 5%. It did this by reducing the fuel used in its boiler facilities by 15% year on year and Receiving the trophy awarded by the Philippine by reducing electricity usage at facilities by 26%. As part of its CSR government from former President Benigno activities, it is conducting environmental protection projects including Aquino planting mangrove trees and conducting beach cleanup campaigns. In recognition of these activities, Pilipinas Kao received the PEZA Environmental Performance Award from the Philippine government in April 2015. Pilipinas Kao Environment and Safety Team Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 025 ▶ Contribution to safeguarding regional biodiversity The business activities of Kao are being benefited by biodiversity. We strive to reduce the impacts of our business activities on biodiversity and conserve biodiversity in consideration of the local ecosystems. Japan Green Conservation including Employees’ Forest at Kashima Plant We are working to conserve biodiversity based on the Kao Basic Policies on Conservation of Biodiversity established in 2011. Kashima Plant was the first plant in the Kao Group to obtain SCCS certification (see p. 33) for making products using palm oil that cleared RSPO requirements. The plant is also actively taking steps to incorporate biodiversity considerations into its land use. Kashima Plant is built on reclaimed land and is subject to a range of laws and regulations as well as local, municipal, and prefectural pollution prevention agreements. Amid these circumstances, the first plant manager had a vision to make Kashima Plant the plant with the most natural greenery in the Kao Group and engaged in grass-roots greenery conservation over many years. There is also a forest called the Employees’ Forest at Kashima Plant. All employees who work at the plant are given Employees’ Forest rich in biodiversity the opportunity to select a tree from a list of trees mainly indigenous to the area and then plant their tree. This tree planting has continued for 35 years since the plant began operations, resulting in 143 varieties of trees being planted by about 800 employees. The forest has cultivated an environment rich in biodiversity that attracts animals such as shrike, pheasant, and the butterfly Hestina japonica. Watching their tree in the forest grow along with their career at the company has also become a source of motivation for employees. In recent years, we have conducted a greenery area evaluation based on guidelines developed by JBIB*1 (Japan Business Initiative for Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity) to determine the level of contribution of the forest to regional biodiversity. We also revised our land use guidelines and activities. Based on these guidelines, we obtained ABINC*2 (Association for Business Innovation in harmony with Nature Forest planted mainly with trees indigenous to the area and Community) certification in February 2015. This was its first certification of a factory. In October 2015, we received the Environment Minister’s Prize in the fourth Contest for Corporate Activities on Biodiversity. The Employees’ Forest as a venue for social interaction The Employees’ Forest serves as a venue for raising the environmental and health awareness of employees as well as for social interaction. For example, the Employees’ Forest is regularly opened to employees and retired employees for exchanges involving weeding and tending the area around the trees that the employees planted. *1 ‌JBIB (Japan Business Initiative for Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity) An organization of numerous enterprises from many different industries committed to biodiversity conservation, founded in 2008. *2 ABINC (Association for Business Innovation in harmony with Nature and Community) A general incorporated association founded for the purpose of creating systems for people to live in harmony with living things and promotion of scienceand technology-based Environment Minister’s Prize in the Contest for Corporate Activities on inspections and commercialization. Biodiversity Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 026 ▶ Kao's recognition of social issues The United Nations adopted new international targets called the Community Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to replace the Millennium Development Goals, which reached their deadline at the end of 2015. The SDGs seek to realize 17 goals and 169 targets by 2030 to reduce disparity in poverty, hunger, inequality and other aspects and achieve sustainable development for the future in areas including the global environment, sanitation, health and gender equality. Meanwhile, various initiatives are needed in Japan, where the population is aging at one of the fastest rates in the world, including improving the quality of life of seniors and maintaining and improving health. Kao’s approach Since our founding, our mission has been to contribute to the wholehearted satisfaction and enrichment of the lives of people globally. For social issues such as the environment, sanitation, health, and aging in particular, we are supporting people to live healthy lives through products and services that incorporate technologies we have cultivated. We conduct detailed research on the culture and needs of each region to offer products that satisfy people’s diverse needs as well as propose new lifestyle options. In addition to offering products, we are conducting social activities in partnership with communities and NPOs, such as hand washing educational activities to teach children hygienic habits. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 027 ▶ Raising awareness of the importance of good hygiene habits Making a positive contribution towards helping people to enjoy clean, healthy lifestyles is the starting point for Kao’s business activities. Cleanliness means more than just getting rid of dirt, because developing living habits that embody an awareness of sanitation issues can help people to live healthily every day. Kao does more than provide products; it helps to spread good hygiene habits throughout society and contributes to public health. Global Implementing hand washing lessons in collaboration with schools Every year, a large number of Kao Group employees visit elementary schools to give lessons on hand washing to children in the younger grades. During the lesson, the children learn how to wash their hands properly in a fun way while singing Kao’s original hand washing song and actually practice washing their hands; instructors check the children’s hands after they have been washed, and if any places have been missed, the children are encouraged to do better next time. Kao has been pleased to hear reports from the schools that “The children enjoy singing and washing their hands so much that it takes them quite some time to come back to the classroom.” Since the program was first launched in 2009, a total of around 37,000 expert little hand washers have been trained. 8,000 111 children at schools The number of elementary school students who received Kao’s hand washing lessons in 2015 Kao employee helps children to understand the importance of proper hand washing Outside Japan Cleanliness Exhibition in Taiwan Kao (Taiwan) established a “home” in Taipei Children Amusement Park during the Christmas season 2015, encouraging kids to “clean your home to welcome Santa.” A total of 5,500 people visited the amusement park, where they were able to experience the joy of cleanliness in a fun and enjoyable way, cleaning the floor together with cartoon characters and then washing their hands after getting them dirty doing the cleaning. Experiencing the joy of cleanliness while having fun Outside Japan Efforts to encourage good hand washing habits in Thailand When Bangkok was affected by serious flooding in 2011, Kao Commercial (Thailand) Co., Ltd. donated products to the affected districts, and made a contribution towards improving hygiene in these areas. Since then, Kao Commercial (Thailand) has conducted activities aimed at combating the spread of infectious disease on an ongoing basis. The company arranges hand washing lessons at schools in various parts of Thailand, at which proper hand washing technique is demonstrated and a hand washing song (in Thai) is taught, so that children can learn good hand washing habits in a fun and enjoyable way. When the children go home after school, they are able to show other family members what they have learned, thereby helping to spread good hand washing Showing the steps for effective hand washing in an easy-to-understand habits even further. way Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 028 ▶ Supporting people to live healthily The products and services that Kao provides help people to maximize their own ability to maintain their health, and to live healthy lives every day. Kao also works with individual experts, NGOs, government agencies etc. to provide support for people’s health in conjunction with society as a whole. Japan Supporting local government authorities’ health promotion initiatives Kao has been providing several types of support for the Career Health Prefecture—Oita 21 project, a health promotion initiative launched by Oita Prefectural Government. In September 2015, at the request of Oita Prefectural Government, Kao initiated a unique program to help improve the health of 1,000 employees at 25 companies located within Oita Prefecture through the use of pedometers. In October 2015, during “Let’s All Try to Extend Our Healthy Lifespan Month,” Kao held seminars on the themes of “Pay Attention to Your Visceral Fat to Extend Your Healthy Lifespan” and “Measuring, Knowing and Reducing Your Visceral Fat Level” with support from Oita Prefectural Government and the Japan Obesity Prevention Healthy Society. These seminars were accompanied by the holding of visceral fat measurement events; a total of 509 people participated over a period of three days. One participant noted that “I had been worrying about my visceral fat level, so it was good to have the opportunity to Helping to publicize Oita Prefectural Government’s health initiatives through find out how high it was.” retailers of Kao’s Healthya brand products Global Providing support for women’s health through the Pink Ribbon Campaign The Pink Ribbon Campaign is a global movement aimed at raising awareness of the importance of early detection of breast cancer. If breast cancer is detected early, then the survival rate is significantly higher, so it is very important to get regular check-ups. In Japan, although the number of people suffering from breast cancer is rising, the percentage of people who get check-ups is low, and the number of people dying from breast cancer is rising steadily. Providing useful information at cosmetics counters in Japan Every year, in October–November, Kao implements the Pink Ribbon Campaign, distributing leaflets to customers at the Distributing leaflets at a Kanebo cosmetic counter cosmetics advice counters (for the Kao Sofina, Est and Kanebo Cosmetics brands) in cosmetics retailers that are visited by large numbers of female customers; the leaflets explain the importance of early detection of breast cancer, and introduce methods that people can use for self-checking, etc. In 2015, Kao also distributed a special illustrated sheet that can be stuck on the bathroom wall, which shows people how to perform self-checking while in the bath; many of Kao’s customers have used this sheet. Kao USA staff members taking part in a breast cancer awareness-raising activity 7.2 Spreading the Pink Ribbon Campaign With participation by Kanebo Cosmetics China starting in 2015, the Pink Ribbon Campaign has now spread to eight different countries and regions. Kao employees in other countries also support Pink Ribbon activities; for example, staff members at million leaflets Kao USA have been collaborating on awareness-raising Number of breast cancer awareness leaflets distributed activities organized by the Susan G. Komen® foundation. in the Kao Group’s Pink Ribbon Campaign Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 029 ▶ Monozukuri from a Universal Design perspective Kao's universal design facilitates enriching lives for the consumer through Yoki-Monozukuri. While promoting the development of “User-friendly products” that are easy and straightforward to use for as many people as possible, we also aim to contribute to “Social inclusion” through our products, fostering the relationships between individuals, and between individuals and society. Japan New packaging that makes refilling easy for everyone As a manufacturer that provides products which a very large same volume of content, and, in addition, the CO2 emissions per number of households use every day, Kao has been working to packaging are about 3% lower than with traditional refill packaging, make its product packaging easier to use. With the aging of the making this a more environmentally friendly packaging. population, an increase in dual-career families, and rising environmental consciousness, consumers have increasingly been expressing a desire for product packaging that are easy to use and environmentally friendly. In 2015, Kao developed a new type of refill packaging for products such as particularly viscous shampoos etc. The refill packaging cap fits neatly inside the mouth of the regular bottle, making it less likely that the contents will leak out while refilling; the refill packaging’s wide mouth ensures that the liquid content flows in smoothly, and the refill packaging is made from thin film which can be folded easily to squeeze out the last drops of content. Shampoo caps have notches in the top so that Easy to hold Fits neatly onto the Folds up to get consumers can tell distinguish between shampoo and conditioner without the fingers bottle upside down, almost every last slipping without leakage drop of content out just by touching the cap. The new type of refill packaging is also slimmer and more compact than the old type, while still having the New refill packaging Japan Adoption of tactile identification cue for Kao’s body soap containers The indented notch that Kao started adding to its shampoo containers in 1991 as a form of tactile identification cue was recognized in both the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) and ISO as an accessible packaging design. Today, almost all shampoo bottles sold in Japan have this kind of notch on them. Two decades on, a major industry organization had been receiving comments The adding of Line Type from visually impaired people to the effect that they would also Tactile Cues to the top of the container pump and to appreciate it if it was easier to identify body soap containers; Kao the side of the main part joined a tactile identification strategy formulation working group of the container helps consumers to distinguish established by the industry organization, and in May 2014, as a body soap packaging from result of this industry organization led initiative, the relevant JIS shampoo or conditioner packaging were revised to add provision for a “Line Type Tactile Cue” for body soap containers. Starting with the new Bioré-u containers that were launched in April 2015, Kao is continuing to introduce tactile A body soap packaging featuring Line Type Tactile Cues cues on our body soap products. Topic Kao receives a letter of thanks from the Japan Federation of the Blind and the Japan Braille Library In November 2015, Kao received a letter of thanks from the Japan Federation of the Blind and the Japan Braille Library appreciating Kao’s part in the formulation of a new tactile identification standard for body soap products and for being the first company to adopt this new standard for its own products. The letter of thanks commended Kao for “making changes to Kao products which, while seemingly small, are very much appreciated,” in relation to the expansion of the idea of Universal Design through the tactile identification cues for Kao’s shampoo and conditioner products. With the Director of the Japan Braille Library (right) Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 030 ▶ Kao's recognition of social issues Corporate activities are globalizing and the value chain is also expanding Culture globally. With this, environmental and social issues are arising in relationships with business partners in various regions. Environmental destruction in areas such as rainforests that produce raw materials and human rights problems experienced by workers have been reported. Companies are expected to recognize their scope of influence, uphold laws and regulations not only within their own company but across the entire value chain, and conduct corporate activities responsibly with respect to preserving the global environment and the safety and human rights of employees and workers. Kao’s approach To practice the Kao Way, our corporate philosophy, we have established the Kao Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) as our code of conduct and are working to deepen understanding of them among all Kao Group employees around the world. We position the principle of Integrity, meaning to act in compliance with laws and ethics as well as to conduct fair and honest business activities, as the starting point of compliance. We have also established policies and guidelines on and clearly defined our approach to respecting the human rights of stakeholders and to achieving the sustainable procurement of raw materials, and are conducting initiatives to this end together with our suppliers and other business partners. The 4th Global TCR (Transformation for Cost Reduction) Meeting at Lufthansa Seeheim Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 031 ▶ Striving to maintain sound business practices Kao aims to win the trust of the global community as a whole by carrying out day-to-day operations based on its corporate culture of Integrity that has been passed down from the company’s founder. Global Integrity 10 Kao’s mission, as set out in the Kao Way (see p. 3) that constitutes Kao’s basic corporate philosophy, is to strive for the wholehearted satisfaction and enrichment of the lives of people globally, and to contribute to the sustainability of the consecutive years of world, with products and brands of excellent value that are created from the consumer’s and customer’s perspective. One being named one of the World’s of Kao’s core values is the principle of Integrity, which means Most Ethical Companies* to behave lawfully and ethically and conduct business activities fairly and honestly. Kao regards Integrity as the starting point for compliance. * ‌The World’s Most Ethical Companies® is an award given to companies The Kao Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG), which lays down selected by the U.S.-based Ethisphere Institute as embodying high ethical an explicit code of conduct for the realization of the Kao Way, standards. Kao has become the only Japanese company, and the only company in the world in the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) clearly enunciates Kao’s goal of earning the respect and trust industry and chemical industry, to be included among the ranks of the of all stakeholders as it strives, through fair, conscientious World’s Most Ethical Companies® for 10 consecutive years. action based on the basic principles of “acting ethically” and “complying with the law,” to be an ethical enterprise Kao Business Conduct Guidelines: Objectives and Applications Objectives: Compliance Hotline: Internal Compliance Hotline* The Kao Business Conduct Guidelines provide specific guidance on how to put the Kao Way into practice that is applicable to all Kao Group companies worldwide, including all executives and employees thereof. Within the context of the Kao （Telephone & Email） characterized by honesty and upright behavior. Business Conduct Guidelines, Kao Group companies refers to Kao Corporation, any entity more than 50% of whose outstanding stocks or interests with voting rights is owned directly or indirectly by Kao Corporation and any entity which has decided to follow the Kao Business Conduct Guidelines as their company's code of conduct based on an agreement with Kao Corporation. In the Kao Business Conduct Guidelines, the term Kao refers to the Kao Group companies as a whole and the term company refers to individual companies. Kao is actively encouraging its business partners to comply with the spirit of the fundamental rule relating to fair and honest transactions and other relevant provisions of the Kao Business Conduct Guidelines. ＊Some companies / regions have the Integrity Line only. The Kao Way（ Corporate Philosophy） Report of ・Can submit reports online on Compliance a website Concerns and Issues ・This is a toll free number Kao Kao Employees ・Use a land line (not mobile phones) Business Conduct Guidelines ・Service in local languages ・Available 24hrs / 365days 2016 Integrity Line (Telephone & Website) Kao’s Code of Conduct Revised April 2016 Flow chart showing the process how to communicate with the reporter: Receipt of report/ Fact finding based on the reporter's consent Code of Conduct which consultation; Confirmation of the evidence, Interviews with Kao Business Conduct Guidelines embodies the Kao Way relevant persons confirmation of ※request interviewees to keep the contents of the content interview confidential Determination Detailed Polices based on the Policy in each area, Internal rules Kao Business Conduct Guidelines whether an illegal act or a Determination of no illegal act/violation of rules. violation of the Application: company's rules Feedback to the took place after What to do when faced with a difficult business decision reporter reviewing the When faced with a difficult business decision, we shall refer to the Kao Business Conduct Guidelines to confirm that our Public Announcement Illegal act Except in the case Correction, investigation contemplated actions are not only compliant with laws and regulations and internal rules, but also that they are consistent where the reporter about the illegal act or or violation with principles of business ethics. When in doubt, we shall consult with our line managers, colleagues, people within Recurrence of rules report made the report a violation issue and responsible departments and, when appropriate, outside experts. anonymously or prevention, response measures The Kao Business Conduct Guidelines does not cover all business situations. When faced with a difficult business decision, requested not to Disciplinary be given feedback only in cases of certain please consider the following: action serious illegal acts or violations When making a decision, ask yourself: The company shall protect and safeguard to the fullest extent possible the privacy of anyone who reports information regarding ● Does the action comply with all relevant laws and regulations? illegal, unethical or other questionable conduct or seeks consultation about such conduct. For more details, please see the 7th clause of the Principles of Corporate Ethics. ● Does it conform to company policy and/or rules including the Kao Business Conduct Guidelines? ● Can you legitimately justify the action internally and externally if they were to be reported by the press? ● Would you feel comfortable if similar action were taken against a member of your own family 〈 Notes on seeking consultation services 〉 (e.g. discrimination, harassment, etc.) ? Compliance hotlines are able to accept reports both on a name and no-name basis. However, callers are encouraged to identify themselves to facilitate proper investigation. 2 3 KAO BUSINESS CONDUCT GUIDELINES KAO BUSINESS CONDUCT GUIDELINES The Kao Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) Global Towards the realization of our corporate philosophy Kao’s corporate philosophy, the Kao Way is a shared foundation that plays a vital role in enabling company employees with different backgrounds and skills to work together effectively towards the achievement of the same goals. In order to implement the Kao Way, since 2006 workshops have been held on an ongoing basis at Kao Group member companies both in and outside Japan to discuss how the Kao Way relates to individual workplaces and individual job roles. In 2014, a new workshop program, the Kao Way Dialogue, was launched that utilizes a dialogue format; within two years, by the end of 2015, this program had been implemented at 92% of Kao Group divisions within Japan. The program is also being rolled out at Kao Group’s global business locations. During the workshops, participants are encouraged to think about the essential aspects of their work from the perspective of the Kao Way, with a free and open exchange of views that helps to foster innovative new ways of working and high-quality work. The Kao Way Dialogue in Shanghai 92 The percentage of Kao Group divisions in Japan where the Kao Way Dialogue program has already been implemented % Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 032 ▶ Promoting Health and Productivity Management Dedicated to helping people in the areas of cleanliness, beauty, and health, Kao strives to enrich the lives of people. Kao believes that helping its employees and their families stay fit and healthy can help to ensure the successful future development of the company’s operations. Kao announced the Kao Group Health Declaration in 2008 and has been implementing Health and Productivity Management measures. Japan Encouraging employees to maintain and improve their own health As a company, Kao aims to do more than just promote health management (which Kao sees as being only the least that a self-respecting business enterprise should do). Aiming to foster “employees with high health literacy,” Kao has put in place a system to facilitate effective collaboration between the company itself, the Health Insurance Society, occupational health staff, and external experts. More specifically, Kao has been implementing the following Five Support Measures: 1. Measures to address lifestyle-related diseases As lifestyle-related diseases can be prevented through ongoing efforts to develop healthy living habits, Kao’s occupational health specialists provide support in this regard. 2. Measures to address mental health issues When it comes to mental health issues, early diagnosis and early treatment are very important. Kao is putting in place a In-house Mini Exercise Class to help prevent lifestyle-related diseases framework that helps strengthen awareness of the effectiveness of self-care, and facilitates the provision of support to those employees who need it by those around them. 3. Measures to support employees wanting to quit smoking Kao has been providing support for employees who want to stop smoking in collaboration with the Kao Health Insurance Society, implementing support measures based around two core themes: (1) Creating an environment that makes it easier to stop smoking; (2) Providing support for those employees who have started to quit smoking. 4. Measures to support employees affected by cancer As cancer is the biggest single cause of death, Kao is promoting checkups with respect to those types of cancer that are responsive to early diagnosis and early treatment. 5. Measures to support women’s health Kao is implementing measures to help safeguard women’s health through seminars and campaigns focusing on health Seminar (for both female and male employees) on the physical and mental issues that are of particular significance for women, with the health issues relevant to working women aim of helping female employees to enjoy healthy, active lives. 8.8 % reduction In the number of male employees aged over 35 requiring Specific Health Guidance (compared to FY 2009) Topic Kao is selected for inclusion in the Health & Productivity Stock list for the second year in a row For the second consecutive year, Kao has been chosen for inclusion in the Health & Productivity Stock list compiled by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and by the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) as a listed company that has demonstrated outstanding performance in the area of Health and Productivity Management.* The Health & Productivity Stock selection initiative has been developed as a joint project by METI and the TSE as part of the strategy to foster the economic revitalization of Japan. Starting from 2015, the list is being compiled on an annual basis to provide recognition for those business enterprises that actively implement health and productivity management based on the application of a business management perspective to the management of employee health. * ‌Health and Productivity Management is a registered trademark of the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and Employee. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 033 ▶ Responding to the hopes and expectations of the global community As a member of the global community, Kao endeavors to respond to society’s needs while maintaining close communication with a wide range of stakeholders and meeting international principles and standards. Global Sustainable procurement of raw materials Kao has committed to zero deforestation in its procurement of palm oil, which constitutes an important raw material for the company, setting itself the target of purchasing only sustainably sourced palm oil that is traceable to the plantation for use in Kao Group consumer products by 2020. In 2015, Kao completed confirmation of mills for all palm oil and palm kernel oil for use in Kao Group consumer products. However, as there are still some cases of derivative products purchased from external suppliers where the mill that produced the original raw material cannot be confirmed, Kao will continue to undertake further confirmation, and will also be purchasing RSPO* certified materials as a supplementary measure. Kao joined the RSPO to resolve issues relating to ecosystem destruction and human rights and other abuses. Kao began making adjustments to its supply chain, including commencing the purchasing of RSPO certified palm oil, in The fruit of the oil palm tree used to make palm oil and palm kernel oil 2010. As of 2015, a total of 19 factories belonging to 16 individual companies have been certified for their manufacturing, processing and distribution under the RSPO SCCS (Supply Chain Certification System). *RSPO: Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Global Human rights initiatives Kao’s internal rules such as the Kao Business Conduct Guidelines include an explicit commitment to human rights, and Kao has taken practical measures to put this commitment into practice. To help ensure that respect for human rights is embodied in the entire process of Yoki-Monozukuri, in June 2015 Kao formulated a new Kao Human Rights Policy based on the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.*1 The Kao Human Rights Policy specifies the need to respect international rules relating to human rights, to undertake surveys of human rights risks in relation to Kao’s business activities, and to implement human rights due diligence*2 to mitigate and prevent such risks. Following the formulation of the Kao Human Rights Policy, departmental presentations and reports in internal newsletters have been used to spread awareness throughout the Kao Group. Kao has also been reviewing methods and systems to be used for the implementation of human rights due diligence starting from 2016. Training to raise awareness of the Kao Human Rights Policy among employees *1 ‌UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Principles related to business and human rights proposed by UN Special Representative John Ruggie and endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council in June 2011 *2 ‌Human rights due diligence Ongoing process to identify, evaluate, and avoid or mitigate impacts of corporate activities Kao Human Rights Policy Web on human rights http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/csr_action_03.html Kao Business Conduct Guidelines http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_info/compliance_01.html Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 034 ▶ Governance Kao endeavors to build and maintain a managerial framework and internal control system with the aim of continuously enhancing corporate value. Kao also establishes organizations for the appropriate management of risks and crises that could have a negative impact on its management targets and business activities, and implements necessary countermeasures. Global Corporate governance Kao’s basic stance on measures related to corporate Members maintain their neutrality, independent from the governance is to implement the necessary policies and fulfill Company’s management. In order to improve the transparency its accountability by setting up and operating a management and other aspects of discussions in the Board of Directors, an structure and internal control system in order to rapidly realize Independent Outside Director has become the chairman of the efficient, sound, fair and highly transparent management with Board after the 108th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders the aim of continuously increasing corporate value and held in March 2014. The term of office for Directors and achieving the long-term targets and mid-term plan. This is Executive Officers is one year. positioned as one of its most important management tasks. Kao conducts annual reviews and implements appropriate measures while integrating social trends and responding to the requests of our shareholders and all other stakeholders. Kao has introduced, within the framework of a “Company with an Audit & Supervisory Board,” the Executive Officer system in order to separate the supervision function from the execution function. Following the conclusion of the 110th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held in March 2016, Kao has: seven (7) members of the Board of Directors, including three (3) Outside Directors (seven (7) out of seven (7) are male); five (5) Audit & Supervisory Board Members, including three (3) Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (four (4) out of five (5) are male and one (1) is female); and twenty-seven (27) Executive Officers, including five (5) Executive Officers, with the title of Senior Managing Executive Officer or Managing Executive Officer and without concurrent positions in the Board of Directors (twenty-five (25) out of twenty-seven (27) are male and two (2) are female). All Outside Directors and all Outside Audit & Supervisory Board The 110th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held in March 2016 Global Risk and crisis management Kao regards the potential negative impact on its management targets and business activities as a “risk” and the manifestation of such risk as a “crisis,” and has established an organization for appropriate risk and crisis management. Based on the policy and plan, departments and subsidiaries and affiliates appropriately manage risk by ascertaining and assessing risks and formulating and implementing necessary countermeasures. With the aim of enhancing our ability to deal effectively with risk, in 2015 the most important corporate risks affecting the Kao Group were identified, and organizations were established for responding to corporate risks in order of priority. In regard to major risks, besides implementing activities to reduce risk, we have also strengthened the organization and our response for a crisis occurrence, assuming the manifestation of such risks. Disaster drill at a Kao plant in Spain Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 035 ▶ 2015 Activities Conservation p.36 Community p.68 Culture p.99 Governance p.129 Responsible Care Activities p.140 Recognition by outside organizations p.145 Independent assurance report p.147 Third-party opinion p.148 GRI/ISO 26000 content index p.149 Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 036 ▶ 2020 initiatives based on the Kao Environmental Statement【EC2】 Kao released the Kao Environmental Statement in 2009. Kao has established and is promoting initiatives concerning CO2, water, chemical substances, biodiversity and other environmental impacts. Policies/structures Kao is promoting “eco together” activities in partnership with many diverse stakeholders including consumers, business 2020 Medium-term Targets partners and communities across the product lifecycle from 1. CO2 materials procurement, manufacture, distribution, sales, usage, Consumer products: 35% reduction (across product lifecycle, per unit sales in Japan, relative to FY 2005) and waste disposal and recycle. 2  . Water We have made our mission “to strive for the wholehearted Water consumption during product use: 30% reduction satisfaction and enrichment of the lives of people globally.” As (per unit sales in Japan, relative to FY 2005) humankind faces the global-scale issues of global warming and 3. Chemical substances resource depletion, we are promoting manufacturing based on Active implementation of the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM) to reducing our environmental impact as a mediumto long-term promote sound chemical management business strategy. 4. Biodiversity While fulfilling our responsibilities as a user of chemicals, Implementation of measures to protect biodiversity we are promoting environmental management in harmony through responsible raw materials procurement and other measures with nature. Based on this thinking, Kao recognizes the four areas of CO2, water, chemical substances and biodiversity as key environmental areas. ➡For details of these activities, refer to p.17 Kao Sustainability Statement > 2015 Results & 2016 Targets (Conservation) ➡Kao Environmental Statement http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/eco_activities_03.html Global 2015 results and future targets Continuing from the previous year, in 2015 we did not achieve our GHG emission reduction targets (all production and nonproduction sites and product transport) and waste generation. We will promote further efforts in 2016 aiming to achieve our targets. CO2 Index Relevant division 2015 targets 2015 results 2016 targets 2020 targets Energy consumption *1 30% reduction 31% reduction 31% reduction 35% reduction Kao Group All sites GHG emissions *1 29% reduction 29% reduction 30% reduction 35% reduction Kao Group in Japan CO2 emissions*1 – 17% reduction – 35% reduction Entire product lifecycle*3 Kao Group in Japan GHG emissions*2 All sites 22% reduction 17% reduction – – + product distribution Water Index Relevant division 2015 targets 2015 results 2016 targets 2020 targets Kao Group 36% reduction 43% reduction 37% reduction 40% reduction All sites Water use*1 Kao Group in Japan – 24% reduction – 30% reduction During product use*3 Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 037 ▶ 2020 initiatives based on the Kao Environmental Statement【EC2】 Biodiversity Index Relevant division 2015 targets 2015 results 2016 targets 2020 targets Quantity of purchased RSPO certified oil (Palm oil, palm kernel oil and Kao Group 40,000 tons 24,000 tons 40,000 tons 120,000 tons derivatives purchased by the Kao Group) No. of RSPO SCCS certified Kao Group 15 companies, 16 companies, 20 companies, Kao Group plants All plants 18 plants 19 plants 25 plants All plants Other Index Relevant division 2015 targets 2015 results 2016 targets 2020 targets Kao Group Waste generation*1 30% reduction 27% reduction 31% reduction 33% reduction All sites Kao Group in Japan Final disposal ratio*4 0.1% or lower 0.1% 0.1% or lower 0.1% or lower All sites Green procurement Kao Group in Japan 99% 97% – – ratio*5 All supplier plants *1 Per unit of sales, relative to 2005 *2 Absolute quantity, relative to 1990 *3 Mainly for consumer products sold in Japan *4 The percentage of landfilled waste among total waste and other unwanted materials generated *5 Ratio of relevant supplier plants implementing an environmental management system Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 038 ▶ Reducing CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle 【EC2,EN3,EN5-EN7,EN15,EN16,EN18,EN19,EN30,EN33】 As the effects of climate change become more severe, mitigation and adaptation to climate change are urgently needed around the world. Kao is working together with business partners and customers across the product lifecycle to realize a low-carbon society. 2015 activities In 2015, while conducting various ongoing activities to reduce CO2 emissions at each stage of the lifecycle that started in the past, we have also improved their scale and quality. In the development, manufacture and sales stages, many plants replaced their facilities with Best Practicable Technology (BPT) including refrigeration equipment and compressors, effectively used steam, and introduced LED lighting. In the distribution stage, we have implemented modal shift and eco-driving techniques, and the Wakayama Plant obtained Eco-Ship Mark certification. In the usage, disposal and recycling stages, we promoted development of products with low CO2 emissions. Japan CO2 reductions across the product lifecycle Kao is conducting activities aimed at reducing CO2 emissions offices, using energy with low CO2 emissions, shortening in the product lifecycle by 35% by 2020 (consumer products in product distribution distances by optimizing production Japan per unit of sales, relative to 2005). In 2015, Kao reduced systems and logistics territories, and launching water-saving its CO2 emissions by 17% (★). products and new refill packaging. Kao is conducting a range of initiatives across the product lifecycle, including improving energy efficiency at plants and Global Initiatives during materials procurement With cooperation from suppliers, Kao is striving to improve the ➡p. 109 Culture > Partnering with our suppliers > Promoting the sustainable procurement of raw materials accuracy of CO2 data for materials. Kao began participating in the CDP Supply Chain Program in 2009 and is asking major suppliers to disclose information on and make reductions to greenhouse gas emissions. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 039 ▶ Reducing CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle【EC2,EN3,EN5-EN7,EN15,EN16,EN18,EN19,EN30,EN33】 Global Initiatives during development, manufacture and sales Along with grassroots energy-conservation activities in the GHG emissions★ course of daily work, Kao is actively introducing Best (Thousand tons-CO2e) (%) Practicable Technology (BPT) and developing activities across 2,000 0 worksites to improve energy usage efficiency, including -21 0 -22 integrating offices, introducing office equipment with low -27 -28 -29 -20 1,500 environmental impacts, and switching company cars to hybrid -40 vehicles. 1,038 1,071 1,000 993 972 983 988 Further, all plants with the necessary infrastructure use natural gas and are purchasing electricity with low CO2 emissions. 500 In the area of improving energy usage efficiency, in 2015, 0 updating BPT equipment including refrigeration equipment and 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) compressors and effective use of steam were advanced at ■ Japan ■ Asia and Pacific ■ U.S. and Latin America ■ Europe many plants. Introduction of LED lighting at all worksites ー●ー Per unit (of sales) reduction rate including logistics centers and offices was also promoted. In * Assurance provided for GHG emissions figures. 2015 there were 227 instances of such energy-saving activities at plants and offices in Japan that also led to cost reductions. They have each resulted in an annual reduction in CO2 emissions of about 3,600 tons, and about 140 million yen in GHG emissions by scope and region★ annual cost reductions. (Thousand tons-CO2e) In terms of using energy sources with low CO2 emissions, 500 Kao Germany and Kao Manufacturing Germany switched all of 400 its purchased electricity to renewable energy sources in 2014. 181 185 Kao also installed solar photovoltaic panels, from which it 300 generated 493 MWh of electricity and reduced CO2 emissions by 249 tons. 200 The Kao Group in Japan is striving to reduce the volume of 276 286 greenhouse gas leaks including hydrofluorocarbon leaks to 100 22 17 comply with new regulations on fluorinated gas emissions 68 0 37 management. Japan Asia and U.S. and Europe As a result of these initiatives, in 2015 the reduction rate of Pacific Latin America energy consumption improved two percentage points to 31%, ■ Scope 1 ■ Scope 2 while the reduction rate of GHG emissions improved one * ‌Boundary: Through 2014, all Kao Group production sites as well as percentage point to 29%. These figures meet the respective non-production sites within Japan (including company cars). 2015 includes target reduction rates of 30% and 29% (For Kao Group as a some non-production sites outside Japan as well. * ‌Gases included: The seven GHGs specified by the Kyoto Protocol (only whole, per unit of sales, relative to 2005). CO2 in the case of outside Japan) * ‌Emissions by Scope are calculated according to the definitions specified by the GHG Protocol Initiative. Scope 1: GHGs emitted by the enterprise or organization itself Scope 2: GHGs emitted indirectly through the purchase of electric power, Energy consumption★ etc. * ‌Emission factors (PJ) 0 (%) Scope 1: In principle, Kao uses the coefficients defined in the Act on 40 0 Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Scope 2: In principle, Kao uses the coefficients specific to the laws and -21 -22 regulations of each county. When the specific coefficients are unavailable, -27 -29 -31 -20 30 Kao uses the coefficients released by the IEA. -40 Scope 1 emission volume trends★ (Thousand tons-CO2e) 20 17.9 17.7 17.8 18.2 18.6 17.6 Japan Asia Pacific U.S. and Europe Total Latin America 10 2013 274 259 32 64 629 0 2014 283 277 33 64 657 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) 2015 276 286 37 68 667 ■ Japan ■ Asia and Pacific ■ U.S. and Latin America ■ Europe Scope 2 emission volume trends★ (Thousand tons-CO2e) ー●ー Per unit (of sales) reduction rate Japan Asia Pacific U.S. and Europe Total * ‌Boundary: All Kao Group worksites including company cars (excluding Latin America some non-production sites outside Japan) * ‌Assurance provided for energy consumption figures. 2013 160 158 20 19 357 * ‌Figures have been revised back to 2005 due to revisions of electricity coefficients. 2014 171 172 19 17 379 2015 185 181 22 17 405 Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 040 ▶ Reducing CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle【EC2,EN3,EN5-EN7,EN15,EN16,EN18,EN19,EN30,EN33】 Global Initiatives during distribution To lower the environmental impacts of distribution, Kao has and are therefore positioned as priority activities to develop on been implementing a combination of production site an ongoing basis. In 2015, Wakayama Plant obtained Eco-Ship optimization to shorten distribution distances, improvements in Mark certification. the loading volumes of transport vehicles, improvements in Meanwhile in Japan, higher sales of light but bulky items fuel efficiency through eco-driving techniques, and shifting as sanitary products, which have low distribution efficiency, from truck to rail and ship transport (modal shift), which are caused shipment volumes to rise in 2015 and CO2 emissions transportation methods with lower CO2 emissions. from distribution to increase by 3,000 tons. Activities to improve fuel efficiency through modal shift and ➡p.22 Highlights: Conservation > Reducing CO2 emissions across the eco-driving techniques also serve to prevent traffic accidents, product lifecycle > CO2 emissions reductions during distribution Global Initiatives during product use Many of our products such as laundry detergents, dishwashing detergents and shampoos, also result in a large volume of CO2 detergents and shampoos consume water during use. A large emitted to heat the water. Therefore, Kao is developing volume of CO2 is also emitted from the energy consumed to products that consume less water. treat tap and sewer water at facilities. In addition, products that use hot water in the usage stage, such as dishwashing ➡p. 41 Conservation > Measures for water resources conservation Global Initiatives during disposal and recycling Kao is adopting containers and packaging developed based on ➡p. 56 Conservation > Environmentally-conscious containers and packaging the 4Rs of Reduce, Renewable, Reuse, and Recycle, aiming to use containers and packaging with lower environmental impacts to reduce CO2 emissions during product disposal. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 041 ▶ Measures for water resources conservation【EN8,EN22】 Kao’s business activities are closely associated with water. Therefore, Kao is working to use water effectively through “3R” efforts (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) to minimize the environmental impacts of wastewater and create a system to assess these impacts. 2015 activities In 2015, we continued conducting activities that we have been promoting. In the production stage, we confirmed risk assessments related to water stress and confirmed the possibility of long-term use of water resources and the impacts of wastewater when establishing a new plant. To reduce the volume of water consumed during the usage stage, we have launched an improved version of Bath Magiclean bathroom cleanser featuring enhanced cleansing power and easier rinsing. Global Initiatives in development, manufacture and sales Kao uses water as a product ingredient as well as to clean and Water use★ cool equipment in plants. We have set targets to reduce our (Million m3) (%) water use and are working to reduce consumption and 50 0 increase recycling based on the 3R’s. In terms of reducing 0 consumption, Pilipinas Kao in Philippines is continuing efforts 40 -28 -29 -33 -20 from last year to reduce its water use after conducting a -38 -43 detailed study of its water use. Efforts to reuse water include 30 -40 collecting rainwater and using it to water green spaces at the 19.8 20 17.8 17.8 18.0 17.8 17.2 Sumida Office, Kao Chemical Corporation Shanghai, Fatty Chemical (Malaysia) and so on. Kao is also promoting recycling 10 efforts to clean and reuse water at many plants, such as recovering steam after use and treating and reusing water that 0 has been used in production processes. 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) ■ Japan ■ Asia and Pacific ■ U.S. and Latin America ■ Europe As a result of these activities, our water usage volume in 2015 ー●ー Per unit (of sales) reduction rate was 17.2 million m3 (of which our water usage volume for * ‌Boundary: Through 2014, all Kao Group production sites as well as production activities in regions where water stress is non-production sites within Japan. 2015 includes some non-production sites outside Japan as well. anticipated was 1.5 million m3). Our water use has improved * ‌Water usage volume and water withdrawal are the same value. five percentage points compared with the previous year to * ‌Assurance provided for water withdrawal and water usage volume. reach a 43% reduction, achieving our 36% reduction target (per unit of sales, relative to 2005). In addition to internal information referencing the WRI*1 and WBCSD*2 assessment standards, Kao conducts regular Water withdrawal by water source risk assessments on water stress and did so again in 2015. No Surface water : 0 new risks were discovered. When opening new plants, Kao Discharged water also verifies the long-term usage feasibility of water resources from other organizations : 0 and the impact of wastewater. Produced/ process water : 0 Underground Rainwater : 0 water Brackish water/seawater : 0 4.7 (Million m3/year) *1 ‌WRI (World Resources Institute) Municipal A U.S.-based global research organization that researches problems water related to natural resources and the environment and conducts activities 12.5 together with government and private groups and environmental experts *2 ‌WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development) A global advocacy association comprised of about 200 international corporations that pursues sustainable development based on the three core areas of economic growth, environmental preservation, and social equity Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 042 ▶ Measures for water resources conservation【EN8,EN22】 Global Initiatives during product use Kao has set the target of reducing water use during product responsible for a large amount of water use in the home. An use by 30% by 2020 (consumer products in Japan per unit of improved CuCute was launched in 2014 featuring improved sales, relative to 2005). In 2015, a 24% reduction had been cleaning power as well as faster rinsing capability. achieved. For bath products, which use large amounts of water, the In the home, laundry detergent is responsible for a large Merit Shampoo launched in 2010 reduces the amount of water amount of water use. In 2009, Kao launched the concentrated needed for rinsing by about 20% compared with the original liquid laundry detergent Attack Neo as a product that not only version. Kao is also educating consumers about eco-shampoo saves water but also electricity and time by employing new techniques to use less water when shampooing hair. cleansing technology that requires only one laundry rinse cycle. The series continues to expand, and water-saving detergents In August 2015, Kao launched an improved Bath Magiclean have also been launched in other countries including China, bathroom cleaning liquid featuring enhanced cleaning power Australia and Singapore. and easier rinsing. Similar to laundry detergent, dishwashing detergent is also Global Initiatives for discharged water after product use In product development, Kao incorporates considerations for water. To respond to globalization, in countries outside Japan impacts on the regional water environment of discharged we are conducting monitoring and working with experts to water after product use. More specifically, Kao is conducting develop mathematical models to predict the concentration of safety evaluation using river water and activated sludge used chemical substances in rivers, aiming to conduct business with at wastewater treatment plants to investigate the consideration for the local environment. biodegradability of raw materials that may be discharged into Furthermore, Kao is a member of the Japan Soap and the environment and their impacts on common aquatic Detergent Association (JSDA). JSDA has been conducting organisms. Through this investigation, Kao aims to use raw environmental monitoring of four major surfactants in urban materials and develop chemical substances with reduced river systems (4 rivers 7 sites, 4 measurements/year) for the environmental impact. past 17 years as well as environmental risk assessments on In addition, in order to understand the current situation of aquatic ecosystems. In the surveys conducted so far, these water environments, we conduct our own field surveys on an surfactants have consistently been shown to have low risk to ongoing basis, such as environmental monitoring of river aquatic organisms. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 043 ▶ Sound management of chemicals Kao has been working actively to promote the sound management of chemicals in accordance with SAICM across the product lifecycle from development, production, and distribution to use and disposal, aiming to contribute to realization of a sustainable society. 2015 activities In line with the medium-term risk assessment plan, Kao compiled risk assessment reports for seven substances for which risk assessments were completed. At production sites in Japan, risk assessments for PRTR substances, VOC substances, and poisonous and deleterious substances have been completed. SAICM promotion activities that Kao is conducting also began to be released on the website, and Safety Data Sheets, which summarize risk assessments in an easy-to-understand manner, have also been released. Policies/structures Based on its SAICM Promotion Policy, Kao is working to ❶ Conduct risk assessments and create risk assessment strengthen and promote chemical management in accordance reports for Kao priority assessment substances in line with with SAICM.* This policy lays down a company-wide approach the chemical substances management medium-term plan; to managing chemicals that applies throughout the Kao Group, build the fundamental base of a lifecycle management and constitutes the foundation for Kao’s chemical system for chemical substances management. ❷ Plan and implement risk reduction measures at handling sites based on chemical substance risk assessments/Study * ‌SAICM (Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management) display of hazardous labeling at production sites according ➡For details, refer to SAICM Promotion Policy to the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/eco_activities_03_05.html Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) ❸ Study of ways to publicly release the deliverables of SAICM activities and engage in two-way communication with SAICM is global-scale landmark initiative to protect human stakeholders health and environment. The goal of SAICM is “to ensure that, by 2020, the chemicals are used and produced in ways that The results of activities in 2015 are as follows: minimize the significant adverse effects on human health and ❶ The risk assessment of Kao priority assessment substances the environment, using transparent, science-based risk scheduled for 2015 was completed according to the assessment procedures and risk management procedures, medium-term plan. The results of assessments done to date taking into account the precautionary approach.” were compiled in a risk assessment report, and a safety Even by comparison with Japan’s major chemical summary presenting the contents in a manner easy to manufacturers, Kao has a large number of different chemical understand by a general audience was created. substances that it is required to manage; from the SAICM Meanwhile, we conducted a review of the fundamental perspective, therefore, there are issues that Kao needs to base for a more advanced lifecycle management system for address. With this in mind, in order to speed up specific chemical substances based on the Comprehensive activities for the achievement of the SAICM goals, the GroupManagement System for Chemical Substances, with a focus wide SAICM Promotion Committee was established in 2012, on re-establishing Safety Data Sheets (SDS) creation and with the Chemical Business Unit, R&D, SCM Division, Product management system. This development is scheduled to Quality Management Division and Corporate Division playing continue in 2016. leading roles. ❷ Regarding risk assessments at production sites that handle The main focus of Kao’s SAICM activities comprise three chemical substances, a combination of risk assessment key issues that have been identified: (1) risk assessment and methods were employed, such as a qualitative risk risk management of chemical substances, (2) lifecycle assessment of worksites using the control banding management of chemical substances, and (3) risk method,*1 and the more detailed ECETOC TRA*2 also communication of chemical substances with stakeholders. adopted for risk assessments in the EU’s REACH regulation. Projects related to these three key SAICM issues have been The risk assessments at production sites that handle PRTR, established and are being implemented under the SAICM VOC and toxic substances have been completed, and risk Promotion Committee. mitigation measures will be successively implemented. Through these activities, the Kao Group is promoting Display of hazardous labeling according to GHS at production strengthened chemical substance management and sites has been introduced on a trial basis at some plants, communicating the obtained deliverables to stakeholders to and will be expanded to all plants. build the trust of customers and consumers. ❸ SAICM-related information including seven Safety Data Sheets of Kao priority assessment substances began to be released SAICM Promotion Committee activities publicly in May 2015 on the Kao and Kao Chemicals websites. In 2015, Kao conducted activities concerning the following This information was published on the Kao Group website in three priority issues in the promotion of SAICM. October and on the Kao Chemical Corporation Shanghai website in December. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 044 ▶ Sound management of chemicals In 2015, we released 12 GPS safety summaries for Kao *1 C ‌ ontrol banding method One method of assessing the risks of health hazards associated with Chemicals products (cumulative total of 89). chemical substances. It is a method for managing chemical substances designed by the International Labour Organization (ILO) that incorporates ➡Activities for safer use of chemicals (SAICM promotion activities) simple, practical risk assessment methods, and is intended to protect the http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/eco_activities_06.html health of workers in small and medium-sized companies in developing countries from hazardous chemicals. For each process that requires handling of hazardous chemicals, risks are ranked into four levels according to three components: the hazardousness of the chemical, its form (volatility/risk of becoming airborne), and the amount being handled. In addition to indicating general items to be implemented in each category, this tool also makes it possible to indicate more specific items to be implemented with regards to other general work tasks. *2 ECETOC ‌ TRA (European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals Targeted Risk Assessment) A globally recognized risk assessment tool also used by REACH, the EU’s system for registering chemical substances. It provides direction in terms of both judging and managing risk. Management system Kao created a chemical substance database in 2001, which Companies in Europe and the Americas, and established gives and registers a Group-wide code (Master Index) to conditions to be able to make visible and share chemical individual products and raw materials as well as each chemical substance information for these raw materials by using one substance contained in them. The database has been used in database. In addition to new raw materials registration and the Comprehensive Management System for Chemical chemical products registration to the Master Index, data for Substances, which is able to verify information in an integrated registered substances were revised on a daily basis to maintain manner, including safety and regulatory compliance and the most up-to-date information in the database. Using the environmental impact assessments. This system is closely information collected here, Kao has registered hazardous coordinated with both formula design in R&D and the ERP chemicals under Chinese regulations and complied with new (Enterprise Resource Planning) system to ensure product registration regulations in Taiwan and South Korea. design incorporating safety and environmental aspects as well ➡For details, refer to p.45 Conservation > Sound management of as traceability of chemical substances from raw materials chemicals > Global compliance with chemical regulations procurement to production and shipment. It is the backbone supporting Kao’s Yoki-Monozukuri. Kao will continue to promote system development in a The Kao Group, which has both the Consumer Products proactive manner to manage chemical substances and Business and Chemical Business, handles a large number of strengthen Group-wide compliance to meet the requirements chemical substances. In 2015, we completed the data transfer of various legal and environmental regulations in an increasingly for raw materials handled by the Consumer Products Business globalized and borderless world. Comprehensive Management System for Chemicals Raw materials suppliers Kao Group Users/customers Product development in consideration Delivery Raw materials of quality, safety, and the environment (purchases) of (Material selection; formulation design; production/ quality management; legal compliance) products Procurement R&D Production Quality ● Certificate of Product assurance ● Product specifications Specification (CPS) ● Safety Data Sheet ● Safety Data Sheet (SDS) Comprehensive Management System for Chemicals (SDS) ● Certificate of Analysis ● Certificate of Analysis Chemical substances database (Master Index) (COA) (COA) As required: As required: Substance Raw materials Product ● Product safety ● Certificate of information information information documents regulatory compliance ● Certificate of ● MSDSplus, etc. regulatory Regulatory data Safety data compliance ● MSDSplus, etc. Environmental and safety data aggregation Substances subject to the PRTR Act Toxic and deleterious substances Volatile organic compounds (VOCs), etc. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 045 ▶ Sound management of chemicals Global Global compliance with chemical regulations The Kao Group is registering the chemical substances hazardous chemicals during 2015. contained in Kao products manufactured outside Japan and Taiwan and South Korea also started new chemical Kao products directly and indirectly exported outside Japan regulations in 2015. The Kao Group undertook preparations in based on the chemical regulation of the relevant country cooperation with related divisions prior to implementation of according to the quantities and hazards. the regulations. In Taiwan, we completed registration of all In the EU, Kao Chemicals Europe (KCE) and Kao substances available in the market to the existing chemical Corporation worked closely together to complete registration substances list in 2015. In South Korea, we are making stepof REACH* Phase 1 substances (mainly substances of which wise preparations in accordance with the new regulation for 1,000 tons or more are manufactured and imported annually substances subject to registration that was publicly announced into the EU) and Phase 2 substances (100 tons or more in 2015. manufactured and imported annually into the EU) by the 2013 In 2016, Thailand and other countries in Southeast Asia are deadline. We are systematically working to register the next moving to create new chemical regulations. In Asia, we will step of Phase 3 substances (1 ton or more manufactured and work together with Kao Group companies while gathering the imported annually into the EU) and have been selecting priority relevant information in a timely manner to facilitate compliance substances to register each year since 2014. We plan to with local regulations. complete all registrations of the required substances by the final deadline of May 31, 2018 without delay. In Asia as well, some countries are creating and starting to implement new chemical regulations. In China, in addition to a notification program for new chemical substances, the registration system for hazardous chemicals was substantially revised in 2012 to cover raw materials and chemical products imported into China as well as products manufactured locally. The Kao Group worked together with local Kao Group companies to create a registration system * REACH ‌ is an EU regulation that stands for Registration, Evaluation, by 2013 and completed registration of the necessary Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 046 ▶ Sound management of chemicals Global Reinforcement of information management of chemicals 1. GHS*1-compliant SDS*2 and product labeling which constitutes an effort by the chemical industry to make a Kao promotes the issuance of GHS-compliant SDS for major contribution toward SAICM. To this end, Kao has been chemical products in countries which have introduced GHS as actively implementing chemical substance related well as GHS-compliant product labeling. communication with customers. For the Chemical Business, including Kao Japan and Asian Kao has always been proactive in its SDS, MSDSplus and affiliates, Kao has been managing GHS-compliant SDS and eSDS*8 for Europe disclosure for chemical products inside and product labeling and integrated management using the outside Japan as part of its chemical substance related Comprehensive Management System for Chemical communications. In recent years, Kao has proactively made Substances since 2008. In 2015, Kao implemented GHS available GPS safety summaries*9 that outline, in an easy-tolabeling for products marketed in countries and regions which understand manner, hazard information and information on have introduced GHS (Japan, EU, Taiwan, South Korea, China, product risks on the Kao Chemicals website and ICCA GPS Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam and Malaysia). Kao Chemicals Portal. Kao considers publication of GPS safety has also issued SDS and created product labeling for GHS to summaries to be an important element of risk communication comply with the EU’s CLP Regulation for chemical substances on chemical substances with stakeholders that constitutes and mixtures and the OSHA Hazard Communication Standard part of its SAICM activities. (HCS) in the United States, which went into force in June In 2015, Kao prepared GPS safety summaries for products 2015. with REACH registration. For multiple substances for priority assessment handled by Kao, the safety summaries have been 2. Providing and obtaining information regarding published on the Kao Chemicals website as risk assessment chemicals in products deliverables. We have created 12 GPS safety summaries in With regards to the provision and acquisition of information English and Japanese for chemical products related to these regarding chemicals in products, as a founding member of the Kao priority assessment substances, which are published on JAMP*3 consortium, Kao is actively promoting the provision the Kao Chemicals website as well as the ICCA’s GPS and acquisition of information regarding chemicals through the Chemicals Portal website. With this, the Kao Group has use of the common MSDSplus.*4 published a total of 89 GPS safety summaries globally. In 2015, revised versions of MSDSplus were issued in Kao will continue to publish GPS safety summaries and January (Substances List Ver. 4.030) and July (Substances List implement proactive risk communication with customers and Ver. 4.040), and these have been distributed to customers via with society as a whole on a global basis. sales distributors as well as released on the corporate website. Similarly, Kao has produced English and Chinese versions of *1 G ‌ HS MSDSplus for products of Asian subsidiaries and released the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals most up-to-date versions on those subsidiaries’ websites. To *2 S ‌ DS (Safety Data Sheet) The SDS provides information to ensure safe and appropriate handling of efficiently communicate MSDSplus information in the supply chemicals, such as names of substances contained in the product, chain, Kao registered MSDSplus information on chemical information about potential hazards, and handling precautions. The former products on JAMP-IT*5 in 2015 and is releasing and providing Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) was renamed SDS per JIS Z 7253, issued March 2012. this information to customers. Kao also continues to provide *3 J‌ AMP information to and obtain new information from some sales Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium distributors via JAMP-IT. *4 M ‌ SDSplus This is a data sheet applying to specific types of chemical substances. Regarding communication of information on chemical *5 J‌ AMP-IT substances contained in products, the Japanese Ministry of An Internet system developed by JAMP for the efficient accessing and provision of MSDSplus chemical substance content information. Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) has been developing a *6 c‌ hemSHERPA new information communication scheme since 2013 that can A new scheme that facilitates sharing information on chemical substances be used by the entire supply chain. Kao is also participating in in products across the entire supply chain to address broadening regulations and appropriately manage chemical substances contained in these activities. In October 2015, a data creation support tool products on an ongoing basis. for the new information communication scheme (chemSHERPA)*6 was released for use, and Kao continues to ➡chemSHERPA URL: https://chemsherpa.net/chemSHERPA/english/ be involved in activities aiming at full implementation of the *7 J‌ IPS (Japan Initiative of Product Stewardship) scheme. A voluntary effort based on the “principle for enhancing global Kao will continue to cooperate with the relevant internal management of chemical substances (Global Product Strategy: GPS)” that the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) is promoting in and external divisions and groups and actively engage in response to the decision of the SAICM. activities to promote improvements and strengthen chemical *8 e ‌ SDS An extended Safety Data Sheet (SDS). Adds risk appraisal and risk substances management in the supply chain. management content to the conventional SDS. *9 GPS ‌ safety summary 3. Risk communication on chemical substances This is a document providing a summary of chemical substance safety information for reference for the general public. Besides information about Kao has been participating actively in the Japan Initiative of physical and chemical properties, this document also addresses the usage Product Stewardship (JIPS),*7 a voluntary activity aimed at and processing requirements for appropriate risk management, and strengthening management of chemical substances through outlines risk management measures, etc.; it is used for disseminating information to downstream users. product stewardship proposed by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA), which the Japan Chemical ➡p.86 Community > Communication with corporate customers Industry Association has been implementing since 2009, and (Chemical Business) Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 047 ▶ Sound management of chemicals Japan Activities relating to compliance with laws and regulations in Japan 1. Compliance with the amended Chemical Substances Law requires reporting of volumes for each use. Control Law Continuing in 2015, Kao conducted surveys and updated The amended Chemical Substances Control Law, which came usage information for chemical products in cooperation with into effect in April 2011, established a new category of Priority sales distributors and managed the information to keep it up to Assessment Chemical Substances to assess the phased date. appraisal of the impact on human health and on the environment, and substances are added to this category each 2. Revisions to SDS and product labeling year. In response to the new Priority Assessment Chemical To comply with the 2012 revisions of the Industrial Health and Substances that were added in 2015, Kao has revised the SDS Safety Law (IHSL) and the Law Concerning Pollutant Release for the subject chemical products, and provided customers and and Transfer Register (PRTR Act), revisions were required to sales distributors with information regarding chemical the SDS and product labels of almost all chemical products. substance content. Kao completed SDS revisions for the applicable products in In addition, the amended Chemical Substances Control 2014 as well as revisions to product labels in 2015. Japan Monitoring and control of releases of chemical substances subject to the PRTR Act Kao began activities by setting in 2000 the voluntary target of Releases of chemical substances subject to the PRTR Act annual emissions of 1 ton or less for each substance from (Tons) each plant. We achieved this target in FY 2002. Since then, we 1.9 80 have continued to achieve this target, excluding leaks of 67.6 fluorinated gas and similar emissions. 60 The number of chemical substances subject to the PRTR Act which Kao handled in 2015 was 76, and the total discharge of 40 such substances into the atmosphere and public water areas was 1.3 tons. 20 In addition, we are voluntarily monitoring and controlling 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.1 1.4 1.8 1.3 2.0 1.2 releases and transfers (in the same way as would be done for 0 PRTR subject chemical substances) of chemical substances 2000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) that the Japan Chemical Industry Association has designated ■ Released into the atmosphere ■ Released into public water areas as being subject to voluntary surveys. ➡For details, refer to List of Emissions of Substances Subject to PRTR Act http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/eco_activities_02_07.html Japan Management of VOC emissions Although Kao has no facilities subject to the VOC emission emission reduction activities and accomplished our targets. regulations provided by the Air Pollution Control Act, we work These activities have become established and we are currently to voluntarily cut VOC emissions. For the 100 VOC substances managing VOC emissions with the target of maintaining the defined in the Notice of the Director General of the activities. Environmental Management Bureau, Ministry of the Environment, we set voluntary targets on the annual emissions Kao handled 34 chemical substances in 2015, and the total volume from each plant for each substance (5 tons or less in release into the atmosphere was 13.1 tons (★). 2005, 3 tons or less in 2009, 1 ton or less in 2010), conducted Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 048 ▶ Measures for biodiversity conservation【EN12,EN33】 At Kao, we realize that our business benefits from the gifts of biodiversity, and we strive to reduce the impacts to biodiversity in our business activities and conserve biodiversity in our community activities. 2015 activities We aimed to purchase only palm oil, one of Kao’s basic raw materials, that was traceable to the mill. The Kashima Plant and Pilipinas Kao in Philippine are key operations whose initiatives for biodiversity conservation have received commendations from outside groups. Policies/structures Kao established the Kao Basic Policies on Conservation of activities. In 2015, we created and released the Action Policies Biodiversity in 2011 based on seven individual policies. We set and Introductions of Activities to communicate this information action guidelines and targets for each policy, and strive to both inside and outside the company. consider biodiversity in all of our business and community Kao Basic Policies on Conservation of Biodiversity 1. Identify the relationship between our business activities and biodiversity. 2. Reduce the impacts of our business activities on biodiversity. 3. Develop innovative technologies to enable sustainable use of ecosystem services. 4. Comply with relevant international agreements. 5. Make efforts to conserve local ecosystems in the vicinity of our business activities. 6. Raise awareness of biodiversity among all employees and promote sharing of information on biodiversity between divisions. 7. Pursue cooperation with external stakeholders in conserving biodiversity. ➡For details, refer to Basic Policies on Conservation of Biodiversity and Action Policies and Introductions of Activities http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/eco_activities_03_04.html Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 049 ▶ Measures for biodiversity conservation【EN12,EN33】 Global Initiatives toward sustainable procurement of all palm oil In light of degradation of biodiversity as well as global warming Kao Group certified palm oil purchases and other environmental problems, resource constraints, and (Thousand tons) human rights issues, Kao has formulated and implements the 24.2 25 23.1 Guidelines for Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials for 20.4 the purpose of realizing procurement of sustainable raw 20 18.3 materials. We are also a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and are working to create a 15 traceable supply chain for palm oil. 10 7.9 Sustainable Palm Oil Procurement Guidelines 5 In the procurement of palm oil, one of the basic raw materials we handle, we have committed to consider biodiversity 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) conservation and zero deforestation, and have set four goals to realize this. ■ Book and Claim system *5 ■ Mass Balance system *6 * ‌Total of palm oil, palm kernel oil, and their derivatives Goal 1: By the end of 2015, purchase only sustainable palm oil * ‌Results reported to RSPO traceable to the mill for use in Kao Group consumer products. (tallied for the period between July and June) Results: We were able to confirm by the end of 2015 that the palm oil and palm kernel oil for use in Kao Group consumer In 2015, we conducted preferred purchasing of palm kernel oil products was traceable to the respective mill, but some raw traceable to the mill, but our purchase volume of certified palm materials among derivatives purchased from outside sources kernel oil did not increase. We intend to promote purchasing of were not traceable to the mill. We will continue our efforts to RSPO certified products. confirm traceability and take supplementary measures such as purchasing RSPO certified products. Goal 2: By 2020, adequately confirm zero deforestation at the source through cooperation with plantations, suppliers (mills, *1 ‌HCV: High Conservation Value refineries) and third-party organizations. In addition, we will not *2 ‌HCS: High Carbon Stock take part in developing high conservation value (HCV)*1 forests, *3 ‌RSPO Next: An addendum established in 2015 of voluntary actions necessary to realize zero deforestation when meeting the requirement high carbon stock (HCS)*2 forests or peatlands. of the RSPO Principles and Criteria, the basic producer certification. Results: We are reviewing support for RSPO Next,*3 aiming for *4 ‌SCCS (Supply Chain Certification System) certification this realization with cooperation from our suppliers. A certification system for the manufacturing, processing, and logistics of products using palm oil produced at RSPO certified plantations when making products. There are four supply chain models, and at Kao, we Goal 3: By 2020, purchase only sustainably sourced palm oil obtain certification using the Segregation system or Mass Balance that is traceable to the plantation for use in Kao Group consumer system. *5 ‌Book and Claim system products. A system to handle credits of palm oil certified by the RSPO. By Results: From 2016, we are tracing palm oil and palm kernel oil purchasing “certification credits” issued in proportion to the amount of to the palm oil mill supplying the raw material palm kernels to palm oil produced and registered by plantations certified by the RSPO, users of palm oil are considered to have purchased the amount of the confirmed palm kernel oil mill, aiming to trace the materials certified palm oil corresponding to the amount of credits. This system to the plantation. strictly ensures that the same amount of certified palm oil as palm oil used is produced and encourages plantations to produce certified oil. *6 ‌Mass Balance system Goal 4: By 2020, work to obtain RSPO SCCS certification*4 of A certification system that permits mixing of RSPO certified palm oil Kao Group factories in order to build a traceable supply chain for with non-certified palm oil. *7 ‌Segregation system the Kao Group. A certification system that does not permit mixing of RSPO certified Results: RSPO SCCS certification was obtained by the Kashima palm oil and non-certified palm oil. Plant in March 2012, and has since been obtained by 16 companies and 19 plants inside and outside Japan as of the end of 2015. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 050 ▶ Measures for biodiversity conservation【EN12,EN33】 Global Initiatives toward sustainable procurement of paper and pulp Kao has also committed to consideration of biodiversity To also ensure quality, we are confirming that conservation and zero deforestation in the procurement of environmental considerations including the following are being paper and pulp. Kao has set the goal of purchasing only taken. recycled paper or paper produced with consideration for sustainability for the paper and pulp used in Kao products, ◦No chlorine gas bleaching packaging materials and office paper by 2020. An action policy ◦No extreme levels of whiteness for this goal has also been formulated. ◦Minimal use of coating for coated products We give priority to using waste pulp (recycled paper) as the ◦No use of processes that hinder recycling main raw material without wasting paper or pulp. When using pulp other than waste pulp (virgin pulp), by 2020 we aim to purchase only pulp that is traceable to the source, and to confirm zero deforestation at producers of wood materials through cooperation with suppliers and third-party organizations. ➡p. 106 Culture > Partnering with our suppliers As of the end of 2015, 96% of our purchased volume was ➡‌Sustainable Paper and Pulp Procurement Guidelines recycled paper and traceable pulp. http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/procurement_05.html Japan Promoting collaboration with various companies Kao Corporation has participated in JBIB (Japan Business conservation of biodiversity. Initiative for Biodiversity) since its founding in 2008. We participate in multiple JBIB internal working groups, working with corporations representing a variety of industries for such ➡p. 25 Highlights: Conservation > Contribution to safeguarding purposes as researching effective tools and guidelines for regional biodiversity Japan Biodiversity initiatives at Wakayama Plant Wakayama Plant is incorporating biodiversity conservation viewpoints into its operations, deepening its activities from conservation of a greenery area on the plant grounds to conservation of the local ecosystem. The grove consisting mainly of black pine trees that traverse Wakayama Plant grounds serves as a protection against the storm surge and is a legacy whose shape has been preserved since it was created in the first half of the 17th century. We monitor the trees and animals that live in this grove and have confirmed more than 20 species of wild birds. Based on the results of these surveys, we are conducting conservation activities of the greenery area on the plant grounds and of the protective grove in ways that are suited to the local ecosystem. We are also erecting an informational board so that the next generation continues to protect this grove. On December 20, 2015, we held a forest foraging for nuts and wreath-making workshop with participation by 51 children and their parents and guardians. This event was part of a program run by the Wakayama City Children’s Museum for parents and children to learn about plants and animals. The program is designed to have parents and children interact with Wakayama’s nature and develop an enriched sensitivity to the natural world. Participants made wreaths by collecting pinecones and acorns from the pine grove on the Wakayama Plant grounds and using kudzu vines to make a ring. Holding a wreath made from collected pinecones The children commented that they learned what pinecones look like as they grow on trees and how making wreaths was fun. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 051 ▶ Measures for biodiversity conservation【EN12,EN33】 Topic Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism commendation for ongoing Kao Creating Forests for Everyone program To leave an abundance of greenery for future generations, Kao has continued the Kao Creating Forests for Everyone program since 2000. This program is administered in partnership with Kao and the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure, and supports NPO’s and citizens’ organizations engaged in the protection and expansion of green environments in places that are part of daily life. Aid is provided in two main areas: forestation and environmental education. In both areas continuous support is provided for a period of three years, enabling citizens’ organizations to conduct stable activities from a longer-term perspective. Kao has so far supported 411 organizations (as of December 2015). Feedback from organizations whose support has concluded Commendation ceremony includes comments such as receiving the aid increased their credibility in the community and led to new activities, and the long-term aid received over three years allowed them to equip themselves in stages and deepen their knowledge. This ongoing activity has received high praise, earning Kao a commendation of merit for urban greening in FY 2015 urban greening and urban park development, conservation, and beautification campaigns from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Kao was commended at the national Widen and Grow Green Cities convention on October 30, 2015. In 2015, 109 organizations responded to our call for applications between August and October. Selections were finalized in March 2016, with 15 organizations the new recipients of support. In addition, about 50,000 people Sangosya Scole (Okinawa Prefecture), a have participated in activities with the groups currently receiving aid. recipient of aid in the environmental education category Global “FURUSATO” Environment Conservation Project in Northern Thailand With social problems such as rapid deforestation and soil degradation affecting Thailand, Kao conducts the “FURUSATO” Environment Conservation Project in Northern Thailand for reforestation and sustainable conservation of Thai forests together with the Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and Cultural Advancement (OISCA) and OISCA Thailand. This project started in 2012 and marked its fourth year in 2015. In 2015, 8,000 trees were newly planted on land covering 7ha, and a cumulative total of about 34,000 trees have been planted on 28ha so far. At the same time, the project provides environmental education to local children to develop future protectors of the environment. In July, local citizens, students from nearby schools and Kao Group employees participated in tree planting activities. Through the Planting a commemorative tree care of community residents, trees planted in the first year of the project now provide shade and a place for people to rest, and many bees and birds are also visible as the trees grow and turn into abundant forests. Tree planting on a hillside Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 052 ▶ Measures for biodiversity conservation【EN12,EN33】 Japan Employee volunteers participate in Post Tsunami Monitoring Project Kao creates opportunities for employees to volunteer with the Post Tsunami Monitoring Project, sponsored by the NPO Earthwatch Japan. This project has volunteers provide field support to researchers conducting field work of rice fields and tidal lands that sustained damage in the tsunami after the Great East Japan Earthquake. In 2015, 10 employees went to local areas to support the field work. The data obtained in the field work are being used in restoration plans that take biodiversity into consideration and for conservation of species. Field work in a rice paddy Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 053 ▶ Other environmental topics【EN2,EN21,EN22,EN23,EN24,EN25,EN29】 Kao is developing an operating system and initiatives to limit the effects of waste and a wide range of other environmental impacts. 2015 activities We have conducted ongoing activities to reduce the volume of waste and other unwanted materials we generate, but higher production volumes resulted in an increase in the amount of waste and other unwanted materials generated in 2015. The Kao Group in Japan has achieved its zero-emission targets for the 11th consecutive year. Kao also regularly conducts on-site checks of waste disposal providers directly contracted to dispose of waste, and conducted on-site checks at 152 facilities in 2015. Global Promoting initiatives to reduce waste Among its 3R initiatives toward creating a recycling-based We maintained our target of 0.1% or lower final disposal society, Kao is promoting reduce, reuse and recycling of waste ratio for waste. We have achieved our target of zero emissions and other unwanted materials generated inside and outside for the 11th consecutive year since the target was set (all Kao the company. Group worksites in Japan, final disposal ratio of waste generated). At production sites, efforts to reduce the amount of waste and other unwanted materials generated include altering production methods so as to reduce the volume of product Amount of waste and other unwanted materials generated★ loss and offcuts generated, and adjusting equipment washing (Thousand tons) (%) procedures to reduce wastewater. We are continuing to reduce 400 0 and reuse distribution materials at logistics centers, and at 0 -23 -24 -27 -27 -28 -20 offices, continuing to manage the quantity of paper used. 300 Although we have implemented these measures, the 220 -40 200 192 191 195 211 amount of waste and other unwanted materials generated in 200 2015 increased by 9,000 tons year on year due to higher production volumes and expanding production lines. The 100 amount of waste generated per unit of sales remained at 27% relative to 2005 levels, the same as the previous year. This falls 0 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) below the target of 30% for all Kao Group production and non-production worksites. We will further strengthen efforts to ■ Japan ■ Asia and Pacific ■ U.S. and Latin America ■ Europe promote waste reduction activities in 2016. ー ●ー Per unit (of sales) reduction rate Of the amount of waste generated, 15,000 tons was * ‌Boundary: Through 2014, all Kao Group production sites as well as hazardous waste. No hazardous water was transported non-production sites within Japan. 2015 includes some non-production internationally under the Basel Convention. sites outside Japan as well. Waste that was reused or recycled came to 197,000 tons, * ‌Assurance provided for amount of waste and other unwanted materials generated. with a recycling rate of 90%. Global Strengthening wasteand recycling-related governance At Kao, efforts are being promoted to reduce the risk of illegal In 2015, Kao carried out on-site inspections of 152 facilities dumping, etc. with regards to disposal of waste by our belonging to 131 firms with which Kao collaborates. business activities. This goes beyond managing information In Japan, Kao has developed the Waste Recycling about the amount of waste generated, recycled or ultimately Governance System for coordinated management of contract disposed of; to ensure that waste is properly disposed of when data and control manifests for waste, as well as other the disposal is contracted out to other firms, Kao implements quantitative data and the results obtained in surveys of regular inspections of facilities of the waste disposal providers appropriate waste management. This system is also connected directly commissioned by Kao. to the Electronic Manifest System. Kao is working to continue expanding its use of this system within the Kao Group in line with efforts to expand the use of electronic manifests being promoted by the government. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 054 ▶ Other environmental topics【EN2,EN21,EN22,EN23,EN24,EN25,EN29】 Japan Proper storage and treatment of PCB Waste containing polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) in insulating In 2015, we did not treat waste containing high levels of PCB. oil, such as in transformers and ballasts, is stored at Wakayama Five waste items containing PCBs were treated and disposed Plant, Sumida Office, Kawasaki Plant, Kashima Plant, Odawara of. Office, and Kao Sanitary Products Ehime under the regulations until treatment and disposal are contracted to a waste disposal provider. Global Initiatives to prevent air pollution To prevent air pollution, we work to maintain our equipment Emission of NOx decreased by 82 tons in 2015 compared with and facilities, and Kao monitors pollutant levels in exhaust the previous year, an 8 percentage-point improvement on a per gases in accordance with the law and with local government unit of sales reduction rate basis. agreements. All plants with the necessary infrastructure use Emission of SOx decreased by 7 tons in 2015 compared natural gas to limit emissions of SOx, a substance known to with the previous year, a 3 percentage-point improvement on a cause acid rain. per unit of sales reduction rate basis. NOx emissions★ SOx emissions (Tons) 0 (%) (Tons) 0 (%) 2,000 0 400 0 -39 -40 -36 -45 -30 309 -30 1,500 -50 300 -51 -58 -60 247 -60 1,052 -79 -84 1,000 200 189 -87 798 792 786 756 -90 -90 673 500 100 87 69 63 0 0 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) ■ Japan ■ Asia and Pacific ■ U.S. and Latin America ■ Europe ■ Japan ■ Asia and Pacific ■ U.S. and Latin America ■ Europe ー●ー Per unit (of sales) reduction rate ー●ー Per unit (of sales) reduction rate * Boundary: All Kao Group production sites * Boundary: All Kao Group production sites * Assurance provided for NOx emission figures. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 055 ▶ Other environmental topics【EN2,EN21,EN22,EN23,EN24,EN25,EN29】 Global Initiatives to prevent water pollution Kao operates and maintains wastewater treatment facilities at COD pollution load★ a high level at most plants. After properly treating the (Tons) (%) 0 wastewater, it is discharged outside the plant. The quality of 800 0 the discharged water is monitored for pollutants based on laws -20 and regulations as well as agreements with nearby local 600 -46 -43 -42 -47 -47 -40 governments. 437 400 385 -60 297 315 312 336 The discharged volume of COD increased by 50 tons in 2015 compared with the previous year and deteriorated 5 200 percentage points on a per unit of sales reduction rate basis. 0 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) ■ Japan ■ Asia and Pacific ■ U.S. and Latin America ■ Europe ー●ー Per unit (of sales) reduction rate * ‌Boundary: All Kao Group production sites * ‌The amount of COD pollution load in wastewater entering sewer systems takes into account removal rate from said sewer systems. * ‌Assurance provided for COD pollution loads. ➡p. 42 Conservation > Measures for water resources conservation > Initiatives for discharged water after product use Japan Surveys of groundwater and soil contamination In light of its history of use of chemical substances, Kao regulatory limit values across all test items. voluntarily measures the levels of substances regulated by Additionally, at Wakayama Plant and Kawasaki Plant, we standards within the premises of each plant every year. also conducted an investigation of any soil contamination attributable to our business activities, in accordance with laws, In 2015, investigations were conducted at Wakayama Plant, etc., and it was confirmed that levels of all substances checked Sakata Plant, Tochigi Plant and Odawara Office, and it was were below their regulatory limit values. confirmed that levels of all substances were below their Global Compliance with environmental laws and regulations Kao operates and maintains facilities and work procedures at a Compliance status with environmental laws and regulations high level to ensure compliance with various environmental Of which, laws and regulations, whose standards grow increasingly strict Number of Of which, Total fines*2 leaks each year. deviations*1 leaks (¥1,000) (¥1,000) While not a major leak, wastewater at a level slightly exceeding regulations was discharged at Kao USA in 2015 due 2013 3 0 0 0 to improper work procedures. 2014 3 1 86 0 2015 1 0 0 0 *1 All incidents detected by authorities during the reporting period *2 Fines paid during the reporting period Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 056 ▶ Environmentally-conscious containers and packaging【EN1】 Containers and packaging serve an important role and function as part of our products, protecting contents and preserving quality during transport and providing a wide range of information to consumers using the products. As part of our “eco together” activities, we are promoting environmentally conscious containers and packaging. 2015 activities Aiming for containers and packaging with little environmental impact, Kao has reduced the cardboard used in refill packaging for products including Wide Haiter and Bath Magiclean. Bio-polyethylene was adopted in Merit Shampoo and Conditioner bottles, and new refill packaging for highly viscous products were developed and introduced that are both more user-friendly and environmentally friendly. Policies/structures At Kao, we are working to reduce the environmental impact petroleum-based resins to renewable, plant-based raw materials imposed by containers and packaging by promoting product such as polyactide and bio-polyethylene. development technology from the perspective of the 4R’s: Initiatives to “Reuse” products include proactive Reduce, Renewable, Reuse, and Recycle. development of refill and replacement products to allow reuse In terms of “Reduce,” we welcome even minor successes of original containers. in lightening product weight, making bottle walls thinner, Finally, “Recycle” initiatives involve proactive efforts to use concentrating products to make them more compact, and recycled materials such as recycled paper and recycled resin. downsizing products, all with the aim of reducing the volume of These efforts are led by our Package Development packaging materials used. Research and promoted in cooperation with related divisions, Our “Renewable” initiatives include converting from external suppliers and other partners. Japan Reducing container and packaging materials Reducing container and packaging materials not only reduces about 2,400-ton reduction in CO2 emissions per year and environmental impact, but also leads to cost reductions. In an an annual drop in costs of about 250 million yen. example from 2015, we reduced CO2 emissions by about 780 The amount of container and packaging materials used tons by reducing the amount of cardboard used in refill in 2015 decreased from 2014 despite increased sales packaging for products including Wide Haiter and Bath volume. This is attributed to the increased sales volume of Magiclean. In all of 2015, there were 39 such instances in refill products. which reductions in container and packaging materials resulted in a reduction in environmental impact, leading in turn to an Volume of container and packaging materials used (Unit:tons) 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Plastic 49,200 53,100 54,300 54,600 56,500 56,000 Paper 26,100 17,900 17,400 16,000 14,700 13,900 Cardboard 65,600 69,300 69,700 69,600 73,800 76,100 Others 3,800 2,000 1,900 4,300 3,900 2,400 Total 144,700 142,300 143,300 144,500 148,900 148,400 CO2 emissions 293 336 343 327 335 339 (1,000t/year) Per unit (of sales) 0% 19% 14% 16% 15% 16% reduction rate *Boundary: Kao Corporation Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 057 ▶ Environmentally-conscious containers and packaging【EN1】 Topic Received 2015 WorldStar Award for environmental design of Wide Haiter EX Power Due to the nature of the product, the container for Wide Haiter EX Power needs to be able to suppress bottle deformation caused by rises in internal pressure. The previous product bottle’s design ensured mechanical strength by adjusting the bottle thickness. This award-winning bottle attains the same level of mechanical strength as the previous bottle but with a 13% reduction in resin volume. Simulations to calculate mechanical strength were used to achieve the design of seven indented ribs on the front and back of the bottle to suppress deformation. The horizontal ribs also fit the fingers when holding the bottle, which improves its universal design by preventing the bottle from slipping. These attributes earned the bottle the WorldStar Award 2015 in the Household category. The WorldStar Awards have been presented every year since 1970 by the World Packaging Organisation (WPO), a major international federation in the packaging industry. The horizontal ribs on the new bottle reduce resin use by 13% and make it easier to use as well Japan Switching to renewable raw materials In 2012, Kao began to convert from petroleum-based resins to At Kao, we will continue switching packaging to renewable plant-based raw materials that are renewable and have little raw materials such as bio-polyethylene and polylactic acid. environmental impact. Introducing plant-based materials into the Merit Shampoo refill packaging at this time involved switching 10% of the bottle by weight from petroleum-based polyethylene to bio-polyethylene. The bio-polyethylene is made from renewable ethanol obtained by fermenting the waste residue remaining after producing sugar from intentionally cultivated sugar cane. This plastic is attracting attention due to its low environmental impact, as the CO2 emitted when the plastic is incinerated is deemed zero. Using this plastic in the Merit Shampoo refill packaging reduced the packaging’s CO2 emissions by about 12% over the previous product. We subsequently adopted bio-polyethylene in almost all other refill packaging for hair care products. In the label for Healthya Green Tea 350ml bottles, we adopted a shrink film containing more than 50% polylactic acid (PLA) made from corn. In 2015, we newly switched to using bio-polyethylene for 30% of the bottles for Merit Shampoo and Conditioner by weight. This can reduce the packaging’s CO2 emissions by about 23% over the previous products. Merit Shampoo and Conditioner bottles that switched to 30% biopolyethylene by weight Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 058 ▶ Environmentally-conscious containers and packaging【EN1】 Japan Promoting refill and replacement products Since Kao introduced its first refill product in 1991, their wasting or spilling. From manufacturing to use and disposal, number has continued to grow, and as of December 2015 had the new pack reduces CO2 emissions generated in these reached 243 products. Kao has also continued to make processes by about 3%. improvements in these refill products according to bottle size, the viscosity of the contents and so on to make refilling packaging easier for the consumer. Since 1997, the ratio of refill products to unit sales has ➡p. 29 Highlights: Community > Monozukuri from a Universal Design rapidly increased, and is currently at more than 80% (based on perspective number of units). For example, the refill ratio for fabric softener and fabric bleach now stands at more than 90%. All of the refill and replacement products sold in 2015 represent a reduction in plastic use of more than 70,000 tons compared to if they Easy to hold had been packaged in original containers (products in plastic without the containers). fingers slipping In 2015, we developed the new refill packaging, which is both environmentally friendly and easy to use. This new pack is used for refill packaging of highly viscous products such as shampoos and conditioners. Its film is about 18% thinner than existing products, and the pouring spout is made from about 50% bio-polyethylene. Shaped like a bottle, the pack can hold the same volume as existing refill products but in a slimmer and more compact Folds up to get shape. This not only makes it easier to handle in transport and almost every last drop of content out at stores, but also makes it easier to refill quickly without Topic Start of introduction of first FSC® certified cardboard in Japan The Kao Group began to introduce FSC® certified cardboard for the first time in Japan in 2016. This certification is from the Forest Stewardship Council and given to paper and wood products that use forest resources from properly managed forests that incorporate considerations for conservation of rain forests and biodiversity. Kao has incorporated FSC® certified paper as the backing paper for packaging with a thin film cover. However, about half of the paper and pulp that we purchase worldwide is used in cardboard. Including FSC® certified cardboard will greatly increase the environmental considerations of our business activities given the high volume of cardboard use. Initiative to use raw materials from forest The new FSC® certified cardboard is being introduced in stages starting in sources with zero forest destruction March 2016. At the end of 2016, we plan to use about 50% FSC® certified cardboard in the cardboard we use globally. ➡p. 50 Conservation > Measures for biodiversity conservation > Initiatives toward Example of FSC® certified logo sustainable procurement of paper and pulp Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 059 ▶ Product lifecycle and environmental impact【EN1,EN2,EN3,EN17,EN30】 Kao is pursuing efficient resource utilization across the product lifecycle, as well as technology to achieve further resource and energy saving. Japan 2015 business operations and environmental impact Material procurement INPUT OUTPUT ●Raw materials 1,021 thousand tons ●CO2 emissions★*4 2,037 thousand tons ●Containers and 148 thousand tons packaging materials*1 OUTPUT ●Recycled amount 82 thousand tons ●GHG emissions★ 422 thousand tons-CO2e ●SOx emissions 10 tons ●NOx emissions 231 tons Development/Manufacture/Sales*2 ●Chemical substances discharged 1 tons (Total production: 1,773,000 tons) INPUT (substances subject to the PRTR Act) ●Energy consumption ●Wastewater discharged 8,537 thousand m3 (Crude oil equivalent) 209 thousand kL ●COD pollution load 44 tons (of which, solar energy 62 MWh) ●Waste discharged 41 thousand tons ●Water use 10,689 thousand m3 ●Final landfill disposal amount of waste 50 tons Distribution/Sales*3 (facilities and company cars) OUTPUT INPUT ●GHG emissions★ 38 thousand tons-CO2e ●Energy consumption ●Wastewater discharged 215 thousand m3 (Crude oil equivalent) 17 thousand kL ●Waste discharged 25 thousand tons (of which, solar energy 431 MWh) ●Final landfill disposal ●Water use 215 thousand m3 amount of waste 81 tons Distribution (product transportation) OUTPUT INPUT ●CO2 emissions★ 95 thousand tons ●Energy consumption 37 thousand kL (Crude oil equivalent) ●SOx emissions 173 tons ●NOx emissions 617 tons Use*4 OUTPUT INPUT ●CO2 emissions★ 3,715 thousand tons ●Water use★ 1,916 million m3 ●Wastewater discharged 1,916 million m3 OUTPUT Disposal/Recycling ●CO2 emissions★*4 1,106 thousand tons ●Containers and packaging materials*1 72 thousand tons Plastic 56 thousand tons Paper 14 thousand tons Metal/Glass 2 thousand tons Scope of Calculations *1 Figures for Kao Corporation *2 Figures for all production sites *3 Figures for all non-production sites (including training facilities, company dormitories, etc.) *4 Figures mainly for consumer products in Japan Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 060 ▶ Product lifecycle and environmental impact【EN1,EN2,EN3,EN17,EN30】 INPUT OUTPUT ● Raw materials ● GHG emissions The amount of raw materials directly used to Amount of emissions of the seven GHGs covered by manufacture products (excluding containers and the Kyoto Protocol, generated from business activities, packaging materials and fuel) expressed in CO2 equivalent ● Containers and packaging materials ● SOx emissions Total amount of containers and packaging used for Total amount of SOx emissions from smoke-and-sootproducts sold (including cardboard) emitting facilities and transportation ● Recycled amount ● NOx emissions Of the waste generated from manufacture and R&D Total amount of NOx emissions from smoke-and-sootactivities, the amount that is recycled within Kao emitting facilities and transportation ● ‌Energy consumption (product development/ ● Chemical substances discharged manufacture) Amount of substances subject to the PRTR Act Amount of energy consumed at production sites discharged into the air and public water ● ‌Energy consumption (distribution/sales [facilities ● Wastewater discharged and company cars]) Sum of the wastewater discharged from production Amount of energy consumed at offices and other sites, distribution and sales offices and that associated facilities and for vehicles (used for sales activities) in with the use of consumer products mainly sold in the distribution and sales divisions Japan ● ‌Energy consumption (transportation [product ● COD pollution load transportation]) Amount of COD pollution load in wastewater Amount of energy consumed during transportation of ● ‌Waste discharged and final disposal amount of consumer products (from a plant to distribution base), waste industrial products, raw materials, etc. Amount of waste from production sites, distribution ● Water use and sales offices, and other facilities that is sold or Municipal water, underground water, rainwater entrusted as waste or recyclable materials to waste consumed treatment companies, and the amount of waste put for final disposal ● CO2 emissions Emissions from manufacturing raw materials, consuming energy and those generated upon decomposition of ingredients ● Containers and packaging materials Total amount of containers and packaging materials (excluding cardboard) used for products sold Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 061 ▶ Environmental accounting【EN31】 To efficiently and effectively promote its environmental activities, Kao quantifies the costs and results of those activities in numerical terms. Global 2015 environmental accounting report ❶ The aggregation methods comply with the Japanese ❸ See Product Lifecycle and Environmental Impacts for Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental Accounting environmental conservation results (numerical results). Guidelines 2005. Kao also refers to the Environmental ➡p.59 Conservation > Product lifecycle and environmental impact Accounting Guidelines for Chemical Companies (November 2003) issued by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. ❷ The companies within the scope of accounting are the Kao Group in Japan and outside Japan. Environmental conservation costs (categories corresponding to business activities) (Unit: millions of yen) Inside Japan Outside Japan Categories Key activities Investment Cost* Investment Cost* (1) Business area costs 2,058 4,120 446 1,469 ①Pollution prevention Air pollution prevention, water 913 1,690 94 683 contamination prevention Breakdown ②Global environmental Energy conservation 886 467 325 210 conservation ③Resource circulation Resource conservation, waste 259 1,963 27 576 processing and disposal (2) Upstream/downstream costs Plant and equipment for eco566 2,761 0 61 conscious products, containers and packaging recycling (3) Administration costs Acquisition and maintenance of ISO 9 1,064 0 99 certification, environmental publicity, tree planting within work sites (4) R&D costs Eco-conscious R&D 1,161 4,670 0 45 (5) Social activity costs Natural environmental conservation 0 118 0 2 and tree planting activities outside work sites, donations (6) Environmental remediation costs 0 0 0 15 Total 3,794 12,733 446 1,691 Environmental conservation costs (categories corresponding to areas of application of environmental conservation measures) (Unit: millions of yen) Inside Japan Outside Japan Categories Key activities Investment Cost* Investment Cost* ①Cost related to global warming measures Energy conservation 886 467 325 196 ②Cost related to ozone layer protection measures Switch to alternatives to CFCs 0 0 0 14 ③Cost related to air quality conservation Prevention of air pollution, prevention 747 645 33 230 measures of dust pollution, malodor prevention ④Cost related to noise and vibration measures Noise prevention 0 1 1 17 ⑤Cost related to environmental conservation measures Prevention of water pollution 166 1,044 60 414 for the aquatic, ground, and geologic environments ⑥Cost related waste and recycling measures Resource conservation, industrial 825 4,724 26 636 waste volume reduction, recycling ⑦Cost related to measures to reduce chemical R&D on products and production 1,161 4,670 0 45 risk and emissions ⑧Cost related to natural environmental Natural environmental conservation and tree 0 117 1 50 conservation planting activities outside plants, donations ⑨Other costs Acquisition and maintenance of ISO 9 1,065 0 89 certification, environmental publicity, tree planting activities within plant premises Total 3,794 12,733 446 1,691 * Cost includes depreciation costs. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 062 ▶ Environmental accounting【EN31】 Economic effect associated with environmental conservation activities*1 (Unit: millions of yen) Inside Japan Outside Japan Details of benefits Amount Amount Revenue Sales value of valuable resources and fixed assets 321 240 Reduction in costs through energy conservation 259 139 Reductions in cost through resource conservation 1,418 207 Cost reduction*2 Reduction in operation costs 126 60 (maintenance costs, etc. of eco-conscious equipment) Total 2,124 646 *1 ‌For economic effect, only amounts from selling valuable resources and fixed assets and the amount of cost reduction are recorded. So-called “deemed effects,” or economic effects based on risk mitigation and other assumptions, are not recorded. *‌2 ‌The amounts of cost reductions are recorded only for the relevant fiscal year for the annual reduction for items generated during that year. Cost reduction amounts to be generated over multiple years are not included. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 063 ▶ Environmental communication【EC7】 Kao creates many opportunities to engage in communication with stakeholders and takes steps to further enhance its environmental activities by incorporating stakeholder feedback into management. 2015 activities Kao has continued to conduct a variety of activities both inside and outside Japan aimed at environmental conservation and raising environmental awareness in partnership with governments, NGOs and other groups at venues including plants, schools, and stores. Water-saving initiatives conducted jointly with the Chinese government marked their fourth year. Kao conducted new initiatives this year, including awareness-raising activities at over 50 universities in China and a contest with the theme of saving water. In the sixth year of the Kao International Environment Painting Contest for Children, a textbook to consider the environment based on the prize-winning works to date was published and is being used to raise environmental awareness among children and adults. Policies/structures Along with Community and Culture, Kao has defined Aiming to contribute to a sustainable society, we believe that Conservation as one of the three key areas of the Kao working together with our customers, business partners and Sustainability Statement, released in 2013. This makes clear the wider community is important to advance these initiatives. Kao’s corporate stance of aiming to make contributions to a Among these initiatives, we actively publicize information on sustainable society by conducting environmental activities in Kao’s thoughts in relation to the environment and the features partnership with various stakeholders. of our environmentally conscious products, based on the belief In 2009 before the release of the Kao Sustainability that it is vital for individual customers who use Kao products to Statement, Kao recognized environmental problems including take part in easy-to-do “eco together” activities in their daily climate change and resource depletion as pressing issues. We lives. As part of this, we also conduct ongoing communication then released the Kao Environmental Statement, which sets a activities with all of our stakeholders to proactively provide clear environmental policy and targets looking to the future, information in a range of venues. including reducing our environmental impact across the entire product lifecycle and searching for sustainable raw materials. Global Exchanges with local communities through Environmental and Safety Reports Since 2005, some of Kao Group companies and plants have issued Environmental and Safety Reports as a communication tool for delivering a wide range of information to our stakeholders regarding our corporate environmental conservation and safety activities. We sincerely hope to gain feedback and insight from our key stakeholders providing direction to future activities. In 2015, seven Kao plants in Japan and the two companies of Kao Specialties Americas and Kao (Spain) produced Environmental and Safety Reports, which were distributed to local residents and plant tour participants. Environmental and Safety Reports issued by Kao Group companies and plants Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 064 ▶ Environmental communication【EC7】 Japan Kao Eco-Lab Museum displays information on the global environment and Kao eco-technologies The Kao Eco-Lab Museum opened in 2011 on the first floor of the Eco-Technology Research Center in Wakayama as a base to communicate information about “eco together” and ecotechnologies in an experiential format. The museum saw total visitors reach the 60,000 mark at the end of 2015. The museum introduces what is happening to the global environment, how eco-products are created, and what are scientific ways to be more eco-friendly at home. The museum has also prepared an educational program to use after experiential learning during social science field trips, in which about 70% of elementary school students in Wakayama City participate each year. On October 6, 2015, Their Imperial Highness Prince and Princess Akishino visited the Kao Eco-Lab Museum. President Sawada and staff introduced Kao’s business activities that include considerations for the regional ecosystem as well as Their Imperial Highness Prince and Princess Akishino listening to President environmental conservation activities through partnerships Sawada with outside groups. Outside Japan Water conservation campaign in cooperation with the Chinese government In recent years, the shortage of water resources has become a and ways to save water at home. serious problem in China. Kao (China) has conducted the The campaign kicked off its fourth year of activities in 2015 Nationwide Cleanliness and Water-saving Initiatives jointly with with an opening event in Beijing on March 20. Along with a the Center for Environmental Education and Communications new initiative to raise awareness for saving water at over 50 (CEEC), part of the State Environmental Protection universities in China, the campaign also held a contest with the Administration (SEPA) of China, since 2012. These initiatives theme of saving water. In May, an exhibition and awards encourage people to “Save 10,000 liters of water annually per ceremony were held in Shanghai for the main works by household” in China with events held in Beijing, Shanghai, participating universities. Guangzhou, Chengdu and elsewhere. A total of more than With cooperation from the Chinese government, Kao 200,000 people have participated in the events in the three (China) will continue pursuing environmental activities that can years through 2014. be done together with university students and customers, who Kao actively encourages employees’ participation in these will inherit the future. events while communicating the importance of saving water Awareness raising for saving water at Kao (China) employees also participate in events and communicate the universities in China importance of saving water Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 065 ▶ Environmental communication【EC7】 Topic Kao endorses Cool Choice promoted by the Japanese government In March 2016, Kao endorsed Cool Choice, a new citizen campaign designed to prevent global warming. Cool Choice was decided at the 29th meeting of the Japanese government’s Global Warming Prevention Headquarters. It is a national campaign with the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 26% in FY 2030 over FY 2013. With the cooperation of the national government, industry, labor groups, local governments, NPOs and others, the campaign encourages citizens to make “cool choices” in their daily activities, including choosing Japan’s environmentally friendly and low-carbon products and services that are renowned worldwide, and in taking environmentally conscious actions. Based on the 2009 Kao Environmental Statement and the 2013 Kao Sustainability Statement, we also aim to contribute to a sustainable society through awarenessraising activities done in cooperation with the Cool Choice campaign. ➡Cool Choice website: https://funtoshare.env.go.jp/coolchoice/index.html (Japanese) Global Environmental awareness raising through the Kao International Environment Painting Contest for Children Kao has been holding the Kao International Environment Sixth Kao International Environment Painting Contest for Painting Contest for Children since 2010 with the theme of Children “eco together” and the wish that children, who will be playing In 2015, Kao Group companies invited elementary and junior high the leading role in society in the future, think seriously about school children to submit paintings, with entries received from the environment around them and take action to conserve it. school children in 37 countries and regions worldwide. Entries Through 2015, we have received more than 45,000 works far exceeded the number from the previous year to reach a total from a total of 71 countries and regions. of 12,456 (2,450 from Japan, and 10,006 from outside Japan). During the Eco-Products 2015 Exhibition in December, seven Publishing the environment textbook “Thoughts about contest winners were invited to the awards ceremony at the Tomorrow’s Earth” Kao booth, and prize-winning works were displayed there. In 2015, the sixth year of the contest, we published the Thatchaphon Kaeokamkong represented the winners by giving environment textbook “Thoughts about Tomorrow’s Earth” a speech on “The Blessings, Happiness and Value Trees Give based on the prize-winning works. In the textbook, paintings to People” that his winning work expressed. done by children around the world are grouped by themes To enable as many people as possible to see the prizeincluding Water, Forests and Trees, and Energy. The textbook winning works, they are being displayed at Kao offices and is designed to raise the environmental awareness of children plants and at environmental events, and along the route of our and citizens by having them think about how each plant tours. environmental theme is connected to the others and learn ➡For details, refer to “Prize-winning works for the sixth Kao International about environmental problems. Environment Painting Contest for Children, along with the entry screening and awards presentation ceremony” http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/eco_activities_04_08.html Environment textbook: “Thoughts Winners posed with Mr. Masuda, chairman of the judging committee (right), about Tomorrow’s Earth” and Kao President Sawada (left) Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 066 ▶ Environmental communication【EC7】 Topic “Eco Together” – Planet Earth Grand Prix: Thoughts and wishes from the award winner Thatchaphon Kaeokamkong Tree is a natural heritage, which is magnificent and diverse in its own right. It is a natural representative of growth and prosperity. Tree is a tremendously valuable resource for all. It is a resource of abundant food, ecological system, medicinal herbs, and habitat for wildlife. Tree also purifies air and decreases the wash down of soil. With its verdant color, tree can be a place for recreation. When tree is destroyed, it is extremely difficult to restore. Therefore, we should take care of the tree and the forest as best as we can so that tree will be with us forever. “Wealth of Nature” Painting by Thatchaphon Kaeokamkong (11 years old, Thailand) Outside Japan Community exchanges through the Kao International Environment Painting Contest for Children Each of the Kao Group companies that calls for entries in the painting contest uses the opportunity to interact with children in their regions through the contest. At PT Kao Indonesia, various exchanges with regional elementary and junior high schools and a very active campaign for entries led to an overwhelming 4,228 entries being received. On February 20, 2016, Kao Indonesia held an awards ceremony in Jakarta, both to express gratitude to the children who put their thoughts about the environment into their paintings, and to ask that they continue practicing environmental conservation in their everyday lives. Contest winners in Indonesia PT Kao Indonesia president with a contest winner Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 067 ▶ Environmental communication【EC7】 Topic Parent and Child Eco Workshop creates opportunities to think about eco activities in daily life The Kao Eco-Lab Museum in the Wakayama Plant held the Parent and Child Eco Workshop on August 25, 2015, for 42 elementary school students and their parents and guardians. The workshop was designed to introduce how familiar Kao products are made based on environmental considerations, and to create opportunities to think about eco actions in everyday life. After an explanation of the environmental consideration put into making Kao products, participants heard from Professor Fumikazu Masuda, chair of the judging committee for the Kao International Environment Painting Contest for Children, about the eco actions of children around the world in the context of their own communities and cultures using the environment textbook “Thoughts about Tomorrow’s Earth.” Children listening to how detergent is Lunch during the workshop used ingredients sourced locally in Wakayama made from palm oil and included carrot peel and other food parts that are often thrown away to show ways to be environmentally friendly by reducing food waste and eating locally grown foods. Next, participants made crafts in the afternoon using Kao containers such as detergent bottles. Kao’s containers can be used again and again, and the workshop used the theme of finding yet another use for the containers before ultimately throwing them away. Among the unique and interesting crafts were pencil holders made from Ultra Attack Neo detergent bottles. The workshop offered a meaningful opportunity to think about eco actions from a variety of angles together with elementary school students and their parents and guardians, environmental experts, and Kao employees. A student making a craft with help from her mother Japan Introducing eco as part of daily life at the Eco-Products Exhibition The Eco-Products Exhibition is one of the largest environmental fairs in Japan. Kao has exhibited at the fair since 2008, conducting various activities to introduce Kao’s thoughts on the environment and eco activities possible in daily life using Kao’s leading products. More than 14,000 people visited the Kao booth during the three days of the fair in December 2015. Kao’s theme for this edition was “For a Beautiful Tomorrow.” In the exhibit corner, Kao introduced its new eco-friendly products and packaging efforts including recycling research on refill packaging. Chemical products that are beneficial to our lives were also introduced, such as Visco Top, a cement additive that is designed to be gentle on water environments. At the participatory stage set up in the booth, visitors were able to experience the function of surfactants, dish-washing Kao’s booth introducing various initiatives techniques, eco-friendly and effective hair-washing techniques, the features of refill products and refill methods, and the function of agents for de-inking, which is an important process in paper recycling. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 068 ▶ Product quality management【PR1】 Based on the consumer-driven principle of Yoki-Monozukuri spirit, Kao manages and assures the quality of products according to its own strict standards and rules at every step, from raw materials procurement through to production, distribution and sales. 2015 activities A new test method for eye irritation developed by Kao was approved as one of the OECD Test Guidelines for an alternative animal testing in the safety evaluation procedures. In addition, through effective utilization of Global ECHO, a system for the integrated management of the voices of consumers and customers, we have realized a higher level of collaboration among relevant divisions globally. Policies/structures The foundation of Kao quality management activities is Kao’s Based on the policies set by the Quality Management heartfelt Yoki-Monozukuri commitment from the perspective of Committee, Quality Management Meetings are held at the its consumers/customers as expressed in the Mission of the business unit level to assess each unit’s quality management Kao Way. Based on this, Kao has implemented quality policies, quality issues, and progress with quality management management activities since its establishment with the activities. participation of all employees in all phases, from raw materials Each month, the respective business units also sponsor procurement to product development, production, distribution Quality Improvement Study Meetings to assess quality issues and sales, with the aim of achieving the basic goals set for with new and improved products prior to the launch. quality management activities. Each meeting is attended by representatives from both the respective business units and the functional divisions, with ➡For details, refer to Basic Policy for Quality Management Activities http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/safety_00.html perspectives from both sides exchanged to promote matrix management. Product Quality Management Division provides corporate-wide promotion and supervision of these quality Basic Policy for Quality Management Activities management activities. ◦Consumers/customers decide on the quality of the Kao strives daily to achieve Yoki-Monozukuri, but products unforeseen problems and accidents can potentially affect ◦Providing products that users wish to continue to use product quality. Information from customers, external ◦Ensuring safe usage for consumers/customers organizations, and distribution sources is accumulated at ◦Legal compliance Consumer Communication, which, in the event of any ◦Transparency and accountability potentially serious or critical situations (from the consumer perspective), delivers a report to Product Quality Management Division. The division has its own system in place for Kao has established the Quality Management Committee to responding to critical or serious quality issues, through which it assess the reliability and validity of the corporate quality performs its own quick assessment of the potential for hazard management system. The Quality Management Committee or escalation of the problem, informing top management and forms part of Kao’s Internal Control Committee; its chair is the related internal divisions of any emergencies and/or serious Executive Officer responsible for Product Quality Management quality issues. Further, in order to fulfill its social, quality Division, while committee members represent the business, management, and disclosure responsibilities as a consumer care, research & development, supply chain manufacturer, Kao strives to establish a close relationship not management, procurement, and other related divisions, their only with related in-house divisions, but also with government, function on the committee being to set corporate-wide goals related agencies, and distribution sources. and policies concerning quality management. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 069 ▶ Product quality management【PR1】 Product quality management system Board of Directors Management Committee Sustainability Committee Internal Control Committee Quality Management Committee ●Disclosure Committee Chairperson Executive Officer for Product ●Compliance Committee Quality Management ●Information Security Committee Members Product Quality Management Division ●Risk & Crisis Management Committee Consumer Communication Supply Chain Management ●Committee for Responsible Care Promotion Research & Development ●Quality Management Committee Procurement Business units Product Quality Management Division Secretariat Quality Management Business units Research & Development Human Health Care Business Unit Beauty Care Business Unit Quality Management Chemical Business Unit Fabric and Home Care Business Unit Product Quality Management Meeting Functional divisions Procurement Quality Improvement Quality Management Quality Improvement Quality Management Quality Improvement Quality Management Production & Engineering Quality Improvement Logistics Study Meeting Meeting Study Meeting Meeting Study Meeting Study Meeting Meeting Sales Response to Consumers Global Company-wide quality management initiatives Kao’s Basic Policy for Quality Management Activities was established based on our consumer-driven principle that consumers/customers decide on the quality of the products, and Product Quality Management Division supervises our product quality management system. We have established strict policies governing every stage of a product, from raw materials procurement through to product development, production, distribution, and sales and usage by consumers, to storage and disposal, promoting product quality management across the product lifecycle. In 2015, as Kao worked towards the realization of the Kao Group Mid-term Plan 2015 (K15) and towards the next stage in the Kao Group’s development, Kao promoted quality management activities while also aiming to utilize assets with maximum efficiency and expand the global scope of the group’s operations. Product Quality Management Division implemented pre-launch safety and quality verification and post-launch follow-up in relation to the launch of Kao’s new SOFINA iP brand, the creation of which represents a Kao’s new SOFINA iP brand revolutionary step forward in Kao’s cosmetics business. Particularly with regard to the introduction of the new SOFINA drink (the brand’s first beauty drink product), Product Quality Management Division has made effective use of the resources available to it, adopting a quality management system based on the system previously used with Healthya brand to ensure that safety and high quality standards are maintained at every stage from the raw materials through to the finished product. Also, Kao has implemented a new initiative targeting the steadily rising number of inbound tourists visiting Japan (reflecting the globalization of our business), promoting the inclusion of Englishlanguage product category information on Kao products alongside the Japanese-language information. With respect to products that have large numbers of Chinese purchasers, information regarding products’ special features, claims, all ingredients, instructions for use, and precautions is being made available on the Kao website in Chinese (using Simplified English-language product category information on the package for Characters). international tourists visiting Japan Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 070 ▶ Product quality management【PR1】 Japan Safety assessment and management Striving for the wholehearted satisfaction and enrichment of the ingredients, features, directions for use, warning labels, and lives of people, Kao uses cutting-edge technology to create high advertisement wording to ensure that products can be used product value. In realizing that value, we consider ensuring the safely. Whenever products feature new uses or significant safety of all of our products as our primary social responsibility. improvements, Product Quality Management, Consumer To ensure that its consumers can feel confident in using its Communication, and Research & Development including safety products, in April 2014 Kao Group reevaluated its safety and other related divisions liaise to evaluate not only how standards, establishing a new and even more extensive set of consumers actually select and use our products, but also to safety standards which have since been made available not only perform evaluation in terms of environment, lifestyle practices, internally but also on the Kao Group website. national origin, ethnicity and other social science perspectives. Once products are on the market, Kao works to deal sincerely ➡For details, refer to Consumer Product Safety Standards with, and thoroughly investigate and respond promptly to http://www.kao.com/jp/corp_csr/safety_06.html (Japanese) consumer feedback. With regard to post-launch safety ➡For details, refer to Cosmetics Safety Standards management, Kao continuously conducts ongoing, detailed http://www.kao.com/jp/corp_csr/safety_03.html (Japanese) checks of product safety and works with a network of medical Kao will continue to ensure safety based on updated safety personnel, government agencies, and other parties to manage information, pursing alternatives to animal testing, and conducting safety. final safety verification on humans, and will reevaluate its strict Regarding the revised adverse reaction reporting system for corporate standards governing the safety of products for human quasi-drugs and cosmetics that was introduced starting from April use and the effect of products on the environment. 1, 2014, Kao group is taking appropriate measures to maintain Furthermore, we will take responsibility for verifying the and improve the post-launch product safety management system. Global Evaluating the safety of alternatives to animal testing Moves to eliminate animal testing are now global. Kao and Kanebo testing methods are not suitable for; the reproducibility of the Cosmetics support this approach, and since the late 1980s have research results has already been confirmed at multiple research been proactively working to explore technologies that provide facilities. Kao has also participated in discussion meetings alternatives to animal testing, and to adopt such technologies. organized by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare In July 2015, a new test method, a cell-based short time (MHLW) regarding alternative testing method guidance in relation exposure (STE) eye irritation test that was independently to safety testing methods for quasi drugs; additionally, Kao is also developed by Kao as an alternative to animal testing, was participating—and maintaining a key role—in a project exploring approved as OECD Test Guideline 491. In the future, this type of alternatives to animal testing being pursued by Cosmetics STE test can be used in REACH applications in Europe and for Europe.* evaluation of eye irritation during cosmetics product development; Kao believes that alternatives to animal testing should involve it can be anticipated that the test should make a positive publicly-available methods that can be used worldwide. To that contribution towards reducing animal testing on a global level. end, we continue to cooperate with global industry groups, our With regard to alternative skin sensitization testing methods, competitors and others toward the establishment of international as of December 2015 the human Cell Line Activation Test (h-CLAT) testing guidelines, and toward furthering the development of jointly developed by Kao and Shiseido Co., Ltd. was undergoing alternative testing technologies and other global initiatives. final international review with the aim of having the new technology incorporated into the OECD Test Guidelines. Kao has * ‌Cosmetics Europe (The European Cosmetic Toiletry and Perfumery also developed EpiSensA, an alternative skin sensitization testing Association) method that uses a cultured human skin model, and which An association of the European cosmetics industry. Established 1962. Members include over 16 corporations and organizations from over 25 permits testing of poorly water-soluble substances that existing nations. Global Consumer-driven quality management activities Kao has pushed ahead with the implementation of its Global The utilization of the Global ECHO system is helping to further ECHO system, which provides global, integrated management strengthen linkages between related divisions. Despite the fact of consumer/customer feedback, not only in Japan, but in our that business has been growing, the total number of consumer products and chemical businesses throughout Asia, complaints received from consumers and customers in 2015 Europe, and Americas. At the same time, to promote was lower than in 2014 for both the Consumer Products company-wide quality management activities aimed at overall Business and the Chemical Business. quality improvements, we have introduced and begun using a In the Chemical Business, activities to enhance quality global data analysis system, named QMMplus, which is have been put on a more systematic basis, with the SCM capable of organizing and analyzing such global data. Working department playing a key role, supporting by the Asia Quality with our subsidiaries and affiliates, we are strengthening our Leaders Meeting, etc. Besides leading to a decrease in efforts to provide consumers and customers with more timely customer complaints, the results obtained in these activities responses. have also made a positive contribution to human capital ➡For details, refer to p.79 Community > Communication with cultivation at Kao’s business locations. consumers Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 071 ▶ Product quality management【PR1】 Global Conducting quality management audits/self-checks Product Quality Management Division thoroughly understands In addition, the quality management audit and self-check Kao Group product quality management activities and systems have been strengthened, new auditing items have implements audits and self-checks. been established, and quality audit promotion meetings have Kao Group companies in Japan as well as in Asia, Europe been launched to drive audit activities forward. Quality audit and Americas also underwent audits by certification bodies for promotion meetings are attended not only by representatives the ISO9001 and GMP standard, maintaining their certification, of the Product Quality Management Division, but also by and conducted audit and product quality meetings with internal representatives of other departments; these meetings are and external auditors, contract manufacturers and suppliers of helping to promote the adoption of effective PDCA processes raw and packaging materials. in the Kao Group’s quality auditing activities. Japan Implementation of thorough product quality management for food products Kao’s functional food products, the result of extensive research Products in the Healthya series, which are designated Foods on lipid nutrition metabolism and other attributes, contribute to for Specified Health Uses, are checked for radioactivity in line healthy, satisfying lifestyle habits. We conduct the following with management standards adhering to new values indicated by product quality management activities so that these delicious the Food Sanitation Act. foods can contribute to the health of the customer. In regard to Econa cooking oil, assessment of Econa’s impact on ❶ Evaluations of the safety and effectiveness of products are human health was carried out by a working group of the Food conducted both independently and in cooperation with Safety Commission of Japan, and compilation of the assessment external experts, and even after launch, products are report was completed in March 2015. In response to the subjected to numerous evaluations. assessment results, Kao has updated its “Report on Econa ❷ Kao practices thorough quality management of all aspects of Cooking Oil.” More detailed information can be found at this link: our work process from raw materials to manufacturing, and ➡Report on Econa Cooking Oil ensures traceability*1 that spans the entire course, from http://www.kao.co.jp/econa (Japanese) original materials*2 procurement outside Japan to the final ➡Report by Kao: Key Measures and Communication Activities Implemented in Regard to the Verification of the Safety of Econa shipping destination. Cooking Oil ❸ Kao focuses on managing product freshness through its http://www.kao.co.jp/econa/151209.pdf (Japanese) production and distribution phases, including the management *1 ‌Traceability of best-before dates of raw materials, based on a system that Verifying the origin, use, manufacturing history, and location of products prevents shipment of items exceeding a set postand raw materials using records. manufacturing period. *2 ‌Original materials Primary agriculture, livestock, and fishery products. For example, soybeans are an original material of cooking oil. Japan Disclosing information on country of origin and allergenic substances Kao actively provides information regarding food product Country of origin information etc. regarding the new SOFINA safety. On its website, Kao lists the ingredients of each of its iP brand beauty drink launched in 2015 can be found on the products, as well as providing component analyses and Kao website. warnings regarding allergenic substances. We are also prepared to respond quickly to inquiries about the country of origin of major ingredients and original materials. In response to frequent requests, Kao has provided additional information on specific countries of origin on our website as a matter of course. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 072 ▶ Universal Design While promoting the development of “User-friendly products” that are easy and straightforward to use for as many people as possible, we also aim to contribute to “Social inclusion” through our products, fostering the relationships between individuals, and between individuals and society. Kao also aims for barrier-free access to information, meeting the diverse needs of consumers everywhere. 2015 activities In 2015, Kao introduced a dedicated Sign Language Communication Window for hearing-impaired customers. We have also been using the ideas developed from customer feedback and from employee participation in Workshops for Promoting Empathy with Elderly People to make improvements to product containers and labeling. Policies/structures With “Consumer Driven” the foundation of its Yokiproducts,” and “Social inclusion.” Monozukuri, Kao has consistently expanded business based Ensuring fuller corporate sharing and diffusion of the Kao not only on the superior fundamental performance approach to UD among all Kao Group employees is very characteristics of its products, but also on providing products important from the perspective of Kao’s global business that are “straightforward and easy for everyone to use.” expansion, which involves providing products to people with Recently, changes in demographic composition and different values and cultures. lifestyles, such as an aging society and more men participating To this end, within the framework provided by Kao’s in housework and childrearing, are making the consumer target Guidelines of Universal Design, the Universal Design markets for Kao’s daily necessities and consumer goods more Promotion Project (whose members comprise managers from diverse. Reflecting this situation, our aim is for its products to related divisions across the company) plays a central role, with be used by people in all age groups (from babies to senior divisions sharing information about needs and comments citizens) in their daily lives, so that we can contribute to “Social expressed by Kao customers, and implementing various inclusion,” playing a useful role in fostering the relationships initiatives in response to these issues from a UD perspective between individuals, and between individuals and society. on an ongoing basis. Monozukuri (good workmanship) that takes into account people’s lifestyles and attitudes, and which instills products and services with consideration and care for the users, is at ➡p.9 Non-financial highlights > Products improved with UD the heart of the Kao’s Guidelines of Universal Design (UD) considerations and implementation rate (cumulative, consumer approach: “User-friendly products,” “Creating joy through products in Japan) Universal Design Promotion Project organization Consumer Products Universal Design Promotion Project Beauty Care-Skin Care & Hair Care Business Unit Packaging Development Research Laboratory Fabric and Home Care Business Unit Beauty Care-Cosmetic Business Unit Sensory Research Laboratory Human Health Care Business Unit Kao Professional Services Creative Division Kanebo Cosmetics Consumer Communication Center Nivea-Kao Lifestyle Research Center Product Quality Management Center Closed Captioning Commercial Research Team Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 073 ▶ Universal Design Kao’s Guidelines of Universal Design User-friendly products We strive to deliver “user-friendly products” by focusing on “accessibility,” “safety” and “usability.” Creating joy through products We strive to create products that bring joy to people in their daily lives. Social inclusion By giving due consideration to diversity and diverse relationships as we influence lifestyles, we aim to contribute to the promotion of social inclusion. Japan Examples of product improvements reflecting consumer feedback Case Study 1—Displaying fragrance strength gradations in fabric softener labeling Kao tries to provide a comprehensive line-up of products with Over the last few years, particularly among younger consumers, fabric varying degrees of fragrance. In the past, the indication as to the softener has come to be used not only for softening clothes, towels, strength of the product’s fragrance was noted on the Kao website, etc., but also for making clothes smell nice. However, different and also the words “Strong fragrance” were displayed on the back of consumers have different preferences as to how strong the fragrance both the regular bottles and the refill packaging of the fabric softener. that fabric softener leaves on washing should be, and as a result Kao Starting with the Humming brand that Kao launched in March 2015, a has received many comments from consumers to the effect that “It “Fragrance Strength Indicator” has been displayed on the back of would be nice to know how strong the fragrance is before buying the both the regular bottles and the refill packaging, with the fragrance product,” “It did have ‘Strong fragrance’ written on it, but the warning strength graded into one of five levels, in order to make it easier for wasn’t very noticeable,” and “I’ve been trying to find a softener with consumers to choose the type of product they want in retail stores. a milder fragrance, but I haven’t been able to find one.” Regular bottle – Mild fragrance (example) Refill packaging – Strong fragrance (example) Case Study 2— Emulsion-type cosmetics that can be used up right to the last drop Responding to consumers’ comments such as “With expensive cosmetics products, I want to be able to use every last drop” and “The emulsion tends to have high viscosity, so you can’t use all of it up, which seems a waste,” for the new ALBLANC Medicated Emulsion and SOFINA Lift Professional Essence that were launched in 2015, Kao adopted a new type of container that is easy to use Air and reduces the quantity of product that gets left in the container. The container has an inner pouch which shrinks and pushes up the product as the remaining amount decreases, so that even emulsion-type essence of high viscosity can be used up. Kao has also adopted a new mechanism for the refill packaging, so that the SOFINA Lift Professional Essence pump portion of the container can be set easily. To facilitate the setting process, different colors are used for the inner and outer The new easy-to-set container that allows every last drop containers, to make it easier for users to distinguish between them. of product to be pumped out Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 074 ▶ Universal Design Case Study 3—Foaming Type Shampoo for kids Kao has launched a new type of shampoo that produces foam, making it easy for even young children to wash their hair on Highlighting their own. Children as young as 2 or 3 years old are actually the fact that capable of starting to learn how to wash their own hair. this is a refill However, many parents and guardians worry that if they let the packaging for foaming child do it on their own, only the outer surface of the child’s shampoo hair may get washed, or the child may not rinse the shampoo off properly. Merit Foaming Type Shampoo for Kids uses a pump that is easy for children to press. Shampoo foam flows out smoothly, so that the whole of the child’s head gets washed properly, getting rid of dirt and sweaty odors. The foam also dissipates smoothly, so that the hair can be rinsed off easily and quickly. The refill packaging has also been carefully designed to avoid Showing what the regular confusion with existing Merit Shampoo products. container looks like Case Study 4—Adult diapers with enhanced “design” feel, Kao’s Relief Super Slim Pants (adult diapers) look just like regular underwear (Limited-edition design) including a wider range of colors and decorative patterns Adult diapers tend to have a plain white design. Kao has “Designer” models launched in April 2015 received a variety of requests from adult diaper users and their family members such as “Because they are white, you can’t help being reminded of the fact that they are diapers, which is depressing; it would be good if they could be made in different colors, with different decorative designs,” and “If they came in decorative patterns I would feel happier about wearing them outside the house.” Responding to these suggestions, since 2014 Kao has launched a series of limited-run “designer” adult diapers. “Designer” models launched in October 2015 These feature bright colors, and feel more natural to wear because they look more like underwear. Many customers have reported feeling more positive about wearing adult diapers as a result, commenting that “Having a decorative pattern on them makes you feel more natural wearing them,” and “I’m 70 years old, but I enjoy wearing them because of the attractive floral-printed design. I feel relaxed wearing them too.” Consumers have also commented that “I wish you would start to manufacture them as a regular product rather than just as a limited-edition product,” and “It would be good if you start selling them with larger quantities per package.” Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 075 ▶ Universal Design Japan Realizing the Yoki-Monozukuri spirit through Workshops for Promoting Empathy with Elderly People Kao holds Workshops for Promoting Empathy with Elderly Examples of improvements made to containers and People to develop a better sense of how senior citizens labeling applying what was learned at the workshops actually live and get a new perspective on how improvements could be made, with the aim of realizing continuous improvement based on a Universal Design (UD) approach. ORIENA Medical Aging Care series For each of these workshops, a rental studio based in a single-family home is used, and a dozen or so Kao employees make use of equipment that provides a virtual experience of being a person requiring Level 1 Nursing Care,* experiencing what it is like for such people to perform housework and other daily living activities, etc. By performing home living activities over a period of half a day, Kao employees are able to develop a better understanding All items in this series have an Illustrations and graphics are of what it is like being a senior citizen, including the physical easy-to-grip “lemon” shape, carefully chosen to make the so that they don’t require instructions on the outer box constraints; by actually using the products, participants are much strength to open easy to understand able to notice issues of usability and accessibility that would not necessarily be picked up when examining the products in TWANY Glow Line isolation. In 2015, 11 workshops were held, with a total of 114 Kao employees taking part. In addition, two in-store workshops were held using actual retail outlets, with 27 Kao employees The oval-shaped cap participating. In the future, Kao will continue to make can be closed with just a slight turning motion improvements from a UD perspective in relation to dissemination of information about products, product purchasing, product use, and product disposal. The container has an easily-gripped shape, and has a textured surface to prevent * ‌Level 1 Nursing Care slipping An individual who has gone from requiring support (someone who is able to handle basic activities of daily life (ADL) on their own, but who may The product packaging shows the require some assistance, or who may require support with instrumental product name in large, clear letters ADLs as a way of preventing a need for full nursing care), to requiring partial nursing care due to a deterioration in the ability to handle instrumental ADLs. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 076 ▶ Universal Design Japan Providing information to the visually impaired Providing voice-based information Kao offers information for everyday life in Home Life, a voicebased magazine published by the Japan Braille Library for its over 6,600 members. The three issues of Home Life that were published in 2015 (the February, May and September issues) provided useful lifestyle information based on Kao’s know-how and insight. The February issue included segments on body fat, lifestyle ideas relating to eco-friendly products and saving, anti-pollen methods, etc.; the May issue covered strategies for protecting yourself from UV radiation, and maintenance of bedding; the September issue included articles on dealing with the odor resulting from mild incontinence and sweat, tips for washing summer clothing and space-saving storage solutions. The recorded information provided in Home Life is narrated by Kao employees. A Kao employee narrates Home Life, providing lifestyle information in spoken format Braille tools for product differentiation To make it easier to identify different product containers with similar shapes, Kao has developed two types of Braille tools, one for household products and another for cosmetics, and is distributing them free of charge. They feature large-print black lettering on a white background, making them useful for older customers as well as the visually impaired. For household products, we have stickers such as “BODY SOAP” to “SHAMPOO,” “CONDITIONER,” “MAKEUP REMOVER,” and “TOOTHPASTE” to help people distinguish between different products, and stickers such as “CHLORINEBASED” to clarify product functionality, which help to prevent mistakes when using these products. For cosmetics, we also have Braille stickers which can be used by product types, usage conditions, as well as target problem area, color of lipsticks and other makeup, and additional characteristics. Braille labels for use on household products The stickers are even more convenient and effective when used in various combinations. Product catalogue sites suitable for text-to-speech software Pages in the online Product Catalog site introducing details such as product components, quantity to be used, and instructions for use, etc. now support the use of text-to-speech software, enabling customers to listen to the text, supplemented by descriptions of graphic-based contents. Information showing the quantity of Kao EMAL laundry detergent to be used, optimized for text-to-speech software Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 077 ▶ Universal Design Topic Making effective use of visually impaired people’s suggestions to improve Kao products In June 2015, at the request of disabled people’s associations in Hiroshima City, the hair care business group, R&D Division, and consumer communication centers of Kao Corporation and Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd. collaborated on the implementation of a hair care seminar for the visually impaired. Making use of demonstrations in which participants could touch and listen to things for themselves, and also using information provided in Braille format, the seminar was attended by 32 people, including 5 people working as guides for the visually impaired. In a demonstration of a type of shampoo that minimizes friction damage caused by the hair getting tangled up, participants were able to check how smooth hair feels to the touch even during shampooing which is the most severe environment Checking how smooth hair feels to the for hair. In another demonstration, participants had their own hair fixed in place in a touch after shampooing paper cup so that they could rub it with their own fingers and evaluate how much damage the hairs had suffered. Whenever a scraping sound was heard, it provoked peals of laughter. Because the visually impaired have few opportunities to try new products out by themselves, an explanation was provided of Kao’s UD strategy and some recommendations were offered as to suitable products. During the exchange of views, a number of suggestions were received which will help Kao to make improvements from a UD perspective, for example: “Is there some way to distinguish shampoo and conditioner refill packaging?” Responding to those suggestions, the refill packaging for Kao’s Essential Shampoo that was launched in 2016 has had a notch added to the cap to facilitate recognition by touch. In the future, Kao will be making a proactive effort to take into account consumers’ suggestions as expressed at events such as this, so that we can further improve our products. Japan Closed captioning television commercial With the aging of the population, Japan is estimated to now results and findings we have gained through these activities have around 14 million hearing-impaired people (representing with government agencies, related organizations and other about 11.3% of the total population). As hearing tends to companies, and are working to help ensure that closed deteriorate with age, these figures can be expected to rise still captioning commercials become more widely adopted. further in the future. In 2014, a “Closed Captioning Commercial Promotion Although digitalization has enabled closed captioning of Council” was established by a group of government agencies most television programs, efforts to provide closed captions and related organizations, and began preparations for fullyfor commercials have proceeded more slowly. Closed fledged commercial broadcasting of closed captioning captioning not only provides hearing-impaired viewers with commercials in Japan. information about products, it also enables them to share Kao’s efforts in this area have received public recognition common topics with friends and family, keep up to date with with the 64th “Radio Day” Minister of Internal Affairs and the latest trends, and strengthen ties with society. Communications Award and with the presentation of a Kao has promoted the airing of closed captioning Consumer-oriented Activities Award at the First Annual ACAP commercials in regular broadcasts since 2011. We have Consumer-oriented Activities Awards organized by the surveyed the hearing-impaired and their families, along with Association of Consumer Affairs Professionals (ACAP) in 2015. related organizations, incorporating their feedback into our In the future, Kao will continue its efforts to promote research on ways to make closed captioning more effective at closed captioning commercials, through collaboration with transmitting information; to date, around 900 commercials with organizations in related sectors. closed captioning have been produced. We have shared the Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 078 ▶ Universal Design Topic Opening of a dedicated consultation window for sign language users In October 2015, Kao established a new Sign Language Hearing-impaired Sign language Kao Group customer Communication Window for hearing-impaired customers who have customer: interpreter: inquiries staff: difficulty making inquiries over the phone. “I have a question about XXX” “It’s a question about XXX” Answers the question There are many hearing-impaired people who rely heavily on sign language as their main means of communication, and who have trouble accessing written information or communicating by e-mail. Sign language Telephone Kao’s new dedicated communication window is intended to make it communication via Skype interpreting easier for these people to select and use Kao products comfortably. Using a remote sign language communication system (developed by ShuR) that connects the customer with a sign language specialist via Skype, the new communication window makes it possible for hearing-impaired customers to address queries (through the sign language specialist) to the inquiries offices of Kao, Nivea-Kao, and Kanebo Cosmetics. Japan Implementing Universal Design lessons for elementary school children While the concept of “barrier-free” access that embodies consideration for the disabled has already been incorporated into elementary school classes, Kao’s idea of “Universal Design that makes products easy for everyone to use” is currently not so widely diffused. In 2013, Kao’s Consumer Communication Center launched Universal Design lessons for fourth-grade elementary school students as a joint project with Tokyo Gakugei University. The content of these presentations involves helping children to get a better understanding of the significance of Kao’s approach to Universal Design (UD) by focusing on everyday objects that they are familiar with, such as shampoo bottles, and why shampoo bottles have notches in them; for Kao, as the company that originally developed the idea of having notches in shampoo bottles, the presentations constitute a marvelous opportunity to talk to children directly A smiling instructor talks to the schoolchildren about the background to this idea, and about the fascinating secrets of its implementation. In 2015, the Universal Design lessons were held at seven schools in Tokyo and Osaka, with around 800 schoolchildren taking part. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 079 ▶ Communication with consumers【PR3】 We continue to use close, in-depth communication with consumers to improve our products and services, while providing essential lifestyle information to consumers of all ages. 2015 activities Besides listening to consumers’ ideas and wishes regarding our products, we also endeavor to provide useful information that takes account of the changes taking place in society. We have created videos which show how to use Kao products safely and comfortably. We also publish details of the ingredients of Kao products, information which may be needed when shipping these products outside Japan. In addition, we have launched a new program for responding to queries raised on social networking service (SNS) sites. Policies/structures Kao’s Consumer Communication Center serves as our contact improvement histories and daily lifestyle information. By point with consumers, not only responding helpfully to specific accessing this information, staff at the Consumer comments and requests submitted by consumers in an Communication Center can respond to consumer inquiries in a “accurate, quick, and courteous” manner, but gaining a wellprompt and appropriate manner. In addition, while taking developed understanding of actual usage situations through suitable measures to protect personal information, the system our customer’s concerns and lifestyle habits. compiles a list of all consumer inquiries received each day and Kao developed the Kao ECHO System database in 1978. makes this data available to all relevant divisions the following This system, which has been upgraded five times in the morning. intervening years, enables effective communication between Based on this data, individual divisions analyze the trends Kao and its consumers and provides a foundation for the entire in inquiries and the incidence (the number of inquiries as a company to share and utilize consumer feedback. percentage of the number of pieces shipped) by product, and The database stores a wide range of information on all Kao use the results in product development, marketing and quality products, ranging from basic product information to improvement activities. Structure to reflect consumer feedback in products Interactive communication Inquiries/opinions, etc. Providing better products Consumer Accurate, quick and Business courteous Group, R&D, Consumer responses Production, Communication Logistics, Center Sales Kao ECHO System Consultation support function Consumer voice analysis function In 2015, Kao Corporation, Nivea-Kao Co., Ltd., and Kanebo Cosmetics Inc. together handled about 213,000 consumer inquiries received via phone and e-mail (equivalent to 96% of the previous year’s total); overall, the number of inquiries fell compared to the previous year. However, there has been an increase in inquiries from the elderly regarding product differences and usage, reflecting Japan’s aging society, and also an increase in inquiries from men. People aged 60 or over now account for around 40% of all inquiries received. At the same time, Kao has responded to the changes in the communication methods used by young people by starting to use social networking services (SNS) to disseminate information. The increase in consumer spending by foreign tourists visiting Japan in the last few years has also resulted in an increase in inquiries regarding delivery of Kao products. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 080 ▶ Communication with consumers【PR3】 Goals Kao aims to reflect consumer opinions and inquiries when by government agencies. Since FY 2010, Kao has been improving and developing its products, and seeks to improve providing in-school education support programs, including services by listening to consumers while fine-tuning its environmental lessons, hand washing lessons and house outgoing communications. cleaning lessons that are related to the school curriculum. Kao Kao also endeavors to provide a wide range of daily life aims to expand such opportunities, enabling us to information that is useful for everyone from children to the communicate directly with more consumers. elderly. Kao promotes diverse communication by organizing various seminars and actively participating in events organized Japan Providing information on the Kao website Kao utilizes its website to respond to consumer inquiries, As our top priority is consumer safety and comfort, the providing detailed and timely information. website also provides essential information, such as To help consumers select the products that best suit their information regarding the importance of skin sensitization test needs, Kao makes available the information that can be found (human patch test) when using hair color, emergency treatment on product labels (including ingredients, instructions for use, methods for when a product is accidentally ingested or warnings etc.) in the Kao online product catalog. consumed, etc., in the Products Q&A section of the website. Inquiries The Customer Inquiry page offers numerous contact points according to the type of inquiry. Upon receiving several similar inquiries, we then publish the response as a specific topic, adding it to the Q&A site banner and other locations for quick resolution of customer concerns. Starting from October 2015, Kao has introduced a new Sign Language Communication Window for hearing-impaired customers who have difficulty making inquiries over the phone, and is now able to handle inquiries in sign language in addition to the existing telephone, e-mail, post and fax inquiry channels. Responding to a Consumer Affairs Agency press release issued in September, 2015, entitled “Make Sure Senior Citizens Do Not Eat or Drink Hazardous Substances by Mistake!,” which noted a case in which a senior citizen drank chlorine kitchen bleach fluid by mistake, starting from December the “Notifications” section of the Kao website has presented some important points to note regarding the proper handling of tableware and kitchen utensils when using kitchen bleach fluid. ➡Inquiries main page Kao’s newly-established Sign Language Communication Window http://www.kao.com/jp/soudan/ (Japanese) ➡p.78 Community > Universal Design > Topic: Opening of a dedicated consultation window for sign language users Important notice regarding the handling of tableware and kitchen utensils when using kitchen bleach fluid Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 081 ▶ Communication with consumers【PR3】 Products Q&A This is a compilation of the many inquiries received from our coloring agent that had dripped onto the skin by mistake; the customers, in Question and Answer format. Links to the product website uses live-action video to show the correct process for catalog provide a rich database of additional detailed information removing the skin discoloration. To ensure that the information with a display of actual products for easy searching. presented on the site can also be used by the hearing impaired, In 2015, Kao launched a new “Products Q&A” website, all of the video clips have subtitles. which utilizes videos, with the aim of showing people, in an Also in 2015, Kao has responded to the increase in the easy-to-understand way, how to use Kao products safely and number of people who need to know the product ingredients in easily. order to be able to send Kao products to relatives or friends living To help prevent flashing accidents caused by aerosol outside Japan by making this information available on the products, the site includes videos showing the correct way to website. release all the gas from aerosols before disposing of them, and what to do if the aerosol nozzle gets clogged up. Some ➡Products Q&A main page http://www.kao.com/jp/qa/ (Japanese) consumers have damaged their skin while trying to remove hair Product Q&A video example: how to release gas from Kao Cape hair spray before disposal Product Q&A video example: how to remove Blauné hair manicure from skin Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 082 ▶ Communication with consumers【PR3】 Product catalog Product catalog is Kao’s consumer product catalog site. It includes products they enjoy. about 1,300 items, with the information that is displayed on product In 2015, following the publication in October of a report by the packaging labels, such as product components, usage, etc. Consumer Safety Investigation Committee investigating the reasons The catalog is also linked to the product Q&A section and other for incidents involving damage to skin caused by hair dyeing, Kao’s sites, with users able to view relevant product Q&As from each of Consumer Communication Center received a large number of the product pages. It includes information on precautions that should inquiries. In response, Kao has announced important notices with be taken when using hair color products, aerosol products and regard to the ingredients and instructions for use of all Kao hair color chlorinated products, and an “Emergency Treatment SOS,” a link products, as well as important notes for their use. Kao has also consolidating various treatments for urgent situations including endeavored to raise awareness of the relevant issues by providing cases of unintentional product ingestion, helping to ensure that links to Q&A section on the Kao website to inform consumers about consumers can use their Kao products safely. the importance of doing a skin sensitization test (human patch test) Besides introducing new products, Kao also provides information before using hair coloring products. The instructions for use have on product enhancements, listing specific improvements in been made available for download, so that consumers can examine performance, fragrance, containers, design and other areas in a detailed information about the products before purchasing. format that is as easy to understand as possible. In addition, the catalog provides notification of product discontinuations two months ➡Product catalog main page in advance, as we work to keep regular users informed about the http://www.kao.com/jp/products/ (Japanese) Information on discontinued products We continue to receive inquiries concerning products from loyal customers long after the product has been discontinued. Since 2002, we have consolidated information concerning main discontinued products in a single site—the product catalog for discontinued products. In 2015, new information was added to this site regarding Humming Concentrated Fabric Softener, Pipe Haiter Powder, and Blauné Essence Plus Color. ➡Main page for discontinued product announcements http://www.kao.com/jp/products/haishihin/ (Japanese) Examples of discontinued products listed on the site Topic Introduction of wide-ranging support for consumers via SNS The increased diffusion and growth of digital media has led to an increase in the number of people who use the Internet and social media to make inquiries when they have a query about a particular product. Up until recently, Kao has mainly relied on an approach that involves waiting until consumers get in touch via telephone or e-mail, but there are also a lot of posts on social ➡Kao Official Support welcome page networking service (SNS) sites about consumers’ problems that Kao can http://chiebukuro.yahoo.co.jp/my/kao_ official (Japanese) help to solve. With the goal of providing even more wide-ranging lifestyle support for consumers, in July 2015 Kao began providing responses to consumers’ queries submitted via SNS; as of December 2015, Kao had replied to a total of about 600 inquiries using SNS. On Yahoo! Chiebukuro (Japan’s largest knowledge sharing community service, where many Kao product users post queries), Kao has set up Kao Official Support, providing support for home products (mainly washing and cleaning products), and also for beauty products (including skin care, hair care and cosmetics products). Kao’s concrete suggestions in response to queries about how to wash the delicate clothing, etc., inspired consumers to submit comments such as “Being able to get professional advice is a great reassurance,” and “I am very glad that Kao now has a presence on Yahoo! Chiebukuro.” One of the key features of social media is that responses can be read not only by the person who made the original query, but also by other people with a similar problem; providing information via SNS thus Response message significantly extends the benefits. *This support message is shown to give an idea as to how this form of communication works in practice. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 083 ▶ Communication with consumers【PR3】 Japan Interactive events Among its relationships with various stakeholders, Kao recognizes the vital importance of activities directly involving communication with the consumer to deepen mutual understanding. We proactively visit key consumer groups, consumer affairs administration offices, and local authorities handling consumer affairs to facilitate the exchange of information. We invite members of consumer groups to visit our plants and museums, encouraging the sharing of ideas. We also participate in events held for various consumer groups in response to requests from NPOs and governmental agencies. In 2015, Kao continued to participate in “Children’s Day for Visiting Kasumigaseki” and the “Sumida Consumer Lifestyles Exhibition.” Also in 2015, Kao participated for the first time in the healthy lifestyles event held in Minami-ku, Yokohama. Kao was able to introduce Kao products (such as Relief adult diapers) to participants. The response to Kao’s involvement in these grassroots community event was very The healthy lifestyles event held in Minami-ku, Yokohama positive, with many people stopping by the Kao booths. Kao continues to contribute to society through such activities. Global Globalization of consumer communication activities Kao is applying consumer communication know-how honed in Japan consumer communication provision and helps to provide forward to activities carried out by Kao Group companies outside Japan as momentum for Kao’s global activities. well. To ensure that consumer communication in all countries is In order to realize the visualization of consumer attitudes and the conducted appropriately and quickly, and consumer communication sharing of this information across countries, in 2009 we developed processes and values are shared throughout the entire Kao Group, the Global ECHO System, a framework for the sharing and effective Kao is taking steps to facilitate the monitoring of the state of Kao utilization of the views expressed by consumers in different operations in each country, and utilizing the exchange of information countries, which operates in a similar manner to the Kao ECHO through day-to-day e-mails and telephone calls, as well as the holding System that had already been adopted in Japan. Through this of regular web conferences, etc. In addition, every year a meeting is System, for the vast majority of Kao Group member companies, the held at which consumer communication representatives from every content of consumer consultations can be viewed by all related company in the Group come together to share information divisions, supporting coordinated measures to meet consumers’ horizontally across countries as to how consumer communication is needs in an appropriate manner, and facilitating the precise and being implemented in each country and develop an enhanced prompt provision of support to consumers through coordinated action understanding of the Kao Group’s consumer communication strategy, across countries, and creating new opportunities for Yoki-Monozukuri which in turn contributes to an enhancement of the overall quality of activities. Topic Kao is designated an Official Partner of the Japan Obesity Prevention Association Kao has for many years now been undertaking research on visceral fat and contributes to awareness raising in relation to obesity and metabolic syndrome by carrying out research to develop the Healthya product series, which are designated Foods for Specified Health Uses, as well as various types of information dissemination activities. In recognition of these efforts, in September 2015 Kao was designated an Official Partner of the Japan Obesity Prevention Association, making Kao the Association’s first and currently only Official Partner. Taking “Let’s reduce our visceral fat to stay healthy!” as its catchphrase, the Japan Obesity Prevention Association was established in January 2015 with the aim of promoting better understanding of obesity and metabolic syndrome, and of spreading awareness of ways to prevent and combat obesity and metabolic syndrome within The Japan Obesity Prevention Association website society as a whole. Kao will be providing support for the Association’s activities by holding visceral fat seminars and visceral fat measurement sessions throughout Japan, and by providing solutions to help prevent and mitigate obesity and metabolic syndrome. In October 2015, with support from the Association, Kao held a visceral fat seminar in Oita Prefecture. ➡p.28 Highlights: Community > Supporting people to live healthily > Supporting local government authorities’ health promotion initiatives Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 084 ▶ Communication with corporate customers We aim to use close, in-depth communication with corporate customers to improve existing products, facilitate the development of new products, and enhance the quality of service we provide. 2015 activities In the Consumer Products Business, the scope of the “eco together” activity that Kao has been implementing in collaboration with retailers was expanded in 2015 to include collaboration with government agencies. In the Chemical Business, while continuing to implement the Training Sessions for Distributors’ New Employees, which are held to help newly-recruited employees at Chemical Business distributors to develop their understanding of Kao products and acquire related know-how, we also began to hold new Information Exchange Meetings. In the Professional Business, we implement total system solutions aimed at enhancing food sanitation management, and to provide information to medical and nursing care service providers on an ongoing basis. Consumer Products Business Policies/goals/structures Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd. (CMK) works with retailers them, offering comprehensive proposals that incorporate (corporate customers) to inform consumers about Kao measures to enhance supply chain efficiency, and customizing products and the value they provide, aiming to ensure that these proposals to meet the needs of individual retailers. As a even more consumers and corporate customers are satisfied. result of these activities, Kao is building even stronger To achieve these goals, CMK takes concrete steps to partnerships with an ever-growing number of retailers. monitor consumers’ purchasing preferences and purchasing Starting from January 2016, Kao has switched over to a activities, implementing in-store merchandising development new system that strengthens the coordinated operation of the and planning from a customer-focused perspective, and Kao Group’s domestic sales subsidiaries. In the future, we will making effective use of the capabilities of the entire Kao Group further strengthen in-store merchandising and sales strategies to carry out market building and market invigoration. based on precise analysis of changes in markets and consumer In addition, to further strengthen the relationship of mutual behavior through the coordinated efforts of the entire Kao trust that exists between Kao and retailers, CMK liaises closely Group. with retailers about their strategies and the issues affecting Collaboration between CMK and retailers Contributing to the success of our retail customers Local communities Proposals for in-store merchandising and selling methods Better Proposals for more Coordination communication efficient SCM* Kao Customer Retailers Kao Marketing Supermarkets, Consumers Co., Ltd. drugstores, etc. Retailer Consumer information information Improving products and sales activities through retailer and consumer input * SCM: Supply Chain Management Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 085 ▶ Communication with corporate customers Japan Consumer Products Business Collaborating with retailers and local government authorities Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd. (CMK) uses in-store Kao’s Ultra Attack Neo liquid laundry detergent, while children merchandising at retailers throughout Japan (which represent received copies of the “Eco Together Diary” to encourage one of the most important contact points with consumers) and them to get into the habit of not wasting water; in this way, participation at community and local government events to Kao employees shared with visitors to the Fair some ideas implement “eco together” activities aimed at encouraging about how people can help build a sustainable society. Many people to “Save water, Save electricity and Reduce garbage.” of the visitors were surprised, and impressed, by the ways in which Kao products can be used for eco-friendly activities. In 2015, Kao participated in a total of around 170 environmental While the Fair was on, retailers in Kofu City collaborated by events, offering suggestions to about 85,000 consumers on holding “eco together” awareness-raising activities in their eco-friendly activities that they can carry out in their own stores. homes. Events of this kind, where Kao coordinates collaboration At the 18th Environment & Recycling Fair in Yamanashi between retailers, government authorities, and Kao itself, are Prefecture, sponsored by Kofu City Government and held in being held throughout Japan. In the future, we will continue to November 2015, a quiz format was used to introduce visitors implement “eco together” activities by working closely with to simple, easy ways to save water and electricity with Kao local communities. products. Participants in the quiz were given free samples of Environmental communication in partnership with retail stores and the government Environmental Communication Retail •Yoki-Monozukuri Local Stores •“eco together” Governments •Community-based consumer communication •Dialogue with society Kao CMK Showing how people can be environmentally friendly with Kao’s liquid laundry detergent Providing information ・Store-based events ・Community-based events ・Events linked to retailers ・Community Learning Centers and the government Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 086 ▶ Communication with corporate customers Chemical Business Policies/goals/structures One of Kao’s core businesses is offering chemical products to (information materials, fragrances). In this business, Kao has been customers operating in a wide range of industries throughout the required to provide corporate customers with prompt information world for use as intermediate materials. The main focus of our concerning laws and regulations related to products and product safety chemicals business is oleo chemicals (fat and oil derivatives), through supply chains. We are therefore working to promote close performance chemicals (surfactants) and specialty chemicals communication with corporate customers and sales distributors. Global Chemical Business Active information exchange with sales distributors Kao shares information with corporate customers and distributors, cooperating closely with them. Cooperation with corporate customers and sales distributors Product/Technical service/Information on the environment, safety (SDS, etc.), regulations, societal trends, etc. From Kao Corporate Sales distributors/ Kao Specified agents customers/ Corporations From corporate customers/corporations Market needs, inquiries regarding safety or other information In light of newly announced and revised laws and regulations for the persons in charge of order placement at selected related to chemical substances, information transmission Kansai region distributors and the persons handling ordering within the supply chain is an essential part of chemical and order reception work at Kao, at which the participants substance management, and the role of the sales distributors discussed issues and needs relating to order placement and of Kao products is expanding and gaining in importance in receipt. terms of compliance with import and export regulations, In the future, we will continue to use activities of this kind sharing information and adjusting delivery schedules following to foster close communication with corporate customers and earthquakes and other disasters, and in other respects. distributors. Kao and its key Chemical Business sales distributors continue to share information on an ongoing basis and hold regular meetings to discuss the latest trends in the various international and domestic laws and regulations governing chemical products, and environmental and safety initiatives, etc. Once every two years, Kao holds Training Sessions for Distributors’ New Employees, for newly-recruited employees of distributors that handle Kao’s chemical products, with the aim of helping them to develop a better understanding of product quality and safety issues and to acquire the specialist know-how they require in order to market these products effectively to corporate customers. In 2015, the training session was held over two days (October 20–21) at Wakayama Plant, with over 80 people participating. In November and December, 2015, Information Exchange Meetings were held with representatives of leading Chemical Business distributors, to exchange information about new trends in chemical product related laws and regulations, and about environmental and safety measures, etc. In addition, a new idea was tried in 2015, with the holding of a special Information Exchange Meeting at Wakayama Plant Training Sessions for Distributors’ New Employees held in 2015 Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 087 ▶ Communication with corporate customers Professional Business Policies/goals/structures Kao Professional Services Co., Ltd. (KPS) proposes its original through a combination of products based on our skin care professional-use products and solution services to professional technology and our diapers for seniors; and in the area of customers who require expert cleaning and hygiene recreation service, we strive for total comfort through management in the areas of food service (food-service and cleanliness and the ultimate in hospitality through quality guest food processing industries), medical support and care care. (hospitals and nursing-care facilities), and recreation services Developing and providing effective products meeting (hotels, dry cleaners, etc.). individual client needs while reducing the environmental In the food service area, we create a safe, secure, and impact, KPS also creates total solutions solving hygiene comfortable environment through comprehensive hygiene management issues, delivering “cleanliness and sanitation” management; in the medical support and care service area, we operation systems tailored to serve each customer. reduce risk of hazards due to infection through expert infection control, and offer an environment for gentler nursing care Japan Professional Business Food hygiene management: a total system proposal KPS collaborates with our food service customers to improve The number of hygiene lectures implemented worksite hygiene management in restaurants and food Year No. of Lectures processing plants, creating food safety and security, and comfortable environments through comprehensive hygiene 2011 178 management. 2012 174 We provide the products as well as hygiene management operation proposals for implementation in the actual workplace. 2013 207 We promote steady, standardized operations based on clear 2014 195 and simple manuals suited to the customer’s site. We conduct an on-site appraisal according to each 2015 219 customer’s situation, and use this appraisal as the basis for the joint establishment of a new hygiene management framework, through the provision of an improvement system, results verification, and a customized manual. We also hold on-site hygiene lectures for employees and implement store hygiene diagnostic screenings regularly. We continue to implement measures aimed at realizing an ongoing enhancement of the overall level of hygiene management. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 088 ▶ Communication with corporate customers Japan Professional Business Implementing infection-control support activities KPS organized Infection Control Best Practices Program research was a useful method to remind people about the importance of meetings and seminars to support the activities of professionals infection management,” “The meeting helped us to realize that there engaged in the infection control management at hospitals and nursingare still problems where improvements need to be made. We will care facilities. continue to implement these measures.” Infection Control Best Practices Program is one of the techniques Kinki region seminars were attended by 1,146 health and medical aiming for improved infection control levels through behavior professionals from 364 hospitals and 106 nursing care facilities. modifications of medical and nursing staff, by assessing the risks in Participants’ comments: “We learned new information which was very medical and nursing practices from the perspective of infection control, useful.” “The case studies of other hospitals’ poster presentations preparing the protocols with scientifically based solutions and were very useful. I appreciated having the opportunity to attend.” checklists, and putting them into practice. To better share information with health and medical professionals In 2015, we held 89 Infection Control Best Practices Program of hospitals and nursing-care facilities, KPS also offers study sessions research meetings (working groups) for about 1,900 nurses, care on the proper use of products and prevention of hospital-acquired workers, and other health and medical professionals from 642 infections, and exhibit our products at seminars and academic hospitals and 128 nursing-care facilities in 30 areas. conferences; in 2015, we conducted a total of 369 study sessions and Typical comments from participants were: “The research meeting 72 product exhibits. Infection Control Best Practices Seminar Product exhibit at Infection Control Best Practices Seminar Giving a lecture at the Food Safety Workshop organized Topic by Oriental Land Co., Ltd., the company which owns and manages Tokyo Disney Resort Since July 1, 2015, Kao has been an Official Sponsor of Tokyo Disneyland® and Tokyo DisneySea® Parks. As part of this sponsorship, a presentation with case studies was given on the food safety know-how that KPS and the Kao Group as a whole possess, at the annual Workshop for Food Contamination Prevention held by Oriental Land Co., Ltd. for Disney Resort cast members, chefs, and food preparation staff working at Disney Resort hotels. Two sessions of the Workshop were held, on September 30 and October 14, 2015, at the Tokyo DisneySea Hotel MiraCosta, with about 900 people attending. Kao explained how food can be contaminated, and presented case studies and preventive strategies. They also explained the importance of maintaining day-to-day awareness for food Presenting food safety know-how and case safety management, as well as forecasting and considering risks in every single process. studies As professionals in providing visitors with “happiness,” the participants demonstrated a high level of interest, and took extensive notes. A wide range of positive comments were received, such as “These ideas will help us to maintain the right attitude in the workplace.” The Workshop provided an opportunity for the Kao Group to share with Oriental Land Co., Ltd. the hygiene management know-how that has been accumulated by KPS, and it is anticipated that this will have made some contribution towards the maintenance of food safety. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 089 ▶ Corporate citizenship activities【EC7】 Kao aims to enrich people’s lives and contribute to global sustainability through its social contribution activities. 2015 activities Three of Kao’s ongoing activities reached important milestones in 2015. 2015 marked the 10th year of implementation of the Supporters of “Kao Creating Forests for Everyone” program, and to mark this anniversary a special commemorative brochure was compiled, summarizing the project’s achievements so far. It is also 10 years since Kao began providing support for the Japan Science and Engineering Challenge (JSEC) scheme; a questionnaire survey was administered to past winners and award-winning schools, to verify the benefits that JSEC has provided. The fifth anniversary of the launch of the Kao Social Entrepreneurship Schools was marked with the issuing of a special report, and an exchange meeting that brought together social entrepreneurs and Kao employees. In addition, Kao continues to implement social contribution activities in countries throughout the world. For example, when PT. Kao Indonesia Chemicals relocated its factory, it arranged for the installation of underground water pumps, in order to ensure that local residents could continue to benefit from the clean water that the factory had provided. Policies/structures As part of our contribution to enriching people’s lives and contribute to global sustainability, Kao has adopted the theme Activity Guidelines of “Creating an Environment and Developing Human Capital to ◦Conduct activities that play a role in nurturing the next Nurture the Next Generation,” identifying three key domains— generation Environment, Education, and Community—upon which to ◦Conduct activities aimed at contributing to the development of regional communities and culture concentrate its activities. To promote social contribution ◦Conduct activities that protect and nurture the activities across the entire group, we place particular emphasis environment to promote a sustainable society on co-existence and co-prosperity with local communities. ◦Conduct activities that promote a barrier-free society as a form of social support ◦Conduct activities that make effective use of Kao’s resources ◦Create an atmosphere in which every employee can participate in community activities as a good citizen Overview of Kao’s corporate citizenship activities Creating an Environment and Developing Human Capital to Nurture the Next Generation Environment Education Community ● Kao Creating Forests for Everyone ● Kao Earthwatch Teachers’ ● Kao Family Concert ● “FURUSATO” Fellowship ● Kao Environment Social Entrepreneurship Conservation Project in Northern ● Supporting science education/ Schools Thailand Education programs Employee participation activities Kao Heart Pocket Club, Pink Ribbon Campaign Support of the arts Tokyo Music Competition, Support for the New National Theatre Tokyo, Art exhibitions The Kao Foundation for Arts and Sciences Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 090 ▶ Corporate citizenship activities—Education【EC7】 Japan Supporting the education of the children, the bearers of the future in our society With the aim of helping children to enjoy clean, healthy lives In 2015, the house cleaning lesson was implemented for a while demonstrating concern for the global environment, Kao total of about 4,700 children in 62 elementary schools in 26 is working with schools to provide an education program: hand prefectures, with about 360 Kao employees offering instruction washing lesson, house cleaning lesson, environmental lesson, and practical training. In addition, the teaching materials for the and Universal Design (UD) lesson* which are closely related to house cleaning lesson were distributed to another 47 schools. Kao’s business. In 2015, the four lessons involved a total of about 1,100 Kao Group employees, who visited 223 schools in 45 prefectures and taught about 17,000 children. A total of 75,000 children have participated since the program’s launch in 2009. Employees from many divisions at Kao Group companies participate in this program, and say that this education program is a good opportunity for them to interact with local communities and to learn more about social contribution. Kao also makes available teaching materials that school teachers can use for the hand washing lesson and house cleaning lesson; Kao also provides teaching materials that can be used in junior high school Home Economics classes. Hand washing lesson Kao has been conducting this lesson for children in the lower House cleaning lesson grades of elementary school since 2009, to teach the importance of hand washing and, using Kao’s original hand washing song, how to wash hands properly. Environmental lesson In 2015, about 560 employees visited 111 schools in 34 This hands-on lesson, offered since 2009, uses lectures and prefectures and gave hand washing lessons to about 8,000 experiments to teach children the importance of being children. respectful of the environment in their daily lives. In addition, in coordination with Kao’s business activities, Using concentrated liquid laundry detergent with superior teaching materials for the hand washing lesson were rinsability as a teaching material, instructors show students distributed to 2,423 schools and institutions. how much water can be saved by doing laundry with just a single rinse cycle, demonstrating how their behavior when using cleaning products can have a significant impact on the environment. In 2015, the lesson was offered to about 3,500 elementary, junior high and senior high school students in 43 schools across 26 prefectures. Hand washing lesson House cleaning lesson This lesson, started in 2010 and offered in conjunction with Living Environment classes for children in the lower grades of elementary school, teaches the importance of housework and Environmental lesson at elementary school how to do it well, by practicing washing dishes and cleaning with a wet cloth. By helping them explore their role in the family, the lesson also tries to teach children to feel happy at *Universal Design (UD) lesson ➡For details, refer to p.78 Community > Universal Design > Implementing being useful and to feel grateful. a Universal Design lesson for elementary school children Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 091 ▶ Corporate citizenship activities—Education【EC7】 Providing teaching materials for junior high school Home Economics curriculum In 2011, Kao began working with Home Economics teachers in Okayama Prefecture to develop teaching materials that teachers could use in their own lessons. In June of 2013, we began providing these teaching materials under the title “A Comfortable, Environmentally Conscious Life.” The materials are made up of five programs based on the course units of the junior high school Home Economics curriculum, including “Caring for clothes” and “Thinking about the relationship between consumption and the environment,” and are designed to get students thinking about environmental issues in their daily lives, while giving them a systematic way of learning how to lead more environmentally conscious lives themselves. In 2015, Kao provided teaching materials to 122 schools Home Economics teacher training seminar and government agencies, and held nine seminars to introduce the teaching materials content to home economics teachers. Japan Support for school education through plant visits Kao organizes factory visits at eight Kao factories in Japan, students. In 2015, Sakata Plant introduced a new plant visit with a total of around 60,000 people a year visiting the plants, program tailored to the needs of the “Industrial Production and where they have the opportunity to learn how Kao implements Our Daily Lives” unit in the Social Studies curriculum for fifth Yoki-Monozukuri. grade elementary school students (which several other Kao Kao also works to ensure that its plant visit scheme plants have already introduced). Sakata Plant is working supports school education, with elementary school students actively through the city’s Board of Education to make local accounting for around 30% of the visitors to Kao factories each schools aware of this plant visit program. year. For example, at Wakayama Plant, which is the Kao The new program uses a combination of pre-visit learning Group’s largest production site, an experiential learning and the plant visit itself to show students the creativity and program has been established which involves visits to the hard work which go into the production of Merries baby factory and to the Kao Eco-lab Museum, tailored to meet the diapers. The plant visits provide an opportunity for building on needs of the Social Studies curriculum for third grade and fifth the learning that children have already done in school, grade elementary school students. strengthening their awareness of the links between their lives and the local community and society, and enhancing their Kao’s Sakata Plant, which manufactures Merries baby diapers, interest in the commitment to monozukuri (high standards of has installed a tour route so as to be able to welcome plant craftsmanship), and the efforts made by the workers, at visits to view the production process, and now receives over business enterprises such as Kao. 3,500 visitors a year, including around 1,000 elementary school Plant visit learning linked to students’ Social Studies lessons Showing students the work that goes into the production of Merries baby diapers Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 092 ▶ Corporate citizenship activities—Education【EC7】 Japan Support for science education Support for the Japan Science and Engineering Challenge (JSEC) The JSEC (which is organized by the Asahi Shimbun Company and TV Asahi Corporation) is a contest of independent science and engineering research targeting high school and technology college students nationwide, with the goal of nurturing worldclass scientists. Kao supports the JSEC as part of its support for high school science education, and each year presents outstanding projects with the Kao Award and the Kao Special Incentive Award. The review process for selection of the award-winners is based on a reading of the participants’ papers by Kao researchers, and by attendance at the students’ presentations. JSEC 2014 study tour, Q&A session in progress JSEC 2015 Kao Award “Mechanism of the Oscillating Chemiluminescence Reaction Using Luminol” Looking back over 10 years of Kao support for JSEC By Erika Toki, Misato Nakamura and Shiori Osaki (Ichikawa As of 2015, Kao had been providing support for JSEC for 10 Gakuen Ichikawa Senior High School) years. To facilitate a retrospective and appraisal of this activity, JSEC 2015 Kao Special Incentive Award a questionnaire survey was administered to past award“The 200Hz Hidden in ‘Rubbing’—Particle Agglomeration winners and award-winning schools. The responses given through Oscillation” showed that participation in JSEC had provided positive By Ryotaro Kobayashi and Hirokazu Nagaoka (Chiba psychological benefits to participants (in terms of enhanced Prefectural Chiba Higashi Senior High School) motivation, etc.), while also contributing to personal growth through the acquisition of practical knowledge and know-how, As an additional prize for the Kao Special Incentive Award, a helping participants to clarify the research themes they were special study tour was arranged for the students of the awardengaged in and the possible benefits to society. It was also winning school, which offered them a chance to visit Kao apparent that receiving the awards had boosted recipients’ facilities and talk with Kao researchers. In March 2015, groups self-confidence, and had raised their schools’ profile within the from Yamaguchi Prefectural Yamaguchi High School (which local community. Expectations regarding JSEC and the won the JSEC 2014 Kao Special Incentive Award) and National enterprises supporting it were high, and it was felt that JSEC Institute of Technology, Yonago College (which won the JSEC had had a positive impact on the participating schools; Kao has 2014 Kao Award) took part in this study tour, where they therefore decided to continue its involvement with this activity. engaged in a lively and informative discussion with Kao researchers. JSEC 2015 presentation review in progress Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 093 ▶ Corporate citizenship activities—Education【EC7】 Japan Supporters of “Kao Creating Forests for Everyone” The Supporters of “Kao Creating Forests for Everyone” involves university students interviewing civic groups that have received support through the “Kao Creating Forests for Everyone” program, which helps civic groups to protect local forests and greenery, and then writing and publishing articles about the civic groups’ activities. In 2015, which marks 10 years since this project was launched, to help clarify what the project has achieved, Kao worked with Japan NPO Center (JNPOC), which has supported the project, on the compilation of a brochure entitled “Collaboration between an NPO and Business Enterprises Helps to Cultivate the Next Generation and Bring Together People from Different Generations—the Forest-creating Efforts of the ‘Supporters of Kao Creating Forests for Everyone’ Program,” which looks back over the project’s achievements and presents a record of its activities. The brochure explores, through a questionnaire survey, interviews and concluding remarks written by experts, what the 86 university students who participated in the project learnt through interacting with people from a different generation, “Collaboration between an NPO and Business Enterprises Helps to how the students were changed by the experience of writing Cultivate the Next Generation and Bring Together People from Different the reports, and what kind of synergies were created through Generations—the Forest-creating Efforts of the ‘Supporters of Kao Creating having people from different backgrounds participating in the Forests for Everyone’ Program” brochure http://www.kao.com/jp/corp_csr/social_activities_00_09.html (Japanese) same project. Copies of the brochures were distributed to around 700 related organizations, and the brochure content was also uploaded onto the Kao website. *As this program had already achieved the desired goals, implementation was terminated in 2015. Japan Kao Earthwatch Teachers’ Fellowship The Kao Earthwatch Teachers’ Fellowship is an initiative for scheme. elementary school and junior high school teachers from Since the Kao Earthwatch Teachers’ Fellowship project schools throughout Japan. Kao supports the opportunity for was first launched, a total of 128 teachers have taken part in teachers to participate as volunteers in overseas biodiversity 65 field work projects. protection field research overseen by the NPO Earthwatch during the summer holiday. The aim of the program is for the teachers to use their experiences in environmental education in schools and in the community after returning to Japan. The sense of immediacy provided by the teachers having participated directly in the field research themselves can help to spread awareness—among schoolchildren, fellow teachers, and the local community—of the importance of protecting biodiversity and conservation. In 2015, nine teachers took part in five field work projects. According to the teachers’ reports, after returning home they gave classes and lectures about their experiences to a total of around 1,000 children. In October 2015, Kao organized a participant presentation meeting at Kao’s Head Office, attended by teachers (including former participants) and members of the selection committee. Project participants from 2015 gave presentations on their experience working overseas and on how they were able to utilize this experience in environmental education after returning home; the meeting also provided an opportunity for sharing the know-how and skills that had been acquired through involvement in the Survey in the “Wildlife of the Mongolian Steppe” project Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 094 ▶ Corporate citizenship activities—Community【EC7】 Japan Providing support for social entrepreneurs through the Kao Social Entrepreneurship Schools Kao supports the development of young social entrepreneurs who attempt to solve social issues with business approaches in order to pass a better society on to the next generation. To this end, starting in 2010, Kao launched Kao Social Entrepreneurship Schools, a social entrepreneur development program, in cooperation with Entrepreneurial Training for Innovative Communities (ETIC.), focusing in particular on providing support for entrepreneurs who work to help solve issues surrounding families. The entrepreneurs supported by the program have the opportunity to benefit from advice from experts and more experienced entrepreneurs to help them get their business off the ground. In 2015, support was provided for three teams. To mark the fifth anniversary of the project’s launch, a Kao Social Entrepreneurship Schools Report was published in 2015, and in June a seminar and exchange meeting were held at Kao’s Head Office. The keynote speech for the seminar was given by Mr. Haruo Miyagi, Executive Director of ETIC., on the theme of “Why Are Social Entrepreneurs Needed Now?” Four entrepreneurs who had previously received support under the Kao Social Entrepreneurship Schools Report brochure program also spoke about various aspects of their business http://www.kao.com/jp/corp_csr/social_activities_04_18.html (Japanese) and projects. At the exchange meeting that followed, Kao employees could be seen deep in conversation with the entrepreneurs including those who had benefited from previous years’ schools. The seminar and exchange meeting were attended by 86 Kao employees, who were able to benefit from this in-depth interaction with entrepreneurs. ◆Entrepreneurs who received support in 2015, and their business concepts: Charity Santa (specified non-profit corporation) Representative Director: Natsuki Kiyosuke Business concept: “Arranging for Santa Claus to help children in singleparent families build up their self-esteem, with a new target of helping 10,000 people in one year.” Chance For All (specified non-profit corporation) Representative Director: Isana Nakayama Business concept: “Operating CFAKids, a high-quality after-school program The three entrepreneur teams give presentations on that any child can attend.” their business content, ideals etc. (October 2015) Makigumi LLC Representative Staff Member: Kyoko Watanabe Business concept: “Developing business models to support the cultivation of key personnel for local industries in areas affected by natural disasters, and to encourage such personnel to relocate to these areas.” Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 095 ▶ Corporate citizenship activities—Community【EC7】 Japan Kao Family Concert Kao has organized the Kao Family Concerts with the aim of way, and the Concerts help to strengthen links with the local giving people living in the areas where our plants and facilities community. are located exposure to high-quality music and encouraging them to develop a greater familiarity with the arts. The work of Concerts held in 2015 guiding audiences at the venue on the day, the announcements, Wakayama ticket checking, etc. is all undertaken by Kao employees. Performing artists: Sepperl Trio Kao Family Concerts have previously been held near Kao Presenter: Ms. Emi Kasano facilities in Sakata, Tochigi, Kashima, Wakayama and Ehime. In Audience: 830 attendees 2015, Kao Family Concerts were held in Wakayama City Sakata (Wakayama Prefecture) in March, in Sakata City (Yamagata Performing artists: TSUKEMEN Prefecture) in October, and in Saijo City (Ehime Prefecture) in Audience: 1,200 attendees December. A total of 33 Kao Family Concerts have now been Saijo held since the program was first launched. Performing artists: Ken Nishikiori (Tenor), Tadayuki Kawahara All of the ticket revenue from the concerts is donated to (Piano) help support music education etc. in the area. We received a Audience: 1,000 attendees letter of thanks from a local school that have benefited in this Kao Family Concert in Wakayama Kao Family Concert in Sakata Kao Family Concert in Saijo Japan Kao Heart Pocket Club The Kao Heart Pocket Club is a club focused on social support activities, which was founded in 2004. Employees who support the objectives of the Kao Heart Pocket Club become members and participate in its activities. Members donate a portion of their monthly salary to the Club; Club funds are donated to NPOs and citizen groups working to build a better society, and are also used to offer support when large disasters strike. A steering committee made up of member representatives manages the Club’s operations and decides where funds are donated. In 2015, the Club donated to 46 groups in total. It supported various groups, for example groups involved in community activities in Tochigi, Wakayama and Ibaraki prefectures where Kao worksites are located. It also donated funds through Mirai Pocket Fund, which supports larger-scale activities. The Club also provides opportunities for members to participate personally in the activities that it supports. Such participation can take a Kao employee attaching stickers of translated text into picture books variety of different forms, such as participating in screening of applicants for support, collaborating on activities as a volunteer, and participating in events organized by the recipients of funding support, etc. This program provides opportunities to learn about ◆Activities to Date social issues in the context of the activities through exchanges Donation recipients: 490 groups with donation recipients. As of 2015, Club members had been Donated amount: 86.23 million yen participating for 10 years in a program to send picture books to Membership (as of December 2015): 2,697 children in developing nations, sponsored by the Shanti Volunteer Association. One hundred and eighty employees, together with their family members and friends, attached stickers of translated text into picture books and sent them to children in Myanmar. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 096 ▶ Corporate citizenship activities—Community【EC7】 Japan Support for the young artist development, and support for artistic and cultural activities We provide support for a wide range of artistic and cultural Support for artistic and cultural activities activities and for the development of the next generation of With the aim of fostering the continued development and artists, to help ensure that rich artistic and cultural traditions transmission of important aspects of the arts and culture, Kao can continue to thrive and can be handed down to future has provided sponsorship for the New National Theatre, Tokyo, generations. for art exhibitions, and for orchestras. Support for the young artist development Sponsorship in 2015 We provide support for activities aimed at the development of [Music] young artists. Kao provided sponsorship for: the Tokyo Symphony Orchestra; the Japan Philharmonic Orchestra; the Tokyo Philharmonic Tokyo Music Competition Orchestra; and the NHK Symphony Orchestra, Tokyo. We also The Tokyo Music Competition is held aimed at discovering and support the Tokyo Symphony Orchestra’s regular subscription developing young musicians. This competition is organized by concert series, and in 2015 provided sponsorship for a the Tokyo Bunka Kaikan, The Yomiuri Shimbun, Tokyo Beethoven 9th Symphony Concert by the NHK Symphony Metropolitan Government and Kao Corporation. The 13th Tokyo Orchestra, Tokyo. Music Competition was held in 2015, with a total of nine [Theater] prize-winners in the Strings, Woodwind and Vocal sections. Kao was a member of the 2014/2015 Season Special Corporate The prize-winners’ concert (for the First Prize winners) was Sponsors Group for New National Theatre, Tokyo. held in January 2016. [Arts] Kao has provided sponsorship for René Magritte, The British Museum Exhibition, The Genesis and Development of Landscape Painting from Kunsthistorisches Museum Wien. Activities implemented through The Kao Foundation for Arts and Sciences The Kao Foundation for Arts and Sciences, which was founded in 1990 to mark the 100th anniversary of the company’s establishment, provides sponsorship for culture and the arts and also presents awards to outstanding researchers. In 2015, which marked the 25th anniversary of the Kao Foundation’s establishment, 2.5 billion yen of additional funds were donated from Kao to the Foundation, to contribute to the promotion and continued development of the arts and sciences in Japan. The Award ceremony for the Strings Section in the 13th Tokyo Music Kao Foundation now has total assets of around 5 billion yen, Competition in 2015 and is working to strengthen its support for science and technology, and to further enhance its support for the arts. K-BALLET YOUTH K-BALLET YOUTH is a junior ballet company for young people Achievements in 2015 aged 22 or under, directed by Mr. Tetsuya Kumakawa, which ・‌Provided grants and awards for the arts (fine arts and music): was founded in 2013. The company is providing young people A total of 40 million yen for 69 projects with an opportunity to develop their skills in an environment ・‌Provided grants and awards for science and technology: A that is in no way inferior to that of a professional ballet total of 12 million yen for 12 projects company. Kao has been sponsoring K-BALLET YOUTH’s (Since the Kao Foundation was first established, it has performances since the ballet company was first established. provided a cumulative total of 1,244.35 million yen for 1,943 K-BALLET YOUTH performed “The Adventures of Tom projects.) Sawyer” for the second time in April 2015. ➡The Kao Foundation for Arts and Sciences http://www.kao-foundation.or.jp/english.html Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 097 ▶ Corporate citizenship activities—Community【EC7】 Global Contributing to the development of a sustainable society Kao Group Companies continue to undertake activities aimed at donations and arranging for Kao employees to volunteer on local supporting the development of the next generation and at projects, and engaging in exchange and interaction with local fostering communication and involvement with local communities. communities in other ways. In 2015, we undertook a wide range of activities, including For example, when PT. Kao Indonesia Chemicals relocated a activities contributing to the nurturing of the next generation, such factory, it installed a pump to access underground water, so that as collaborating on the improvement of school facilities, provision local people who had been making use of the clean water supply of scholarships, offering support for hygiene education, etc., as on the factory’s premises could continue to have access to clean well as providing support for local communities through product water after the factory was relocated. Collaborating on the improvement of school facilities (Pilipinas Kao) Presenting a scholarship (Kao Thailand) Providing education about the beginning of menstruation (Kao (Malaysia)) Factory visit (Kao (Hefei)) Donating office furniture to a children’s nursing home on the relocation of the factory (Kao Indonesia Chemicals) Employees helping with the provision of support Working to beautify the local environment (Quimi Kao) Supporting vocational training for disabled for the homeless (Kao Specialties Americas) people by placing orders for the production of Kao’s “Kizuna” series gift dolls (Kao Spain) Global Disaster relief in 2015 Disaster Company Support provided Donated 1 million yen to Japan Platform (an NGO) to support disaster response efforts in Kao Corporation April 2015 Nepal the regions affected by the earthquake. Earthquake Donations to American Red Cross etc. equivalent to 60,000 yen and employees’ volunteer Kao Specialties Americas LLC support. Typhoon No. 18, Donated 2 million yen through the Central Community Chest of Japan to help people Japan, September Kao Corporation affected by the storm and floods, and also donated Kao products to Joso City, Ibaraki 2015 Prefecture. Volcanic eruption on Kao products were donated to Yakushima Town, Kagoshima Prefecture, to help the Kuchinoerabu-jima evacuated residents from Kuchinoerabu-jima Island. Kao Corporation Island, Japan, May 2015 Product donations equivalent to 350,000 yen and employees’ volunteer support to help Flooding in Indonesia PT Kao Indonesia people affected by the flooding. Flooding in Malaysia Fatty Chemical (Malaysia), among Donated Kao products worth the equivalent of 200,000 yen to help people affected by the other companies flooding. To help the victims of the severe earthquake which struck Kumamoto in Japan in April 2016, Kao donated 10 million yen through the Japanese Red Cross Society. Kao products were also donated, including diapers for babies, adult diapers, sanitary napkins, hand soap, etc. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 098 ▶ Corporate citizenship activities—Community【EC7】 Topic Activities supporting recovery in the Tohoku Region The Kao Group continues to provide support for the recovery of the regions affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. Immediately after the disaster, we provided donations and goods to support emergency response efforts. Subsequently, the main focus of our activities shifted to activities tailored to the needs of communities affected by the disaster, including the provision of daily necessaries for families living in temporary accommodation, providing assistance for women’s specific needs, offering emotional support, and helping to stimulate the revival of local industries; we have endeavored to provide the kind of support that was needed at each particular period of time. Currently, the main emphasis in the Kao Group’s activities is on emotional support and industrial revival. In 2015, in the area of emotional support, we participated in the Smile Tohoku Project, while in regard to industrial revival we worked with the Michinoku Revival Partners. ●Smile Tohoku Project Kao Group is a supporter of the Smile Tohoku Project supporting restoration from the Great East Japan Earthquake, which is promoted by three newspapers (Iwate Nippo, Kahoku Shimpo Publishing, and Fukushima-Minpo) located in the Tohoku region. By arranging for volunteers to work alongside local people on flower planting, or help them with hand-care, etc., the Smile Tohoku Project helps to deepen the exchange. In 2015, a combined total of 317 Kao Group employees participated in Smile Tohoku Project activities; since Kao began its involvement with the project, over 1,000 Kao employees have traveled to Tohoku as volunteers. Regarding the visits to people living in temporary accommodation, which originated from the desire to have more direct Providing hand-care for and laughing with involvement in the affected areas, a total of 30 locations were visited in 2015, making a residents of temporary accommodation cumulative total of 70 locations visited since the visits began. Providing hand-care for local residents gives an opportunity to hold their hands, interact with them and put a smile on their faces. From listening to the members of the Disaster Recovery Story-telling Group, Kao employees were able not just to learn about what happened during the disaster, but also learn, in a compelling way, important lessons about disaster preparedness and disaster response. Participating Kao employees commented that “It brought home to me just how much we should value our everyday lives,” “I got a real sense for how, with the passing of time, the kinds of support that people need change too,” and “I hope I can continue to participate Writing a message on a marker stake to be in providing support for the region, in whatever form it takes.” The Kao employees felt that placed in a flower-pot where flowers have they had learned a great deal from the experience, that it had enriched their thinking, and just been planted that they had been inspired by the attitude shown by local people. ●Michinoku Revival Partners Kao has been participating in Michinoku Revival Partners, which was launched by ETIC. (Entrepreneurial Training for Innovative Communities) and seven business enterprises, and which aims to provide support for self-directed recovery in the Tohoku region. In this program, we provide support for entrepreneurs and next-generation leaders who are working to bring about Tohoku’s recovery. In May and November 2015, 50 Kao Group employees visited Minamisanriku-cho in Miyagi Prefecture, where they examined the current situation in the area and helped out as volunteers at the Onokashouen vegetable and flower cultivation facility. Mr. Ono, who runs the facility, is one of the young leaders of the region’s economic revival, taking up the Kao employees working in the challenge of developing new distribution systems and seeking to create new job chrysanthemum fields opportunities in the area. The Kao employees found their visit to Onokashouen very enlightening. Comments from participating employees included: “Having the opportunity to see and experience it for myself was the key to starting to feel that this was something of direct relevance to me personally,” and “I was glad to have the chance to do something, however insignificant, to help the people living in the area.” ➡Videos of some of Kao’s activities can be viewed here: Kao Group employees volunteering in Minamisanriku-cho https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aQyvOmIdbxA (Japanese) ➡For details, refer to Michinoku Revival Partners http://www.michinokupartners.jp/ (Japanese) Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 099 ▶ Integrity 【41,57,58,DMA,HR2,HR12,SO4】 Kao strives to implement and establish compliance on a global basis in order to behave lawfully and ethically and conduct fair and honest business activities, while responding to changes in society. 2015 activities While continuing to implement existing compliance-related measures and activities, in order to develop a more objective picture of the effectiveness of compliance measures and activities so as to provide a basis for further improvement, Kao launched the Listening to Employees’ Opinions Activity in 2015, through which we have been able to collect the views of a large number of Kao employees and verify their understanding of compliance issues. Building on this Listening to Employees’ Opinions Activity, October 2015 was designated Compliance Awareness Month. During Compliance Awareness Month, a message from the Compliance Committee chairman was disseminated using posters, and compliance messages were also sent from the Executive Officers to individual divisions. In addition, voting was conducted to decide on a compliance logo, and tests were conducted to check understanding of the Kao Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG). Also in 2015, external experts conducted third-party auditing of Kao’s compliance operations, focusing in particular on corruption prevention. Proposals for future improvements have been made in regard to the issues identified in this audit. Policies/structures Policies ●A uditing through the Department of Internal Audit, Kao upholds the principle of Integrity, passed down from our Global founder, as one of the core values of its corporate philosophy, The Department of Internal Audit, Global conducts regular the Kao Way. Integrity means to behave lawfully and ethically internal audits for all companies and divisions of the Kao and conduct fair and honest business activities. Kao regards Group, which include verifying conduct on compliance-related Integrity as the starting point of compliance and promotes it as a issues based on guidelines related to entertaining and giftfoundation for earning the respect and trust of all stakeholders. giving. Compliance promotion structure ●Self-appraisal of individual divisions Kao has established the Compliance Committee, chaired by Once a year, the Compliance Committee members of individual the Representative Director and Senior Managing Executive divisions conduct self-appraisals concerning whether there are Officer, and comprised of representatives of relevant divisions violations of the BCG and the progress of activities to promote and affiliates. compliance in their own divisions. The Compliance Committee: 1) reviews the establishment and revision of the Kao ●Employee opinion survey Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) and other The Kao Group monitors the status of compliance awareness compliance-related internal guidelines; among employees through the company-wide opinion survey 2) implements educational activities to promote wider Find conducted every other year. permeation and establishment of corporate ethics both in and outside of Japan; and ●Supplier satisfaction survey 3) ‌monitors the operation of and responses to the Kao conducts a supplier satisfaction survey on a regular basis, compliance hotlines once every six months, reports on targeting outside vendors (suppliers) and other business important matters, provides an overview of activities and partners to create an opportunity to review its own conduct. makes proposals to the Board of Directors as appropriate. ➡For details, refer to p.107 Culture > Partnering with our suppliers > The Compliance Committee has installed a secretariat and Supplier satisfaction survey holds a secretariat meeting each month. At the secretariat meetings, members of the secretariat review and discuss the responses to inquiries made to hotlines both in and outside of ●Self-check exercises at seminars Japan, consider new approaches to promote compliance and Compliance seminar participants do self-check exercises on make plans to provide compliance education. their compliance awareness. In addition to conducting these activities, Kao monitors and evaluates the activities and continues to improve them using the PDCA cycle. Auditing and monitoring structure Kao conducts audits for compliance through the Department of Internal Audit, Global and monitoring of activities in a variety of formats. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 100 ▶ Integrity 【41,57,58,DMA,HR2,HR12,SO4】 Global Identifying midto long-term issues and studying corresponding initiatives Kao conducts compliance promotion activities based on midto PDCA Cycle for Compliance Activities long-term and annual activity plans. These include regularly revising the BCG, improving and operating compliance hotlines, and holding Integrity Workshops. Plan Do From 2014, Kao introduced a process to verify the validity ❶Plan introduction and/or revision ❶Introduce and revise BCG and of BCG and compliance-related compliance-related guidelines and appropriateness of existing activities when formulating the guidelines ❷Establish and operate Kao activity plan for the following year and thereafter. To facilitate ❷Plan establishment of Kao Group Group compliance hotlines compliance hotlines (in new ❸Implement training based on more effective compliance activities, this verification process entities) plans includes gathering the opinions of staff involved in compliance ❸Plan new educational measures ●Implement educational measures ●Plan new measures based on based on employee opinions and in company divisions as well as other employees. Kao also used employee opinions and third-party evaluations an evaluation of the compliance structure by an external third-party evaluations consulting firm as a reference when formulating the compliance Proactive promotion action plan for the following year and thereafter. improvements In 2015, Kao implemented the Listening to Employees’ Opinions Activity and Compliance Roundtable to provide an opportunity Act Check for dialog with the staff members of 19 departments and ●Address issues that require ●Self-check of activities organizations including Kao Group companies, to find out improvement based on (Self-diagnoses by divisions/entities, division self-diagnoses and audit by Department of Internal employees’ views on existing measures and their expectations third-party evaluations Audit, Global, etc.) for new measures they will adopt. Kao has also been listening ●Listening to Employees’ Opinions Activities (Compliance Roundtable, to voices from outside the company, commissioning an etc.) accounting firm to evaluate Kao’s compliance system and ●Third-party evaluations compliance activities. Japan Implementation of Compliance Awareness Month Recognizing that compliance is each employee's responsibility and responding to the many requests from employees to make compliance activities more relevant to them personally, within Japan Kao has designated October as Compliance Awareness Month, timing this to coincide with the Nippon Keidanren’s Corporate Ethics Promotion Month, and seeking to use this activity to spread compliance awareness more widely within the Kao Group. During Compliance Awareness Month, a message from the Compliance Committee chairman is disseminated via the Kao company Intranet and by using posters, and compliance messages are also sent from the Executive Officers to individual divisions. In addition, case studies are disseminated, and refresher tests are administrated to check knowledge of the Kao Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) and, in 2015, voting was conducted to decide on a compliance logo. Comments from Kao employees included: “Having employees of Kao Group companies vote on a campaign logo helped strengthen group cohesion” and “Providing a once per year opportunity to reflect on compliance issues is an innovative and exciting idea.” Compliance Awareness Month poster In 2016, the scope of Compliance Awareness Month implementation will be expanded to cover all of the Kao Group, including Kao Group companies outside Japan. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 101 ▶ Integrity 【41,57,58,DMA,HR2,HR12,SO4】 Global Utilization of compliance-related rules The Kao Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG), which serve as The following measures were implemented in 2015: Kao’s corporate code of conduct, have been adopted by all Kao 1. The Kao Anti-bribery Guidelines and Kao Guidelines for Group companies throughout the world. Avoiding Conflicts of Interest were adopted in those regions In addition, the Kao Business Conduct Guidelines where they had not been adopted in 2014 (including the Casebook, which covers possible scenarios relating to the BCG U.S.A., Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Indonesia, and in Q&A format, has been compiled in both Japanese-language Singapore). and English-language versions. 2. A total of 17 local-language versions of the Kao Business Reflecting the approach embodied by the BCG, Kao Conduct Guidelines Casebook were compiled, so that the prohibits the giving and receiving of bribes regardless of the Casebook could be shared with Kao employees in all countries identity of the other party and bans facilitation payments in the and regions. Kao Anti-Bribery Guidelines, and prohibits the making of 3. The content of the BCG was revised to reflect the measures political donations in its Donation Guidelines. Kao Anti-bribery implemented by the Kao Group since 2013 and the approach Guidelines are being drawn up and adopted for each region adopted by the Kao Group in relation to the global and company including Kao Group outside Japan. environment in which it operates; the revised version of the Besides the measures noted above, Kao is also proceeding BCG took effect in April 2016. with the adoption at Kao Group companies outside of Japan of the Kao Guidelines for Avoiding Conflicts of Interest which requires particular forms of approval or notifications corresponding to specific situations in which there is a risk of a real, apparent or potential conflict of interest through competition, transactions, loans, personal investments etc. with the Kao Group. Kao Business Conduct Guidelines Casebook (Thai language version) 4. It was confirmed that Kao had made no political donations in 2015. Global Activities to communicate and instill the BCG To deepen employee understanding of the BCG and other compliance-related Guidelines, Kao holds classroom-based training for new employees, newly appointed managers, executives working in Japan, and Group company employees outside Japan. In addition, an annual BCG refresher test is held to check knowledge of BCG content. For 2015, specific targets were set for the following three items; the result achieved are outlined below: 1. BCG refresher test: Target: 95.0% completion rate Result: 96.4% completion rate (34,229 out of 35,483 eligible personnel) Integrity Workshop (Finland) ➡p.9 Non-financial highlights > Number of annual BCG refresher test takers and participation rate (Kao Group) 2. Compliance training for Kao executives working in Japan: Target: 70.0% completion rate Result: 73.6% completion rate (1,369 out of 1,859 eligible personnel) 3. Integrity Workshops held overseas: Target: 85.0% completion rate Result: 85.0% completion rate (9,360 out of 11,000 eligible personnel) Utilizing mainly the 16 instructors selected in late 2014, these training programs were extended to Kao Group Integrity Workshop (Norway) companies in Europe in 2015. ➡p.19 Kao Sustainability Statement > 2015 Results & 2016 Targets (Culture) Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 102 ▶ Integrity 【41,57,58,DMA,HR2,HR12,SO4】 Global Establishment and operation of compliance hotlines Kao Group operational policy anonymous reports. In accordance with the needs of each country and region, Kao In 2015, new hotlines were set up for Kao Group Group companies have established and operate both internal companies in Brazil and Norway. and external compliance hotlines or only external hotlines. In operating the hotlines, after properly confirming the report and caller’s needs, companies take steps to respect the individual’s privacy, strive to ensure that callers suffer no disadvantage as a result of their good-faith consultation, and receive the caller’s consent when a third party needs to be involved. In 2015, there were 196 calls to the hotlines of the Kao Group including companies outside Japan, none of which presented a serious risk. About 70% of the calls concerned consultations about communications in the workplace. Kao Group in Japan Kao Group companies in Japan have established internal compliance hotlines operated by members of the Compliance Committee secretariat and external hotlines operated by outside specialists including lawyers and clinical psychologists. Some of the internal and external hotlines accept reports and inquiries not only from Kao employees but also from related parties including business partners. Kao Group outside Japan All Kao Group companies outside Japan have established and operate external compliance hotlines operated by an outside service provider, and the majority have also established internal compliance hotlines in which the company’s HR manager or other representative handles inquiries. The Integrity Lines, which are external compliance hotlines, have been successively set up at Group companies in countries outside of Japan and are available in the caller’s own language 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Anonymous inquiries Poster for the Integrity Line in Brazil and are accepted, but callers are encouraged to use their real Integrity Cards for Brazil and Norway names due to the limited nature of investigations based on Global Response to compliance violations and serious violations in 2015 Kao upholds a principle of disclosing serious violations of laws There were no serious compliance violations relating to the and regulations in the Kao Group’s business operations. Kao Group’s operations in 2015. While there were cases involving fraudulent behavior for *However, in cases where there are legal or contractual confidentiality personal gain, criminal behavior (such as theft) for which formal obligations, the risk of affecting public interest, the need to take privacy criminal charges were not brought, and instances of sexual into consideration or other similar limiting factors, the violation may not be made public. harassment, etc., none of these were serious enough to cause any significant harm to the company’s reputation, and internal measures to remedy the situations have already been taken. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 103 ▶ Integrity 【41,57,58,DMA,HR2,HR12,SO4】 Global Ten consecutive years on the World’s Most Ethical Companies list In March 2016, Kao was named to the list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies 2016 by the U.S. think tank Ethisphere Institute. We have been on this list for 10 straight years, since the award’s inception in 2007. Kao is the only Japanese company, and the only manufacturer of fast-moving consumer goods as well as chemicals, to be honored in all 10 years. Selection of companies is based on the evaluation of five factors: (1) Ethics and Compliance Program; (2) Leadership, Innovation and Reputation; (3) Corporate Citizenship and Responsibility; (4) Governance; and (5) Culture of Ethics. In this year of the award, 131 companies around the world made the list. This recognition reflects the fact that the spirit of Integrity as passed on by our Kao predecessors continues to be implemented by all Kao Group members through practice of Awards ceremony the Kao Way and the BCG. Japan Measures ensuring full compliance in daily work Kao assigns employees trained as “laws and regulations various means such as in-house workshops. experts” to monitor trends in enforcement and amendments In addition, various internal rules that are useful in putting to laws and regulations related to its business, and to the BCG into practice are available on the Intranet system at communicate information and educate as needed through Kao Group in Japan. Laws and regulations revised in 2015 for which laws Number of laws for which laws and regulations experts and regulations experts conducted relevant activities have been appointed and the number of internal ●Laws and regulations relating to the rationalization of regulations registered as of the end of December 2015 energy use, etc. Number of laws for which laws and regulations experts* have ●Laws and regulations relating to the rationalization and been appointed: 340 laws in total from 92 laws and regulations appropriate management of fluorocarbon use experts ●Laws and regulations relating to the promotion of Number of internal regulations registered: 605 measures to safeguard the environment through environmental education etc. *L aws and regulations experts ●‌B asic Act on the Water Cycle (Japan) The managing division independently appoints laws and regulations etc. experts for specified laws and regulations Global Management and use of intellectual property Kao conducts its business activities while protecting its Kao has been pursuing measures against counterfeit products industrial property rights, such as patent, design and trademark in Asia and other regions. rights for intellectual property including new technology and At the same time, we strive to respect the industrial rights product concepts, package designs and brand names. of other companies in Japan and overseas, to avoid infringing R&D–Intellectual Property focuses on patent rights, which upon them from the initial stages of our R&D activities, reindicate key company values such as capacity for technological confirming existing patents before new product launches and development, as it promotes strategic applications in a broad taking action as necessary, and examining product packages in range of fields. Brand Legal Management collaborates closely advance to avoid any rights-related issues. with the business divisions, considering cost-effectiveness while submitting and managing applications for design and In 2015, Kao announced the licensing of Kao’s patented trademark rights (some design rights are handled by the technology for identifying causative microorganisms in food R&D–Intellectual Property department). Kao also actively and beverage product incidents. It is anticipated that bringing pursues the acquisition of rights outside of Japan, while this technology into more widespread use will help to enhance vigorously protecting the company against any infringements food safety and make a positive contribution to society. of its legal rights, both in and outside Japan. Most recently, Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 104 ▶ Human rights initiatives【LA15,HR2,HR11】 Recognizing that human rights is an important issue, Kao has adopted the Kao Human Rights Policy in accordance with international human rights principles and is strengthening efforts in this area. 2015 activities Kao formulated and announced the new Kao Human Rights Policy, which is based on the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and is promoting awareness of it among Kao Group companies and divisions. In addition, Kao is promoting the investigation and identification of human rights risks within the Group and in the supply chain. Policies/structures As the globalization of corporate activities advances and the for human rights and prohibition of child labor and forced labor. value chain expands, the risks of various human rights Kao also requires suppliers to show respect for human rights problems are increasing. As shown by the adoption of the through the Guidelines for Suppliers’ Assessment. United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Furthermore, in June 2015 Kao formulated and announced Rights*1 in 2011, the attention of the international community the new Kao Human Rights Policy. On the basis of this policy, as a whole is focusing on the efforts of companies to address Kao promotes group-wide efforts to respect human rights in human rights issues. business activities as a whole, including awareness raising and In collaboration with a diverse range of stakeholders, the human rights due diligence.*2 Kao Group promotes the achievement of the Kao Way mission, which is “to strive for the wholehearted satisfaction and *1 UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights enrichment of the lives of people globally and to contribute to Principles related to business and human rights proposed by UN the sustainability of the world.” In this collaboration, we firmly Special Representative John Ruggie and endorsed by the UN Human believe that fulfilling our responsibility to respect the human Rights Council in June 2011 *2 Human rights due diligence rights of various stakeholders in line with international Ongoing process to identify, evaluate, and avoid or mitigate impacts of standards is the foundation of our business activity. corporate activities on human rights In 2005 Kao declared its support for the United Nations ➡Kao Business Conduct Guidelines Global Compact, which defines 10 principles in the four areas http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_info/compliance_01.html of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti➡Guidelines for Supplier’s Assessment http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/procurement_04.html corruption. In addition, the Kao Business Conduct Guidelines, ➡Kao Human Rights Policy the Kao Group’s code of conduct, defines the policy of respect http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/csr_action_03.html Global Adoption of Kao Human Rights Policy In June 2015, after consultations among related internal in each country and region in which it operates. If there are divisions and with reference to the opinions of external conflicts between internationally recognized human rights and experts, Kao formulated and announced the new Kao Human the laws of a country or region, Kao will follow processes that Rights Policy, which is based on the United Nations Guiding seek ways to honor the principles of international human Principles on Business and Human Rights. In this policy, Kao rights. declares its aim to respect the human rights of a diverse range As specific activities, the policy states that Kao will conduct of stakeholders, including employees, consumers, local human rights due diligence and will investigate and identify communities, suppliers, and other business partners, human rights risks in the business activities of the Kao Group, throughout the entire process of Yoki-Monozukuri. take measures to prevent or mitigate them, report the results, Furthermore, the policy stipulates that Kao respects and and promote awareness raising among employees. complies with international norms relating to human rights, such as the International Bill of Human Rights*1 and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental *1 ‌International Bill of Human Rights Principles and Rights at Work,*2 which stipulates core labor Consists of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the standards, including the effective abolition of child labor and International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights *2 ‌ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. The Declaration defining core labor standards adopted at the International policy also states that Kao will comply with the laws applicable Labour Conference in 1998 Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 105 ▶ Human rights initiatives【LA15,HR2,HR11】 Global Process of human rights due diligence At present Kao is making the following efforts to investigate Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex*), the world’s largest and identify human rights risks involving the Kao Group. membership organization for sharing ethical supply chain data, and has been considering its utilization. In the fall of ●Efforts of the Kao Group 2015 Kao first of all began to request overseas suppliers to As a part of self-inspection in responsible care activities, Kao register with Sedex and enter their replies. Since January implements the management and secretariat auditing of 2016 Kao has been holding explanatory meetings for occupational safety and health check sheets related to suppliers in Japan and is urging them also to register with human rights targeting Kao Group companies both in and Sedex and enter their replies. outside Japan. In addition, Kao conducts surveys of overseas In addition to Kao’s own self-assessment, Kao will production sites and Kao Group companies both in and conduct more detailed human rights risk assessment based outside Japan through self-check sheets. Furthermore, Kao on the contents of the replies to Sedex and link it to the has formulated voluntary inspection sheets based on the Kao identification and mitigation of human rights risks and the Business Conduct Guidelines for checks at Kao Group prevention of human rights violations. companies and production sites within Japan. ➡p.107 Culture > Partnering with our suppliers > Status of the ●Efforts in the supply chain Guidelines for Supplier’s Assessment > Social: Number of suppliers Kao requires suppliers to conduct self-assessment based on monitored and percentage meeting CSR Procurement Standards Kao’s Guidelines for Suppliers’ Assessment and monitors the * Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) results. In December 2014 Kao became a member of the ➡p.106 Culture > Partnering with our suppliers > Goals*1 Global Training and communication After the formulation of the Kao Human Rights Policy in June 2015, explanatory meetings (including online meetings) were held on 22 times by December 2015 with the aim of raising awareness among Kao Group companies and divisions. In addition, efforts to disseminate the policy were made by distributing the Kao Sustainability Report 2015 and the company newsletter, both of which carried articles introducing the Kao Human Rights Policy, to all employees of the Kao Group. The importance of diversity and respect for human rights was also explained at various training sessions. Furthermore, in September 2015 Kao participated in the Business and Human Rights Conference in Tokyo 2015. The opportunity to listen to presentations by experts on human rights from around the world and to hear about the activities Training session on human rights at Kanebo Cosmetics of other companies enabled Kao to understand the latest world trends relating to business and human rights. Kao’s own activities were introduced as well. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 106 ▶ Partnering with our suppliers 【DMA,LA15,HR11,SO10】 Kao acts legally and ethically as it engages in fair and impartial procurement activities. While aiming to contribute to the realization of a society with sustainable development, we fulfill our corporate responsibilities with consideration for resource protection, environmental conservation, safety and human rights. 2015 activities Besides undertaking procurement of sustainable raw materials, in 2015, Kao began asking Group companies outside Japan to request that their suppliers join Sedex and establish the relevant data access privileges. Kao has also been responding to society’s expectations in other ways, for example by responding to requests for information from the CDP Forest Program and proceeding with assessment. Policies/structures In fulfilling its corporate responsibility, Kao views its materials and to those suppliers that collaborate fully on environmental and equipment suppliers as vital partners who have an issues such as Environmental Management System, etc. that important role to play in the realization of Yoki-Monozukuri. We Kao considers to be important. Kao also gives priority to communicate Kao’s philosophy and corporate objectives, purchasing items the procurement and packaging of which maintaining Policies for Procurement conforming to standards give due consideration to environmental concern issues. of fairness, compliance and ethics, and social responsibility, as Kao’s standard contract with its suppliers has clarified we pursue our procurement activities. provisions concerning issues such as the environment, human rights and labor. It is used when the contracts are newly ➡For details, refer to Policies for Procurement concluded or renewed. http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/procurement_00.html In order to realize Yoki-Monozukuri, Quality Improvement Kao has formulated Guidelines for Supplier’s Assessment to Meetings are held with those suppliers whose quality requires facilitate the practical implementation of procurement activities improvement. These meetings allow suppliers and Kao to unify in accordance with our Policies for Procurement. In our their efforts to improve and prevent defect recurrences. procurement activities, we give priority to those suppliers that place importance on social responsibilities, including compliance with laws, regulations and social norms, protection ➡For details, refer to Guidelines for Supplier’s Assessment of human rights, assurance of health and safety and fair trade, http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/procurement_04.html Goals Through close collaboration with suppliers, Kao is able to *1 ‌Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) A large-scale, global platform for the sharing and verification of monitor compliance with the Guidelines for Supplier’s information relating to labor standards, health and safety, environmental Assessment through self-assessment. Target ratios are set for protection and business practices, aimed at promoting the adoption and the percentage of suppliers meeting environmental and social maintenance of ethical business practices in global supply chains. *2 ‌CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) Supply Chain Program responsibility standards. CDP is an international NPO (with its headquarters in London) that is If a supplier does not meet our standards, we visit the sponsored by institutional investors; CDP implements various activities supplier, share our concerns about the issues in question, and to encourage business enterprises etc. to disclose information relating to climate change, water use and forest resource use. The CDP Supply consult with the supplier to realize improvements. Chain Program is an initiative in which participating enterprises ask the In 2014, Kao joined Sedex,*1 the largest organization in the firms that make up their supply chain to disclose information relating to world working to promote the sharing of corporate ethical data. climate change and water resource use via the CDP platform. *3 ‌CDP Forest Program In 2015, Kao has been instructing overseas affiliates to request A CDP initiative in which enterprises are asked to disclose information that their suppliers also join Sedex, and that they establish the regarding forest resource management and usage status, etc. relevant data access privileges. In the future, we will also be notifying suppliers in Japan and requesting that they join Sedex and establish data access privileges. This will help to expand the scope of the self-assessment results currently being implemented in Japan and the supplier risk assessment reports compiled by our buyers. We have also been undertaking a number of selfassessment activities in relation to the environment. In the areas of climate change prevention and water resource use, Kao is implementing risk management through participation in the CDP Supply Chain Program, *2 and through implementing a response to the CDP Forests Program*3 relating to forest resources. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 107 ▶ Partnering with our suppliers【DMA,LA15,HR11,SO10】 Global Status of the Guidelines for Supplier’s Assessment Social: Number of suppliers monitored and percentage meeting CSR Procurement Standards Suppliers to Kao Corporation Suppliers to the Asian Kao Group 2011 796 (99%) 504 (97%) 2012 860 (99%) 610 (97%) 2013 883 (99%) 726 (98%) 2014 906 (99%) 823 (98%) 2015 1,168 (96%) 994 (98%) Environmental: Number of supplier plants monitored and percentage meeting CSR Procurement Standards Supplier plants to Kao Corporation Supplier plants to the Asian Kao Group 2011 685 (99.6%) 383 (98%) 2012 767 (99.6%) 463 (98%) 2013 818 (99.5%) 541 (98%) 2014 879 (99%) 608 (97%) 2015 1,254 (97%) 750 (97%) Japan Supplier satisfaction survey Kao conducts supplier satisfaction surveys every three years in was implemented in 2013. These surveys are conducted order to ensure that procurement activities are carried out fairly anonymously by an outside institution, and the results are and equitably. The most recent supplier satisfaction survey incorporated into our policies. Global Implementation of vendor summits Each year, we hold vendor summits to provide a place to share Number of companies that participated information and exchange opinions on selected themes. in the vendor summit (Number of companies) We also hold them for our partners at main Kao group Held outside companies overseas. There, we strengthen partnerships with Held in Japan Total Japan suppliers. 2011 183 187 370 The 2015 vendor summit saw a detailed explanation of the 2012 – 205 205 measures that Kao is implementing to strengthen collaboration 2013 184 151 335 with suppliers, including a request for suppliers to cooperate actively with us on the CDP Supply Chain Program, and an 2014 183 233 416 advance announcement of the supplier commendation system 2015 214 285 499 that is being launched in 2016, etc. * ‌Due to Kao Corporation’s change in the fiscal year end, a vendor summit was not held in Japan during FY 2012. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 108 ▶ Partnering with our suppliers【DMA,LA15,HR11,SO10】 Japan Employee training and education Kao has educated its 25 new Procurement Division employees In 2015, Kao has implemented training for Procurement in our basic approach to procurement such as fairness and Division employees in our Human Rights Policy and in the equity, adherence to laws and ethics, and social responsibilities. utilization of Sedex to implement effective verification of Through such training, we strive to encourage our employees in human rights risk. understanding of global social issues such as human rights and labor which are required ISO26000 and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles. Japan Promoting certification testing With the aim of educating all Procurement Division employees *1 ‌Eco Test The Certification Test for Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) promotes in the relationship between business operations, society and an environmentally and economically sustainable society through the environment, and encouraging them to modify their development of human capital able to address environmental issues behavior accordingly, starting from 2012 Procurement Division based on a broad understanding of the environment. The Eco Test has been administered by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry employees have been encouraged to take the Certification Test since 2006. for Environmental Specialists (Eco Test*1). The Division’s target *2 ‌ECPPB of having 70% of Procurement Division employees certified The Examination of Compliance Proficiency for Practical Business (ECPPB)® aims to cultivate compliance skills that embody an awareness has already been exceeded. of the social expectations that underpin compliance-related laws and regulations, and a systematic understanding of the laws and regulations Starting from 2015, we are encouraging Procurement Division that are particularly important for business enterprises. The ECPPB was launched in 2005 by Japan’s Certify Competence Examination employees to take the Examination of Compliance Proficiency Committee. for Practical Business (ECPPB)®.*2 In the first year of implementation, a total of 33 employees passed the ECPPB exam. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 109 ▶ Partnering with our suppliers【DMA,LA15,HR11,SO10】 Global Promoting the sustainable procurement of raw materials Responding to risks to sustainable development such as Regarding procurement of paper and pulp, we are aiming resource constraints, environmental issues (such as to ensure that, by 2020, all paper, pulp and packaging materials degradation of biodiversity and global warming), and human used in Kao products, and all paper used in Kao offices, are rights issues, Kao implements initiatives toward sustainable either recycled paper or paper from a sustainable source. In procurement of raw materials. As entire supply chain particular, in the case of pulp, by 2020 Kao aims to be management is important, Kao participates in the CDP Supply purchasing only pulp that has traceability back to the area Chain Program, which seeks to curtail climate change, asking where the timber was logged. As of the end of 2015, 96% of its main suppliers to disclose and curtail GHG emissions. Kao the material procured (by weight) was from sustainable also cooperates with suppliers to rationalize logistics and sources. reduce the environmental impact created by its procurements. Kao recognizes that its business depends on natural capital, 2. Sustainable sourcing of natural plant resources and commits to zero deforestation at the source in its As the scarcity of natural plant resources and the problems procurement of raw materials including palm oil and paper. relating to resource capture have become clear, Kao is Over the medium and long term, Kao will be taking measures promoting natural plant resource procurement that reflects to reduce the amount of raw materials that need to be used, ABS* concerns. We are also continuing with initiatives to and will be taking measures to switch over to the use of diversify sourcing routes and to convert from natural plants to non-food biomass sources such as algae, etc., striving to artificially cultivated materials, giving due consideration to the promote sustainable procurement that gives due consideration natural environment in the producing areas. to the ethical issues that have been thrown into relief by the process of globalization. ➡p.33 Highlights: Culture > Responding to the hopes and expectations of the global community > Sustainable procurement of raw materials Kao has undertaken the following specific initiatives. 3. Initiatives to reduce dependence on fossil-based ➡The text of the Guidelines for Sustainable Procurement of Raw resources in packaging Materials Kao continues efforts to reduce total volume of plastics used http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/procurement_05.html through minimization of container size and development of ➡p.48 Conservation > Measures for biodiversity conservation refill packaging, while promoting use of biomass materials such as bio-polyethylene in containers and packaging. 1. Procurement of certified sustainable raw materials The revised version of the Guidelines for Sustainable ➡p.56 Conservation > Environmentally-conscious containers and Procurement of Raw Materials that was compiled in 2014 packaging included a declaration that, with the aim of zero deforestation, Kao was aiming to switch over to procuring palm oil, paper and 4. Green procurement pulp from sustainable sources by 2020. With regard to the procurement of indirect materials such as With regard to procurement of palm oil and palm kernel oil, stationery and office supplies, in line with the Ministry of the besides joining the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Environment’s calls to implement green procurement, Kao has and promoting the obtaining of supply chain certification and formulated Green Procurement Standards, which give priority the procurement of certified sustainable palm oil, we are also to the purchasing of environmentally conscious products. The taking measures to ensure traceability (all the way back to the Standard achievement rate in 2015 was 75%; Kao is working source) of all palm oil and palm kernel oil that the company to raise this figure to 100% as soon as possible. purchases, by 2020. As of the end of 2015, we had completed confirmation of mills. However, as there are still some cases of * ‌ABS (Access and Benefit Sharing) derivative products purchased from external suppliers where ABS is one of the goals of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). It the mill that produced the original raw material cannot be relates to the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits deriving from the confirmed, we will continue to undertake further confirmation exploration, development and use of genetic resources in relation to the issue of the capture of the bio-resources (genetic resources) of producer work, and will also be purchasing RSPO certified materials as a nations (which are generally developing nations) by advanced nations and supplementary measure. multi-national corporations. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 110 ▶ Human capital development【DMA,LA10】 People are a company’s most important asset. Kao strives to create an environment and corporate culture in which both individuals and the company can achieve growth through maximizing each employee’s potential and making a positive contribution to society. 2015 activities We support the development of employee capabilities in line with employee preferences and organizational objectives through a range of methods that transcend national boundaries and extend beyond the company itself. In 2015, we implemented our Global Leadership Development Program and skill enhancement training for managers worldwide. We also continue to put in place systems to ensure that each individual employee’s performance is evaluated fairly and objectively, and that this evaluation is reflected in employees’ compensation and career development in a standardized manner in all Kao Group Companies. Policies/structures The efforts of each and every employee to pursue individual Guidelines for Human Capital Development achievements by exercising his or her own abilities and characteristics to the utmost can contribute to the success of Continuously improve overall efficiency based on creative and innovative activities aimed at the sustainable growth of the Kao the employer. Based on this concept, Kao aims to create such Group through Yoki-Monozukuri. an environment and corporate culture. To this end, Kao has (Pursuit of efficiency) defined this policy as Guidelines for Human Capital Provide a work environment where each individual’s dignity is Development and has made clear what constitutes an “Ideal respected, and which makes full use of employees’ autonomy and diversity, since the enthusiasm of all employees to display their Organization” and “Ideal Human Capital.” With the objective boundless wisdom is the wellspring of creation and innovation. of achieving this policy, we provide various opportunities and (Respect human dignity) support for employees to develop their skills and capabilities in Integrate organizational efforts and individual efforts through accordance with their own level of motivation, individual creative and innovative activities so as to achieve evolution for all. Make efforts to improve policies in order to offer all individuals characteristics and organizational goals. freedom to display wisdom, and to enable combined individual efforts to lead the Kao Group to further prosperity. (Efforts for integration) Vision of Human Capital Development Ideal Organization Ideal Human Capital We are committed to building 1. People with consistent challenging spirits organizations that are Challenge & Change characterized by openness and 2. People with high expertise frankness so as to encourage Professional Capabilities people to pursue innovation, by empowerment of greater 3. People with a global perspective transparency, and by Global Perspective organizational management based 4. People with the team spirit to on the Kao Way. We also endeavor achieve superior performance to actualize organizations in which Communication & Collaboration the entire Kao Group operates 5. People with strong ethics harmoniously based on the Integrity concept of an “organically functional organization” which flexibly and quickly adapts to environmental change. Global Human capital development across countries and across companies Kao aims to become a company that can attract human talent to the existing Global Human Capital Development Conference who pursue global careers around the world, and all Kao Group centered around those in charge of human capital development companies make concerted efforts so that excellent human in Japan, Europe, the United States, and Asia. capital can play an active role, regardless of nationality, race, As Kao continues to promote the global standardization of gender, etc. human capital systems already underway, human capital To more effectively promote cross-border and crossdevelopment in the Kao Group has entered a new stage, one company human capital development, and to conduct even that involves examining how to utilize those systems to move more detailed discussions of each region’s issues and ahead with human capital development in each country where initiatives, beginning in 2013 Kao has been conducting Regional we do business. Human Capital Development Conferences regularly, in addition Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 111 ▶ Human capital development【DMA,LA10】 Global Training programs that promote growth by helping employees to identify and develop their capabilities Kao Group implements a wide range of different training programs, Kao business locations around the world, working with speed and providing Kao employees all over the world with learning attention to detail to ensure that all Kao employees absorb the Kao opportunities. Employees’ personal growth is vital to the growth of Way and Kao’s emphasis on integrity. Kao as a whole. Training is designed to meet a wide range of Kao also makes effective use of new learning tools such as different needs, and incorporates common elements based on a e-learning and other Internet-enabled tools for language learning, global perspective and also elements tailored to meet the specific etc. Besides creating new learning environments in this way, Kao needs of particular regions, companies and positions, etc. also actively supports employees’ own self-directed learning In cultivating future leaders who can drive Kao’s global efforts. business development, Kao collaborates with leading international business schools to implement intensive training. Besides working In 2015, training was implemented to cultivate 17 in-house to enhance trainees’ management skills, there is also a concerted instructors to provide training in negotiation skills and project effort to build human networks and to disseminate the values management within the Asia region. More training programs of associated with Kao’s Yoki-Monozukuri. this kind will be implemented in future in line with the training At the same time, in-house trainers are cultivated at individual needs of each country. Kao Group Global Common Training Program Scheme Global Common Program Global Professional Program Marketing Sales SCM R&D Information Global Leadership Development Program II （ Kao Customer Marketing ） Systems Global Leadership Development Program I Management Program CEO Program Stage 3 Marketing Integrated Managing Human Performance Program Leadership IT Training Training Managers and Supervisors Forum “Marketing Global Key Stage 2 Specialist Programs University” SCM Training Training Program for International Assignment Account Training “Master” Level Methodology training Business Skills (application) Trade Marketing “High Pressure Thinking: Problem-solving skills Applied Excellence Academy” Implementation: Facilitation, negotiation, diversity (Sales and application management, task execution, presentations, project management Marketing Training) Training Knowledge: Accounting, marketing, business strategy, logical thinking Applied “Marketing English: Basic English skills Key Account technology (speaking, listening, reading, writing) University” Management “Global training Practical English skills Basic Level Excellence Techno(giving presentations, participating in meetings) (Account training) school” Stage 1 Methodology Career Development Customer Service training Excellence (basic) Marketing Fundamentals (ECR training) Global Science Basic New Employee Orientation III Engineer Basics application School Academy training Marketing Field Sales Fundamentals Excellence Basic Integrity II (SA training) technology training SCM “Freshman Marketing Merchandising Basic Course Forum” Fundamentals Excellence Specialist IT training Kao Way I (ISM training) for new employees Training expenditure per employee (Kao Group) 2013 2014 2015 55,000 yen 63,000 yen 69,000 yen Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 112 ▶ Human capital development【DMA,LA10】 Global Global leader cultivation The Global Leadership Development Program has been implemented as a global program common to all Group companies, in which members selected from individual Kao Group companies in and outside Japan study Kao’s challenges from a broader perspective and make proposals to top management. The Program had 28 participants in 2015. The Global Leadership Development Program completion ceremony Global Implementation of training to enhance managers’ skills We have implemented the rollout of the Managing Human Performance Program (MHPP) in each country across the globe to strengthen line management capabilities. In 2015, we implemented training conducted by internal instructors in the Asia region (in Thailand, Malaysia, and Singapore). Two training programs were also implemented in the U.S., with a total of 43 participants. Manager training at Kao Specialties Americas Global Fair and transparent evaluation and compensation Kao clearly states the roles and responsibilities of its The goal of this scheme is to, on a global level, motivate employees and endeavors to fairly evaluate their performance individual employees to develop their capabilities and careers, on a regular basis, and appropriately reflect achievements in with support from the company, and to find, nurture and rewards and compensation. promote across the group as a whole those employees with Since January 2013, Kao has standardized its performance motivation and skill, ultimately leveraging their maximum management system with affiliates in Japan, Europe, the potential. Americas, and parts of Asia, and has put into full-scale The performance management system and SeEDS are the operation an infrastructure to facilitate fair and transparent twin engines driving human capital development in the Kao evaluations by common metrics. Group, and we continue to move ahead with cross-border, In November 2013, we also rolled out our Self Education & cross-company cooperation and collaboration so that the Development Scheme (SeEDS), which aims to support maximizing of individual employees’ potential can be integrated individual skills and career development, and we are moving to effectively with Kao’s business development, with employees successively deploy and operate the scheme at Group and Kao contributing to one another’s growth. companies in each country. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 113 ▶ Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human rights【10,LA1,LA12】 Kao intends to bring new value to society with the vitality generated from diversity and respect for human rights, so as to contribute to enriching people’s lives through Yoki-Monozukuri. Therefore, Kao endeavors to create workplaces in which diverse employees can demonstrate their capacities and enthusiasm to the maximum extent. 2015 activities Evaluating and promoting employees based on their ambition, the percentage of our female managers has been rising. In the Kao Group as a whole (including overseas Group companies), as of December 2015, 27.5% of managers were female. As part of our efforts to create a workplace environment in which disabled employees can maximize their potential, the CEO’s messages to the company are now supported by sign language interpreting or real-time captioning. We have also put in place company-wide consultation systems, with Employment Counselors for People with Disabilities playing a key role. Policies/structures Based on the recognition that the vitality generated by diversity supports business development, we aim to realize an organization in which each individual’s diverse skills, personality and values are included and mobilized to enhance the company’s collective strength. As we work to open up appropriate paths to employees with motivation and ability, we are also continuing our activities aimed at the building of a corporate culture that allows a diverse range of employees to flourish. In particular, we recognize a need to promote diversity in Japan. To that end, starting from 2000 we have been implemented Equality Partnership (EPS) promotion activities.* As part of these activities, we have established an awareness month focused on gender, disability and human rights, and we bring together representatives of our head office and various worksites and Kao Group companies in Japan for regular EPS The 5th EPS Awareness Activities Meeting Awareness Activities Meetings, with the goal of ensuring that these concepts are disseminated throughout the Kao Group as a whole. * Equal Partnership (EPS) promotion activities Kao Group companies in Japan have been working to build rewarding workplaces, where every employee can leverage his or her full potential, by fostering an understanding of Diversity and Inclusion and an attitude of mutual respect, and by firmly establishing these in our employees’ minds and behavior. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 114 ▶ Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human rights【10, LA1, LA12】 Global Utilization of diverse human capital Kao works to fairly evaluate and promote each individual Number of Kao Group employees (regular employees) employee, and to develop those with motivation and ability into Percentage of Total Male Female female global leaders, regardless of gender, nationality, or other factors. (persons) (persons) (persons) employee For example, half of those participating in our Global Leadership Total 33,026 15,686 17,340 52.5 Development Program are employees of Group companies outside Japan. The program regularly includes female Japan 22,105 9,981 12,124 54.8 participants. Asia and Oceania 7,091 3,679 3,412 48.1 (excluding Japan) As of the end of 2015, women held 10.4% of management Europe and 3,830 2,026 1,804 47.1 the Americas positions in our domestic Group companies as a whole, and 8.7% in Kao Corporation. While there are differences depending on the type of job and employment status, the number of Status of regular employees (Kao Corporation) female employees at Kao Corporation in the areas of consumer 2013 2014 2015 product marketing and planning, product development, publicity, Regular employees 6,172 6,664 6,970 (persons) consumer communications and PR, and social contributions equals or surpasses the number of male employees, and many Male 4,874 5,188 5,414 women are flourishing in positions of responsibility. Female 1,298 1,476 1,556 Kao will continue to strengthen these efforts toward Percentage of female employees (rate) 21.0 22.1 22.3 creating an organization in which an even more diverse group of people can play an active role. Percentage of female 8.1 8.5 8.7 managers (rate) Average age 42.3 42.0 41.7 Male 43.5 43.1 42.6 Female 38.1 38.3 38.6 Average length of 19.4 19.1 18.5 employment (years) Male 21.1 20.6 19.8 Female 13.1 13.8 14.1 Number of recent graduates hired 238 268 264 (persons) Male 170 193 195 Female 68 75 69 Turnover (rate) 0.4 0.6 0.7 Japan Support for the lifetime career development and policy for re-employing retired employees To support the lifetime career development of its employees, employees participated). Kao offers employees approaching the age of 45 a Life Career Kao has also introduced the Senior Partner Policy, which Design Seminar, giving participants an opportunity to take the re-employs retired employees, with the goal of proactively initiative in thinking about their own working careers through an promoting motivated, capable seniors and creating an understanding of their individual values (in 2015, 112 employees environment in which their skills can be leveraged to the fullest. participated). For those in their late 50s, Kao also holds the Life Kao will continue its efforts to offer systems and create an Plan Seminar designed to support post-retirement life planning, environment in which motivated, skilled employees of all ages offering explanations of the public pension system and can enjoy a vibrant working life while contributing to our simulations of budgeting for life on a pension (in 2015, 401 business. Number of instances of re-employment after retirement (Kao Corporation) Number of employees Number of Year who reach the re-employment Percentage retirement age* after retirement 2013 116 persons 64 persons 55.2% 2014 152 persons 116 persons 76.3% 2015 125 persons 94 persons 75.2% * ‌Number of employees who reach the retirement age = Number of retired employees + Number of instances of re-employment after retirement Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 115 ▶ Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human rights【10, LA1, LA12】 Japan Creating a workplace that respects human rights and free from harassment To prevent harassment, Kao has published on its intranet a Human Rights Awareness Month, and conducts awareness series of internal guidelines, including Guidelines for Preventing education through distribution of newsletters and through Sexual Harassment and Guidelines for Preventing Workplace poster displays and other efforts. In 2015, we issued a Bullying, and has also put in place both internal or external newsletter focused on the themes of harassment of non-regular consultation services for employees. employees and harassment of LGBT*2 employees. We also continue to implement our annual self-assessment In 2015, case studies on sexual harassment and bullying by using a self-check sheet that summarizes relevant laws and supervisors, etc. were included as part of the compliance regulations with respect to Diversity & Inclusion and classifying training provided for Kao Group managers. As a result of this them into 68 items in 10 groups. We not only observe laws and training, managers were able to appreciate the importance of regulations, but also achieve recommended targets for most of harassment prevention from the perspective of those affected those items. by it. In addition, harassment prevention sessions targeting mainly supervisors, making use of DVDs and incorporating *1 ‌Anger Management Psychological training aimed at helping employees to manage anger anger management*1 training were held at Kao Customer effectively Marketing Co., Ltd. (CMK), and human rights training etc. was *2 ‌LGBT An acronym for sexual minorities, encompassing lesbian, gay, bisexual, implemented for all staff at Kanebo Cosmetics Inc. and transgender (those who identify with a gender at odds with that Additionally, Kao designates December of each year as assigned to them at birth, either medically or socially) individuals Global Promoting female employees’ engagement Women’s abilities are indispensable There are many different types of workplace within the Kao In 1934, Kao established the Nagase Housework Science Group, and the issues faced by female employees vary from Laboratory, where female employees played an important role. workplace to workplace. To help speed up the process of Since then, Kao has continued to recognize the vital role that creating more opportunities for female employees, Kao has female employees play in developing the company’s business been building on the proposals made in the human capital operations. In September 2010, Kao signed the Women’s activation project implemented in 2014 and on the results Empowerment Principles, which are international guidelines for obtained from internal questionnaires and manager hearings, by women’s participation in society based on UN Women and the identifying problems in individual divisions and Group UN Global Compact. companies, holding discussions, and formulating and implementing appropriate plans in response. Expanding the number of female managers In the future, the Kao Group as a whole will redouble its Evaluating and promoting employees based on their ambition efforts to create a female-friendly workplace environment and and abilities leads to expanded roles for female employees. As to expand the opportunities for female employees to maximize of March 2016, Kao had one female Managing Executive Officer, their potential. and one female Executive Officer. A further two women held Executive Officer positions at Kao Group companies in Japan. Kao’s percentage of female managers tends to rise over the past several years, and stood at 27.5% as of December 2015 for the Kao Group including Group companies outside Japan; the percentage of female managers in the Kao Group in Japan was 10.4%. ➡p.9 Non-financial highlights > Percentage of female managers Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 116 ▶ Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human rights【10, LA1, LA12】 Japan Promoting the employment of people with disabilities and creating workplace environments to demonstrate their skills In line with its basic policy “Striving for a society where people In addition, to further understanding regarding employment with and without disabilities work and live together, Kao creates of the disabled throughout the company, Kao has established workplace environments for employees with disabilities that are September as a special awareness month, publishing conducive to work and offer reward.” Kao actively promotes educational newsletters for employees, holding “Learning about recruiting both at its regular workplaces and at its special Disabilities” seminars (which include visits to the Kao Peony subsidiary. facility) and conducting other relevant activities. Kao intends to expand employment of the disabled as it Measures implemented at regular workplaces works to achieve the goals of its basic policy. As part of Kao’s efforts to support the transmission of information to hearing-impaired employees, starting from 2015 the CEO’s biannual message to all Kao employees is being Kao Group employment rate of people with disabilities* supported with sign-language interpreting and real-time (%) captioning. 2.40 In addition, in response to the coming into effect of the amendments to the Act on the Promotion of the Employment 2.21 of Disabled Persons in April 2016, in 2015 we undertook a 2.20 2.16 2.11 2.12 process of identifying and responding to issues relating to this area. To strengthen the provision of support for disabled 2.04 2.16 2.11 2.11 2.12 employees, we have put in place a company-wide consultation 2.00 system based around the Vocational Life Consultants for 1.96 Persons with Disabilities. Disabled Employee Support Meetings are held for Advisors, as part of our efforts to improve the 1.80 support system and strengthen its foundations. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) Through measures of this kind, we continue to work Kao Corporation Kao Group in Japan towards the creation of a workplace environment that meets the needs of disabled employees. (As of June 1, 2015) Measures implemented at special subsidiaries * Calculation based on inclusion of 11 domestic affiliates that are required Kao Peony Co., Ltd. was established as a special subsidiary in to employ people with disabilities (Kao Corporation, Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd., Kao Field Marketing Co., Ltd., Kao Professional October 2005, with the goal of encouraging hiring of those with Services Co., Ltd., Kao Sanitary Products Ehime Co., Ltd., Kao Logistics disabilities. As of January 2016, a total of 22 employees work Co., Ltd., Kao Business Associe Co., Ltd., Kanebo Cosmetics Inc., there, including 19 with intellectual disabilities; they are primarily e’quipe, LTD., Kao Cosmetic Products Odawara Co., Ltd.) and special subsidiary Kao Peony Co., Ltd. involved with packaging sets of cosmetics and personal care products. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 117 ▶ Promoting dialogue with employees Kao firmly recognizes good employee relations as one of the most important aspects of the company’s corporate culture. In addition to creating various communication opportunities, we conduct an employee opinion survey on a regular basis. 2015 activities In addition to the Group-wide action plan which was drawn up on the basis of the results obtained in the 2014 Find employee opinion survey, we have also been implemented individual action plans based on discussion in the workplace with regard to issues affecting each Group companies and departments. On the basis of discussion in Employee-Management Meetings, we have also launched a new initiative. Issues that require ongoing review are identified and the progress made in tackling these issues is verified with employee representatives as a basis for further discussion. Policies/structures Deepening understanding between senior management and employees Kao strives to foster understanding between senior management and employees by facilitating various opportunities, both in and outside Japan, for mutual talks, with the objective of developing unity throughout the Kao Group and enhancing employee motivation. In Japan, we provide an opportunity to exchange opinions whereby, twice a year, the senior management, including the President, explains the company’s current situation and priority issues regarding human capital development etc. to employee representatives and also answer questions from employees. Since 2011, we have called this opportunity the “Kao Forum,” and we are expanding the range of participating companies to include all Kao Group companies in Japan. We also continue working to develop a system whereby each individual employee The Kao Forum can participate more proactively in these kinds of communication. In addition, we hold Employee-Management Meetings, and have formed Employee Welfare Committees, in workplaces throughout Kao Group companies within Japan. In other countries, various opportunities for employee-management communications have been established, such as the Kao European Forum in Europe and the labor union in China. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 118 ▶ Promoting dialogue with employees Global Promoting the development of a highly-motivating workplace environment through the Find employee opinion survey The Kao Group implements the Find employee opinion survey the fundamentals of organizational management with every two years on a Group-wide basis, with the aim developing everyone’s involvement” action plan which was drawn up on a workplace environment in which employees feel highly the basis of the results obtained in the 2014 Find survey, the motivated. The Find survey helps to further enhance areas action plans formulated by companies and divisions following where the organizational culture and functionality is already discussion of their own specific issues were also put into effect strong, and facilitates the identification of weaknesses and in a coordinated manner. areas where response to changes in the wider environment has The eighth Find survey is scheduled to be implemented in been slow, so that all employees can work together to realize 2016. All Kao employees will be working to achieve a further improvements. enhancement of the Kao Group’s overall organizational In 2015, besides implementing the Group-wide “Commit to cohesion. Questionnaire items for Find Company/Organizations Function Business Function Employees Function Organizational Function Quality of Work/Workplace Fairness 1. Leadership 6. Teamwork & Communication 8. Respect for individual 2. Business Strategy & Objectives 7. Work Process & Workplace Compensation 3. Compliance 9. Development Opportunities & Climate Company Reputation 10. Reward & Recognition 4. Customer & Quality Orientation 5. Performance Driven Culture Engagement/Employer of Choice ● Satisfaction at work ●Commitment ●Contribution to company Action plan Japan Making effective use of the Employee-Management Meetings in reviewing the personnel system Kao holds Employee-Management Meetings on a biannual discussion does not end at the meetings, issues that require basis. At these meetings, employee representatives chosen further examination are identified and followed up, with the from the members of the Employee Welfare Committee progress reached being explained and confirmed on an submit and discuss proposals in relation to issues that have ongoing basis. previously been discussed by the Employee Welfare Kao aims to build systems for effective discussion that Committee of each office, including issues relating to bring employees and the company together to realize organization, the workplace, human capital development, and improvements in company organization and in the workplace employee welfare policies and systems. To ensure that the environment. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 119 ▶ Work-life balance【LA3】 Kao endeavors to create pleasant workplace environments so that all employees can achieve a synergistic balance between work and life, combining rewarding careers and fulfilling private lives. 2015 activities In order to assist the efforts of employees to balance work and bringing up child, Kao expanded the child-raising services provided by the Kao Family Welfare Association and promoted awareness of them. Focusing on the Kinki area as a model district, Kao also promoted the utilization of an external service to support child raising. Furthermore, with the aim of realizing more flexible and diverse work patterns, Kao introduced flextime and new hourly leave system. Policies/structures Kao considers work-life balance to be one component in the Through our EPS Awareness Activities Meetings, we work to shaping of an environment to promote Diversity and Inclusion. ensure that these programs reach all of our employees. We will In accordance with the situation in each country, we strive to continue our efforts to raise the awareness of each of our enhance a variety of support systems and promote the creation employees and cultivate an appropriate workplace culture. of better workplace environments. For instance, in balancing work and child and/or nursing care, we are committed to a corporate culture that encourages utilization of these systems. To do so, we have established an ➡For details, refer to p.113 Culture > Promoting Diversity & Inclusion awareness month and conduct awareness-raising activities. and respecting human rights > Policies/structures Japan Balance support systems Kao has put in place a variety of systems for supporting workLife Balance Guidebook, which includes descriptions of in-house life balance to assist employees who have child rearing and and external systems and other useful information. It has been nursing care responsibilities. To make these systems easy to made available on our intranet. understand for employees, we have also created the Work and Systems for supporting work-life balance ●Extended Child-care/Family-care leave ●Shortened work hours ●Child-care time Key support systems ●Sick/Injured child-care leave ●Overtime work exemptions ●On-site day care facility, etc. ●Work and Life Balance Guidebook ●Preand post-child-care leave interviews Creating a supportive ●Seminars for those returning from child-care leave ●F&M (Father & Mother) Meetings ●Child-care leave reports organizational structure ●e-learning for managers ●Nursing care handbook ●Nursing care seminars ●Awareness posters/pamphlets ●Newsletters, etc. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 120 ▶ Work-life balance【LA3】 Japan Supporting a balance between work and child-care Kao provides a variety of support based on the policies of In order for employees to be able to display their abilities even “child-care requires full participation from each partner within limited time and continue working, we believe that one regardless of gender” and “creating an environment in which measure is to make childcare services available to them. In employees can display their abilities even within limited time 2015 Kao expanded the child-raising services provided by the and continue working.” Kao Family Welfare Association and promoted awareness of them. Furthermore, focusing on the Kinki area as a model From childbirth to return to work district, Kao promoted the utilization of an external childcare To help ensure that employees who have taken an extended sharing service* in which parents help one another in looking childcare leave can enjoy a smooth return to the workplace, Kao after children. As well as this effort in the community, there was has introduced systems by which such employees meet with also an example of mutual assistance between the employees their supervisors prior to their leave and return and submit of Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd. and the beautician regular reports with updates on their situations (child-care leave employees of Kanebo Cosmetics Sales Inc. Kao hopes that reports). In addition, Kao holds special seminars on an annual such efforts can take root in other regions as well. basis to assist employees who will soon be returning to the workplace, encouraging both employees and their partners to attend, to think about their career and child-raising together. At these seminars, Kao provides special programs where employees who have been on leave can learn about the preparations they need to make before returning to work and their partners can learn useful information and techniques to carry out work-life balance as parents. Furthermore, in response to the serious problem of the long list of children having to wait to enter day-care facilities in the Tokyo metropolitan area, Kao has established an on-site daycare center, called Merries Garden, at the Head Office of Kao Corporation (Kayabacho office) with the aim of supporting employees’ return to work. Kao also tries to make it easier for male employees to take The Merries Garden: on-site day-care center childcare leave, distributing awareness-raising pamphlets to those with newborns and their supervisors. *Childcare sharing service Workplaces are becoming more understanding, and the Operated by AsMama Inc., this service involves mutual cooperation ratio of employees taking child-care leave is high—nearly 100% among acquainted parents in a community in taking children to and from day-care facilities and looking after them. for eligible female employees and about 40% for eligible male employees. Use of childcare support system (Kao Group in Japan) After return to work 2013 2014 2015 Kao offers a variety of events that provide new opportunities for employees to meet and share their experiences. These include No. of employees Female 647 638 640 F&M (Father & Mother) Meetings for employees currently taking raising children, roundtable talks with other female employees child-care leave Male 75 106 127 who are also mothers, and work-life management seminars (persons) conducted by outside instructors for male employees. Japan Supporting a balance between work and nursing care Kao promotes the establishment of schemes to support a in the workplace. balance between work and nursing care based on the policies Kao holds nursing care seminars every year. In 2015 such of enabling individuals to act on their own initiative and seminars were held at four places in Japan. Kao also continues encouraging everyone to help one another in a spirit of mutual to disseminate information about nursing care via the company cooperation. newsletter and to implement case-study-based training for new Based on the results of a survey of employee circumstances managers. regarding nursing care in 2009, Kao established a mid-term Furthermore, Kao endeavors to make in-house information action plan and has been working to promote a system for useful to society at large, for example by participating as a supporting a balance between work and nursing care, focusing member in the Committee to Study Projects to Support Workon addressing the heavy mental burdens placed on those Care Balance (commissioned by the Ministry of Health, Labour, providing nursing care for family members by strengthening the and Welfare). nursing care consultation system and through awareness raising Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 121 ▶ Work-life balance【LA3】 Japan Promoting appropriate working hours Kao is striving to realize work management that balances flexibility and zeal and includes not only the work-life perspective but also the realization of effective and efficient working methods and the promotion of employees’ health. If an employee is tending to work long hours, Kao strengthens cooperation among the employee concerned, the workplace, and the company to prevent the tendency from becoming prolonged or constant by, for example, promptly holding an interview with the employee concerned or alerting the employee’s supervisor. Since July 2015 Kao has been implementing the following two measures in order to promote the creation of an environment aimed at realizing more flexible and varied work patterns based on the themes of setting flexible work hours consistent with individual circumstances, such as childcare and nursing care, and curbing long and late overtime work. (1) P  artial revision of the flextime system and introduction of a setup by which employees can set their own times for starting and finishing work between the hours of 07:00 and 20:00 Original educational poster featuring work-life balance slogan (2) Introduction of an hourly leave system* In 2015 Kao also produced an original poster using the most outstanding work-life balance slogan from among those *Hourly leave system submitted by employees. The poster is displayed at Kao Group Employees can take leave in hourly units up to a maximum of five days of paid leave a year. sites around Japan in an attempt to raise awareness in the workplace. More than ever, Kao is committed to improving work Rate at which paid holidays were used at Kao Corporation productivity and generating greater vitality in the workplace with 2013 2014 2015 the goal of implementing organizational reforms to promote the Rate (%) 71.0 70.9 65.8 health of employees and accelerate business growth. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 122 ▶ Consideration for employee health and lifestyles Recognizing that having healthy employees is a prerequisite for the realization of effective Yoki-Monozukuri, for successful business development, and for making a positive contribution to society, Kao implements a range of Health and Productivity Management measures. 2015 activities To increase the number of “employees with high health literacy,” we have been promoting a health management cycle focused around health checkups, while also implementing activities that help to get employees involved in health promotion activities in their daily lives. As a result of these measures, the number of employees failing to meet basic health criteria in health checkups has fallen, and so has the number of employees requiring Special Health Guidance. Policies/structures Dedicated to helping people around the world in the areas of The Kao Group Health Declaration was announced in 2008. cleanliness, beauty and health, Kao strives to make a major The Declaration embodies the intention to provide proactive contribution toward enriching people’s lifestyles. Good health is support for individual employees’ health by the company and a prerequisite—at both the public and private levels—for living a the Kao Health Insurance Society; besides the Top Message full and satisfying life, and we believe that helping our stressing the importance of health-oriented efforts that employees and their families stay fit and healthy has a vital role encompass not only each individual employee but also their to play in ensuring the company’s successful future business colleagues and family members, it also incorporates the Kao development. Group Health Declaration Five Support Measures. Kao Group Health Declaration Five Support Measures 1. Prevention of lifestyle-related diseases 2. Mental health care ●Provision of health care advice focused on preventing lifestyle●Establishment of a system to deal with employees with mental related diseases health problems early on through the introduction of a mental ●Specific health guidance coordinated with the Health Insurance health check system Society ●Implementation of training to deal with mental health issue for ●Provision of support for employees’ attempt to improve their managers lifestyles ●Implementation of mental self-care training for regular employees ●Introduction of the Health Mileage Program ●Establishment of a counseling system that combines in-house ●Implementation of the Spring Walking Challenge and external counseling ●Distribution of the monthly Kao Kokoro bulletin 3. Smoking control ●Implementation of the Kao Group No Smoking Marathon In 2015, 15 out of the 61 participating employees succeeded in quitting smoking (representing a 9% increase in the success rate compared to the previous year). ●Survey on status of anti-smoking measures ●Formulation of smoking cessation promotion plan Awareness-raising display installed in a Kao office to encourage employees to quit smoking 4. Cancer control ●Addition of cancer detection categories to the annual physical check-up designated by the Industrial Safety and Health Act 5. Women’s health ●Spreading knowledge of women’s health issues and increasing the rate of females receiving gynecological examinations Seminar (for both female and male Display installed in a Kao office to raise employees) on the physical and mental awareness about types of cancer that health issues relevant to working women particularly affect women Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 123 ▶ Consideration for employee health and lifestyles Japan Fostering employees with high health literacy With the goal of increasing the number of employees with high A health maintenance cycle centered on health checkup health literacy, Kao is working to make its health-promotion To help enhance employees’ health literacy, Kao has been activities more visible, engaging in “Health and Productivity emphasizing the importance of a health maintenance cycle Management” that uses a PDCA cycle to increase employee centered on health check-ups. health levels. By implementing a number of different health Kao considers employees as demonstrating high health enhancement programs, Kao is making a serious effort to literacy if they implement the following: encourage employees to incorporate health maintenance activities in their daily lives. 1. ‌Review lifestyle habits and improve them on their own, based on health checkup results (1) Using Web-QUPiO* to record daily lifestyle habits (7,768 2. Consult with a private doctor in regard to health checkup participants) results as needed (besides consulting occupational (2) ‌Implementation of the Kao Health Mileage system, physicians) whereby employees earn points for their health 3. ‌Remain aware of his/her mental health, and confer with promotion achievements (9,327 participants) appropriate professionals as needed * ‌The Kao Health Mileage system was terminated at the end of September 2015, being incorporated into the Web-QUPiO system from October 2015 onwards. Health Promotion Management System As part of this initiative to increase visibility, since 2009 Kao has (3) ‌Implementation of the Spring Walking Challenge health provided its 16 health consultation rooms nationwide with a promotion program (3,370 participants) statistical summary of the previous year’s health data (medical (4) Promotion of cancer screening (covering breast cancer, interviews, health checkup, occupations, medical costs, cervical cancer, gastric cancer, colorectal cancer and diseases, etc.). Based on the health data for their respective prostate cancer) regions, each health consultation room then establishes and (5) ‌Provision of Specific Health Guidance to 71.8% of implements a health services plan. Since 2009, Kao has held employees aged 35 or over Seminar of White Paper on Health to provide opportunities for * QUPiO studying methods of analyzing the various types of health data This is a program aimed at providing support for health promotion and and formulating measures to address any issues. preventive lifestyle improvement measures, based on knowledge obtained from joint research undertaken with the University of Tokyo using a database of health checkup data for one million people covering an extended period of time. Health Promotion Management System Health White Paper Kao Group Health Declaration study sessions ➡Kao Health 2015 Act Plan Industrial health care staff Health Guidance (medium-term plan) Seminar ➡Formulation of health Health care staff promotion plans at the meetings workplace and regional levels Workplace PDCA cycle to realize implementation of the Kao Group Health Declaration Health check-ups and post-check-up Health White Paper consultations Check data collation Do Health preservation guidance Implementing health promotion initiatives Company Collaboration Health Insurance Society Japan Strengthening the utilization of employment management standards based on health checkup results As part of Kao’s efforts to provide support to help employees health as quickly as possible in line with the measures taken. maintain a good state of health, so that they can maximize their By taking the occupational physician’s views into account in its potential in their work, starting from 2014 new employment employment management, Kao is fulfilling its responsibility to management standards have been introduced that take the maintain the safety of its employees. result of employee health checkup into account. Following the health checkup, an industrial physician makes a determination As a result of the introduction of this new scheme, the as to what categories of work an employee is engaged in (on percentage of employees failing to meet the basic health the basis of the new standards), thereby making it possible for criteria in Kao’s employee health examinations fell by 27% in employees to take suitable measures appropriate to their state 2015 compared to 2014. of health. Employees are encouraged to improve their state of Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 124 ▶ Consideration for employee health and lifestyles Japan Realizing a reduction in the number of employees requiring Specific Health Guidance In 2008, the Japanese government introduced the Special staff members also provide Specific Health Guidance to Health Checkup and Specific Health Guidance system, with employees who are considered vulnerable to metabolic the aim of realizing early diagnosis of metabolic syndrome; syndrome, so as to reduce the number of employees who companies’ Health Insurance Societies were put in charge of require full-scale Specific Health Guidance. implementing the new system. To enhance the efficiency of implementation, Kao accepted a request from the Kao Health As a result of the new steps that have been taken, the Insurance Society to have Specific Health Guidance percentage of Kao employees requiring Specific Health implemented on a collaborative basis by Kao and the Society. Guidance fell from 28.5% of male employees and 8.3% of Kao’s occupational health staff work together with female employees in 2008 to 18.1% of male employees and specialists from Healthcare Committee Inc. (HCC) to provide 5.9% of female employees in 2015. Specific Health Guidance for Kao employees. Kao’s nursing Japan Promotion of mental health measures As advocated by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, play exercises to learn how to communicate effectively with Kao promotes mental health through four types of care: selfsubordinates and how to help employees who are returning to provided care, care provided by one’s supervisors (“line care”), the workplace after an extended absence. care through onsite industrial health care staff, and care through With regard to self-provided care, in addition to regular outside resources (external specialist facilities and specialists). self-provided care training, Kao also implements training that Kao has also introduced a system of Mental Health Checkups makes use of the Assertion*1 and Egogram*2 techniques. that are incorporated into regular employee health In addition, a mental health measures conference was also examinations, to encourage employees to be alert for any held, at which HR staff, nursing staff and counselors met possible mental health issues and facilitate early preventive together to consult with one another regarding mental health measures. issues. In 2015, in the area of “line care,” Kao held seven mental *1 ‌Assertion health training courses for managers (basic course); topics A communication skill that involves expressing one’s feelings and covered included the importance of corporate mental health thoughts directly to the other party in a manner appropriate to the situation while respecting the other party’s thoughts and feelings measures and the role that managerial personnel are expected *2 ‌Egogram to play in relation to these measures, as well as the current A self-analysis chart (using the personality analysis method) developed state of workers’ mental health and the key trends in this area. by the U.S. psychologist J.M. Dusay. The Egogram helps people to gain a better understanding of their personality traits, which in turn can help Kao also held eight mental health training sessions for them to recognize patterns in the problems they may be experiencing in managers (advanced course), at which participants used role their inter-personal relationships, thereby helping them to function better in society. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 125 ▶ Occupational safety and health, process safety and disaster prevention【LA6】 Kao conducts activities to ensure occupational safety and health and disaster prevention based on the Kao Responsible Care Policy activities in order to protect employees from accidents and disasters in the course of conducting business activities. 2015 activities In regard to safety and disaster response, we set standard KPIs applicable to the entire Kao Group, and implement related activities in accordance with specified priority items. When occupational accidents occur, we examine the accident or disaster carefully, and identify and analyze the causes. The results of the analysis are shared throughout the Kao Group, helping to prevent similar accidents from occurring again in the future. Kao continues to implement training in company-wide reporting and communication assuming an earthquake scenario, and also implements various plant safety and stable production measures that include earthquake-proofing reinforcement of plant buildings and Tsunami countermeasures. Policies/structures Activities ensuring “occupational safety and health” and process safety, and disaster prevention are conducted as part of “process safety and disaster prevention” are clearly described the Responsible Care promotion system. In particular, when in the Kao Responsible Care Policy. accidents or disasters occur, we have a framework in place to Accordingly, when occupational accidents occur, we keep track of them through our global emergency reporting examine the accident or disaster carefully, and identify and network. In addition, when a large-scale disaster such as a analyze the causes. The results of the analysis are shared major earthquake occurs, we will establish an Emergency throughout the Kao Group, helping to prevent similar accidents Response Team Organization headed by the President. Together from occurring again in the future, thereby protecting our as a Group, our initial response places top priority on human life employees while maintaining safe and stable operations. In as we implement measures including our business continuity addition, Kao provides extensive safety education to all plan (BCP). employees regardless of their employee status at the general training sessions for new hires and training sessions organized The Kao Responsible Care Policy, together with details of the by individual divisions in order to boost safety awareness. implementation framework and related activities, can be found on the following page: Our daily activities for occupational safety and health, ➡p.140 Responsible Care Activities Global 2015 targets and results We implemented activities in line with the three priorities of health promotion activities, and implementing risk assessment “Eradication of Occupational Accidents,” “Creating a Pleasant for chemical substances. Working Environment and Improving Employees’ Health,” and Regarding maintenance of safe, stable operations “Maintenance of Safe, Stable Operations (Eradication of (eradication of accidents for security, disaster-prevention Accidents for Security, Disaster-Prevention Activities).” activities), we have given each promotion division the themes Specific activities to eradicate occupational accidents have and objectives of implementing thorough Change focused on equipment and operational risk assessment, Management,* risk assessments of chemical facilities, regular equipment safety measures and prevention of equipmentinspections, enhanced patrols, enriched disaster drills, and related incidents by ensuring thorough awareness of and strengthened security; each division has been required to compliance with rules; activities have also focused on measures formulate, and put into effect, detailed implementation plans. to prevent slip and fall accidents involving stairs, etc., and Starting from 2014, the scope of these activities has been work-related traffic accidents, etc. expanded to include subcontractors. In the area of creating a pleasant working environment and improving employees’ health, we have been strengthening * Change Management Management activities anticipating and accommodating risks before management of the working environment, ensuring effective changes are implemented, along with preventive measures for issues implementation and follow-up of health check-ups, holding such as failure, defects, and accidents. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 126 ▶ Occupational safety and health, process safety and disaster prevention【LA6】 2015 targets and results 2015 Category Scope Indicator 2014 results Targets Results*5 Death and Serious lost time accidents*1 (persons) 0 0 0 All divisions inside Kao Group Japan All sites outside Japan Lost time accidents frequency rate*2 Kao Group 0.39 or less 0.59 0.55 (including both regular employees and Total accidents frequency rate*  3 Kao Group 1.92 or less 2.02 2.67 temporary workers) Total accidents frequency rate*3 Kao Group in Japan 1.00 or less 1.62 1.75 Occupational accidents Death and Serious lost time accidents (persons) 0 0 0 Kao Group All sites Lost time accidents frequency rate*2 Kao Group 0.41 or less 0.82 0.45 (subcontractors) Total accidents frequency rate*3 Kao Group 0.95 or less 2.18 2.36 Total accidents frequency rate*3 Kao Group in Japan 1.40 or less 2.09 2.41 100% negligence accidents causing bodily injury 0 14 17 (no. of accidents) Kao Group in Japan Traffic accidents Sales, logistics Accidents other than 0% negligence per 100 vehicles*4 6.6 or less 7.75 8.67 Kao Group in Japan All divisions inside Japan Fires, explosions, leaks, etc. (no. of accidents) Accidents 0 6 6 All sites outside Japan Kao Group *1 Serious lost time accidents: Accidents involving death or injuries which caused the loss of physical function *2 ‌Lost time accidents frequency rate: Number of persons dead or seriously injured in occupational accidents per million hours worked (including only accidents involving at least one lost work day and also loss of a part of the body or a bodily function) *3 Total injuries frequency rate: Number of persons injured in occupational accidents including accidents without lost work days per million hours worked *4 Accidents other than 0% negligence accidents per 100 vehicles: Number of traffic accidents other than 0% negligence / No. of vehicles in fleet × 100 *5 ‌From 2015 onwards, the boundary of data collection was expanded to include all sites outside Japan; data includes all sites outside Japan that had already completed the necessary preparations for inclusion Global Targets for 2016 Of the targets set for 2016, with the exception of the work-related traffic accident target, all other targets have been set on all Kao Group basis, and we are working to prevent the occurrence of accidents and disasters throughout the Kao Group. Traffic accident targets will also be set on a global Kao Group basis in the future once we have a grasp of the current situation in Kao’s sites outside Japan in this regard. Targets for 2016 Category Scope Indicator 2016 targets Death and Serious lost time accidents*1 (persons) 0 Regular employees and temporary workers Lost time accidents frequency rate* 2 0.31 or less (Kao Group) Total accidents frequency rate* 3 1.60 or less Occupational accidents Death and Serious lost time accidents*1 (persons) 0 Subcontractors Lost time accidents frequency rate*2 0.34 or less (Kao Group) Total accidents frequency rate*3 0.88 or less 100% negligent accidents causing bodily injury (no. of 0 Sales, logistics accidents) Traffic accidents (Kao Group in Japan) Accidents other than 0% negligence per 100 vehicles*4 6.1 or less Fires, explosions, leaks, etc. (no. of accidents) 0 Accidents Kao Group Logistics-related leakage incidents (no. of incidents)* 5 0 *1 Serious lost time accidents: Accidents involving death or injuries which caused the loss of physical function *2 ‌Lost time accidents frequency rate: Number of persons dead or seriously injured in occupational accidents per million hours worked (including only accidents involving at least one lost work day and also loss of a part of the body or a bodily function) *3 Total injuries frequency rate: Number of persons injured in occupational accidents including accidents without lost work days per million hours worked *4 ‌Accidents other than 0% negligence accidents per 100 vehicles: Number of traffic accidents other than 0% negligence / No. of vehicles in fleet × 100 *5 Logistics-related leaks: Accidents involving leakage while products etc. are being transported Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 127 ▶ Occupational safety and health, process safety and disaster prevention【LA6】 Global Status of occupational accident occurrences In 2015, 150 employees were involved in accidents across the Kao Group, common causes included coming into contact with hazardous materials of whom 44 lost work days as a result (including temporary workers). etc. or with substances at very high or very low temperatures (17 Across the Kao Group in Japan, a total of 93 employees suffered employees), cuts and scratches (9 employees) and accidents involving occupational accidents, up by five compared to the previous year. This reactional action (9 employees); these three types of accident combined total included 16 employees who suffered injuries resulting in lost time (of accounted for over half of all occupational accidents. Operational risk whom four lost time due to traffic accidents in which they were 0% assessment is being carried out. negligent), up by two compared to the previous year. As in 2014, the most As regards occupational accidents involving subcontractors, the common types of accident were fall and slip accidents (38 employees), number of persons affected in 2015 was 45 (of which 17 suffered injuries accidents involving cuts and scratches (16 employees), and accidents resulting in lost time), an increase of eight compared to the previous year. involving reactional action (10 employees); these three types of accident The number of people in our SCM and R&D divisions worldwide combined accounted for over 60% of all occupational accidents. Measures involved in operating production equipment who were victims of are being taken to reduce the number of fall and slip accidents. occupational accidents fell by 11 from 2014 to 78 in 2015 (with 30 In the Kao Group outside Japan, a total of 57 employees suffered employees losing time as a result of accidents). For the Kao Group in occupational accidents (including 28 who suffered injuries resulting in Japan, the corresponding figure was 24 (of which five involved lost lost time), down by 14 compared to the previous year. The most time), down by six compared to 2014. Lost time accident frequency rate in the SCM and the R&D divisions★ Severity rate in the SCM and the R&D divisions (Lost time accident frequency rate) (Severity rate) 2.00 0.40 0.37 0.17 1.55 1.50 0.15 1.32 0.12 0.12 1.05 1.06 1.00 0.94 1.06 1.00 0.90 0.10 0.09 0.82 0.92 0.08 0.76 0.10 0.10 0.88 0.81 0.85 0.75 0.61 0.45 0.06 0.50 0.47 0.40 0.05 0.26 0.25 0.04 0.17 0.23 0.39 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.04 0.02 0.00 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Year) Japan (employees + temporary workers) Japan (employees + temporary workers) Japan (subcontractors) Japan (subcontractors) Kao Group (employees + temporary workers) Kao Group (employees + temporary workers) Kao Group (subcontractors) Kao Group (subcontractors) Manufactures Chemical industry Manufactures Chemical industry Lost time accidents frequency rate: Number of persons dead or seriously Severity rate: Number of working days lost per thousand man-hours actually injured in occupational accidents per million hours worked (including only worked accidents involving at least one lost work day and also loss of a part of the * ‌Figures for manufactures and chemical industry are based on data from Ministry body or a bodily function) of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan “Survey on Industrial Accidents 2015.” * ‌Figures for manufactures and chemical industry are based on data from Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan “Survey on Industrial Accidents 2015.” Japan Drills to prepare for large-scale disasters In addition to the fire prevention training and emergency evacuation Tokyo metropolitan area where the Kao head office is located, the training conducted at the level of the individual workplaces, the Kao Kao Group has adopted an organizational structure that permits the Group as a whole has been conducting the following training activities establishment of a disaster response headquarters either in Eastern aimed at being prepared for a large-scale disaster. Japan or Western Japan as appropriate. In May 2015, we implemented training that assumed that establishment Group-wide training in the use of the system for reporting the safety of Kao employees of a disaster response headquarters in Eastern Japan following a In both March and September 2015, Group-wide training was held over hypothetical major earthquake on the Sea of Japan coast, and in October two days on inputting data into the employee safety confirmation 2015 we implemented training that assumed the establishment of a disaster system for use in confirming the safety of all Kao Group employees response headquarters in Western Japan following a hypothetical major following a serious natural disaster. In both training instances, the earthquake with its epicenter directly under the Tokyo metropolitan area. successful data inputting rate was 100%. Given that a 100% successful During these training exercises, communication with regard to inputting rate was also achieved in the September 2014 training the data collected from the employee safety reporting system and exercise, this means that a 100% score has been achieved three times with regard to information concerning on-site roll-call and damage in a row. We will continue to implement this type of training in the future. assessment was undertaken by means of a meeting system that utilized satellite phones and Kao’s internal disaster response bulletin Earthquake scenario company-wide reporting and communication training board and website. The training method used is currently being Recognizing the possibility that a major earthquake may occur in the reviewed in light of the lessons learned from past training exercises. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 128 ▶ Occupational safety and health, process safety and disaster prevention【LA6】 Global Safety and disaster prevention audits As a general rule, safety and disaster prevention audits are the previous audits. In the future, we will continue to implement implemented once every two years at Kao chemical plants in follow-up audits on an ongoing basis. the Asia region (six plants in five countries). Auditing staff from Thailand and Indonesia participated in the audit at Fatty Chemical (Malaysia), and staff from Malaysia In 2015, audits were carried out at Fatty Chemical (Malaysia) participated in the audit at Pilipinas Kao, with the aim of and Pilipinas Kao. Both plants were deemed to have made enhancing the overall level of safety and disaster response improvements in regard to the issues that were pointed out in capabilities at all plants in the region. Global Occurrence of small-scale accidents (fire, leaks) A total of six small-scale accidents occurred in Kao worksites. Five small-scale fires occurred: One leak occurred: ・‌A fire involving an electrical component that had suffered ・A leak caused by accidentally opening a valve deterioration ・‌A fire caused by a charging cord shorting out after being Regarding the small-scale fires, Kao has strengthened its accidentally cut procedures for regular replacement of electrical components ・‌A fire caused by earth leakage from a power cable that had and for regular inspections; and regarding the leak, Kao has suffered deterioration tightened up its implementation of equipment management ・‌Smoke emission caused by a leak from a tank piping and work management procedures. connector which caused raw material to seep into insulating material, oxidize, and give off heat ・‌A fire that occurred when insect pest extermination equipment was being used on an area of green space Japan Strengthening safety and disaster prevention The SCM Division is working to identify latent risks and to ensure the safety of equipment used for polymerization and implement suitable measures in response, and is continuing to exothermic reactions. promote earthquake response measures, as part of the With regard to earthquake response measures, we have strengthening of chemical equipment risk assessment. implemented building seismic resistance diagnostics and reinforcement, liquefaction prevention measures, measures to In 2015, regarding the identification of latent risks, we have strengthen protection against tsunamis, measures to ensure implemented measures to prevent fires involving low-flashthat equipment is automatically switched off in the event of a point substances, measures to prevent dust explosions, major earthquake, and measures to prevent leakage from measures to prevent spontaneous combustion, and measures tanks. Japan High-pressure gas safety inspection, auditing and verification Wakayama Plant has been designated an Accredited Safety The high-pressure gas equipment at other Kao sites has Inspection Executor* pursuant to the High Pressure Gas Safety safety inspection performed by external inspection bodies; Act. Wakayama Plant’s certification came up for renewal in safety auditing and safety verification are carried out in-house, 2015 (renewal is required every five years). Under the direction and a serious effort is being made to ensure safe equipment of the President, who also serves as head of safety operation. management, starting from January 2015 the Safety Management division and Wakayama Plant began the * Accredited Safety Inspection Executor An Accredited Safety Inspection Executor is a company or organization preparations for applying for certification renewal. Following a authorized by the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry to perform field survey in September that was attended by the President, self-inspection, either while equipment is in operation or while it is out of renewal of Wakayama Plant’s certification as an Accredited operation, to verify whether the safety of specified items of equipment conforms to the relevant technical standards pursuant to the High Safety Inspection Executor was granted by the Ministry of Pressure Gas Safety Act. Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) on December 9, 2015. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 129 ▶ Corporate governance【34,38,39,40,41,42,45,51,52,53】 Kao endeavors to build and maintain a managerial framework and internal control system with the aim of continuously enhancing corporate value. 2015 activities In FY 2015 Kao endeavored to further improve corporate governance. The Compensation Advisory Committee met three times in FY 2015, including reconfirming and revising its basic stance on compensation for revisions in FY 2016, and the results of the examination were reported at the meeting of the Board of Directors. The Committee for the Examination of the Nominees for the Members of the Board of Directors met three times in FY 2015, and in addition to examining the appropriateness of Director nominees, it discussed the composition and diversity of the Board of Directors, including the proportion of Inside Directors and Outside Directors, and the qualities and abilities required of the Chief Executive Officer and Members of the Board of Directors of the Company, among other issues, and reported the results of its examination to the meeting of the Board of Directors. Policies/structures Basic views ending December 2015 was 100% for Outside Directors and Kao’s basic stance on measures related to corporate about 98% for Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. governance is to implement the necessary policies and fulfill To allow for active discussions at meetings of the Board of its accountability by setting up and operating a management Directors, the Board of Directors Secretariat provides Outside structure and internal control system in order to rapidly realize Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members efficient, sound, fair and highly transparent management with with sufficient explanations by distributing materials on the aim of continuously increasing corporate value and matters such as the background, purposes, and content of the achieving the long-term targets and mid-term plan. This is respective agenda items, prior to the meeting of the Board of positioned as one of its most important management tasks. Directors as necessary. At meetings of the Board of Directors, Kao conducts annual reviews and implements appropriate the participants mainly hold discussions from multiple angles, measures while integrating social trends and responding to the including risk assessment, and decide on the mediumto requests of our shareholders and all other stakeholders. long-term direction of management strategy. In consideration of the need to ensure plenty of time for questions and answers Structure outline and discussions, less than half of the meeting time is taken up Kao has introduced, within the framework of a “Company with by explanations by presenters; the remainder is set aside for an Audit & Supervisory Board,” the Executive Officer system Q&A and discussions. in order to separate the supervision function from the execution function. Following the conclusion of the 110th Compensation Advisory Committee and Committee for Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held in March 2016, the Examination of the Nominees Kao has: seven (7) members of the Board of Directors, Kao has established the Compensation Advisory Committee including three (3) Outside Directors (seven (7) out of seven (7) and the Committee for the Examination of the Nominees for are male); five (5) Audit & Supervisory Board Members, the Members of the Board of Directors, which fulfill functions including three (3) Outside Audit & Supervisory Board similar to the compensation committee and nominating Members (four (4) out of five (5) are male and one (1) is committee of a “Company with Committees.” female); and twenty-seven (27) Executive Officers, including five (5) Executive Officers, with the title of Senior Managing The Compensation Advisory Committee Executive Officer or Managing Executive Officer and without The Compensation Advisory Committee consists of the concurrent positions in the Board of Directors (twenty-five (25) Chairman of the Board of Directors (the Chairman of the Board out of twenty-seven (27) are male and two (2) are female). All of Directors has been absent since the meeting of the Board Outside Directors and all Outside Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors held on March 28, 2014) and all Representative Members maintain their neutrality, independent from the Directors to deepen the members’ understanding of Kao’s Company’s management. In order to improve the transparency compensation system and the responsibilities of each position, and other aspects of discussions in the Board of Directors, an and all Outside Directors and all Outside Audit & Supervisory Independent Outside Director has become the chairman of the Board Members to incorporate an independent and objective Board after the 108th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders perspective (eight males and one female), with the chairman held in March 2014. The term of office for Directors and chosen by the members, and in FY 2015 an Independent Executive Officers is one year. Outside Director held the position. The Committee conducts examinations by soliciting opinions on the compensation Board of Directors system and compensation standards for Members of the Kao convenes meetings of the Board of Directors in principle Board of Directors and Executive Officers, and met three times once a month, notifying all members of the annual schedule in FY 2015, including reconfirming and revising its basic stance prior to the beginning of the fiscal year so as to facilitate their on compensation for revision in FY 2016. The results of the attendance. In the fiscal year ending December 2015, the examination were reported at the meeting of the Board of Board of Directors met 15 times, including extraordinary Directors. meetings. The average attendance rate in the fiscal year Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 130 ▶ Corporate governance【34,38,39,40,41,42,45,51,52,53】 Committee for the Examination of the Nominees base salary, a bonus as short-term incentive compensation, To incorporate an independent and objective perspective, the and stock options as long-term incentive compensation, and is Committee for the Examination of the Nominees for the designed to provide an impetus for continuing annual Members of the Board of Directors consists exclusively of all improvement in business results and mediumto long-term Outside Directors and all Outside Audit & Supervisory Board growth. Linkage of remuneration to business results increases Members (five males and one female), with the chairman with rank, based on the responsibility for duties and business chosen by the members, and in FY 2015 an Independent results of each position. An overview of the components of Outside Director held the position. Prior to the election or remuneration is as follows. re-election of Members of the Board of Directors (including (1) Base salary Representative Directors), the Committee conducts Paid as fixed monthly remuneration in an amount examinations and submits its opinions of the nominees’ determined in accordance with duties as an Executive appropriateness to the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Officer and rank. Board of Directors and the President and Chief Executive (2) Bonus as short-term incentive compensation Officer contribute by submitting necessary and sufficient When the full amount is paid, the bonus is set at 50% of documents for an examination (including a summary of the base salary for the President and Chief Executive Officer, new management structure, incorporating a classification of 40% of base salary for the Chairman of the Board of duties of the Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Directors and Executive Officers with titles other than the Officers, in addition to materials related to the subjects of the Chief Executive Officer, and 30% of base salary for other examination) to each member of the Committee and work to Executive Officers. The rate of payment of the bonus is enhance the examination by making arrangements such as set within a range of 0–200%, depending on the degree creating opportunities for the Director nominees and the of achievement of targets for net sales and income (gross Committee members to meet beforehand. The Committee profit less selling, general and administrative expenses), met three times in FY 2015, and in addition to examining the the degree of their improvement from the previous year, appropriateness of Director nominees, it discussed the and the degree of achievement of the target for composition and diversity of the Board of Directors, including Economic Value Added (EVA), the Company’s main the proportion of Inside Directors and Outside Directors, and management metric, which takes capital cost into the qualities and abilities required of the Chief Executive account. Officer and Members of the Board of Directors of the (3) Stock options as long-term incentive compensation Company, among other issues, and reported the results of its Set at around 30% of base salary for each position. examination to the meeting of the Board of Directors. Compensation for Outside Directors, who are independent from the execution of business operations, consists of fixed Efforts to strengthen the function of the Audit & monthly remuneration only. Supervisory Board Members The compensation system and compensation standards for For improving the auditing effectiveness and strengthening the Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers are auditing function, Kao increased the number of its outside examined by the Compensation Advisory Committee, which is Audit & Supervisory Board Member by one from the 107th chaired by an Outside Director, and determined by resolution Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held in March 2013. of the Board of Directors from the standpoint of ensuring the Five Audit & Supervisory Board Members, including three objectivity and transparency of the determination process. The Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (possessing Compensation Advisory Committee is composed of the qualifications as certified accountants or lawyers) who are Chairman of the Board of Directors, all Representative independent from Kao’s management, exchange opinions Directors, all Outside Directors and all Outside Audit & regularly with Representative Directors, attend the meeting of Supervisory Board Members. Independent Directors and Audit Board of Directors, the Management Committee and other & Supervisory Board Members constitute a majority of the important meetings, participate in regular Conferences by members of the committee, which meets at least once a year Audit & Supervisory Board Members of Domestic Group during the remuneration adjustment period. Companies, and share auditing information with the Compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members Department of Internal Audit, Global and Kao’s Accounting consists of fixed monthly remuneration. Compensation Auditor. Audit & Supervisory Board Members also conduct standards are determined at meetings of the Audit & hearings with internal divisions and our subsidiaries regularly or Supervisory Board. as necessary. Compensation standards for Members of the Board of Directors, Executive Officers and Audit & Supervisory Board Policy on determining the amount of remuneration of Members are determined after ascertaining standards at other Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members major manufacturers of a similar size, industry category and and Executive Officers business type to the Company each year using officer Kao’s compensation system for Members of the Board of compensation survey data from an external survey organization. Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Executive The Company has no retirement bonus system for Officers is aimed at (1) securing and retaining diverse and Directors or Audit & Supervisory Board Members. excellent personnel to establish and improve competitive The total amount of remunerations for Members of the advantages; (2) promoting prioritized measures for lasting Board of Directors in FY 2015 is available in the Report increases in corporate value; and (3) sharing interests in Concerning Corporate Governance. common with shareholders. Remuneration of Members of the Board of Directors, other ➡For details, refer to the Report Concerning Corporate Governance than Outside Directors, and Executive Officers consists of http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_imgs/corp_info/governance_001.pdf Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 131 ▶ Corporate governance【34,38,39,40,41,42,45,51,52,53】 Corporate governance organization including internal control system Shareholders Meeting Board of Directors Committee for the Examination of the Audit & Supervisory Board Audit Chairman: Independent Nominees for the Members of the The Board consists of Outside Director Board of Directors* Monitoring 3 Independent Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Supervision and 2 Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members Compensation Advisory Committee* *All the Outside Directors and Outside Audit Audit & Supervisory Board Members are Management Committee members of both committees Sustainability Committee Internal Control Committee Consultation Outside Lawyers Accounting Auditors ● Disclosure Committee Audit ● Compliance Committee Compliance Hotline ● Information Security Committee ● Risk & Crisis Management Committee ● Committee for Responsible Care Promotion ● Quality Management Committee Executing Divisions Department of Executive Officer Responsible Audit Internal for each Division Internal Audit, ● Business divisions (each business units etc.) Audit ● Functional divisions Global (Research & Development, Supply Chain Management, Product Quality Management, each corporate functional divisions) Audit Subsidiaries/Affiliates Investigation Audit Conference by Audit & Audit & Supervisory (Attendance) (Attendance) Supervisory Board Members of Board Members Domestic Group Companies Accounting Auditors Audit Certified Public Accountants * Our policy is to ask experts, such as lawyers, for their advice as reference in making business judgements, if necessary, concerning business management and daily operations. Japan Ensuring the independence of Outside Directors/Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members In February 2010 Kao established and announced the To promote discussions from diverse perspectives, Standards for Independence of Outside Directors/Outside independent Outside Directors hold meetings exclusively for Audit & Supervisory Board Members of Kao Corporation. In independent Outside Directors on their own initiative at July 2012 these standards were revised to reflect partial intermissions of meetings of the Board of Directors or by revisions made to the Securities Listing Regulations of the setting up separate opportunities to exchange information and Tokyo Stock Exchange, etc. All of Kao’s incumbent Outside share awareness of issues related to the Company’s Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members management and the activities of the Board of Directors, satisfy the standards and are registered with the Tokyo Stock development of future senior management, and other matters. Exchange as independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Given the current situation of having good communications, ad Members. hoc meetings among Outside Directors/Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members are considered more appropriate ➡For details, refer to Standards for Independence of Outside Directors/ Audit & Supervisory Board Members of Kao Corporation for such communication than regular meetings scheduled by http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_imgs/corp_info/governance_002.pdf the Company. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 132 ▶ Corporate governance【34,38,39,40,41,42,45,51,52,53】 Policies/structures Internal control Kao formulated its Basic Policy Regarding the Internal Control System in May 2006 and, after confirming the level of Six Committees under the Internal Control compliance every year, reports to the Board of Directors and Committee makes revisions as necessary. ● Disclosure Committee The Internal Control Committee (chaired by the ● Compliance Committee Representative Director, President and CEO) reviews and ● Information Security Committee approves system maintenance and operational planning, ● Risk & Crisis Management Committee periodically evaluating and revising as necessary. ● Committee for Responsible Care Promotion In addition, six committees have been placed under the ● Quality Management Committee Internal Control Committee to analyze and confirm the situation surrounding internal control. They develop the internal control system and make improvements as necessary by employing the PDCA (Plan, Do, Check, and Act) cycle. Executive Officers Kao’s Business Report carries an outline of management of who sit on these six committees as key members also serve systems to assure appropriate business operations of Kao in on the Secretariat of the Internal Control Committee to confirm 2015. the status of maintenance and promotion of the internal control system, including the status of individual committees’ ➡For details, refer to the Convocation Notice of the 110th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders activities. http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_ir/imgs/shareholders_01.pdf In response to the Internal Control Report System under the so-called J-SOX legislation, Kao has established the J-SOX Secretariat and works to promote the development, operation, and efficient evaluation of its internal control system and to enhance the reliability of financial statements. Kao will continue to improve its internal control system. Japan Basic policy to eliminate antisocial forces and its maintenance In efforts to eliminate antisocial forces, Kao has declared not to On the basis of the aforementioned provisions, Kao engage in activities or conduct which offends social norms or promotes cooperation with governmental agencies, etc. and morality in the Kao Business Conduct Guidelines and has stated collection and management of information regarding antisocial its system of eliminating antisocial forces in the Basic Policy forces and establishes and maintains its internal system. Regarding the Internal Control System. Kao has familiarized all Furthermore, Kao also conducts contractual risk employees of Kao Group companies with the Kao Business management throughout the Kao Group, such as entering into Conduct Guidelines and Basic Policy Regarding the Internal signed contractual obligations with long-term business partners Control System, both of which are posted on its website. concerning the elimination of antisocial forces. Global Global harmonization of internal control In efforts to promote the global integration of business field of responsibility. operations, each branch and function of the company, including Each committee sets targets to be achieved globally, the six committees under the Internal Control Committee, is establishes the necessary rules to promote activities and conducting activities to achieve global harmonization in each develops activities on a global basis. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 133 ▶ Corporate governance【34,38,39,40,41,42,45,51,52,53】 Outside Director message about proposals for execution. So far, however, I have enthusiastically supported the decisions that have been made. Kao’s true value lies in its “Yoki-Monozukuri,” backed by research and technological development. Therefore, I always listen to these innovative proposals with excitement. For Kao’s products and brands of excellent value to be used by people worldwide, I have been urging my fellow Directors to tell a story—in other words, Toru Nagashima to build a business model that not only creates excellent products Independent Outside Director through Yoki-Monozukuri but also conveys their excellence to the Senior Advisor public. Last year, we started a project to communicate Kao’s value. Teijin Limited We considered how to accurately convey the essential value of Kao’s products to our partners in the retail industry and the I have been a member of Kao’s Board of Directors for more than consumers who actually use the products. We are now carrying out three years, with expectations placed on my global experience as an those measures. I am pleased that my experience seems to have executive of a company that, like Kao, is a manufacturer. During that been useful in these discussions. Conversely, I would also like Kao period, I have mainly been involved in discussions of: to aim for Yoki-Monozukuri and a new business model from the 1) Ongoing consideration of further innovations in and execution of viewpoint of its markets and its customers. corporate governance; in other words, consideration of the corporate Stimulating discussion at Board of Directors meetings is a topic governance system we consider best for Kao’s sustained growth that is often raised. At Kao, the President puts forth immediate and under our present conditions; mediumto long-term issues and regularly directs the itinerary for 2) Clearly working out and implementing risk management for discussions held at Board meetings throughout the year. As a result, Kanebo Cosmetics, a subsidiary that faced the management crisis of we Outside Officers, including Audit & Supervisory Board Members, a voluntary product recall in July 2013. As the parent company of a are always aware of the progress and purposes of current consumer goods business group, we put the recovery and care of discussions, enabling us to participate with a grasp of the bigger customers first, with an unwavering stance of wholeheartedly picture. With this broad perspective, I would like to make my next providing fair and equitable compensation and support; and proposal to Kao as it aims to become a company with a global 3) Ambitious initiatives for further growth and the investment to presence: I suggest that the company should look beyond its past fund them, amid strong performance consisting of six consecutive successes in Japan to discover and cultivate human assets who can fiscal years of increases in sales and profits. perform on a global level for the growth that will take Kao to the In these discussions, I give my opinion whenever I have doubts next stage. Third-party opinion well as trial and error. For example, we have learned about the circumstances that led to the inclusion of a non-independent bank executive as an Outside Director. This was a result of Kao’s emphasis on diversity, with Directors from the fields of manufacturing, finance and management Toshiaki Oguchi consulting, all possessing the global experience required by the Representative Director Board of Directors as their common thread. We have also been told Governance for Owners Japan KK about the various methods used to enhance discussions at Board of A member of The Council of Experts Concerning the Follow-up of Japan’s Directors meetings, as well as the process of trial and error used in Stewardship Code and Japan’s setting the scope of the Committee for the Examination of the Corporate Governance Code Nominees for the Members of the Board of Directors. Hearing about these matters, we believe that because Kao has gone through such We at Governance for Owners Japan KK have been engaging in processes, it has developed unique, firmly grounded corporate constructive dialogue with Kao Corporation on behalf of our global governance. The results have been sustained growth and increased institutional investor clients for more than five years since 2010. corporate value, which in turn have earned approbation from Although there was a voluntary product recall by Kanebo Cosmetics, institutional investors outside the company. a subsidiary of Kao, in 2013, Kao’s clear policies and conscientious Innovation in corporate governance has no end. For example, explanations minimized its downward impact, and as a result, Kao’s we have discussed the necessity of diversity—in gender, nationality shareholder value (stock price) has more than tripled during this or otherwise—among the members of the Board of Directors, based period. on factors such as the nature of Kao’s businesses and its further We would summarize our impression of Kao’s corporate expansion outside Japan. We also believe ongoing discussion is governance as the manifestation of the “Innovation” expressed in required to select the most appropriate form of corporate the Kao Way. When we began our dialogue with Kao, its Board of organization for Kao. Global institutional investors, including our Directors was made up of 13 Inside Directors and two Independent company’s clients, will remain closely attentive to Kao’s initiatives to Outside Directors. The composition of the Board has changed contribute to sustainability—including social and environmental substantially, now consisting of three Inside Directors, two issues—while working for profitable growth, as it has advocated. Independent Outside Directors and one Non-Independent Outside We look forward to Kao’s continued use of “Innovation” to Director, and the position of chairman is held by an Independent resolve these issues. Outside Director rather than an Inside Director.* We realize that *A s of April 2016, there are four Inside Directors and all Outside these changes have been the result of ongoing reexamination, as Directors are independent. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 134 ▶ Information disclosure Disclosing information in a timely, accurate and fair manner in accordance with its Disclosure Guidelines. 2015 activities In addition to the timely and fair information disclosure to and ongoing dialogue with shareholders and investors that we carry out, in July we released a Report Concerning Corporate Governance that describes the implementation status of each principle stated in the Corporate Governance Code established by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and subsequently revised the report several times. Policies/structures As for information disclosure, Kao’s basic policy is to disclose intensified dialogue with institutional investors inside and information in a timely, accurate and fair manner in accordance outside Japan. with its Disclosure Guidelines. Kao discloses information which it is obligated to release publicly and information useful to * ‌TDnet (Timely Disclosure Network) A service to distribute information on listed companies on a real time shareholders and investors, in English and Japanese, on the basis; operated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange online Timely Disclosure Network (TDnet)* based on the Securities Listing Regulations of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. ➡For details, refer to Investor Relations http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_ir/investors.html This information is also simultaneously posted in the Investor ➡For details, refer to Disclosure Guidelines Relations section of Kao’s website. http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_ir/disclosure.html Kao will continue to seek improvement of IR activities ➡p.145 Recognition by outside organizations > SRI indexes and evaluations through reinforcing strategic information disclosures, such as enhanced delivery of messages from top management and Japan Publicizing shareholder meetings and facilitating the exercise of voting rights To provide shareholders with sufficient time to examine understand explanations of the main parts of the business agenda items, Kao sends a convocation notice about one report, major issues and the mediumto long-term outlook month prior to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders using projected images and a thorough question-and-answer (AGM) every year. Furthermore, Kao posts the convocation session. notice on the online TDnet and on the corporate website ahead Kao also provides opportunities for shareholders who of sending the convocation notice, and to provide prompt and desire to make the acquaintance of Directors and Executive fair information disclosure to foreign shareholders, who hold Officers to do so after the close of the AGM. about half of its shares, a summarized English translation of After the conclusion of the AGM, Kao also posts the convocation notice is provided. presentation materials used at the meeting and a summary of To encourage the exercise of voting rights, Kao uses voting resolutions from the meeting in both Japanese and electronic means for voting, including the Internet and an English on its website. electronic voting platform operated by ICJ, Inc. Kao works to enhance the content of its convocation notices for AGM by conducting regular revisions to proactively incorporate information considered conducive to appropriate judgments by shareholders, in addition to items required by The 110th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders law. Also, Kao provides institutional investors and others with (Held in March 2016) explanations as necessary. Total number of shareholders who attended: 1,901 At the AGM, Kao provides shareholders with easy-toKao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 135 ▶ Information disclosure Japan Holding dialogue between Kao and its shareholders and individual investors Kao strives to promote two-way communication between Kao shareholders. and its shareholders and investors. We received many favorable comments from participants in In 2015, Kao conducted tours of the Kao Museum, the the tours, including, “The at-home atmosphere was nice, and Kawasaki Plant and the Wakayama Eco-Lab Museum for quite different from the AGM,” and “I now clearly understand shareholders over seven days during June, with a total of about where Kao is headed and the company’s approach to 480 people attending. shareholders thanks to the Executive Officers’ explanations.” After the about one-hour tours, Executive Officers explained We continue to incorporate such feedback as we plan and Kao’s performance, mid-term management plan and status of implement future events to bring higher satisfaction to shareholder returns, and responded to questions from shareholders. Global Overview of IR activities Kao recognizes its shareholders and investors as important ◦Financial results briefings (on the same day as half-year and stakeholders and carries out activities aimed at earning the full-year financial results are announced) trust of markets and receiving fair assessments. Kao’s policy is ◦IR road show in North America, Europe and Asia to disclose information to shareholders, analysts, and ◦Small meeting with the President: twice a year institutional investors in Japan and outside Japan in a timely, ◦Business briefings and facility tours: seven times a year accurate and fair manner through constructive and purposeful ◦One-on-one meetings: about 400 interviews in and outside of dialogue that takes a long-term view. Outside opinions are Japan provided as feedback to management as appropriate. Through ◦Disclosure of information on corporate website such activities, we aim to sustain and improve corporate value. ◦Reports to shareholders (half-year and full-year) (Japanese version) ◦Annual Report (English version) ◦IR information through RSS feed distribution* * RSS feed distribution: A distribution system that automatically provides subscribers with a newsfeed every time a website is updated Global Dialogue with a long-term view and information disclosure to institutional investors Report Concerning Corporate Governance Concerning dialogue with a long-term view Kao is constantly engaged in enhancing corporate governance. Kao works to increase corporate value by engaging in dialogue Kao issued its Report Concerning Corporate Governance with a long-term view in line with the Code. In 2015, meetings (hereafter, “the Report”) in July 2015 that contains an itemized were held with institutional investors in which ideas were list of the state of implementation of the Corporate Governance exchanged on the company’s corporate governance and other Code (hereafter, “the Code”) set forth by the Tokyo Stock aspects of Environment, Social, Governance. Insights gained Exchange, Inc. Since its publication, Kao has updated the from these exchanges are being used to improve information Report several times in the effort to improve it. disclosure and expand dialogue. One example of improved The Report systematically organizes Kao’s corporate information disclosure is the incorporation of insights gained in governance efforts and state of compliance to date regardless the exchanges into presentation materials used in the results of the order in which the Code is presented, in order to facilitate briefing and annual report. a better understanding of Kao’s implementation status with regard to principles of disclosure sought by the Code. ➡For details, refer to the Report Concerning Corporate Governance http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_imgs/corp_info/governance_001.pdf Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 136 ▶ Information security and protection of personal information【14,58】 The Kao Group has an Information Security Committee whose purpose is to protect information assets including confidential information (trade secrets) and personal information. The Committee has established an administrative system based on extensive discussion that aims to set internal rules and to see that internal control is thoroughly implemented and rules are observed. The Committee also carries out educational activities for employees. 2015 activities Improvements were made in two areas targeted in 2015 with regard to confidential information (trade secrets) and personal information—implementing education of measures and keeping records thereof and having rules relating to making confidential documents understood and followed of each division. The Kao Group has conducted paper audits for 258 outsourcing contractors to confirm how personal information is handled. Additionally, training is being conducted to cope with a possible targeted e-mail attack, a current society-wide problem. Policies/structures Kao has established Guidelines on Handling Trade Secrets, Kao endeavors to improve the Kao Group’s level of TS and Guidelines for Handling Personal Information, and IT Security personal information management. Guidelines based on its Information Security Policy to ensure Kao strictly protects personal information in accordance that business activities are carried out in accordance with the with the guidelines produced by the Japanese Ministry of relevant laws. The Information Security Committee, divisional Economy, Trade and Industry. When transactions involve members for protection of trade secrets (TS), and supervisors outsourcing of operations, including handling of personal who handle personal information are required to ensure information, to other companies, Kao exercises thorough comprehensive information security management when oversight of such companies by means of detailed execution performing their respective roles. Kao provides these of contracts and auditing procedures. Pursuant to the Japanese personnel with the necessary training and education on an Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s guidelines, the ongoing basis. In response to global sharing of information, personal information of employees is also managed properly. Japan Implementing divisional self-patrols In April and May of every year, divisional members for 2015—implementing education of measures and keeping protection of trade secrets (TS) and supervisors who handle records thereof and having rules relating to making confidential personal information conduct self-inspection to examine the documents understood and followed of each division. Targets conditions under which trade secrets and personal information for improvement in 2016 were also set—a thorough revision of are managed within their own divisions. the confidential information list and full implementation of Improvements were confirmed in two areas targeted in trade secret classification. Japan The 22nd TS & Personal Information Protection Promotion Meeting The Kao Group in Japan holds regular meetings for the purpose At the 22nd TS & Personal Information Protection Promotion of protecting TS and personal information, which are attended Meeting held in September 2015, a guest speaker from a by divisional committee members for protection of TS and leading IT security company explained about the targeted supervisors who handle personal information. e-mail attack using specific examples from other companies, raising awareness at Kao. Japan Re-confirming the information technology systems for personal information management Personal information obtained by Kao Group companies in security level of those information systems. Japan is managed in information systems operated by each In 2015, Kao conducted paper audits of 258 companies in company and by outsourcing contractors outside the Kao response to new calls for periodic status checks of personal Group. As there were cases of large-scale leaks of personal information handling at outsourcing contractors that handle information at other companies, the Kao Group has repersonal information. Such audits are stipulated by the Ministry investigated how personal information is being managed in the of Economy, Trade and Industry in its Guidelines Targeting information systems of Kao Group companies and outsourcing Economic and Industrial Sectors Pertaining to the Act on the contractors, and is taking steps to maintain and improve the Protection of Personal Information, revised in December 2014. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 137 ▶ Information security and protection of personal information【14,58】 Topic Training to cope with a targeted e-mail attack In 2015, incidents of targeted e-mail attacks at other companies to spread computer virus infections resulted in the leaking of the personal information of 1.25 million people. The mass media including newspapers and television covered these incidents extensively, alerting the public to the large-scale nature of this societal problem. Kao alerted its employees to possible targeted e-mail attacks using its internal portal site, KOMPASS. Training was carried out through an e-learning program, reaching 16,292 employees in December. The training entailed sending e-mail from the fictitious organizations “Monthly Meeting Secretariat” and “Information Security Council” and checking who opened the file attachment. Ongoing training is scheduled to be carried out in 2016, as well. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 138 ▶ Risk and crisis management 【2,14,45,46,49】 Kao maintains a management framework and takes appropriate action in response to risks and crises that could negatively impact achievement of the Kao Group’s targets and business activities. 2015 activities With the aim of enhancing our ability to deal effectively with risk, in 2015 the most important corporate risks affecting the Kao Group were identified, and organizations were established for responding to corporate risks in order of priority. In regard to major risks, besides implementing activities to reduce risk, we have also strengthened the organization and our response for a crisis occurrence, assuming the manifestation of such risks. Policies/structures Kao regards the potential negative impact on its management “corporate risks” and appoints a person to appropriately targets and business activities as a “risk” and the manifestation manage each risk. of such risk as a “crisis,” and has established an organization When a crisis occurs, Kao responds promptly to minimize for appropriate risk and crisis management. injury and damage by establishing an organization for Based on the Risk and Crisis Management Policy, the Risk countermeasures centered on the person in charge of and Crisis Management Committee, chaired by the member of corporate risks, and on departments, subsidiaries and affiliates the Board of Directors or Executive Officer in charge of risk concerned with other risks. In addition, depending on the and crisis management, ascertains the situation of companymagnitude of the impact on the Kao Group as a whole, Kao wide risk management and establishes a system and operating also establishes a countermeasures headquarters with the plans for risk and crisis management activities. President and Chief Executive Officer or other person as its Based on this policy and plan, departments, subsidiaries general manager. and affiliates appropriately manage risk by ascertaining and Management of the abovementioned risks and crises is assessing risks and formulating and implementing necessary reported to and discussed at meetings of the Board of countermeasures. Directors or the Management Committee on a regular basis as In addition, Kao specifies major company-wide risks as well as in a timely fashion whenever necessary. Risk and crisis management organization Board of Directors Management Committee Sustainability Internal Control Committee Risk and Crisis Management Committee Committee ● Disclosure Committee Chair Executive Officer in charge of risk and ● Compliance Committee crisis management ● Information Security Committee Members Legal and Compliance ●Risk and Crisis Management Product Quality Management Committee Human Capital Development ● Committee for Responsible Care (RC) Accounting and Finance Promotion Kao Group Customer Marketing ● Quality Management Committee Kao’s Business Units Kanebo Cosmetics Inc., etc. Person in charge of corporate risk Secretariat Risk and Crisis Management Corporate Strategy, etc. Divisions Kao Sustainability Report 2016 Conservation Community Culture Governance CONTENTS ◀ 139 ▶ Risk and crisis management 【2,14,45,46,49】 Global Building a new risk and crisis management organization The globalization of our business increases the uncertainty and such risks, and built a new organization to promote risk complexity of the management environment, as well as the management. scale and speed of the impact on business activities when a Corporate risks include not only risks that have an impact risk becomes manifest. In light of this situation, Kao worked as on business continuity, such as an earthquake with an follows in 2015 to build a new risk and crisis management epicenter in the Tokyo metropolitan area, for which Kao has organization. been enhancing countermeasures, but also other risks such as those related to management strategy. (1) Expanding the scope for strengthening risk management The scope for strengthening risk management was expanded (3) ‌Strengthening the organization and initial response to include not only the former operational risks such as when a crisis occurs accidents and disasters, product problems and issues with Previously, dealing with risks has mainly been consideration of compliance, but also strategy risks that would hinder the risk reduction activities to prevent the manifestation of risks achievement of short-term and mid-term plans as well as risks and activities to minimize their impact. For major risks, in involving trust in the company, which are closely related to addition to these risk reduction activities, we have decided to these risks. strengthen the organization and our initial response when a crisis occurs, assuming the manifestation of such risks. (2) ‌Clarifying major risks to be handled by management In 2016, we will further strengthen our risk reduction and building an organization for response activities and implement speedy and appropriate responses Kao has specified major company-wide risks as “corporate under our new risk and crisis management organization when risks,” appointed an Executive Officer in charge of managing a crisis occurs. Global Identifying risks that could seriously affect achievement of management targets and business activities, and strengthening countermeasures For operational risks, Kao conducts risk surveys at key divisions the differences in the response levels of Kao Group companies and subsidiaries in Japan as well as at Kao Group companies outside Japan with regard to their establishment of outside Japan to identify events that could seriously affect Kao organizations to deal with social disorder caused by factors Group business activities, factors in their occurrence, current such as terrorist attacks, which have occurred in many countermeasures and issues. countries in recent years, and pandemics of new types of Risk surveys at Kao Group companies outside Japan in influenza or other diseases. 2015 ascertained the establishment of organizations to deal In 2016, we will work to enhance the level of response of with emergency situations, the creation of action plans and the the entire Kao Group to emergency situations related to social implementation status of education and training in order to disorder or pandemics by revising global guidelines and confirm that such companies are going through the PDCA strengthening response organizations at Kao Group companies cycle in dealing with emergency situations that affect lives and outside Japan. business continuity. As a result, we were able to understand Global Strengthening the Business Continuity Plan (BCP)* We have been working to strengthen our supply chain to organization and standards for business continuity assuming a ensure delivery of products to customers by revising our raw pandemic of a new type of influenza or other disease, and made materials procurement and production and logistics systems revisions. assuming a large-scale earthquake that may strike in the In 2016, we will deal with these issues in greater depth to future. strengthen the BCP. In 2015, we considered alternate locations for continuing *Business Continuity Plan (BCP) the functions of headquarters, assuming a situation in which we A plan for continuing key corporate activities through procedures to decide were unable to secure key personnel or use main locations due in advance which operations and functions should be continued, and which methods should be applied to continue activities, assuming various to an earthquake with an epicenter in the Tokyo metropolitan situations that cause the interruption and/or shutdown of business area. In addition, we identified issues such as a response activities due to various events and the factors in their occurrence. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 140 ▶ Responsible Care Activities 【14,DMA】 Kao vigorously implements Responsible Care (RC) activities, which are self-monitoring activities by companies engaged in the chemical industry, to ensure ongoing occupational safety and environmental conservation. 2015 activities We have established Kao Responsible Care Policy, set targets for the year, and are continuously implementing activities based on an annual plan. In 2015 we began pursuing a shift to a new system for efficiently sharing our environmental and safety data in the Kao Group. The RC Secretariat began officially conducting audits of Group companies outside Japan identical to the audits conducted in Japan. For RC education, employees of the Kao Group in Japan were given training through an online system for the first time, and study materials were provided to Group companies outside Japan in various languages. Policies/structures Kao carefully safeguards individuals and the environment at the head of the Sustainability Department and is composed of every step of business, from product development to 13 members: representatives from the above-mentioned eight manufacturing, distribution, use and disposal, and part of its divisions, plus four divisions, and the head of the Product mission is to help bring about sustainability in society. Quality Management Division. The RC Promotion Group of the To achieve this objective, we have established the Kao Sustainability Department and Product Quality Management Responsible Care Policy based on the basic elements of the Division serve as the secretariat. Responsible Care (RC) activities*1 (self-monitoring efforts *1 Basic ‌ elements of RC activities: Five objectives (environmental governing the environment, safety and health set out by the conservation, process safety and disaster prevention, occupational safety chemical industry). The Kao Group as a whole, including and health, chemical and product safety, distribution safety) and communication with society subcontractors, sets targets each year, and implements those *2 Eight ‌ promotion divisions: Head Office Division (Kayabacho Office), Head activities based on an annual plan. Office Division (Sumida Office), Chemical Business Division, Kao Specific activities are divided among eight divisions*2 based Professional Services, R&D Division, SCM Division, Sales Division, Logistics Division on their role in the Kao Group in Japan and are implemented with the inclusion of all Group companies outside Japan. ➡For details, refer to Kao Responsible Care Policy The Responsible Care Promotion Committee is chaired by http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/eco_activities_05_00.html RC promotion system Board of Directors Management Committee Sustainability Committee Internal Control Committee Committee for Responsible Care Promotion ● Disclosure Committee Chairperson Sustainability Department ● Compliance Committee General Manager ● Information Security Committee Members Head Office Division ● Risk & Crisis Management (13 members) (Kayabacho Office) Committee Head Office Division ● Committee for Responsible (Sumida Office) Care Promotion Chemical Business Division ● Quality Management Committee Kao Professional Services R&D Division SCM Division Sales Division Logistics Division Procurement Division Divisions Consumer Products Business Division Consumer CC Division Kanebo Cosmetics Inc. Product Quality Management Division Member of Committee for RC Promotion Secretariat Sustainability Department Product Quality Management Division Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 141 ▶ Responsible Care Activities 【14,DMA】 Annual cycle of RC activities December Japan RC Meeting (Review each division’s targets) November Self-check January Plan Submission of implementation October reports/plans Global RC Meeting Objectives (Communicate Group policy/targets) Occupational Safety and Health September Process Safety and Disaster Prevention March Kao Group RC Promotion Act Do Compile the preceding Committee Chemicals and Product Safety (Formulate Group targets) year’s results Distribution Safety August Environmental Conservation RC Secretariat Audit Check July Issue Sustainability Report Self-check (Dialogue with community) Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 142 ▶ Responsible Care Activities 【14,DMA】 Global The standardization of RC activities At the Kao Group RC Promotion Committee held in September, results of the RC Secretariat Audit. The four promoting divisions* members discuss initiatives to clarify courses of action and also announced the current state of their promotion activities. strengthen the management system, and deliberate over the Finally, two items were agreed upon for deliberation—adding to Kao Group’s mid-term targets as well as the following year’s the committee rules the ongoing holding of Global RC Meetings numerical targets and activity targets based on the results of the to accompany the global rollout of RC in the Kao Group; and the RC Secretariat Audit conducted in August. Kao Group’s RC targets for 2016. At the Global RC Meeting held in October since 2014, the RC The Global RC Meeting was held in Tokyo on October 13 and Secretariat explains the Kao Group’s mid-term targets and targets 14, with attendance by 15 people from 13 companies outside of for the upcoming year, decided at the Kao Group RC Promotion Japan (up from nine the previous year). The meeting promoted Committee, and requests each company to devise its respective understanding of Kao RC Policy and 2016 targets were targets and plan for the upcoming year. Representatives from confirmed. Participants could observe how RC activities and each company present the status of their RC activities and share advice were implemented in other companies, analyze strengths information with the Kao Group. and weaknesses, and share best practices, with the interactive At the Japan RC Meeting held in December, based on these communication leading to enhanced global RC activities. numerical targets and activity targets for the Kao Group decided At the Japan RC Meeting held on December 18, each RC at the Kao Group RC Promotion Committee, RC Promotion Promotion Committee members announced their 2016 draft Committee members announce their respective division plan for plans; the plans were then discussed and approved. The RC the upcoming year, each of which the committee then discusses. Secretariat then reported on the Group’s 2015 environmental and The RC Promotion members convey the deliberation results to safety record and proposed the formation of the RC promotion their respective divisions, relating the content in detail to their structure to boost the effectiveness of each promotion division activity units in an effort to improve and enhance RC activities to coincide with the reorganization, which was then approved. closely connected to each worksite. The Kao Group RC Promotion Committee meeting was held on * Four promotion divisions: R&D Division, Sales Division, Logistics Division, October 1, 2015. The RC Secretariat announced the Kao Group’s Head Office Division (Kayabacho Office) overall first-half results in relation to 2015 RC targets, and the Kao Group RC Promotion Committee Global RC Meeting Global Utilization of environmental and safety database Kao has developed the Environmental & Safety Data * Environmental ‌ & Safety Data Management System (KANCHAN System) Data shared among the Kao Group under this system includes those Management System (KANCHAN System)* to further reduce related to energy consumption, GHG emissions, soot and dust emissions, both environmental impacts and occupational accidents. water use, wastewater amounts, wastewater concentration The KANCHAN System automatically calculates Kao’s total measurements, soil and groundwater measurements, amounts of handling, release and transfer of PRTR materials, waste generated, GHG emissions and the annual frequency and severity rate of discharged, and final disposed of waste, occupational accident statistics, occupational accidents, along with other data-based practical and traffic accident statistics. information used to reduce our environmental impacts and eliminate occupational accidents. We began to shift to a new system that will enable effective sharing of data, aiming for 2017 implementation. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 143 ▶ Responsible Care Activities 【14,DMA】 Global Conducting the RC Secretariat Audit At Kao, individual divisions in charge of RC promotion conduct and achievement of numerical targets, etc. Improvements a self-check in July, and the RC Secretariat implements an were observed in many areas pointed out in the 2014 audit—in audit of individual divisions in charge of RC promotion in risk assessment, identification of regulatory requirements, and August to determine the progress of RC activities and the procedures, criteria and implementation of record-keeping challenges to be addressed. for education and training, etc. These results are reported at the RC Promotion Committee Outside of Japan, in consideration of the impact of safety held each September and help formulate the next year’s and environmental factors, the checklist sheet was sent to activity targets. companies with plants, and a paper audit was conducted of the response results. Particular requests were made Between July and September, 2015, the RC Secretariat Audit concerning the implementation of risk assessments of was conducted at eight promotion divisions* in Japan and 17 occupational safety and the drafting of a plan to reduce waste. companies outside of Japan (an increase of seven from the The audit results were presented at the RC Promotion previous year) using a checklist sheet adhering to the RC code Committee meeting held on October 1. revised in 2014. In Japan, in meetings with the promotion divisions, various *E ‌ ight promotion divisions Head Office Division (Kayabacho Office), Head Office Division (Sumida situations were confirmed—the current state of compliance Office), Chemical Business Division, Kao Professional Services, R&D with regulatory requirements and criteria, progress in planning Division, SCM Division, Sales Division, Logistics Division Results of RC Secretariat Audit (2015) Group companies Group companies SCM R&D Business divisions Corporate Division in Japan*1 outside Japan*2 No. of questions 154 147 174 395 378 3,002 No. of items requiring 3 4 2 6 11 — continued observation Average evaluation 4.88 4.95 4.67 4.85 4.66 3.98 score (5-point scale) *1 Group companies in Japan: Kanebo Cosmetics Inc., Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd., Kao Transport & Logistics Co., Ltd. *2 Group companies outside Japan: 17 companies (10 in Asia, 7 in Europe and the Americas) Japan Implementing continuous RC education The RC Secretariat and RC promotion staff of the individual understanding of these things, an online study program for divisions in charge of RC promotion regularly provide RC about 20,000 employees was run from April to August that education on the environment, occupational safety and health involved text-based study, proficiency level tests, and activities for Kao employees and the staff of its business questionnaires on basic knowledge of responsible care and partners. Kao’s RC activities. Additionally, study materials in different languages were In 2015, the RC Secretariat carried out group training 15 times, supplied to 13 group companies outside Japan that participated reaching a total of 214 employees. in the Global RC Meeting. The study program at companies Furthermore, to spread education on Kao RC Policy, outside Japan is expected to be completed in 2016. structures and activities, and to improve employees’ Results of RC Secretariat education (2015) Group companies SCM R&D Business divisions Corporate Division Total in Japan* No. of training sessions 6 1 2 2 4 15 No. of participants 144 11 8 6 45 214 *Group companies in Japan: Kanebo Cosmetics Inc., Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd., Kao Transport & Logistics Co., Ltd. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 144 ▶ Responsible Care Activities 【14,DMA】 Topic Kao receives award from the Japan Chemical Industry Association Kao received the Outstanding Prize in the ninth Responsible Care Awards organized by the Japan Chemical Industry Association for its earthquake preparedness measures. The award is recognition for Kao’s implementation since 1998 of various plant safety and stable production measures that include earthquake-proofing reinforcement of plant buildings, measures to prevent liquefaction of highpressure gas equipment and storage tanks for hazardous materials, and measures to prevent leakages in equipment that handles hazardous or toxic materials. The award is Kao’s second consecutive one, following a 2014 award for Kao Awards ceremony and award speech Customer Marketing Co., Ltd.’s community-directed communication activities. ➡Other awards received for 2015 RC activities p.24 Highlights: Conservation > Reducing CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle > Environmental improvement activities at Pilipinas Kao Global Status of environmental management system certification (ISO 14001, etc.) Kao has introduced a RC management system in all Kao Group The certifications of the nine sites in Japan obtained sites, and has also received the ISO 14001 certification and separately were integrated in 2015 to standardize and upgrade certification from various countries for its plants that activities. Certification will be integrated at more plants, along manufacture finished products. The percentage of Kao plants with more sites becoming certified in the future. that have this certification is 94% (based on total production ➡For details, refer to Certification Status of ISO and Other Standards volume). http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/eco_activities_02_11.html Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 145 ▶ Recognition by outside organizations Global SRI indexes and evaluations (as of June 1, 2016) SRI indexes Kao was selected for inclusion in the 2014 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, among the world’s most renowned socially responsible investment (SRI) indices, for the second straight year. In addition, of 24 companies, Kao received the highest score among industrial groups in the Household & Personal Products category and was selected as the Industry Group Leader. Kao continues to be included in a number of other world-leading indexes as well. ➡For details, refer to FTSE4Good Index Series http://www.ftse.com/Indices/FTSE4Good_Index_Series/index.jsp ➡For details, refer to MS-SRI Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index http://www.morningstar.co.jp/sri/index.htm (Japanese) Evaluation Switzerland-based RobecoSAM, a leading global SRI assessment company, selected Kao for its Gold Class award in its 2015 sustainability rating as well as an Industry Mover in 2015. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 146 ▶ Recognition by Outside Organizations Global List of recognition by outside organizations in 2015 Various initiatives conducted by the Kao Group to contribute to realizing a sustainable society have earned high recognition. Conservation Date of award Group recognized Name and details of recognition Sponsoring organization Kashima Plant Received the Environment Minister’s Prize as a plant working to conserve greenery Contest for Corporate 2015/02 Kao Corporation areas with consideration for regional biodiversity. Activities on Biodiversity Received the Olive Leaf Award in the Business and Biodiversity Awards for World Wildlife Fund Japan 2015/02 Kao Corporation presenting an ideal raw materials procurement policy in the Guidelines for (WWF Japan) Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials. Hokkaido Council to Promote Kao Customer Received the grand prize in the 4th Simplified Packaging Award (2015) for practice of 2015/02 Simplified Containers and Marketing Co., Ltd. eco-packaging for Bioré Cleansing Oil Cotton Facial Sheets. Packaging Received the PEZA Environmental Performance Award for improvements achieved Philippine Economic Zone 2015/04 Pilipinas Kao, Inc in saving energy and reducing CO2 emissions and efforts and achievements in Authority (PEZA) environmental protection projects. Received the WorldStar Award in the Household Category for Wide Haiter EX Power 2015/05 Kao Corporation World Packaging Organisation fabric bleach, 600ml bottle, for its excellent environmental design. Received the 2015 Kawasaki City Environmental Merit Commendation for promoting Kawasaki Plant 2015/06 protection of greenery and tree planting at the plant as well as contributions to Kawasaki City Kao Corporation improving the community environment. Received a commendation of merit for urban greening in FY 2015 urban greening Ministry of Land, and urban park development, conservation, and beautification campaigns from the 2015/10 Kao Corporation Infrastructure, Transport and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism for activities conducted over Tourism 15 years in the “Kao Creating Forests for Everyone” program. Selected as a Top Public Disclosure Company briefing for the Kao Group’s environmental 2015/11 Kao Corporation CDP conservation activities and approach to disclosing information to stakeholders. Community Date of award Group recognized Name and details of recognition Sponsoring organization Received the 39 Kinoshita Prize in the Research and Development category for the th 2015/05 Kao Corporation one-push container with a measuring feature adopted in CuCute One-push Clear Gel Japan Packaging Institute dishwasher detergent. Received the Japan Star Award, President of The Accessible Design Foundation of Kao Corporation, Japan Award, in the 2015 Japan Packaging Contest for new tactile cues adopted in 2015/08 Kanebo Cosmetics Japan Packaging Institute Bioré-u body soap containers. Another four Kao Group products, including Kanebo Inc. Cosmetics’ LISSAGE MEN series, also received awards. Wakayama Plant Received a Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare commendation for being an excellent Ministry of Health, Labour 2015/10 Kao Corporation ordering company in FY 2015 for Kao’s long-term support of the Sumiya Wasa Welfare Factory. and Welfare Received the 16th Kawai Commemorative Award for a joint research paper on Health and Welfare Statistics 2015/11 Kao Corporation research related to daily walking speed using an activity meter and lowering ADL Association based on the health condition and walking speed of seniors. Received the Society Award for receiving approval in OECD Test Guidelines of the The Japanese Society for 2015/12 Kao Corporation alternative cell-based short time exposure (STE) eye irritation test, an original test Alternatives to Animal developed by Kao to conduct safety assessments without relying on animal testing. Experiments Received the Encouragement Award of The Society for Risk Analysis Japan for a The Society for Risk Analysis 2015/12 Kao Corporation series of research outcomes including research papers and textbook content Japan creation mainly focused on risk assessments and Society activities. Culture Date of award Group recognized Name and details of recognition Sponsoring organization Selected for the World’s Most Ethical Companies list in 2015, which honors companies 2015/03 Kao Corporation that excel in ethical business standards and practices from the perspectives of corporate Ethisphere Institute ethics, governance, social responsibility, citizenship activities and corporate culture. Ministry of Economy, Trade Selected as a Health & Productivity Stock as a company strategically working from a 2015/03 Kao Corporation and Industry, The Tokyo Stock management perspective to manage the health of employees and others. Exchange Ministry of Economy, Trade Designated in FY 2012 and 2014 as a Nadeshiko Brand for supporting women’s 2015/03 Kao Corporation and Industry, The Tokyo Stock careers and supporting work–life balance. Exchange Received the Outstanding Prize in the 9th Responsible Care Awards for earthquake Japan Chemical Industry 2015/05 Kao Corporation preparedness measures aimed at safe and stable plant production conducted since 1998. Association Selected for the Asia IP Elite list for 3 consecutive years as an Asian company with Intellectual Asset 2015/12 Kao Corporation an excellent intellectual property strategy. Management (IAM) Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 147 ▶ Independent assurance report Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 148 ▶ Third-party opinion Eiichiro Adachi Counselor The Japan Research Institute, Limited After graduating from Hitotsubashi University in Japan in 1986 with a Bachelor’s degree in Economics, Mr. Adachi joined The Japan Research Institute, Limited (JRI) in 1990. Currently Counselor at JRI, he previously served in the Management Consulting Department and Technology Research Department. He is mainly engaged in conducting industrial surveys and corporate evaluations from the perspective of corporate social responsibility. He was one of the experts in the Japanese delegation to the ISO/Social Responsibility Standards (ISO 26000) Working Group (March 2005–May 2009). He has co-authored numerous books including CSR Management and SRI (Kinzai, 2004), Businesses That Grow with Global Warming (Toyo Keizai Inc., 2007), Introduction to Environmental Management (Nikkei Publishing Inc., 2009), Ten New Things to Know about Environmental Management: From Carbon Risk to Natural Capital (Nikkei Publishing Inc., 2015), and Introduction to Natural Capital: The Challenge of the Nation, Local Governments, and Companies (NTT Publishing, 2015). The Kao Group completed the Kao Group Mid-term Plan would be beneficial to disclose the progress of this 2015 (K15), which started in fiscal 2013, by setting new initiative, which is closely aligned with the Kao Group’s high records for sales and profit. It achieved each of its main business. The Kao Group is working to reduce the fiscal 2015 management targets of consolidated sales of amount of plastic used in its packaging and containers 1.4 trillion yen, consolidated profit of 150 billion yen, and through efforts including promotion of refill and an overseas sales ratio of more than 30%. The annual replacement products, but it still produces 56,000 tons of dividend per share for fiscal 2015 increased by 10 yen, plastic waste in Japan from packaging and containers. As marking 26 consecutive terms of increased dividends. the consumer products business in Asia is expected to While continuing to increase returns to shareholders, see accelerated growth, countermeasures for plastic the Kao Group aims for both sustained “profitable growth” waste in countries that do not have developed recycling by increasing the added value of its products and programs will become even more important. “contributions to the sustainability of the world” by making In the same vein, the 2016 report states in regards to proposals to resolve social issues through its business the United Nations’ adoption of the Sustainable activities and conducting social contribution activities. As Development Goals (SDGs), “We are supporting people to such, it is only natural that more expectations than ever live healthy lives through products and services that are also placed on the Kao Group’s returns to society. incorporate technologies we have cultivated.” Yet the The expectations on the Kao Group’s returns to society report does not share information such as analysis of the do not stop at paying taxes, employing people, and social 17 goals’ and 169 targets’ correlation with the Kao Group’s contributions. At the core of returns to society is nothing business and their order of priority. The company’s future less than mitigating the negative social and environmental business strategy states that it is preparing to enter impacts of doing business as much as possible, and businesses related to food and health and to create exerting positive impacts as much as possible. businesses in peripheral areas such as hygiene, meaning I read the Kao Sustainability Report 2016 from this there is plenty of opportunity to design a story of giving perspective. I had the impression that the Kao Group returns to society based on the SDGs from both angles of described the results of its efforts to give returns to its main business and contributions to society. society from a focus on integrating the returns with its This is my third time to contribute the third-party main business. I also felt that several issues remained opinion to the Kao Group’s sustainability report. In terms upon detailed examination. of the content covered and level of detail, I judge the The highlights included in this year’s report cover report as fully meeting the objective of providing “Kao’s recognition of social issues” and “Kao’s approach.” comprehensive information for targeting professionals that This style of reporting is more persuasive for the reader, enables accurate evaluation of its initiatives. As a but deeper exploration of the content is still possible corporate group leading Japan in business performance, based on its correlation with and importance to the Kao however, the Kao Group should recognize that Group’s business. stakeholders are placing greater expectations on it than For example, the problem of plastic debris in the ever. oceans, which was mentioned in the third-party opinion last year, has attracted global attention including at the G7 I have provided a third-party opinion on the Kao Group’s activities summit. One of the sources of plastic debris, plastic contributing to the sustainability of the world described in this report and on the way in which the Group disclosed relevant information microbeads are used in personal care products. The Kao from the perspective of a provider of corporate information to financial Group has discontinued use of plastic microbeads as a institutions to serve their decision-making regarding socially scrubbing agent in toothpaste and other products and responsible investments. This opinion does not express a view on whether this report presents, in all material respects, matters announced its plan to complete the replacement of plastic measured, calculated, and prepared in accordance with environmental microbeads with other materials by the end of 2016. It reporting guidelines generally accepted. Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 149 ▶ GRI/ISO 26000 Content Index GRI G4 Guidelines Content Index This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, 1 chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the •CEO Message P4 organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability •CEO Message P4 2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities •Kao Sustainability Statement P12 •Risk and crisis management P138 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF 3 Name of the organization •Kao Group Overview (external link) — 4 Primary brands, products, and services •Kao’s businesses P10 5 Location of the organization’s headquarters •Kao Group Overview (external link) — Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries 6 where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically •Principal locations and business development P11 relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report 7 Nature of ownership and legal form •Kao Group Overview (external link) — Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 8 •Global Gateway (external link) — customers and beneficiaries) Scale of the organization, including: a. Total number of employees b. Total number of operations c. ‌Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector 9 •Kao Group Overview (external link) — organizations) d. ‌Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) e. Quantity of products or services provided Composition of the workforce, including: a. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender b. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c. Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender d. Total workforce by region and gender •‌Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting 10 e. ‌Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed P113 human rights by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f. ‌Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) 11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements — — 12 Organization’s supply chain — — Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the 13 — — organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain Commitment to External Initiatives •Kao Sustainability Statement P12 •‌Information security and protection of personal Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by P136 14 information the organization P138 •Risk and crisis management P140 •Responsible Care Activities List of externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, •Principal locations and business development P11 15 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it •Recognition by outside organizations P145 endorses List of memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national 16 — — or international advocacy organizations in which the organization is participating in Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 150 ▶ IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF a. ‌List of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 17 •‌Global Gateway (external link) — b. ‌Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report a. Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries •Editorial Policy P2 18 b. ‌How the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining •Materiality for Kao P12 Report Content 19 List of all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content •Three Key Areas and Target Fields P13 20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization •Editorial Policy P2 21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization — — Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the 22 •Non-financial highlights P9 reasons for such restatements Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Not 23 Not applicable Boundaries applicable STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF 24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization •Stakeholder communication P16 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 25 •Kao Sustainability Statement P12 engage Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any •Kao Sustainability Statement P13 26 of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation •Third-party opinion P148 process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, 27 •Kao Sustainability Statement P12 including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns REPORT PROFILE Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF 28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided •Editorial Policy P2 29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) •Editorial Policy P2 30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) •Editorial Policy P2 31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents back cover GRI Content Index a. The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen •Editorial Policy P2 b. GRI Content Index for the chosen option 32 •Independent assurance report P147 c. ‌Reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally •GRI G4 Guidelines Content Index P149 assured Assurance a. ‌Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report b. ‌If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, •Editorial Policy P2 33 report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided •Independent assurance report P147 c. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers d. ‌Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report GOVERNANCE Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF Governance Structure and Composition a. ‌Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 34 •Corporate governance P129 b. ‌Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics 35 •Kao Sustainability Statement P12 from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or 36 positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and •Kao Sustainability Statement P15 whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 151 ▶ Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance 37 body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, — — describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body 38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees •Corporate governance P131 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive 39 officer (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and •Corporate governance P131 the reasons for this arrangement) Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its 40 committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest •Corporate governance P130 governance body members a. ‌Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed b. ‌Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: •Corporate governance P131 41 •Cross-board membership •Integrity P99 •Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders •Existence of controlling shareholder •Related party disclosures Role of Highest Governance Body in Setting the Purpose, Value and Strategies Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, •Kao Sustainability Statement P12 42 approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, •Corporate governance P129 strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Ability of the Highest Governance Body and Evaluation of its Performance Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective 43 — — knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics a. ‌Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report 44 whether such evaluation is a self-assessment — — b. ‌Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics Role of the Highest Governance Body in Risk Management a. ‌Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence •Corporate governance P129 45 processes •Risk and crisis management P138 b. ‌Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the 46 organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and •Risk and crisis management P138 social topics Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental 47 — — and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Role of the Highest Governance Body in the Sustainability Report Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the 48 organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are •Kao Sustainability Statement P15 covered Role of the Highest Governance Body in the Evaluation of Social, Environmental and Social Performance 49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body •Risk and crisis management P138 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the 50 highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve — — them Remuneration and Incentives 51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives •Corporate governance P130 52 Process for determining remuneration •Corporate governance P130 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding 53 •Corporate governance P130 remuneration Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual 54 in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation — for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median 55 — — percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF •The Kao Way P3 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes 56 •Kao Sustainability Statement P12 of conduct and codes of ethics •Culture P99-128 Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 152 ▶ Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful 57 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or •Integrity P100 advice lines Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or •Integrity P100 58 unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as •‌Information security and protection of personal P136 escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines information SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF (DMA: Disclosures on Management Approach) •Kao Sustainability Statement P12 a. Report ‌ why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect •Conservation P36-37 material •Community P68-98 b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts •Culture P99-128 DMA c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including •Responsible Care Activities P140 •The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach •Integrity P99 •The results of the evaluation of the management approach •‌Partnering with our suppliers P106 •‌Any related adjustments to the management approach •‌Human capital development P110 Include all DMAs for General Aspects and Specific Aspects ECONOMIC Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE •‌Investor Relations on the Kao website (external — EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed link) •Financial highlights P8 •‌Highlight: Reducing CO2 emissions across the P21 product lifecycle Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s •‌2020 initiatives based on the Kao Environmental P36 EC2 activities due to climate change Statement •‌Reducing CO2 emissions across the product P38 lifecycle Investor Relations on the Kao website (external EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations — link) EC4 Financial assistance received from government — — ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage EC5 — — at significant locations of operation Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant EC6 — — locations of operation ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS •‌Environmental communication P63 EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported •Corporate citizenship activities P89 EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts — — ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation — — ENVIRONMENTAL Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF ASPECT: MATERIALS •‌Environmentally-conscious containers and P56 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume packaging •‌Product lifecycle and environmental impact P59 •‌Other environmental topics P53 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials •Product lifecycle and environmental impact P59 ASPECT: ENERGY •Non-financial highlights P9 •‌Reducing CO2 emissions across the product P38 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization lifecycle •Product lifecycle and environmental impact P59 EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization — — Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 153 ▶ •‌Reducing CO2 emissions across the product P39 EN5 Energy intensity lifecycle •‌Reducing CO2 emissions across the product P39 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption lifecycle •‌Reducing CO2 emissions across the product P39 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services lifecycle ASPECT: WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source •Measures for water resources conservation P41 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water — — EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused — — ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Not EN11 Not applicable areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas applicable Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity EN12 •Measures for biodiversity conservation P48 in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Not EN13 Habitats protected or restored Not applicable applicable Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with EN14 — — habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk ASPECT: EMISSIONS •‌Reducing CO2 emissions across the product EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) P39 lifecycle •‌Reducing CO2 emissions across the product EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) P39 lifecycle EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) •Product lifecycle and environmental impact P59 •‌Reducing CO2 emissions across the product EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity P39 lifecycle •‌Reducing CO2 emissions across the product EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions P39 lifecycle EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) — — EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions •Other environmental topics P54 ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE •Measures for water resources conservation P41 EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination •Other environmental topics P55 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method •Other environmental topics P53 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills •Other environmental topics P55 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous EN25 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage •Other environmental topics P53 of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related EN26 — — habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services •Conservation P36-67 EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category — — ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions EN29 •Other environmental topics P55 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations ASPECT: TRANSPORT •‌Highlight: Reducing CO2 emissions across the P22 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and product lifecycle EN30 materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the •‌Reducing CO2 emissions across the product P40 workforce lifecycle •Product lifecycle and environmental impact P59 ASPECT: OVERALL EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type •Environmental accounting P61 ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria — — •‌Highlight: Responding to the hopes and P33 expectations of the global community Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain EN33 •‌Reducing CO2 emissions across the product P38 and actions taken lifecycle •Measures for biodiversity conservation P48-49 ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved Not EN34 Not applicable through formal grievance mechanisms applicable Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 154 ▶ SOCIAL Labor Practices and Decent Work Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age •‌Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting P114 LA1 group, gender and region human rights Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or LA2 — — part-time employees, by significant locations of operation LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender •Work-life balance P120 ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are LA4 — — specified in collective agreements ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker LA5 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health — — and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and •‌Occupational safety and health, process safety P126 LA6 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender and disaster prevention LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation — — LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions — — ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee LA9 — — category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA10 •Human capital development P110 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development LA11 — — reviews, by gender and by employee category ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee •‌Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting P114 LA12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other human rights indicators of diversity ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, LA13 — — by significant locations of operation ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria — — Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply •Human rights initiatives P105 LA15 chain and actions taken •Partnering with our suppliers P106-107 ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through Not LA16 Not applicable formal grievance mechanisms applicable Human Rights Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF ASPECT: INVESTMENT Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that HR1 — — include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening •‌Highlight: Responding to the hopes and P33 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures expectations of the global community HR2 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the •Integrity P101 percentage of employees trained •Human rights initiatives P104 ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken — — ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of HR4 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and — — measures taken to support these rights ASPECT: CHILD LABOR Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, HR5 — — and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 155 ▶ ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or HR6 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced — — or compulsory labor ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or HR7 — — procedures that are relevant to operations ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and Not HR8 Not applicable actions taken applicable ASPECT: ASSESSMENT Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights HR9 — — reviews or impact assessments ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria — — Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and •Human rights initiatives P104 HR11 actions taken •Partnering with our suppliers P106-107 ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved HR12 •Integrity P102 through formal grievance mechanisms Society Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact SO1 — — assessments, and development programs Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local Not SO2 Not applicable communities applicable ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to SO3 — — corruption and the significant risks identified •‌Highlight: Striving to maintain sound business P31 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures practices •Integrity P99 Not SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Not applicable applicable ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY Not SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Not applicable applicable ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes a. ‌Report the total number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding anti-competitive behavior and violations of Not SO7 Not applicable anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which the organization has been applicable identified as a participant b. ‌Report the main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgments ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Not SO8 Not applicable non-compliance with laws and regulations applicable ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on Not SO9 Not applicable society applicable Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain SO10 •Partnering with our suppliers P106-107 and actions taken ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved Not SO11 Not applicable through formal grievance mechanisms applicable Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 156 ▶ Product Responsibility Relevant Sections in Reports Indicator Description Website PDF ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and PR1 •Product quality management P68 safety impacts are assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life — — cycle, by type of outcomes ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures PR3 for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant •Communication with consumers P79 product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Not PR4 Not applicable concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes applicable PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction — — ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Not PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Not applicable applicable Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Not PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and Not applicable applicable sponsorship, by type of outcomes ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Not PR8 Not applicable and losses of customer data applicable ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Not PR9 Not applicable concerning the provision and use of products and services applicable Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 157 ▶ ISO 26000 Content Index Pages of the Sustainability Report 2016 Core subjects and issues Website PDF •CEO Message P4 •Kao Sustainability Statement P12 •Governance P129-139 •Communication with consumers P79 6.2 Organizational governance •Communication with corporate customers P84 •Partnering with our suppliers P106 •Human capital development P110 •‌Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human P113 rights •‌Human rights initiatives P104 6.3 Human rights •‌Kao Business Conduct Guidelines (external link) — •‌Kao Sustainability Statement P12 •‌Highlight: Responding to the hopes and expectations of P33 the global community •‌Integrity P99 6.3.3 Due diligence •‌Human rights initiatives P104 •‌Partnering with our suppliers P106 •‌Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human P113 rights •‌Highlight: Responding to the hopes and expectations of P33 the global community 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations •‌Human rights initiatives P104 •‌Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human P113 rights •‌Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human P113 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity rights •‌Partnering with our suppliers P106 •‌Integrity P99 6.3.6 Resolving grievances •‌Communication with consumers P79 •‌Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human P113 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable group rights •‌Corporate citizenship activities P89 •‌Integrity P99 6.3.8 Civil and political rights •‌Promoting dialogue with employees P117 •‌Integrity P99 •‌Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human P113 6.3.9 Economic, social, and cultural rights rights •‌Corporate citizenship activities P89 •‌Integrity P99 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work •‌Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human P113 rights 6.4 Labour practices •‌Integrity P99 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships •‌Promoting Diversity & Inclusion and respecting human P113 rights 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection •‌Promoting dialogue with employees P117 6.4.5 Social dialogue •‌Promoting dialogue with employees P117 •‌Occupational safety and health, process safety and P125 6.4.6 Health and safety at work disaster prevention •‌Responsible Care Activities P140 6.4.7 Human development and training in the workplaces •‌Human capital development P110 6.5 The environment •‌Kao Sustainability Statement P12 •‌Measures for water resources conservation P41 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution •‌Sound management of chemicals P43 •‌Other environmental topics P53 •‌Kao Sustainability Statement P12 •‌Measures for water resources conservation P41 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use •‌Measures for biodiversity conservation P48 •‌Partnering with our suppliers P106 Kao Sustainability Report 2016 CONTENTS ◀ 158 ▶ •‌Kao Sustainability Statement P12 •‌Highlight: Reducing CO2 emissions across the product P21 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation lifecycle •‌Reducing CO2 emissions across the product lifecycle P38 •‌Kao Sustainability Statement P12 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural 6.5.6 •‌Measures for biodiversity conservation P48 habitats •‌Partnering with our suppliers P106 6.6 Fair operating practices •‌Highlight: Striving to maintain sound business practices P31 6.6.3 Anti-corruption •‌Corporate governance P129 •‌Integrity P99 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement •‌Integrity P99 •‌Highlight: Striving to maintain sound business practices P31 6.6.5 Fair competition •‌Corporate governance P129 •‌Integrity P99 •‌Corporate governance P129 •‌Integrity P99 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain •‌Communication with corporate customers P84 •‌Partnering with our suppliers P106 6.6.7 Respect for property rights •‌Integrity P99 6.7 Consumer issues •‌Communication with consumers P79 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual 6.7.3 •‌Communication with corporate customers P84 practices •‌Partnering with our suppliers P106 •‌Communication with consumers P79 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health and safety •‌Product quality management P68 •‌Conservation P36-67 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption •‌Environmentally-conscious containers and packaging P55 •‌Communication with consumers P79 6.7.6 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution •‌Product quality management P68 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy •‌Integrity P99 6.7.8 Access to essential services •‌Communication with consumers P79 •‌Communication with consumers P79 •‌Product quality management P68 6.7.9 Education and awareness •‌Environmental communication P63 •‌Corporate citizenship activities P89 6.8 Community involvement and development •‌Kao Sustainability Statement P12 •‌Conservation P36-67 •‌Community P68-98 6.8.3 Community involvement •‌Culture P99-128 •‌Responsible Care Activities P140 •‌Environmental communication P63 •‌Measures for biodiversity conservation P48 •‌Community P68-98 •‌Corporate citizenship activities P89 6.8.4 Education and culture •‌Measures for biodiversity conservation P48 •‌Environmental communication P63 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development •‌Communication with corporate customers P84 •‌Conservation P36-67 6.8.6 Technology development and access •‌Community P68-98 •‌Community P68-98 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation •‌Culture P99-128 •‌Corporate citizenship activities P89 •‌Highlight: Raising awareness of the importance of good P27 hygiene habits 6.8.8 Health •‌Highlight: Supporting people to live healthily P28 •‌Community P68-98 •‌Community P68-98 6.8.9 Social investment •‌Culture P99-128 Kao Sustainability Report 2016
