UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 1 Content Letter from the CEO 5 About Landsvirkjun 6 Landsvirkjun’s CSR policy 7 COP 21 / Caring for Climate 10 Human and Labour Rights 11 Labour Rights 11 Landsvirkjun Obtains the PwC Gold Standard for Salary Gender Equality 11 Gender Equality and Employee Development 11 Responsible Value Chain 12 Health and Safety 12 Environment 13 Caring for Climate 13 NAZCA / CDP 13 Landsvirkjun’s Revised Environmental Policy 14 Green Procurement 15 Assessment on the Production of Environmentally Friendly Fuels 15 Sustainable Development at Theistareykir 15 Reducing Emissions from Employee Transportation 16 Good Governance / Anti-Corruption 17 Revision of Main Processes 17 Good Governance in the Value Chain 17 Other Important CSR Work 18 Meetings with Stakeholders 18 Exhibition at Landsvikjun’s Ljosafoss Hydropower Station 18 Continued Support for Innovation in the Energy Sector 19 Energy Research Fund 19 Landsvirkjun’s Community Fund 19 3 Letter from the CEO I am pleased to confirm Landsvikjun´s continued support for the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. This is our second Communication on Progress (COP) report. During 2015 we have worked on further integrating the UN GC principles into our own operations as well as into our value chain. The year 2015 was marked by strong economic results for Landsvirkjun despite a demanding business environment. We are optimistic that in 2-3 years dividend payments can start increasing with continuing improvements in operations. The aim is to increase dividend payments from ISK 1.5 billion to 10-20 billion per year. Landsvirkjun’s strong economic position is one of the core pillars of our corporate social responsibility. The urgent challenge of climate change took centre stage on the global agenda during 2015. As part of our efforts in addressing this urgent challenge, we became a supporter of the Caring for Climate initiative during the Paris COP-21 conference in December 2015. As part of the commitment to Caring for Climate, Landsvirkjun committed to becoming carbon neutral by 2030. We see this commitment as an extension of our support of the UN GC principles and will be extending our annual GC COP reporting to include reporting on our progress in addressing climate change. Work is currently in progress to identify the relevant performance indicators we will need to monitor in order to achieve our carbon neutrality goal. This year we have aligned the timing of the publication of the COP report to our annual corporate reporting cycle, i.e. the publication of our annual report and environmental report. In this COP report we highlight the key events of 2015. During 2016 we will be working further on identifying the key indicators that we will be reporting on and monitoring in coming years. This will facilitate comparison between years and help us identify the areas where we need to put in more effort to achieve optimal results for Landsvirkjun and its stakeholders. Yours sincerely, Dr. Hördur Arnarson, CEO About Landsvirkjun Landsvirkjun’s CSR Policy Landsvirkjun, a state-owned partnership company, is IceLandsvirkjun consistently strives to maximize the potenLandsvirkjun’s approach to CSR land’s largest electricity generator. The Company processtial yield and value of the natural resources it has been Landsvirkjun generates electricity through renewable The image on the following page demonstrates how the es 73% of all electricity used in Iceland. The energy generentrusted with, in a sustainable, responsible and efficient energy sources and strives to create economic value in UN Global Compact Principles feed into Landsvirkjun’s ated by Landsvirkjun is generated from 100% renewable manner. harmony with the environment and society. The advanceCSR Policy. sources with a key focus on hydroelectric and geothermal ment of Landsvirkjun’s CSR Policy is organized through power. The Company is also exploring the feasibility of Landsvirkjun’s operations are certified according to the followsix key focus areas. For each of the areas specific goals are wind power through two wind turbines. ing standards: established on an annual basis.1 ›› ISO 9001 (Quality Management System) In addition to serving the Icelandic market, Landsvirkjun The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact are embedis committed to offering competitive contracts to interna›› ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) ded in Landsvirkjun’s CSR work, including the annual tional clients with favourable prices and unprecedented CSR goals. The Principles encompass the CSR strategy and ›› ISO 27001 (Information Security Management System) security of supply. Landsvirkjun aspires to become a leader focus areas. Progress is demonstrated through the annual in the sustainable use of renewable energy sources. The ›› OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety) Communication on Progress report. Company’s values, prudence, progressiveness and reliability are key elements in the development of new projects and in the operations of existing power stations. When Landsvirkjun was established in 1965, it embarked on Every year Landsvirkjun collaborates with local councils and the construction of the Búrfell Hydropower Station, which service providers to provide employment and opportunity for came on line in 1969. The front wall of the powerhouse is the younger generation. decorated with murals my artist Sigurjón Ólafsson. 6 1 For further information see http://www.landsvirkjun.com/societyenvironment/our-social-responsibility/goals 7 Landsvirkjun´s CSR Policy The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Health and safety Human Rights We operate in accordance with responcable policy Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the UN 10 Health a Glo on health and safety ad employee issues, ensuring protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ple n nd s b the wellbeing, safety and equality of our employees. i hai Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Fin afe C ty UN Glob So an lue Society human rights abuses. ce a S al C s 1-6 We place an emphasis on building a strong collabora­tive V ciety Labour om ceple relationship with society by promoting trancpar­en­cy yPrinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of pa iet and effective knowledge dissemination in our working oc Prin association and the effective recognition of the right ct methods and by creating shared value for the economy to collective bargaining; Pr Corporate Go and for society. act in Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and vern c Knowledge Dissemination compulsory labour; mp an We create shared value for the economy and for society ce via knowledge dissemination and by advocating innovation. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child e Dissem Co wledg labour­; and inatio The Environment Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect al Kno We place an emphasis on the sustainable utilisa­tion of n of employment and occupation. natural resources, operate in accord­ance with approved international procedures and minimise the environmental Environment impact of our operations. Principle 7: Businesses should support a pre­cautio­n­ary approach to environmental challenges; Corporate Governance We operate in accordance with responsable corporate Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater governance standards and follow the Company´s Code environmental responsibility; and of Conduct in all our operations. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Th e En viro n m e nt Value Chain Landsvirkjun requires of its customers and suppliers that Anti-Corruption Un they show responsable management practices and take 79 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption G lo b al C o m p a ct P ri n c ip le s the environment and society into account in their operain all its forms, including extortion and bribery. tions. E n vi ro n m e n t 8 9 COP 21 / Caring for Climate Human and Labour Rights At the 2015 UN Climate Change Conference in Paris Lands4. Continuing to work collaboratively with other enterprises Relevant UN Global Compact Principles Businesses should: A gender equality committee, appointed by the CEO for virkjun joined the Caring for Climate initiative of the UN both nationally and sectorally, and along our value-chains, two years at a time, is responsible for the implementation 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally Global Compact, the UN Environment Programme and the to set standards and take joint initiatives aimed at reducing of the Gender Equality Policy within Landsvirkjun. The proclaimed Human Rights. secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate climate risks, assisting with adaptation to climate change committee oversees an annual revision of the Policy and Change. and enhancing climate-related opportunities. 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights associated action plan. The implementation of the action abuses. plan falls under the responsibility of managers and human 5. Becoming an active business champion for rapid and exBy signing the Caring for Climate Leadership Statement Landsresources. They receive support from the gender equality tensive climate action, working with our peers, employees, 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective virkjun commits to the following: committee in the implementation of the action plan. customers, investors and the broader public. recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 1. Taking further practical actions to improve continuously the 4. Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and The Gender Equality Policy is composed of the following areas: efficiency of energy usage and to reduce the carbon footprint In line with the above commitments, Landsvirkjun has compulsory labour. of our products, services and processes, to set voluntary set the objective of becoming carbon neutral by 2030. See 1. Women and men working at Landsvirkjun get the same targets for doing so, and to report publicly and annually on chapter on the environment for further information on 5. Uphold the effective abolition of child labour. salary and benefits for the same job. the achievement of those targets in our Communication on commitments that Landsvirkjun has made in relation to 6. Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect 2. Everyone has an equal opportunity to work at Landsvirkjun, Progress-Climate. the carbon neutrality goal. of employment and occupation. regardless of gender. 2. Building significant capacity within our organizations to 3. Landsvikjun’s managers work continuously towards understand fully the implications of climate change for our Labour Rights increasing the share of women in management positions business and to develop a coherent business strategy for In light of the nature of Landsvirkjun´s operation, which and adjusting the gender balance within the company. minimizing risks and identifying opportunities. involves major industrial developments, labour protection is of crucial concern. Landsvirkjun strives to apply strict 4. All employees, regardless of the position they occupy at 3. Engaging more actively with our own national governments, standards when it comes to ensuring the rights of its emLandsvirkjun, have equal opportunities for the training inter-governmental organizations and civil society to develployees and service providers, notably in terms of working and development needed to increase their competencies. op policies and measures to provide an enabling framework conditions, health and safety, and appropriate compenAll employees have the opportunity for promotion where for business to contribute effectively to building a low-carsation and benefits. In order to ensure strict standards in there are vacancies. bon and climate-resilient economy. these areas Landsvirkjun has inserted dedicated protec5. Managers should organize jobs and projects in such a way tion clauses in its contracts with service providers. These that employees can maximise the balance between their clauses were defined in 2007 through discussions between professional and personal lives. the Icelandic Confederation of Labour and the organization SA-Business Iceland (of which Landsvirkjun is a member). 6. Bullying, prejudice and gender specific or sexual harassment are not tolerated within Landsvirkjun. Landsvirkjun Obtains the PwC Gold Standard for Salary 7. Managers and employees of Landsvirkjun work towards Gender Equality eliminating gender specific positions within the company. In 2015, for the second year in a row, Landsvirkjun was No jobs should be categorized as a man’s or woman’s job. awarded the PWC Gold Standard for its efforts in ensuring equal salaries of men and women. The difference in salaries A part of the Gender Equality action plan is demonstrated of men and women at Landsvirkjun was measured at 0.1% on the following page. which is the smallest difference that PwC has measured at Icelandic companies. In the last three years the gender salary difference of base salaries has decreased from 1.5% to 0.1%. Gender Equality and Employee Development Gender Equality Policy Landsvirkjun supports gender equality and works in accordance with the following gender equality policy and action plan. The gender equality policy and action plan are developed in line with the Act No.10/2008 on the equal At the time of the COP21 in November, a wind turbine was rights of women and men. installed on the Champs Elysee to provide electricity for Christmas illuminations. 11 Environment 1. Women and men at Landsvirkjun get the same salary and benefits for the same job Relevant UN Global Compact Principles Businesses should: Caring for Climate During the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris in Goal Action Measurement Status update Responsability 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental December 2015 Landsvirkjun joined the Caring for Climate Maintain the PwC Gold standard If goal is not met, the relevant Salary gender gap September HR Manager challenges initiative of the UN Global Compact, the UN Environment for efforts in reducing the gender actions should be taken including should be under 3.5%. 2016 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Programme and the secretariat of the UN Framework Conpay gap. adjustment of salaries. responsibility. vention on Climate Change. Through joining the initiative, Ensure that men and women Adjust salaries in case of unjustiSalary gender gap September HR Manager Landsvirkjun commits to a number of goals for fighting 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environ­receive the same salary and benfied salary gender gap. should be under 2%. 2016 climate change. The goals can be consulted in the chapter mentally friendly technologies. efits for the same job. ‘COP 21 / Caring for Climate’. 2. Increased share of women in management roles Landsvirkjun publishes a comprehensive environmental Goal Action Measurement Status update Responsability NAZCA / CDP report on an annual basis. The report provides an overview Landsvirkjun has registered its commitment to reducing Adjustment of share of women Ensure appropriate manageShare of women in September CEO of performance on key environmental indicators and proits carbon footprint through NAZCA (Non-State Actor in management roles from 24% ment training for women in the management roles at 2016 vides an overview of the main focus areas of each year. Zone for Climate Action), which is an initiative where to 30%. company. Put emphasis on hiring Landsvirkjun. companies, cities, regions, organizations and investors can women for new and vacant manThis chapter outlines some of the key environmental register their goals in the fight against climate change. agement positions. initiatives in 2015. Readers can consult the environmental Adjustment of share of women in If the share of women and men Share of women in September CEO report for 2015 for further and more in-depth information management roles at Landsvirkin management positions is not management roles at 2016 on Landsvirkjun’s environmental performance. jun’s subsidiaries. equal, appropriate measures Landsvirkjun’s subsidshould immediately be taken. iaries. 3. All employees, regardless of the position they hold at Landsvirkjun, have the same opportunity to obtain the training and de velopment needed to increase their competency. All employees have the opportunity for promotion where there are vacancies Goal Action Measurement Status update Responsability Women and men have an equal Management encourages women Number of training September HR Manager opportunity for training and to the same extent as men to sessions attended by 2016 development. receive trainings and developing employees, analysed by new skills. gender and results of employee surveys. Responsible Value Chain “The contractor has read and understood Landsvirkjun’s rules In November 2015 Landsvirkjun established a code of of ethics for suppliers which are published on Landsvirkjun’s conduct for its suppliers and service providers. The code is website and commits to adopt and follow those rules in its busibeing implemented in contracts, tender specifications and ness operations with Landsvirkjun.” supplier and performance evaluations. The following text has been added to all requests for proposals: Health and Safety In 2015 employees of Landsvirkjun worked 1 million “With its adherence to the UN Global Compact Landsvirkjun working hours without accidents leading to absence. This is committed to respect and implement 10 principles on human is a noteworthy achievement, which was not achieved and labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corrupwithout effort. Despite this achievement the year 2015 saw tion. In light of this commitment Landsvirkjun has published on a notable increase in accidents among permanent staff or its website its rules of ethics for suppliers, based on the 10 UN 13 compared to 6 in 2014. However, thankfully no serious Global Compact principles. Landsvirkjun expects its suppliers accidents occurred in 2015. to adhere to these rules when conducting business with Landsvirkjun.” In a similar vein, the following text has been added to new contracts with service providers/ contractors, and included in an annex to contract renewals: 12 13 In addition to the goal of becoming carbon neutral by In the interest of tracking progress and enhancing transGreen Procurement The utilisation of unsecured energy for electrolysis is 2030, Landsvirkjun has registered the following goals with parency, Landsvirkjun will report in line with the CDP In December 2014 Landsvirkjun became a founding mempossible during years of water abundance and by using a NAZCA: during the course of 2016. ber of ‘Vistvæn Innkaup’ (e. green procurement), which is new technology for electrolysis that came on the market a procurement network run by the Environment Agency around a year ago. Analysis showed that it is not feasible Carbon capture, use and storage Landsvirkjun’s Revised Environmental Policy of Iceland. In 2015 Landsvirkjun started implementing to use unsecured energy solely for such production as Landsvirkjun’s management approved a new environchanges to its procurement processes with the goal of the feasibility of utilising electricity for such production ›› Hydropower reservoirs: Reduce direct GHG emissions by mental policy in mid-2015. The essence of the policy is increasing the share of environmentally responsible prodis limited to a relatively few months a year. Research in 100% from 2014 to 2020 through carbon sequestration summarized as follows: ucts in the company’s procurement. Thereby the first steps this area will continue in collaboration with internal and with land reclamation and re-forestation. have been taken in rendering Landsvirkjun’s procurement external stakeholders. ›› Geothermal power plants: Reduce direct carbon emissions “Landsvirkjun is at the forefront of environmental managemore sustainable in line with its Environmental and CSR by 100% from 2008 to 2030 through carbon capture and ment and sustainable development. The company puts emphaPolicies. Sustainable Development at Theistareykir sequestration with land reclamation, re-forestation and sis on knowing the environmental impact of its operations and Work on land reclamation around Theistareykir Geotherother measures. seeks to minimize it.” Assessment on the Production of Environmentally Friendly Fuels mal Power station was effectively continued in 2015. The The project has assessed the opportunities for increasresponsibility of the project is in the hands of the Soil ConTransport The environmental policy embeds five key goals : ing the efficiency of geothermal energy. The assessment servation Service of Iceland and the manager of agriculture ›› Increase the number of electric vehicles to 25% of the revealed a number of exciting opportunities in utilising at Nordurthing municipality. The project is conducted in ›› Use Natural resources more efficiently vehicles fleet by 2020. excess energy and carbon dioxide emissions from geotherclose collaboration with landowners. ›› Carbon neutral operations mal power plants to produce alternative fuels. A special Investment emphasis was put on cleaning carbon dioxide from LandsSeeds were distributed by roads and in mines and recla›› Operations in harmony with nature and the appearance ›› Invest USD 500 million in the development of renewable virkjun´s power plants but that is a fundamental factor for mation areas. In addition lupines were planted in dedicatof land energy (hydro, geothermal and wind) by 2020 and an the feasibility of further utilising the gas. Research showed ed areas within land reclamation fences and by the roads additional USD 350 million during 2020-2025. ›› Stakeholder engagement that in terms of technology this is possible and at a comof the town of Husavik. Around 48 tonnes of fertilizer was Initiation of Energy Saving/Efficiency Programs ›› Operations without environmental incidents petitive price. However, there are many open questions distributed and 3,000 kg of seeds were sown. In addition, and Landsvirkjun will notably continue exploring business 45,070 plants were planted, mostly birch and larch but ›› Reduce the impact of climate change through initiating Work is in progress to identify the relevant actions and and technical issues related to this type of production. also willow. nation-wide programs in the field of energy saving and energy efficiency. associate measurable targets for each of these goals. At the Theistareykir Power Station, land that has been disrupted due to the construction, is vegetated paralell to the work in the area. Electric cars presented to buyers from Landsvirkjun and other companies in the energy industry in Iceland. 14 15 Good Governance / Anti-Corruption A report on the project is in preparation covering operawork through environmentally friendly transport means Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in Good Governance in the Value Chain tions in 2015 and the action plan for 2016. The project is such as bicycles, public transport or walking (electronic all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As part of the implementation of Landsvirkjun’s code of led by a dedicated working group, which will be extended vehicles are not included in the agreement). conduct for the company’s suppliers, Landsvirkjun exto include more members in 2016 to ensure appropriate Revision of Main Processes pects it suppliers to respect and implement the 10 princistakeholder representation. Examples of members that Another important part of the transportation policy imIn 2015 Landsvirkjun’s main processes were reviewed ples of the UN Global Compact and to respect Landsvirkhave been added include a representative of Landsnet plementation was the increase in the number of electric with the purpose of increasing their definition and transjun’s rules of ethics for suppliers which are published on (operator of Iceland’s electricity transmission grid) and vehicles owned by Landsvirkjun to six during 2015 (from parency. Emphasis is put on continuous responsibility, the company’s website. Landsvirkjun’s service providers a member from the tourist industry. Amongst priorities four) and the addition of two hybrids. Electric bicycles increased flexibility and a simplification of the corporate are also expected to comply with the company’s rules of in 2016 is the development of a number of performance were also made available for employees in Reykjavik and governance system that Landsvirkjun adheres to. The proethics (see further details in the chapter ‘Responsible Value indicators for the environment, society and the economy Akureyri. cess review has improved the company’s ability to analyse Chain’). as well as stakeholder engagement with the public sector all its operations based on objectives, value, risk and varin the area. A number of employees now drive to work in their own ious other measurements. The review has also facilitated electric vehicles. Landsvirkjun offers these employees free continuous improvements. Reducing Emissions from Transportation recharge during the day and priority parking. Landsvirkjun put a transportation policy in place in 2014 with emphasis on less fossil fuel consumption. In late 2015 Landsvirkjun is also involved in supporting energy conLandsvirkjun started using biodiesel (rapeseed methyl version in transportation on a broader national scale. In ester) instead of fossil fuel for all vehicles operating in the addition to promoting multi-stakeholder discussions and area around the river Thjórsá. Landsvirkjun has a total of organizing events on the topic, Landsvirkjun is collaboratsix hydropower stations in the area. The use of the biodiesing on energy conversion projects with other companies el instead of fossil fuels results in a reduction of greenincluding Icelandic New Energy, HS Orka and Reykjavik house gas emissions by at least 60%. Energy. Landsvirkjun has also supported the production of relevant educational material and is a member of Eco During 2015 Landsvirkjun started offering transportation Energy, a national initiative towards energy conversion agreements to its employees. The agreement offers monthin transportation involving both the public and private ly financial support to those employees who commute to sectors. 16 17 Other Important CSR Work Meetings with Stakeholders Exhibition at Landsvirkjun’s Ljosafoss Hydropower Station Continued Support for Innovation in the Energy Sector In 2015 Landsvirkjun awarded 59.5 million ISK through The year 2015 marked the 50 years anniversary of LandsIn August 2015, at the occasion of Landsvirkjun’s 50 years Support to the investment program, Startup Energy the fund to support various research projects in the envivirkjun. Over the year 10 open stakeholder meetings were anniversary, Landsvirkjun opened the exhibition PowerReykjavik (SER), founded in 2014, continued throughout ronmental and energy areas. Further information on the held on various topics concerning energy production and ing the Future at its Ljosafoss hydropower station. Var2015. Landsvirkjun supported innovative companies in the fund can be found on http://www.landsvirkjun.com/recorporate social responsibility. For example,public events ious companies and experts took part in organizing the energy sector at seed stage both through direct investment searchdevelopment/energyresearchfund/. were held with the residents in the northeast of Iceland exhibition. The exhibition is interactive with focus on play and other means. A total of 14 companies have passed to discuss the Þeistareykir Geothermal Project and in the and experience of the audience, emphasising the role of through SER with all but two companies in full operation. Landsvirkjun’s Community Fund south of Iceland a meeting was held on the expansion of electricity on individuals and the society as a whole. The Since the start of the project in 2014 companies associated Landsvirkjun operates a community fund which policy is the Búrfell Hydropower Station. Landsvirkjun also held exhibition is organized through a series of visual experwith SER have secured over half a billion ISK in the form of to support projects with broad community relevance and meetings on the needs of the Data Center industry as well iments that have played an important role in the history grants and investments. Landsvirkjun aims to continue its the potential to positively impact Icelandic society. During as on innovation in the energy industry and the responsiof electricity. The goal of the exhibition is to provide the support to SER in 2016. Information on the project can be 2015 a total of 7.6 million ISK was allocated to various bility of companies in fighting climate change. The meetpublic with an original and educational experience. The found on http://www.startupenergyreykjavik.com/. projects. The grants included 1 million ISK support to the ings can be accessed via Landsvirkjun´s Youtube account: exhibition will also play a role in tourism, the educational Icelandic Red Cross for emergency aid to Nepal. www.youtube.com/landsvirkjun. system and the business world. Energy Research Fund Landsvirkjun’s Energy Research Fund’s goal is to strengthen research in the environmental and energy areas. Each year the fund awards grants to students, university research projects, institutions, companies and individuals conducting research in these areas. At the Ljósafoss energy exhibition, inquisitive guests of all ages are introduced to the renewable and sustainable energy generation methods, such as hydropower, geothermal energy Hörður Arnarson CEO and grantees of Landsvirkjun’s and wind energy. Energy Research Fund. 18 19 Landsvirkjun Háaleitisbraut 68 103 Reykjavík Iceland Tel: +354 515 90 00 landsvirkjun.com landsvirkjun@landsvirkjun.com 20
