A European investment firm with a global industrially-driven approach T USTAINAB ILITY REPOR REVIEW & S 2015 ANNUAL TM Investindustrial is a group All trademarks, brand names of independently managed and logos (including any Table investment, holding and word, name, symbol, design, financial advisory companies. colors or combination thereof) reproduced in this report of Contents are protected by applicable national and international laws and should not be used or copied without the legitimate owners’ permission. COVER IMAGE: The headquarter of B&B Italia at Novedrate (Como, Italy) designed by Renzo Piano and Richard Rogers in 1973. This document has been prepared for information purposes only on the “Managing Principal”, “Partner”, “Principal”, “Senior Partner” and I Strategic Commentary 4 basis of a series of conditions. Neither the whole nor any part of the “Senior Principal” in this document have been used only for practical information in this report may be used for any other purpose without the ease of reading and do not intend to imply any specific reference to an II Who We Are 12 prior written consent of Investindustrial. While it has been prepared in entity or a legal definition of any activity of control by any company or good faith, no representation is given as to the accuracy or achievability individual with respect to other companies. Terms such as “control”, III Case Studies 26 of any values applied herein, nor should any valuations be treated as “ownership” and their synonyms are also used for case of reference and Investindustrial’s estimate of the eventual investment outcome. The illustrative purposes only and may not imply, from a juridical perspective, IV Portfolio Developments 36 assumptions on which these values have been prepared are necessarily full or partial control of certain companies due to limitations by any subjective and have not been subject to third party verification. By your shareholders’ agreements, co-investment vetoes and other third party V Responsible Investing 50 receipt of this document, you acknowledge that you are aware of the rights, management stock option and any other incentive scheme. restrictions imposed by the laws of various countries on the purchase In addition, shares in portfolio companies are held by the applicable VI Our Foundation 64 and sale of securities by any person who has received such information investment and/or holding company of the relevant fund and rights over and on the communication of this information to others. We are not in such shares are exercised by the board of directors of the investment VII Summary Group Information 70 the position to determine whether any of the information in this report and/or holding company in an independent manner. References to is insider information within the meaning of the laws of any country, as “Lugano” or “Switzerland”, “Barcelona” or “Spain”, “London” or “the such determination could be made only in the light of the circumstances UK”, “Luxembourg”, “Netherlands”, “Shanghai” or “China” and “New in which any disclosure was considered. Nothing in this report should York” or “the USA” when used in the context of Investindustrial’s be construed as advice or solicitation to buy or sell any securities. The activities (whether together with the words “team” or “office”) information and opinions in the report are given in good faith. However, are intended to refer where the context requires, to the respective we do not make any warranty as to their completeness or accuracy. independently managed advisory or investment companies They are also subject to change without notice. References to names of as applicable. The Investindustrial website and any other company’s portfolio companies are intended to be made, where the context requires, website, information and links contained therein are not part of this to the applicable holding company/subsidiary of the relevant Fund. The document and should not be considered as incorporated by reference terms “Group”, “Firm”, “Investindustrial”, “BI-Invest”, “Our”, “We”, “Us”, herein. For any queries on the information contained within this report, “Portfolio company”, “Team”, “Office”, “Professionals”, “Chairman”, the reader should contact Investindustrial. Strategic Commentary // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Andrea C. Bonomi, Chairman of the Industrial Advisory Board at the Aston Martin Headquarters in Gaydon (UK). STRATEGIC COMMENTARY together on various Permasteelisa projects, underlining the deep and long-term relationships we foster in our portfolio The leadership position Investindustrial has investments. established by focusing primarily on Southern Europe, and opportunistically on Western Europe, has been achieved through perseverance across cycles to act as an industrially-driven transformational owner A key contributor to Investindustrial’s long term for a select group of quality companies. success, and one which has now become a significant competitive advantage, is our ability to form strategic external partnerships. Over 25 years, Investindustrial has refined three central investment strategies – internationalisations, build-ups & rollouts, and repositionings – by travelling ever deeper into sectors In December 2015, Investindustrial completed the to define and dominate its own niche of European mid-market acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Sergio Rossi, investing. a leading international luxury shoe brand, in order to In 2015, Investindustrial expanded its latest investment re-launch the business by leveraging its strong international programme with the acquisition of B&B Italia, a leading Italian brand awareness and worldwide distribution network. high-end furniture brand, and Sergio Rossi, a global fashion brand in the luxury women’s shoe market. During the year Investindustrial dedicated significant resources In 2015, Investindustrial’s profitable portfolio companies delivered a strong to its portfolio companies. Aston Martin, for example, is starting performance with a 9% growth in EBITDA and a 4% growth in employees. to show the expected transformation that Investindustrial forecast for the company’s long-term performance and 2015 Portfolio figures sustainability at entry. Investindustrial provided significant liquidity to its investors during the year through the exit of five portfolio companies. Sales (€m) EBITDA (€m) and Margin (%) Total Employees (nr.) The gradually recovering financial and macroeconomic By Year environments, throughout most of the year, provided the 678 13,651 opportunity for Investindustrial to seize attractive divestment 622 13,174 12,113 opportunities that arose as a result of the careful preparation, 4,205 4,216 563 management and positioning of investee companies for 3,514 sustainable long-term growth. 16.0% 16.1% In June 2015, Investindustrial completed the acquisition of 14.8% 80% of the share capital of B&B Italia globally recognised for its luxury products and technological innovation. The company has a unique product portfolio and has been awarded with many prestigious design prizes over the years. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Investindustrial is excited to be supporting another high-end design brand into becoming a global integrated player. B&B Italia has developed longstanding partnerships with Investment companies in the portfolio as of December 2015 generated As of the end of 2015, aggregate investments generated EBITDA of At the end of 2015 the workforce of portfolio companies reached aggregate sales of €4.2 billion. Sales remained substantially stable €0.7 billion, a significant 9% increase compared to the prior year. approximately 13,650 employees representing an increase of 4% world-renowned designers and architects, who are brands in compared to the like-for-like performance in the prior year. compared to the prior year. their own right, such as Antonio Citterio, Naoto Fukasawa, Gaetano Pesce and many others. Several are well-known to Investindustrial as designers of Flos and having worked 4 5 Strategic Commentary // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 The investment in Sergio Rossi provides Investindustrial In December 2015, Flos took the second step of its growth plan – with the opportunity to further globalise a leading luxury the acquisition of Lukas Lighting. The Lukas Lighting experience brand. In early 2016, post year end, Investindustrial made in custom features will support Flos’ growth in the North American new leadership appointments at Sergio Rossi. A new contract market, guaranteeing Flos clients a best-in-class product Chairman joined the company in January 2016 from an range and design service. Italian jewellery company and a new CEO joined in May 2016 from an Italian premium shoe company. Throughout the year, Polynt successfully integrated CCP, an acquisition made at the end of 2014. This transaction Deep and interlinked partnerships developed across many transformed Polynt into a leader in the North American cycles are hard to replicate; leveraging them is at the heart coating and composite resins market with 13 manufacturing of Investindustrial’s way of doing business. Throughout 2015, plants and one third of total revenues generated in the US. Investindustrial continued to develop and nurture partnerships The successful consolidation resulted in CCP almost doubling that fall into three categories: industrial, brand, and capital. EBITDA through significant post-merger synergies. Investindustrial has already actively supported the industrial Industrial partners growth of Polynt, with the successful acquisition of PCCR, another US specialty chemicals leader, in 2011. Aston Martin, under the leadership of chief executive Andy Palmer, is consolidating its electronics and engine partnership Brand partners with Daimler and recently launched the DB11. In February 2016, the company also confirmed St Athan, Wales as the location PortAventura, the largest destination resort in Southern for its second manufacturing facility. St Athan will be the sole Europe, is establishing Ferrari Land, a new park dedicated production facility for the new Aston Martin “DBX” cross-over to the brand of Ferrari and located within the existing resort. vehicle. The vehicle was first presented as a concept in early The new branded site will be the sole Ferrari theme park 2015, and is expected to be launched in the coming years in Europe and envisages a total investment of up to to address this fast-growing, high-end segment of the market. approximately € 80 million. Post year end, Aston Martin and Formula One team Red Bull In May 2015, the foundation stone of Ferrari Land was laid, Racing announced a partnership which sees the two companies in line with the original plan. The event was attended collaborating to produce a ground-breaking Aston Martin car. by the Formula one racing driver Sebastian Vettel and In addition, Aston Martin signed an agreement with the leading received significant global media coverage. Expected to open global technology company LeEco for the creation of a at the beginning of 2017, Ferrari Land is being built on a partnership that will develop a production version of the Aston total surface area of 75,000 square meters and it is expected Martin RapidE electric concept vehicle. to improve PortAventura’s position as a leading European destination resort. In addition, starting from 2017, and running In April 2015, only six months after the initial investment, for five years, Cirque Du Soleil will hold performances at Investindustrial supported Flos in the acquisition of Ares, Portaventura during the summer months. These partnerships a leading Italian manufacturer of architectural outdoor lighting. with Ferrari and Cirque Du Soleil represent another significant This transaction represented the first step of an industrially step in the international strategy to position the resort as driven growth plan based on both organic and external drivers the premium family destination in Europe. and focused on further developing the company from both an industrial and geographical standpoint. The Flos collection, historically famous for its original designs and more recently for its professional lighting systems (Flos Architectural), is now strengthened by Ares’ expertise enabling Flos to compete effectively and successfully in the global outdoor lighting sector. Investindustrial’s long-standing presence as the transformational change owner of choice for mid-market companies in Italy, Spain, and opportunistically across Europe, is built around our philosophy of intimate engagement with incumbent owners and setting up investee companies for long-term success through carefully constructed, bespoke industrial value creation plans. The Zeppelin, designed by Marcel Wanders, is one of the iconic products of Flos. 6 7 Strategic Commentary // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Capital partners In April 2015, Aston Martin announced the successful raising In addition to the objective of achieving superior returns, of £200 million of preference shares in order to expand its Investindustrial and the team have committed to contributing product range to include a luxury cross-over vehicle. €5 million to Invest for Children (www.investforchildren.org) in the next five years, Investindustrial’s corporate foundation. The additional capital has been instrumental in allowing the Contributing to the community is an integral part of being company the flexibility to progress with the largest product a responsible long-term investor. development project in the company’s 102 – year history. In November 2015, Investindustrial formally launched the Looking forward fundraising for its latest investment programme, Investindustrial VI L.P. (“Fund VI”). The overwhelming support that Looking forward to 2016, Investindustrial continues to see followed from existing capital partners, and the significant strength in financial and industrial markets amid the gradual interest shown from new institutional investors confirms European economic recovery, although still punctuated Investindustrial’s position as one of Europe’s leading by significant uncertainty. The need for private ownership mid-market groups and as the dominant regional player in and capital persists as ever, and Investindustrial considers Southern Europe. the fragmented European mid-market environment to be Having been significantly oversubscribed, the fund promptly one that creates highly attractive opportunities for those reached its hard-cap of €2.0 billion, with 55% of the capital able to source and execute complex quality deals. from Europe, 40% from the US and 5% from the rest of the world. Capital from existing relationships was supplemented by commitments from a select new group of similarly renowned endowment funds, foundations, sovereign wealth funds, public pensions and insurance companies. The commitment shown by these capital partners allowed Fund VI to become the largest ever private equity fund focused primarily on Southern Europe and one of the five largest mid-market European funds raised since the beginning of 2015. Investindustrial capital partnerships have transcended fund investment over the long-term and routinely include significant co-investment opportunities. Investindustrial’s co-investment partners have invested more than €380 million in new investments in the last two years. Sustainability Another key competitive advantage is the intense focus Investindustrial places on long-term portfolio company health. This remains of paramount importance to both the group’s value creation map and its position as a world class investor. Attractive financial investment returns for Investindustrial are achieved by setting up investee companies for long-term future success after a period of repositioning. Each year Investindustrial endeavors to make incremental improvements across its own business and those of its portfolio companies. To this end, in 2015 Goldcar worked on an inaugural Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) report, published post year end in February 2016. Other portfolio companies such as PortAventura already publish best-in-class dedicated CSR reports. Polynt Group, an integrated global player in the coating and composite resins industry with a variety of end markets: construction, transportation, housing appliances, electrical, marine, food and others. 8 9 Strategic Commentary // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Adding value through active operational improvement and globalisation, with a high sense of urgency, remains 2015 Key events the focus of Investindustrial’s investment strategy. €2.5bn It has become equally important to keep a cool head and maintain rigour across all the firm’s activities, with clear-sighted leadership and a highly responsive organisation imperative to converting today’s opportunities into tomorrow’s investment performance. To further € 2.5 billion of equity for investments institutionalise this discipline and sector expertise throughout the Investindustrial team is a priority as we At the end of 2015, and including the Fund VI fundraising continue to refine how we operate in achieving superior concluded shortly thereafter, Investindustrial had approximately risk adjusted long-term returns for our investors. € 2.5 billion of equity to make further acquisitions. Investindustrial remains balanced between a high quality private With 75 professionals across three continents, market portfolio and capital available for new investments. Investindustrial has a stronger and more experienced team than ever before in an industry where the relentless drive €0.6bn of talented professionals distinguishes the outperformers. Investindustrial began 2016 with a high level of activity with the acquisition of Artsana (child care and self medication) and Valtur (resort operator), on which we look forward to providing you with a detailed update together with other Selective investments completed for € 0.6 billion developments in next year’s annual review. During 2015, Investindustrial and its co-investors made investments for more than € 0.6 billion in two new companies while continuing to support the product development plan of Aston Martin. €2.8bn Refinancings In the last two years the group debt team has supported five refinancings and four issues of acquisition debt for a total consideration of € 2.8 billion. 16% A highly profitable portfolio Investindustrial has a solid portfolio of profitable companies with an overall EBITDA margin of 16%. In 2015 growth occurred mostly outside Southern Europe. The new DB11, recently presented at the Geneva Auto Show, is the first new model produced by Aston Martin after Investindustrial invested in the company. 10 11 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 WHO WE ARE 1978 The Financial Times A leading European A history investment group with a consistent strategy Providing industrial expertise, operational focus and global platforms to accelerate value creation and 2012 The Financial Times international expansion. Investindustrial is one of Europe’s leading independent or holding company of each fund. Decisions over investments investment groups which provides industrial solutions and capital and divestments, including the exercise of the voting rights to medium-size companies that are leaders in their fields. over the shares of the portfolio companies, are made by the Founded from an industrial conglomerate, today Investindustrial applicable investment or holding company board of directors 2012 The Economist has a dominant leadership position in Southern Europe with in an autonomous and independent manner, consistent with the longest history (established in 1990), the deepest track record the applicable corporate governance rules and by-laws. It is the (49 portfolio investments), the largest team (75 professionals responsibility of the management of each portfolio company to across three continents), and has become the largest private equity operate that company on a day-to-day basis. investor of institutional capital (€ 5.6 billion of raised fund capital) in this region. Investindustrial uses proprietary networks developed across several cycles to identify high-quality, often complex, investment opportunities in mid-market sectors well-known to the firm and 2015 Recognitions of pursues a consistent, industrially-driven investment approach to unlock value. Active ownership and operational improvement Investindustrial excellence remain at the core of Investindustrial’s value creation strategies which typically focus on accelerating growth and profitability through globalisation and/or industrial repositioning. Andrea C. Bonomi Private Equity Personality of the Year Investindustrial advocates the use of moderate leverage commensurate with each company’s growth and capex ambitions (Private Equity Exchange) to build sustainable businesses. This approach resonates well with industrial trade buyers, often a preferred exit route for portfolio Italian Firm of the Year companies. Investindustrial has demonstrated discipline across (Private Equity Exchange, Silver Award) cycles by continuing to focus on the quality end of the mid-market. Spanish Firm of the Year The general partners and investment managers manage the (Private Equity Exchange, Silver Award) funds in the interest of the limited partners and therefore in an autonomous and independent manner from the other group companies. Investments and divestments are made (and shares in portfolio companies are held) by the applicable investment 37 Originated from Operating 75 professionals Industrially a successful as a firm on three driven years of investments industrial group since 1990 continents approach in leading brands and companies 12 13 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 An investment strategy refined from The Diavel marked another milestone in Ducati’s rich R&D history. successes and experiences from previous partnerships such as... INVEST DRIVE IN QUALITY MARKET BUSINESSES LEADERSHIP Quality management team Create international leaders Focus on reinforcing through organic growth research and development and new acquisitions Optimisation Maximize profitability by and rationalisation leveraging synergies and of product mix developing restructuring or cost-cutting plans Improvement of working Capture international capital management growth opportunities Business line diversification ...was applied to the 2015 portfolio of CAPTURE CREATE leading brands and companies GLOBAL TOMORROW’S OPPORTUNITIES LEADERS Capture international sales Integrate product growth opportunities that development, production are not easily accessible for and supply chain mid-market companies capabilities with international Use the Group’s global distribution capacity network to facilitate access Capture both geographical to new markets and product growth Relocate manufacturing opportunities to low-cost countries Building a digital strategy with growing domestic adequate to changing market consumption and customer behaviors 14 15 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 2015 Sales(1) (%) Leading European footprint with By Region 2015 Sales(1) Variance (%) By Region 2015 Sales Variance (%) By Region since Investindustrial entry a growing international presence Italy Rest of 11% Investindustrial has considerable international exposure and the World -2% 100% combines a global vision with capital and local insight to drive 22% 13% Italy growth initiatives in its companies. 24% North 30% 9% 46% Spain America 4% Investindustrial’s portfolio companies have a truly global Rest Rest footprint, with more than half of the 2015 sales coming from 16% Italy 0% of the World of the world Spain Rest outside Southern Europe. Rest of Europe of Europe 18% Spain Rest of North -3% 2012 In 2015 the most attractive growth opportunities stemmed from 24% -6% Europe America North America outside of Southern Europe both in North America and in the UK. (1) Sales weighted by shareholding of the companies present in the portfolio at the end of 2015. Since inception, non-European countries outside Europe have (1) Sales weighted by shareholding of the companies present in the portfolio at More than 90% of the portfolio growth since inception has come the end of 2015. from markets outside of Southern Europe and 68% of this has been contributed to 68% of the growth of portfolio companies’ sales. driven from non-European countries. 2 1 3 4 1. Andy Palmer (CEO of Aston Martin) during the Global Launch 2 From left: Dante Razzano (Managing Principal), 4. From left: Sergio Feder (President of PortAventura), of the DB11 at the 2016 Geneva International Motor Show. Andrea C. Bonomi (Chairman of the Industrial Advisory Board), Arturo Mas-Sardá (Chairman of PortAventura), Carlo U. Bonomi Joaquìn Güell (Managing Principal) and Carlo Umberto Bonomi (Managing Principal), Luisa Rosselló (Senior Vice President) (Managing Principal) at the Lugano office (Switzerland). and Fernando Aldecoa (Head of Finance and Operations of PortAventura) at the Ferrari headquarters in Maranello 3. From left: Carl Nauckhoff (Senior Principal), (Modena, Italy). Andrea C. Bonomi (Chairman of the Industrial Advisory Board) and Clifford Wong (Deputy Group Managing Director at MF Jebsen International Limited) at the Aston Martin store in Hong Kong. 16 17 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Investindustrial is a global provider of employment Investindustrial’s portfolio companies employ Investindustrial investments have a direct presence approximately 13,650 employees, based mostly in through manufacturing facilities or subsidiaries Europe, across a wide range of sectors and countries. in 23 countries. Investindustrial considers the skills of its portfolio companies’ The companies in which Investindustrial invests endeavor NORWAY employees as an asset to be developed and shared while to maintain and improve training and further develop the knowrespecting and safeguarding individuals. Furthermore, the group how of their employees. In 2015, the total workforce reached USA is committed to offering equal opportunities in employment and approximately 13,650 employees of which approximately 4,100 in career development, avoiding every form of discrimination, are outside of Southern Europe. Manufacturing and commercial UK DENMARK including discrimination based on race, sex, sexual orientation, activities are present across 23 countries and five continents. age, nationality, religion and personal beliefs. RUSSIA CANADA FRANCE POLAND Total Investindustrial Companies Employees (%) PORTUGAL GERMANY By Region By Sector Asia Industrial SOUTH KOREA America 3.4% Manufacturing ANDORRA MALTA Consumer, 16.4% 5.4% Retail and Leisure Italy SPAIN 35.5% 53.7% Services and Concessions ITALY Rest of Europe 29.9% CHINA 21.0% Spain 34.7% MEXICO UAE MYANMAR MOROCCO The headquarters of B&B Italia at Novedrate (Italy) designed by Renzo GROUP PRESENCE IN: Piano and Richard Rogers in 1973. ANDORRA MOROCCO AUSTRALIA MYANMAR MALAYSIA BRAZIL NORWAY CHINA POLAND CANADA PORTUGAL BRAZIL DENMARK RUSSIA FRANCE SOUTH KOREA GERMANY SPAIN AUSTRALIA ITALY UAE MALAYSIA UK MALTA USA MEXICO 18 19 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Investindustrial’s senior team, from left: Carl Nauckhoff (Senior Principal), Salvatore Catapano (Senior Principal), Mateo Paniker (Senior Principal), Dante Razzano A leading investment to nurture and integrate the high-calibre incremental personnel improvements that are regularly made to the firm. (Managing Principal), Andrea C. Bonomi (Chairman of the team in Europe Investindustrial professionals represent 14 nationalities and 16 Industrial Advisory Board), languages, reflecting the importance the firm places on being Carlo Umberto Bonomi a transparent and dynamic organisation with global views and (Managing Principal), Roberto Maestroni (Senior Principal) Investindustrial is one of the largest and most capabilities. and Joaquín Güell (Managing Investindustrial has developed a team of functional specialists experienced groups of investment professionals who support the Firm’s investment activity: business Principal). focused on Europe. development professionals, an equity markets team, a debt Below: some of markets and legal transactions team and an investor relations Investindustrial operates through a series of investment Investindustrial’s and syndication team. This exceptional resource pool is led professionals at work. funds, holding companies and financial advisory firms, each by the senior team of eight Managing Principals and Senior managed independently and established in the United Kingdom, Principals. Spain, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, the United States and China. Talent management is a key strategic goal of Investment and divestment activity is decided and undertaken Investindustrial which has a team of 75 professionals combining by the applicable holding and investment companies pursuant local insight with global perspective. Having the right people to their respective board of directors instructions and decisions. at the right place at the right time is critical to building See under “Governance” for more details. successful companies. To recruit and retain talented people with the highest ethical standards and to create an attractive Certain group companies are authorised and subject to the workplace in which to develop them is vital for Investindustrial. supervision of the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom, the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier Investindustrial professionals, who typically remain with the firm in Luxembourg and the Federal Authority for Financial Market for many years, have demonstrated major achievements in their Supervisory Authority in Switzerland. professional and academic past and are therefore best placed Investindustrial Employees (nr.) By Age and Gender Distribution By Years of Employment at Investindustrial 7 32 Total Total Support Staff 7 26 Women 3 Administration and Accounting 4 22 Men Investment Professionals 22 19 5 15 14 16 18 2 14 10 4 3 8 4 10 5 9 6 6 3 3 3 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 0-2 2-5 5-10 >10 By Education Programmes M.B.A./PHD 21% High school and other education programs 19% 7 offices 16 languages University degree 60% 14 nationalities 20 21 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 St Athan (Wales) selected as manufacturing location for the production of the Aston Martin DBX crossover. An organisation tailor-made for active ownership throughout the investment process Investindustrial leverages proprietary networks to source The team’s experience combines strong local investment insight attractive investment opportunities typically unavailable to the with a global perspective which is leveraged to ensure the broader market. Since inception the vast majority of portfolio successful execution of the industrially-driven approach. As active investments have been sourced through proprietary channels, investors Investindustrial works closely with key management including family and corporate vendors, Public-to-Privates and throughout the ownership phase to drive product growth and/ public situations, a deliberate course of action which has yielded or market expansion. This includes actively securing industrial, attractive entry multiples. branding and financial partners from inside, or selectively from outside, our network. These proprietary relationships which have Investindustrial allocates resources to a concentrated group been developed over many cycles, are inherently interlinked and of investee companies but actively seeks to mitigate risks, and underline Investindustrial’s reputation as the preferred partner control returns, by holding a portfolio of assets that exhibits for high-quality mid-market businesses in Southern Europe and natural diversity. Target companies are typically in growth or opportunistically in Western Europe. mature phases of their lifecycle with the level of support required The industrially driven, responsible and active ownership approach categorised in the following ways: consolidate position as local of Investindustrial creates a natural allegiance with corporate leader, strategic repositioning, international expansion, accelerate players who are looking to acquire high quality strategic assets. growth through acquisition and/or new products and markets. As part of the value creation process Investindustrial identifies potential trade buyers with which there may be valuable synergies Investindustrial provides hands-on support to portfolio companies and actively engages in dialogue throughout the holding period. through the team’s breadth and depth of expertise. The ability Industrial and strategic buyers have accounted for the majority to deliver on often complex operational and organisational plans of Investindustrial exits to date, which habitually leads to an is underpinned by the broad and deep internal sector expertise attractive increase in the realised value when compared to the developed across many business cycles and is actively supported most recent valuation prior to exit. by the internal business development group. Gabriele Del Torchio (Member of the Investindustrial Advisory Board and former CEO A unique network of Industrial Advisors of Ducati) and Rupert Stadler (CEO of Audi). To help its portfolio companies achieve their full potential, and in The Industrial Advisory Board provides industry expertise, views, support of the active ownership approach, Investindustrial can opinions and strategic advice on industrial and business plans count on the valuable commitment of its Industrial Advisors. to the boards of the investment managers and holding companies. Its members act as consultants and do not have any investment or These seasoned executives bring industrial expertise in a wide divestment decisional powers. range of sectors and are closely linked to the group’s industriallydriven operational model. They are an integral part of Investindustrial’s business model and industrial approach, providing competence from operational and The Industrial Advisors concentrate their advice on maintaining strategic issues in their fields of expertise. best practice corporate governance, stress testing industrial plans and identifying global value creation opportunities. The members of the Industrial Advisory Board are seasoned executives who bring valuable insights in a wide range of industries and are closely linked to the Group’s industrially-driven operational model. The Industrial Advisory Board is chaired by Andrea C. The Industrial Advisory Board Bonomi. The broad network of Industrial Advisors has specific industrial expertise in its sectors, a history of strong relationships with Investindustrial, and is coordinated by the Industrial Advisory Board. 22 23 Who We Are // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 An internationally recognised Investindustrial empowers sustainable investment approach digitalisation and technological change Andrea C. Bonomi awarded “European Private Since inception in 1990, Investindustrial has invested in numerous companies that have themselves been at the cutting Equity personality of the Year” at Private Equity edge of development, and other more traditional businesses Exchange Awards 2015 which have incorporated new technologies both to defend and gain market share. Today, and increasingly so in the future, In December 2015, Andrea C. Bonomi was awarded scalable technology is a powerful tool for portfolio companies European Private Equity Personality of the Year at the to accelerate internationalisation; and a disruptive element for 14th Edition of the Private Equity Exchange Awards hosted those not adapting. in Paris. Competing for the award were several other high-calibre thought leaders of the industry, who lead Investindustrial is determined to capture the benefits of some of the world’s other most prominent private equity technological innovation for its portfolio companies and for firms. The Private Equity Exchange Award is one of the the group itself through a proactive approach and a dedicated largest European private equity summits and attracts business development team. The group’s technology and more than 1,200 industry participants. The category digitalisation centre of excellence is based in the New York office, winners were selected by a jury including leading complementing the other business development activities institutional investors. carried out from London and Shanghai. The team provides advisory services supporting due diligence reviews and benchmarks the digital strategy of new investments and add-on Investindustrial awarded “Mediterranean Deal acquisitions. of the Year” at Private Equity Awards 2015 The investment Investindustrial will continue to make in Investindustrial was awarded Mediterranean Deal the technology team follows similar investments made in other of the Year at The Private Equity Awards 2015 in London. areas of business development in recent years (corporate Investindustrial was selected by a jury of seasoned private development, debt, investor relations & syndication, legal equity professionals and in conjunction with research &compliance, risk management). The technology team and performance evaluation done by the Cass Business strengthens further the exceptional pool of resources which School. Investindustrial can provide to portfolio companies to support industrial and international growth ambitions. Investindustrial recognised as “European Buyout House of the Year” Investindustrial was awarded the top accolade of “European Buyout House of the Year” at The Private Equity Awards 2013, an industry-leading awards ceremony arranged by trade publication Real Deals. Aston Martin and LeEco to co-develop electric vehicle. 24 25 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CASE STUDY: Flos Investing in an original lighting brand “Through the planned acceleration of its global sales footprint, Flos’ strategy is to continue its exciting expansion geographically and by product innovation. Investindustrial has historical roots as a family of Italian entrepreneurs which perfectly parallel our history and traditions. This, together with its track record of investments in high-end brands and its experience in growing Italian and Spanish based companies, made it the natural partner of choice for Flos”. Flos 2015 EBITDA Margin Developments since entry: 25.1% Piero Gandini, Chief Executive Officer Flos. Sales growth 24% EBITDA growth 26% EBITDA Margin growth 1% Investindustrial has invested in a great brand to support its next development phase In November 2014, Investindustrial acquired a majority of the world’s leading art and design museums, including the shareholding in Flos in order to lead the next phase of its Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art industrial development and to accelerate its global in New York, the Victoria & Albert Museum in London, the expansion. Triennale Design Museum in Milan, Les Arts Décoratifs and Flos is a high quality, northern-Italian family business and Le Centre Pompidou in Paris and many others. a luxury design brand recognised globally for its leadership in residential and architectural lighting as well as for its The company’s longstanding relationships with world original design and technological innovation. renowned designers such as the Castiglioni brothers, Philippe Starck, Antonio Citterio, Piero Lissoni, the Since its foundation in 1962, Flos’ products have been Bouroullec brothers, Ron Gilad and many others is a unique recognised through numerous international design awards feature of the company. The Copycat, designed by Michael Anastassiades, and several pieces have become collection items for some is a recent addition to the Flos product portfolio. 26 27 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 The internationalisation is already underway In the first quarter of 2015, only six months after Sales (€m) Investindustrial’s investment in Flos, the company executed By Year its first acquisition: Ares, a leading Italian manufacturer of architectural outdoor lighting. This transaction represents 198.4 the first step of a growth plan based on both organic and external drivers and focused on further developing the 159.7 154.2 company from an industrial and geographical standpoint. The Flos collection, historically famous for its pioneering designs and more recently for its professional lighting systems (Flos Architectural), is now strengthened by Ares’ expertise enabling Flos to compete effectively and successfully in the global outdoor lighting sector. The Ares production facility covers an area of over 12,000 sqm, including the research and development department, 2013 2014 2015 testing laboratories and an advanced technology painting and coating system. In 2010, the Ares LED division was created, comprising an automatic assembly line for circuit boards and a production department for wiring and assembly. Ares’ dedication to quality has made it a benchmark in the sector, exporting its products worldwide and addressing a broad target of consumers who are increasingly aware of the numerous benefits linked to comfortable, safe and efficient lighting. Later in the year, Flos also announced the acquisition EBITDA (€m) and Margin (%) of Lukas Lighting to boost the North American custom By Year and manufacturing capabilities and to optimise product range and design service for Flos clients. Lukas Lighting 49.7 specialises in the design, development, and manufacturing 37.8 39.6 of custom lighting products. Its custom division develops projects including, but not limited to, corporate interiors, retail chains, and hospitality with the possibility to tailor 25.1% 24.8% each project to specific client needs. In recent years, Lukas 24.5% Lighting has produced beautiful installations at projects such as JP Morgan Chase, Michael Kors stores, Four Seasons hotels, and many more. With the recent and rapid growth of its contract division, Flos USA sees Lukas Lighting’s market position in line with its expansion goals in the areas of distribution, service and production. This integration will accelerate time to market and enhance the ability to offer an extended range of customised solutions to clients. 2013 2014 2015 Moonline a fully integrated Architectural Lighting is a Flos revolutionary lighting technology offering unprecedented and numerous visual possibilities. The smart technology is a reflection of a sustainable development and the structural open profiles allow themselves to be incorporated effortlessly into any surface requiring only a minimal depth of 5cm. 28 29 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CASE STUDY: PortAventura A European leader “After the successful experience with the in the leisure and largest Italian theme park Gardaland, it is of great pleasure for me to continue entertainment working with Investindustrial on PortAventura. After six years of cooperation industry with Investindustrial, PortAventura has been transformed from a theme park into Europe’s second largest integrated destination resort. A strong repositioning plan has been implemented based on strengthening the product offering, implementing a more accurate commercial strategy and optimising the cost base. The company is today on the right path to meet its long term value creation plan.” PortAventura 2015 EBITDA Margin Developments since entry: 44.1% Sergio Feder, President of the Executive Committee PortAventura. Sales growth 38% EBITDA growth 135% EBITDA Margin growth 70% The acquisition was made possible through the close Building on the successful previous investment relationship with La Caixa, Europe’s leading savings bank, in Italian theme park operator Gardaland, and its majority-owned investment company Criteria Investindustrial acquired PortAventura in 2009 Caixa Corp. Since Investindustrial’s entry, PortAventura has performed well despite a very difficult economic PortAventura (www.portaventura.com), established in 1995, environment. The company’s positive performance is a is the largest Southern European theme park and second result of the industrially-driven approach of Investindustrial largest in Europe. The site comprises an amusement park and the introduction of a proven management team from with 40 rides, over 100 daily shows, 43 shops and arcades, Gardaland led by Sergio Feder. The key drivers of the a water park, five hotels with 2,100 rooms and a 4,000 outperformance to date are the successfully repositioned person convention and conferencing centre. PortAventura commercial strategy, improvements in the park offerings is located in the northeastern coastal area of Spain (Costa of shops and food, the addition of a new kids’ area and the Dorada), by the tourist resort of Salou and is less than one tallest rollercoaster in Europe, the launch of an aquatic hour from Barcelona. The area is a major tourist destination park and an efficiency programme that has significantly which attracts visitors from across Europe. The park attracts increased the profitability. PortAventura is the largest destination almost four million local and international visits each year. resort in southern Europe. 30 31 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 A successful Sales (€m) By Year Brand partnerships with Ferrari development strategy and Cirque du Soleil 191.9 193.9 172.8 179.3 179.4 Since Investindustrial’s entry at the end of 2009, PortAventura PortAventura is continuing to strengthen its position in the 140.3 143.2 has performed strongly: EBITDA has more than doubled premium tourism segment by increasing the international increasing to €86 million with a margin of 44% and the number image and branding of the park. In May, the cornerstone of of visitors has increased by 15% as a result of new park offerings Ferrari Land was laid during a well-attended ceremony at the and a relaunched commercial strategy. The management of PortAventura site on which the new attraction will be built. Last the company has focused on the following areas in recent years: year, PortAventura reached a licensing agreement with Ferrari to establish “Ferrari Land”, a new theme park dedicated to the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 New Park Offerings: the new kids area, SesamoAventura, global brand of Ferrari within the PortAventura destination and the new rollercoster, Shambhala, which opened in the last resort. The newly branded site will be the sole Ferrari theme three years, have continued to attract both repeat and new park in Europe and is expected to open during 2017. Ferrari Land visitors throughout 2015. In 2013, PortAventura opened the will be built on a total surface area of 75,000 square meters doors to its refurbished attraction, the Costa Caribe Aquatic and benefit from several rides (including the highest and fastest Park. The water park is set in more than 50,000 square meters EBITDA (€m) and Margin (%) vertical accelerator in Europe), a new premium hotel with 250 of grounds and offers an extensive range of attractions to By Year rooms and five star service, restaurants, large simulation areas cater for the whole family. The latest attraction is the AngKhor for car racing and shops. Boat ride, inspired by the famous Asian temple, which 75.9 85.0 85.6 Starting in 2017, and running for five years, Cirque du Soleil 68.7 represents the longest circuit of its type in Europe. 59.0 44.3% 44.1% will hold performances at PortAventura during the summer 42.3% months. This branding partnership follows that reached with 42.1 38.3% Cirque du Soleil following the inaugural Kooza and Amaluna 36.4 34.1% Commercial strategy, in recent years, supported by the new 29.4% shows in 2014 and 2015. kids area and the new rollercoaster, the company has 25.9% refocused its marketing strategy to concentrate on traditional values, entertainment and family. As a result, it has been 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 able to reverse the negative trend in visits prior to Investindustrial’s entry, achieving a substantial increase in visitors from abroad (~ 50% in 2015), increase customer satisfaction across all categories and improve yield management. In the hotels business, the company has worked very closely with major tour operators both in Spain and internationally to develop a cohesive marketing strategy to increase hotel bookings since 2009. PortAventura is investing significantly to further diversify its customer base and to attract new customers especially from the growing Russian, German and Eastern European markets. In addition the implementation of a new website, booking engine and the introduction of call centre best practices, have significantly improved yield and the direct bookings have increased from € 2 million in 2009 to € 23 million in 2015. Work in progress at Ferrari Land, the new theme park dedicated to the iconic sports car brand to be opened in 2017. Ferrari Land is an exclusive partner to PortAventura in Europe. PortAventura lifting the iconic Ferrari emblem to be placed on what will be the highest and fastest vertical accelerator in Europe. 32 33 33 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 The Grande Papilio Armchair by B&B Italia, designed by Naoto Fukasawa. CASE STUDY: B&B Italia Strategic partnership with a leading international design furniture company “The strong desire to guarantee the continuity of this extraordinary company in a way that will ensure its further growth and expansion at the international level in keeping with its mission and history led us to consider the partnership with Investindustrial. Due to its experience in the high-end market and design, it will be able to provide us with the expertise and resources needed to pursue our long-term strategies of internationalisation and industrial development”. Giorgio Busnelli, Chief Executive Officer B&B Italia. Investindustrial aims to further consolidate the enriching the history of Italian design. B&B Italia’s success is based on a international expansion of a great designer furniture brand unique combination of creativity, innovation and industrial capabilities aimed at creating timeless products that stand the test of time. In September 2015, Investindustrial acquired the majority shareholding of B&B Italia, a leading international design furniture Technological research has always been a key element of the company. The company has an excellent reputation worldwide in the company’s development policy. The company has an in-house high-end design furnishings sector, for both the retail and corporate Research & Development centre that works with famous international markets, and has been known for its strong focus on research designers such as Antonio Citterio, Naoto Fukasawa, Gaetano Pesce and innovation and its ability to combine industrial expertise and and many others to support a creative and development process that corporate management since its creation almost 50 years ago. The has allowed it to set itself apart in the sector as a highly innovative and company operates in over 80 countries on five continents through technologically advanced company. Its numerous awards include four a distribution network that includes eight directly managed sales Compassi d’Oro (the most prestigious industrial design award), the outlets, 34 single-brand stores managed by sales partners of B&B most significant of which was the first award of this type ever given to Italia and over 800 multi-brand stores. B&B Italia is known as a leader a company rather than a product in 1989 for the “ongoing integration in the contemporary design furniture sector at the international level work to combine aspects of technical and scientific research with with an authentic collection of iconic furniture that has contributed to those needed to ensure product functionality and character”. 34 35 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENTS As of the end of 2015, Investindustrial’s portfolio was well balanced across three main industry platforms Investindustrial’s business and consists of a concentrated group of 11 portfolio companies to which significant resources are dedicated on an ongoing basis. Additionally, Investindustrial has a further three companies which have actively been focus and global drivers positioned for exit. 1 2 3 Flos headquarters in Bovezzo (Brescia, Italy). Consumer Services and Industrial Retail and Concessions Manufacturing Leisure Platform Platform Platform Leading companies Leading providers of critical Global leaders in the which operate in markets or high value-added services. design and manufacturing with long-term growth The companies are typically of specialty products. underpinned by positive beneficiaries of a growing The underlying markets trends in demographics and global outsourcing trend. are mature and often consumption patterns. Their asset-light capital consolidated with high The underlying industries structures give them a barriers to entry for new need to be mature but high cash conversion rate competition. New markets are are often still fragmented, and an ability to expand key in offering future growth giving the companies internationally without opportunities and possibilities attractive opportunities to undertaking major capital for operational improvement. consolidate their markets. investments. Growth is typically scalable on an international level. 36 37 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Global growth drivers and As of the end of 2015, Investindustrial’s portfolio comprised 11 investments, well balanced across industrial opportunities the three industry classifications. The difficult economic environment in recent Sales (%) EBITDA (%) years has presented significant opportunities By Sector for Investindustrial to strengthen the long-term Services competitive advantage of its investments. Industrial and Concessions Industrial Services Manufacturing Manufacturing 22% and Concessions 21% 18% 35% 43% Consumer, Retail 61% Consumer, Retail and Leisure and Leisure CONSUMER, SERVICES In this section sales and EBITDA are considered weighted by Investindustrial’s shareholding RETAIL AND INDUSTRIAL and considering the portfolio companies composed by the companies present as of December 2015. AND LEISURE CONCESSIONS MANUFACTURING EBITDA Margin (%) By Sector 23.1% Globalisation Economies of scale Globalisation GLOBAL 16.1% of consumer trends Outsourcing Growth in new markets GROWTH 9.9% 13.2 % Aging population Increased need Cost efficency DRIVERS Changing consumer for information and purchasing behaviour communication technology Global need for Industrial Consumer, Retail Services Total Manufacturing and Leisure and Concessions infrastructure investments 16% overall EBITDA Margin Add-on acquisitions Expanding service Improving operational INDUSTRIAL Employees (nr.) Capturing growth offering into adjacent fields efficiency of mid-market companies OPPORTUNITIES By Sector opportunities Synergistic add-on in new markets acquisitions Relocation of manufacturing 2,234 13,651 to more value added 4,081 Improving Capturing growth jurisdictions the marketing mix in developing markets Add-on acquisitions 7,336 Product development High visibility Industrial Manufacturing on concessions Services and Concessions The 2015 advertising campaign Consumer, Total by Stroili, the italian leader Retail and Leisure in fashion jewellery. 38 39 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 2015 main events 1 Consumer, Retail and Leisure in Consumer, Retail and Leisure In June 2015 Euskaltel was successfully exited through In the second half of 2015, Investindustrial completed the Investindustrial’s Consumer, Retail and Leisure sector currently Perfume Holding, leading producer and marketer an initial public offering on the Spanish Stock Exchange and acquisitions of B&B Italia and Sergio Rossi, which account for comprises the following companies: of perfumes and cosmetics in August 2015 the Coin Group repaid the PIK instrument the majority of the increase in sales and earnings for the year, PortAventura, leading European destination resort leaving Investindustrial with a minority residual shareholding in addition to organic portfolio growth. Aston Martin, leading luxury sports cars manufacturer Sergio Rossi, leading international luxury shoes brand in Coin Group. B&B Italia, Italy’s leading high-end design furniture brand Stroili Oro, leading Italian retail chain for jewellery, Flos, leading Italian high-end lighting brand, known globally watches and other gold and silver products for its original design Goldcar, the pioneer in the value leisure car rental segment in Europe Cosmetics Aston Martin is a leading luxury car manufacturer and one of Martin to develop bespoke V8 engines, supporting Aston Martin’s Jewellery Retail 7.3% the most exclusive sports car brands in the world. Established in launch of a next generation of models that will incorporate Sales (%) 8.3% 1913 and headquartered in Gaydon (UK), Aston Martin designs, cutting edge technology and newly-developed engines, combining Luxury manufactures and distributes luxury performance motor cars. Its high performance and fuel efficiency. In early 2015, Aston By Segment Luxury Shoes Sports Cars iconic status and global footprint has been established through Martin completed a £200 million funding round to expand its Nine segments 9.0% 20.3% its performance and elegant design and through the successful product range. The Geneva Motor Show served as a platform to are currently present Entertainment marketing as James Bond’s car in many 007 movies over the present the latest model of Aston Martin (DB11) which aroused in Investindustrial’s 11.2% past 50 years. Aston Martin operates throughout the world strong interest from the market before featuring in Spectre, the Consumer, Retail and Car Rental with a dealer network which currently covers approximately 150 latest Bond movie. In 2015, further high-calibre management Leisure sector Premium Lighting 16.8% locations. In 2015 the strategic partnership with Daimler AG, appointments, including a new CFO, were made to complement the German multinational premium automotive corporation, those already made under Investindustrial’s stewardship. 12.2% Premium Furniture continued apace. The agreement will allow Daimler and Aston www.astonmartin.com 14.8% Sales (€m) EBITDA Margin (%) By Year By Year 865 23.1% 781 803 21.5% 22.2% +3% +8% +3% +4% 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 EBITDA (€m) Employees (nr.) By Year By Year 200 179 168 7,382 7,336 7,079 +6% +12% +4% -1% 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 In 2015 sales increased by 8% while earnings decreased by 12%, The total number of employees remained stable in 2015 Aston Martin has received significant early demonstrating the strength of the industrially driven plans. at approximately 7,300. interest in the DB11 (pictured) for which the order book continues to grow daily. 40 41 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 B&B Italia is the leading Italian high-end design furniture brand, Flos is the leading Italian high-end lighting brand, known Goldcar is the leading leisure-focused car rental company in Perfume Holding produces and markets perfumes for a number globally recognised for its iconic products. The company has a globally for its unique design and technological innovation, the Mediterranean, with a leading market share in Spain, Italy, of well-known brands. The license portfolio includes Ferrari, La unique product portfolio and has been awarded with many design both in the decorative and architectural segments. Since its Portugal and Malta. The company is a pioneer in the value Perla, Iceberg, Liu Jo, Bikkembergs, Grigio Perla and Sergio prizes over the years. B&B Italia has developed longstanding founding in 1962, Flos products have been recognised with a segment of the car rental industry, having established the Tacchini. In addition, the group owns the Atkinsons, I Coloniali partnerships with world-renowned designers and architects such number of design awards and are collection items for leading business model followed by its competitors. Goldcar is present and Morris brands. The company has a direct presence in Italy, as Antonio Citterio, Naoto Fukasawa, Gaetano Pesce and many museums such as the MoMA in New York, the Victoria & Albert in Southern Europe’s key tourist airports and railway stations France, Germany, UK and Singapore. The company is consolidating others which have positioned the company at the forefront of Museum in London and Le Centre Pompidou in Paris. Flos’ through 70 offices, benefiting from the strength and resilience its strategy of creating the first alternative to multinational technological innovation. State of the art integrated design, long-standing relationship with world-renowned designers, of the Mediterranean tourism market (which accounts for 40% perfumes companies through the acquisition of small-medium size R&D and manufacturing capabilities have allowed B&B Italia such as the Castiglioni brothers, Philippe Starck and Antonio of the global industry). brands and companies. The company recently strengthened its to combine high quality with process efficiency. The company Citterio, is a unique feature of the company. During 2015 Flos In 2015, four new offices were opened in Italy and new management team by hiring a new CEO and renewed the Ferrari has captured different and complementary styles through two further consolidated its international expansion by acquiring operations were started in France, Greece and Croatia with 11 license, which was expiring in 2018, until December 2023. The renowned and established brands – B&B Italia (contemporary Lukas Lighting in the USA, a company specialised in the design, new offices. During the year several initiatives were launched in Group has also recently signed a new ten-year license agreement innovative) and MAXALTO (classic traditional) – which comprise manufacturing and installation of customised lighting solutions. order to increase brand perception, direct channel penetration with Bikkembergs, an international fashion brand. Perfume Holding its Home division, and additionally provides bespoke design In addition Flos strengthened its presence in the outdoor and improve customer service at all level including the launch is continuing to focus on capturing growth in existing markets furnishing solutions through its Contract division. B&B Italia has segment by acquiring Ares, the leading Italian company in the of a new website with higher transparency and a dedicated Help and product segments that leverage the established international an extensive distribution network consisting of eight directly premium outdoor lighting market. The transaction enabled Flos Center. The management team was reinforced at all corporate distribution network and on developing the new acquired licenses. operated stores, 36 mono-brand stores, 40 shop-in-shop and to cover all key premium lighting products and is generating levels and a Board of Directors was established with experienced www.perfumeholding.com approximately 800 dealers worldwide. The acquisition of B&B significant synergies with Flos’ operating model. independent directors. Italia was completed at the end of September 2015. www.flos.com www.goldcar.es www.bebitalia.com Designed in 1969 by Gaetano Pesce, The Ferrari fragrance license and the opening from the outset the up of Ferrari Land at PortAventura further series has been an outstanding demonstrate the interlinked relationships that expression of design. Investindustrial draws upon across portfolio companies. Such relationships have been built up across many cycles and are therefore hard to replicate. 42 43 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PortAventura is the largest destination resort in Southern Stroili is the leading Italian brand in affordable fashion Europe and the number two in Europe by number of rooms. jewellery. Stroili sells its products through approximately Investindustrial invested in PortAventura at the end of 2009 370 directly operated stores (DOS) and 1,000 wholesale and offered the support of the former managers of Gardaland, outlets in Italy, Germany, Spain, China, Russia and Middle who now work closely with the company. In recent years the East located within shopping malls, department stores and company has implemented a development strategy based city centres. Stroili is also present in major airline catalogues on product innovation (a new aquatic park, Costa Caribe, a such as Alitalia, Emirates, Etihad, KLM, Lufthansa, Qantas new kids area, Sesamo Adventure, the tallest rollercoaster and Swiss Air. The company, after having completed its in Europe, Shambhala, and the longest boat ride circuit expansion phase through the opening of new points of sale in Europe, Angkor), a new marketing strategy focused on in the shopping centers of the domestic market, is currently traditional values, entertainment and family and improvement consolidating its high street stores presence while continuing of efficiency. PortAventura reached a licensing agreement to capture expansion opportunities abroad. In 2015, the with Ferrari to establish Ferrari Land, the sole Ferrari theme company continued with its strategy of product innovation park in Europe expected to open at the beginning of 2017. and commercial advertisement yielding tangible results in PortAventura has also reached an agreement until 2021 with relation to improved performance against the previous years Cirque du Soleil and will benefit from shows in Spain over the of decline in a stagnant retail environment. Stroili continues summer months. to outperform its competitors in the Italian market both in the www.portaventura.es traditional shopping malls channel and in the more recent city centers and department store channels. www.stroilioro.com Sergio Rossi is a prominent Italian luxury footwear brands, long known for its high quality production of shoes. The company has built its credibility on its unique craftsmanship and on the creativity that characterises its designs. Sergio Rossi has a significant international presence across EMEA, America, South East Asia and Japan with over 80 stores (a mix of directly operated stores and franchised stores). Sergio Rossi has best-in-class manufacturing capabilities and is recognised for its high quality products. The company has a modern and best-in-class factory located near Rimini on the north-eastern coast of Italy (within an industrial region with very strong shoemaking heritage in Italy). At the end of 2015, Investindustrial was selected as the buyer of Sergio Rossi given its reputation as a reliable and industriallydriven investor capable of supporting the sales growth and brand repositioning globally. www.sergiorossi.com A pair of shoes by Sergio Rossi, a recent investment of Investindustrial. 44 45 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 One of SNAI’s online gaming terminals. 2 Services and Concessions 2015 main events in Services and Concessions During 2015 Cogetech was consolidated into SNAI and the process Investindustrial’s Services and Concessions sector comprises to list the new SNAI shares was finalised. of the following companies: In April 2015, Investindustrial sold an additional portion of its SNAI GROUP, leading Italian operator in the sports remaining minority shareholding in Applus, leaving a small residual betting & videolottery exposure to the company. In Q4 2015 Investindustrial sold its Emeru, leading Spanish ambulance services company. shareholdings in Panda Security. Sales (%) By Segment Two segments are Sports Betting & currently present in the Videolottery Investindustrial’s Services 73.9% Following the 2015 integration of SNAI and Cogetech, the SNAI Group and Concessions sector Emergency Transport Services became the largest listed group in Italy dedicated to the 26.1% entertainment sector with a leading position in sports betting, virtual events and horse races. The integration is an industry-shaping transaction for the Italian market: the new group has the largest network in Italy with almost 700 shops and owns the rights for approximately 1,600 betting corners as well as the concession to operate more than 10,000 video lottery terminals. The gaming Sales (€m) EBITDA Margin (%) industry has high barriers to entry arising from its concession nature By Year By Year and thus provides good revenue visibility. SNAI Group is now well positioned to capture value from the introduction of new games. 14.6% 14.6% 13.2% www.grupposnai.it 484 438 443 +11% -9% 0% -10% 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Emeru, with approximately 1,000 ambulances, is a leading provider of outsourced emergency transportation services in Spain and one of the largest in Europe. EBITDA (€m) Employees (nr.) Emeru operates a non-cyclical business in a highly fragmented By Year By Year sector with more than 90% of its core market already structured as medium-long term concessions (two to ten years). After having 71 4,081 64 58 3,591 3,530 invested at the end of 2010, Investindustrial continues to support the company in renewing key concessions in core markets, developing a stronger and more diversified backlog with high quality concessions in growing jurisdictions, diversifying the company’s +11% -18% -2% +16% geographical footprint and internationalising the business through selective and complementary add-on acquisitions. Emeru has significantly strengthened its management team since Investindustrial’s 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 entry with a new CEO, a CFO and a Managing Director in the UK. The company operates in line with international best practices. In the last three years four add-on acquisitions have been completed In 2015 sales decreased by 9% and earnings by 18% due to The negative performance of the sports betting division in the UK, Canary Islands and Balearic Islands. a lower than expected performance for the SNAI Group. decreased earnings margin by 1.4%. www.emeru.net 46 47 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 2015 main events 3 Industrial Manufacturing in Industrial Manufacturing During 2015 Investindustrial sold its shareholding in AEB Group. The Industrial Manufacturing Sector comprises the following company: Polynt, Global leader in the production of specific polymer intermediates and derivatives. Polynt is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of composites and coating resins as well as intermediate and Sales (%) specialty chemical polymers. The Group continues to strengthen By Segment its leadership position in Western markets, further expanding into new geographies and also successfully recovering sales One segment is volume and profitability in a difficult market environment. currently present in the Chemicals Following the acquisition of PCCR, the North American Investindustrial’s coatings and composites resins business of Momentive Industrial Manufacturing 100% Specialty Chemicals, Polynt became a truly global player with sector a manufacturing presence in Europe, Asia and North America and a critical mass from which to further consolidate the market. The North American acquisition is further evidence of the ability of Investindustrial portfolio companies to implement international expansion plans, both organically and through acquisitions. At the end of 2014, Polynt, through its subsidiary PCCR, completed the acquisition of CCP Composites, a company Sales (€m) EBITDA Margin (%) specialised in composite resins, from Total S.A., the French By Year By Year integrated oil and gas company, to create Europe’s largest 9.9% (world’s third largest) integrated specialty chemicals company. 716 693 Today Polynt has been repositioned to be a global specialty player with a worldwide footprint and business presence. In 444 5.9% 6.0% 2015 Polynt significantly benefited from the synergies of the new acquisition and registered record profitability, and is being positioned for further attractive strategic opportunities through 61% -3% +3% +64% a combination with another specialty chemicals leader. www.polynt.com 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Rosario Valido (CEO of Polynt) during a visit at the Shang Changzou EBITDA (€m) Employees (nr.) plant in China. By Year By Year 69 2,262 2,234 43 1,443 26 +67% +59% +57% -1% 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 In 2015 sales decreased by 3% mainly due to the operating Earnings margin increased by 3.9% to reach 9.9% environment while earnings increased by 59% due to the while total employees remained broadly stable at approximately Polynt Group offers a full synergies related to the add-ons. 2,200. range of gelcoat solutions to a variety of sectors. 48 49 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 RESPONSIBLE INVESTING We care about helping people to achieve a better quality of life by offering tangible opportunities. Investindustrial firmly believes that managing environmental, social and governance issues (ESG) is an increasingly important part of its value proposition. In accordance with this Finance belief, Investindustrial has subscribed to the Principles for Initiative Responsible Investment (PRI – www.unpri.org), an initiative Innovative financing launched in April 2006 at the New York Stock Exchange by the for sustainability UN Secretary-General and coordinated by the United Nations One of the several fundraising events supported Environment Programme (UNEP) and the UN Global Compact. by the PortAventura Foundation. The six interconnected principles of PRI aim to Being active owners Promoting acceptance Reporting on our Incorporating ESG Seeking appropriate Working together act as a franchise for global best practices in and incorporating and implementation activities and progress matters into the disclosure on ESG to enhance our responsible investment and are fully supported by ESG matters into our of the Principles towards implementing. investment analysis matters by the entities effectiveness in Investindustrial’s core values. ownership policies and within the investment and decision-making in which we invest. implementing the practices. industry. process. Principles. Investindustrial’s foundation (Invest for Children) is an active player in supporting the integration of differently-abled people by facilitating the research of job opportunities. In the picture Carlo Umberto Bonomi (Managing Principal at Investindustrial) together with down’s syndrome employees of Aura Foundation. In 2008 the Group joined the UN Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org) by adhering to its ten principles. These principles are key guidelines in making business decisions for Investindustrial and include respect for human rights, ensuring appropriate labour conditions, respect for the environment and the application of anti-corruption measures. Investindustrial has also supported the adoption of these values by its portfolio companies. BAL COM LO THE CT G PA WE SUPPORT 50 51 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Investindustrial’s policy for responsible investing incorporates ESG principles Post-Investment stage in both the pre-and post-investment stages. Once an investment has been made, Investindustrial professionals will support the investee companies in activating If Investindustrial becomes aware of any ESG concerns during the holding period, it will agree a plan with management to mitigants to risks that were identified at the pre-investment address the issues raised. Additionally, at exit, the investment stage, and in identifying new ones, by providing them with team will be responsible for producing an appropriate ESG due Pre-Investment stage appropriate support and assistance through to the exit. diligence report. During the pre-investment stage, advisory teams will be During the due diligence process the advisory teams will expected to drive engagement with the relevant internal and adhere to the formal guidelines that Investindustrial has On an annual basis, Investindustrial will request its portfolio At a Firm level, Investindustrial will report annually to its external professionals to verify that the target company developed to exclude or limit investments in certain sectors. companies to report on the activities, results obtained stakeholders about the achievements and objectives that the is compliant with current and proposed future legislation. Sectors have been classified as either “Excluded”, where and future objectives in the different ESG areas and starting group has achieved in the past year. Investindustrial rules out making investments in companies in 2015, the majority of portfolio companies are expected The advisory team will then confirm in both the preliminary active in that sector, or “Sensitive”, where Investindustrial to produce an annual sustainability report. investment recommendation (PIR) and final investment intends to minimise its exposure and will apply more stringent recommendation (FIR) memoranda that the investment is requirements prior to the making of investments and during compliant with Investindustrial’s Responsible Investing Policy. any investment holding period. The FIR will also contain a summary of the opportunities, A fundraising campaign organised and hosted by the PortAventura Foundation to support an employment project for people with down syndrome. risks and mitigants related to ESG matters that may arise from the investment opportunity and the advisory team’s assessment of them. Corporate responsibility map for new investments & add-ons. Due diligence Preliminary investment Final investment recommendation (PIR) recommendation (FIR) NO RISK Proceed with investment process PIR and FIR record due diligence findings of new/further investment ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE NO RISK WITH RESPONSIBLE Proceed with new/further investment INVESTING POLICY FIR records due diligence findings Activities performed RISKS TO BE FURTHER RISKS ACCEPTABLE/ by the advisory team INVESTIGATED ACTIONS REQUIRED with the support of: Proceed with due diligence Proceed with new/further investment PIR presents risks/future actions FIR highlights corrective actions monitoring team risk management RISKS UNACCEPTABLE sustainability officer Decline new/further investment FIR contains reasons for decline legal counsel compliance external professionals RISKS UNACCEPTABLE Decline new/further investment PIR contains reasons for decline 52 53 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ESG Investindustrial’s ESG Evolution Investindustrial’s commitment towards environmental, social and corporate governance issues is strong and hands-on, and its effort a small but important step towards a more sustainable society. The majority of portfolio companies produce stand-alone sustainability reports. The first stand-alone sustainability report produced by a portfolio company (PortAventura 2014) Incorporation of a structured ESG due diligence in the investment process Introduction of the CSR Toolkit and first portfolio company with a dedicated ESG section Investindustrial subscibes to the Principes for Responsible Investment (PRI) Investindustrial becomes a Carbon Neutral company Investindustrial signs the UN Global Compact 1st Annual Review and Sustainability Report Introduction of external ESG consultants in the pre investment due diligence stage Appointment of an ESG Officer Disclosure of ESG activity on the company website 54 55 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Investindustrial places significant importance on reducing Environment its carbon footprint and has worked with the Carbon Neutral company since 2009, a world leading provider of carbon reduction solutions, to measure its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Investindustrial recognises that its environmentally responsible, energy emissions footprint. One of the main challenges for a large scale resort such as activities have an impact on the efficient and puts its best efforts PortAventura is to reduce the consumption of water, a vital environment and its policy is to to achieving continuous improvements. resource in the operation and theming of the park. In effort to limit negative impact as much as Featured below are some of the curb consumption, the management has taken action in the possible. Investindustrial is committed initiatives taking place across the Firm following ways: to ensuring that its business is and its portfolio. Improved operations: a rigorous monitoring of water consumption by taking daily meter readings, analysing consumption based on events, works and opening schedules, and ensuring good housekeeping such as implementing control In recent years, the Group has supported several projects to over potential leaks, tightness tests, automatic irrigation in off-set the emissions and achieve carbon neutrality such as the parks and plumbing fitted with saving systems. following activities in Turkey (Aydin Geothermal Energy and Ankara Landfill Gas to Energy). In addition Investindustrial has Improved infrastructure: PortAventura not only has its own undertaken a series of actions to reduce its overall emissions weather station that allows it to better control the distribution per employee. Given the nature of the business, travel has the of water, but it also has a water network that separates waste greatest impact on our emissions output and in this regard the and storm water and a closed circuit filtering treatment system Firm continued to reduce its travel related emissions in 2015 by for recreational use and swimming. another 2%. Improved environmental awareness: the resort is currently focused on raising awareness of environmental issues amongst park and hotel customers via different initiatives. 91 % of waste generated by PortAventura in 2015 was renewed for energy. In 2015, Goldcar initiated Goldcar Blue which includes the use of electric vehicles. Goldcar began calculating the emission of greenhouse gases in 2014 for both the company’s activities and also those related to the services rendered to their customers via car rentals. In 2015 the company initiated Goldcar Blue which, amongst other things, included the incorporation of electric vehicles to the rental fleet. Of the measures Goldcar has taken, electricity is the main form of energy consumption facing the company. With this they have taken steps to control and reduce usage as well as to increase awareness on the importance of good environmental behaviour. Examples of these actions include, but are not limited to, switching to LED lamps and introducing better controls at the facility level. Additionally, Goldcar published a report on good environmental practices and Covering more than 34,000 m2, PortAventura Caribe Aquatic Park offers conducted training for all its employees so that they can better a wide range of attractions for all ages. understand the impact of their actions. 56 57 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Social Investindustrial aims to create with whom it deals. Featured below Perfume Holding has an Environmental Management System, Emeru not only has their own internal environmental a harmonious working environment are some of the measures both certified to the international standard ISO14001, which is requirement but has also integrated environmental and quality and to pursue the highest standards Investindustrial and its portfolio a structured tool for measuring and continually improving criteria into its supplier selection which typically includes, but of integrity for the Firm, its portfolio companies have taken to become both the performance of the organisation in maintaining its is not limited to, ISO certifications, environmental certifications, companies and all third parties a first-class employer and citizen. regulatory compliance and managing its environmental risk. and environmentally-friendly solutions. An example of this Due to the improved systems and recycling programs, extra focus is reflected in the selection of its fleet transformer the company has enjoyed a declining trend in electricity and in which Emeru picked a supplier whose design included water consumption, waste production and CO2 emissions external solar panels to charge vehicle batteries. over the past six years. Aston Martin and LeEco to co-develop electric vehicle. Aston Martin is dedicated to developing a range of cars with low emission technologies and recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding with LeEco towards the creation of a partnership that will develop the Aston Martin RapidE electric vehicle concept with the potential to add a range of next generation connected electric vehicles. Emeru is actively involved in social activities with local communities. 58 59 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Since 2000, Investindustrial has sponsored Aston Martin officially supports five a corporate foundation called Invest for charities: Myton Hospice, Breast Cancer Children (www.investforchildren.org) which Campaign, Katharine House Hospice, MND is featured in full under the ‘Our Foundation’ (Motor Neurone Disease) and Prostate Cancer Research. section of this report. Aston Martin contributes to its officially supported charities Additionally, Investindustrial continues through donations of 10% of sales to employees when external to engage with the world’s leading academic suppliers are hosted, donations for the use of the employee institutions to share best practices and special events vehicle, and charity fundraising activities. insight in the evolving Private Equity industry. Emeru understands the importance of giving back to their local and further afield communities. Some of their initiatives include food donations to different organisations, the donation of ambulances to NGOs for their work in developing countries. “La Vanguardia” awards Invest for Children (represented by Urbano Groppello in the picture) with the Social Action Reward for their great work to achieve full socio-labour integration and a better life for people with intellectual disabilities. Perfume Holding is committed to workplace safety and works with both management and staff to better identify and handle any potential risks via education and communication. Training is delivered via on-the-job coaching, comprehension Andrea C. Bonomi during a keynote speech at the Stern Private testing and specialised training in environmental matters. Special focus is dedicated to emergency-response skills related Equity Conference at the New York University (USA), discussing to chemical spills given the essential part chemicals play in the strategies for private equity in the current economic climate in manufacturing process. Europe and worldwide. Goldcar’s workforce has grown by 62.5% over the last three years and their ability to retain and attract the best talent is driven by various factors including staff training and development (24 hours of training on average per employee), equal opportunities, workplace security, work/life balance and pay (Goldcar pays a significantly higher minimum wage than the local equivalent in all markets in which it operates). Goldcar is also active in the communities in which it operates and in 2015 sponsored a diverse and numerous calendar of events such as, but not limited to, Official Ironman, European (-21) Laser Olympic Sailing Championships, WKU Martial Arts World Championships, cyclosportive challenge Mallorca 312, and the Fussville Music Festival in Spain. In 2015, 47% of staff had indefinite Goldcar made significant investments employment contracts and 91% in personnel and technology during 2015 to continue improve its customer worked full-time. satisfaction. 60 61 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Aston Martin In February 2016, Aston Martin confirmed St Athan, Wales as the Governance location for its second manufacturing facility which is expected to create up to 1,000 new jobs in Wales and Investindustrial multi-layered an entity regulated and or holding company board the West Midlands, United Kingdom. St Athan will be approach to governance aims supervised by the Financial of directors in an autonomous the sole production facility for the new Aston Martin at a stringent segregation Conduct Authority in the and independent manner, cross-over vehicle. The vehicle, the “DBX”, was first and allocation of roles United Kingdom pursuant consistent with the applicable shown in early 2015, and is expected to be launched in and responsibilities among to the EU Alternative corporate governance rules 2019 to address this fast-growing high-end segment of advisory teams, general Investment Fund Manager and by-laws. the market. partners and investment Directive and has in place It is the responsibility of managers of the funds, arrangements to deal the management of each Aston Martin’s Andy Palmer unveiling investment and holding appropriately with conflicts portfolio company to operate of the DBX at the 2015 International companies and, ultimately, of interest. the company on a day-to-day 1,000 new jobs to be created in the UK. Geneva Motor Show. management of each portfolio Investments and divestments basis and implement rigorous company. are made (and shares in compliance system and portfolio companies are held) procedure. The general partners and by the applicable investment PortAventura investment managers manage or holding company of each Investindustrial expects that As a meritocratic employer, PortAventura has an explicit each of the funds in the fund. portfolio companies apply commitment to diversity, equal opportunities and noninterest of the respective a rigorous and conservative discrimination. They also offer employees flexible work limited partners and Decisions over investments approach to Corporate schedules and training and professional development, the latter of which is therefore in an autonomous and divestments, including Governance based on clear tailored to the roles of the different professional profiles. In terms of community, and independent manner the exercise of the voting roles and with full accountability. the PortAventura Foundation (www.portaventura.co.uk/foundation) from other funds and group rights over the shares of the was created in 2005 to support differently–abled children and young adults companies. The investment portfolio companies, are made to achieve a better quality of living and to invest in major projects. Each manager of the funds is by the applicable investment year PortAventura donates 0.7% of its net profits and partners with various foundations to organise and host events at the resort. Total funds raised in 2015 were €907,400 benefiting 9,848 people and the events effort resulted in donations of €120,000 and 3,124 participants. Corporate Governance Model The PortAventura Foundation has helped 34,000 Limited Partners Possible Co-investors The PortAventura Foundation hosted the Petits Valents Day people by donating € 5 million, with € 3 million over ten charity event in order to raise money and pay tribute to the brave children at Sant Joan de Déu. years given to the hospital Sant Joan de Déu to create an emergency ward. General Partner / Investment / Portfolio Fund Investment Manager Holding Company Company Fund management Investment / divestment Day-to-day Funding of the applicable decisions management investment / holding Responsibility to Flos company comply with laws Since September 2005, Flos has donated 20% of the and regulations proceeds from their Philip Starck Gun collection to Frères des hommes a non-profit aid organisation focused on sustainable development in developing countries. As of 2015, Flos had donated € 1.2 million. Industrial Advisory Board Advisory Companies and Teams Starting in 2016, the funds will be directed to a new charity and Industrial Advisors Business development, investor relations, called Infanzia in salute nelle comunità Maya Kiche of Industry expert views and opinions investment scouting, monitoring and Totonicapan, in Guatemala, which focuses on pediatric care. on strategy and business plans operational advice, due diligence support Pietro Gandini (CEO of Flos) with Philip Starck, one of the collaborating designers for Flos and also the creator of the Gun Collection lamp series. 62 63 Our Foundation // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Víctor at the start of his contract with Barcelona World Race, one of over 120 leading organisations to join Aura Foundation’s initiative to integrate differently-abled people into the work environment. OUR FOUNDATION Invest for Children’s mission is to help differently abled people and underprivileged children achieve a better quality of life and help other foundations to become more efficient. Invest for Children (i4c) operates in Europe with a special focus works to integrate people of different abilities and challenges on Southern Europe, predominantly is a full member of EVPA into the workplace and society, thereby achieving a better (European Venture Philanthropy Association), and is audited by quality of living. Invest for Children has sponsored several KPMG. projects in a series of different fields (sport, work, education, medical, community and other) some of which are summarised Investindustrial believes that financial and industrial investors on the following pages. should have a major role in making the world a better place to www.investforchildren.org live. Invest for Children aims to better understand diversity and The President of Invest for Children, Carlo Umberto Bonomi, presenting the La Caixa savings plan. The Aura Foundation has placed more than 160 young people into the mainstream working world. 64 65 Our Foundation // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Invest for Children’s Aura Foundation Project Since 2012 Aura The aim of this program is to integrate people Foundation has been with special needs, mostly with Down’s supported financially syndrome, to the ordinary labour market via and operationally by Invest for Children which the Supported Employment methodology. has enabled them to achieve their target of doubling participation in all programmes To date, over 120 leading companies have earlier than expected, and to better position joined Aura Foundation’s initiative to facilitate themselves for the future. Invest for Children the integration of differently abled people in is committed to financially supporting the a working environment. Since 1989 more than foundation and to offering managerial 160 young people have joined the ordinary and strategic consulting skills to allow the working world and in 2015, 23 renewals and 37 foundation to achieve its mission. new contracts were added. The Aura Foundation Aura Foundation is a founding member of www.aurafundacio.org AESE (Spanish Association of Employment), was established in Barcelona in October 1989, ACTAS (Catalan Association for Supported by an initiative of professionals from the area Employment), a member of FEISD (Spanish of of integration education. Aura Foundation is Down’s Syndrome) and DINCAT (Catalan the first program of Supported Employment Federation for protection of people with mental in Spain, a pioneer in the implementation and retardation). The foundation is audited by development of this methodology. KPMG on an annual basis. Maria Vicente and Urbano Gropello (Invest for Children). 66 67 Our Foundation // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 In addition to the ongoing workplace integration driven through the Aura foundation, Invest for Children is committed to the following projects. Community Education The Medical Sciences Department of Uppsala University in Sweden. Down TV (www.downtv.org) is the first Invest for children has committed worldwide online interactive video library to financing two projects at the Medical fully dedicated to people with Down’s syndrome. Videos are classified Sciences Department of the Uppsala Medical in different areas and cover all aspects of living with Down’s syndrome. University (www.uu.se) on the development of new sensitive In this interactive platform, users can upload their videos and biomarks for early diagnosis and a better classification documents related to Down’s syndrome and share their experience. of neuroendocrine tumours. This collaboration will last from Since its launch in 2010, more than 7,000 videos have been added October 2015 to March 2016. Sloan-Kettering Invest for children continues its historical in over seven languages with over 56,254 followers on its Facebook Invest for Children is co-operating collaboration with the Hospital Sant Joan page. In 2015, Down TV reached 3,000,000 hits, becoming a beacon in with the Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center (www.mskcc.org) de Déu in Barcelona (www.hsjdbcn.org). The Foundation the Down’s Syndrome online community. to support innovative treatments for retinoblastoma, a tumor donated a Non Invasive Ventilation (NIV) device to promote the GiGi’s Playhouses (www.gigisplayhouse. that occurs in the retina. The program is under the direction of Mr. use of NIV in Pediatrics and financial aid. The publication “NIV org) are Down Syndrome awareness David H. Abramson MD which introduced many new treatments in Pediatrics” is available on the Invest for children website and educational centers that provide resources, specialized for the disease that have been adopted by other centers worldwide, with the aim of increasing the level of scientific knowledge and Invest for children has started working teaching, and support to individuals with Down Syndrome and including the novel use of chemotherapy delivered around the to promote the benefits of this methodology. with Boys and Girls Towns of Italy their families. In just nine years, 12 Playhouses have opened in eye to prevent systemic toxicity to intravenous medication. (BGTI) (www.bgti.org). BGTI gives war the USA and Mexico. i4c has committed to finance the build-out The Center has 470 beds, is located in New York City and is the oldest refugees and migrant youth a community base from which they of the proposed teen/young adult center. and largest private institution committed to exceptional patient care, can build fulfilling lives as adults. With over 68 years of success leading-edge research, and superb educational programs. supporting at-risk young people, Invest for Children believes BGTI Invest for Children is supporting the Center through a donation has a lot to offer in the field of youth development. as well as: Invest for children has offered a scholarship offering optical coherence tomography equipment, in favour of Terral Foundation to study developing online educational resources for retinoblastoma a Teaching Degree at the International University of Catalonia patients, Invest for Children is a full member of (www.uic.es). With this, Invest for Children wants to promote school financing the artificial eye fund, Dr David H. Abramson MD of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City. the European Venture Philanthropy and work placement integration of youth in risk of social exclusion. supporting the patient free care program. Association (www.evpa.eu.com) and actively promotes the “1% Club” whose aim is to encourage all Private Equity funds to donate 1% of their capital gains to foundations and charities. Events: We are one – Barcelona, June 11th 2015 The association aims to be the home as well as the highest-value catalytic network of European social investors, venture philanthropists and foundations committed to using venture philanthropy and social investment tools to target societal impact. On June 11th, 2015, Invest for children, Foundation Damm, Hospital Sant Joan de Deu and Foundation Pasqual Maragall more than 1,000 guests at the annual ‘We are One’ event at the RCD Espanyol in Barcelona (CornellàEl Prat de Llobregat) raising €250,000. 100% of the net funds raised from the event were directed to the chosen projects in each of the participating foundations with causes ranging from differently abled people, biomedical research and to research on the prevention of Alzheimer disease. 68 69 Summary Group Information // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Sales (€m) SUMMARY GROUP By Sector Variance 2014 2015 €m % INFORMATION (1) Services and Concessions 1,177 1,076 (101) -9% Consumer, Retail and Leisure 1,704 1,860 156 9% Industrial Manufacturing 1,324 1,281 (43) -3% Total 4,205 4,216 12 0% EBITDA (€m) By Sector Variance 2014 2015 €m % Services and Concessions 168 132 (36) -21% Consumer, Retail and Leisure 374 419 45 12% During 2015, group sales remained substantially stable while EBITDA Industrial Manufacturing 80 127 47 59% increased by 9% mainly due to the positive contribution of the industrial Total 622 678 56 9% and manufacturing sector. Net Debt Ratios Variance 2014 2015 X % The overall financial position of the group has also improved with a senior Senior Debt/EBITDA 3.3x 2.8x -0.4x -13% Mezzanine/EBITDA 0.5x 0.4x -0.1x -21% debt / EBITDA decreased significantly to 2.8x. Employees (nr.) Total number of employees increased by 4% reaching 13,650 people. By Sector Variance 2014 2015 Employees % Services and Concessions 3,530 4,081 551 16% Consumer, Retail and Leisure 7,382 7,336 (46) -1% Industrial Manufacturing 2,262 2,234 (28) -1% Total 13,174 13,651 477 4% (1) Aggregate numbers considering 100% of the Perfume Holding is focusing some of its efforts on ‘Atkinsons Niche’ companies present in the portfolio at the end for the development of the brand internationally. of 2015. Investindustrial’s funds typically own a majority position but not always. 70 71 Summary Group Information // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 A recent modelling of Sergio Rossi shoes. Investments by date for the past five years Our investors While Investindustrial itself is the single largest provider of On average Investindustrial takes five years to make ten to 12 investments capital, approximately fifty institutional investors from around in leading, high quality European mid-market companies. the world form the capital and client base of the Group. Investindustrial started the year with € 0.8 billion available for As illustrated below, this has been the case over the last five years. investments and made investments in B&B Italia and Sergio Rossi and supplying further capital to one existing portfolio company for an add-on acquisition. Due to the launch of Fund VI during 2015, Investindustrial ended the year with € 1.7 billion dry-powder in addition to the capabilities of its co-investment partners. The final closing of Fund VI was finalised in the first quarter of 2016 bringing the total dry-powder to € 2.5 billion. The firm’s objective is to remain active across business cycles by focusing on long-term value creation, an approach shared by our high quality investor base. The strong support our investors have shown us throughout the recent recession has started to be rewarded as the impact of the European recovery feeds through into portfolio companies and as attractive new opportunities emerge from the investment landscape. Furthermore, this support now places us in a privileged position to take advantage of restored M&A activity in the region. Breakdown of Investors (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Funds of Funds 14% Pension Funds/ Governments Banks/ Total Investments (%) Insurances/ 38% By Region Other Financials 17% Endowments/ Foundations/ Family Offices UK 31% Spain 15% 26% Middle East and Asia 5% Italy 59% North America Europe 41% 54% As of the end of 2015 Investindustrial’s investments are spread across three main countries: Italy, Spain and UK. 72 73 The partially post-consumer recycled paper used for printing this document has resulted in CO2 emissions of approximately 3.5 tonnes. Since 2009 Investindustrial reviewed its overall carbon footprint and invested in renewable energy projects to offset the emissions and achieve carbon neutrality. This document has been printed on Fedrigoni paper. FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT US AT info@investindustrial.com www.investindustrial.com www.investindustrial.com
