CEO Statement of Continued Support for the UN Global Compact and Its Ten Principles To our stakeholders: I am glad to confirm that 1000mercis reaffirms its support to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles about Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption policies. This annual communication form regards actions done to improve these ten principles’ integration into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Moreover we are committing to communicate this information to our stakeholders. Paris, May 24th 2016 Yseulys COSTES 1000mercis CEO CONFIDENTIEL Description of Actions or Relevant Policies Related to Human Rights IEvaluation and objectives 1000mercis puts the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at the heart of its business strategy. It involves all stakeholders, both internal and external to the company. Every decision is taken according to Human Rights. IIImplementation Our politics linked to Human Rights is written in our company rules and regulations, and every employee is informed of it upon arrival into the company. 1000mercis encourages and respects the international rights protection relative to Human Rights in its sphere of influence and shall ensure that its activities and stakeholders are not complicit in violation of Human Rights. IIIMeasurement of outcomes More than 20 different nationalities are present in the company with offices located in London, New York, Palo Alto and Dubaï where our values and culture concerning Human Rights are applied in the same way that it is in our French offices. Our pre-hiring criterion are only based on the individual’s competencies and never on ethnical origins, religious beliefs, age, gender or any other discrimination. Today, we never have to face any incident related to Human Rights. This is closely monitored by the Executive Committee. CONFIDENTIEL Description of Actions or Relevant Policies Related to Labor 1000mercis is very attached to the Labor Rights respect and has taken commitments following these rights and developed specified policies for employees. Among others, these commitments are:  Elimination of forced or compulsory labor  The effective abolition of child labor  Elimination of discrimination in terms of employment and occupations IEvaluation and objectives Our different commitments and policies in terms of labor rights are as follow:  1000mercis selects its suppliers particularly on the basis of a code of conduct  Diversity has always been at the heart of the company’s culture and values IIImplementation 1000mercis puts in place trainings in order to raise awareness about the whole group’s line of business. 1000mercis selects its suppliers on the basis of their code of conduct. It involves the respect of applicable labor laws and the fight against child labor and any other kind of discrimination and corruption. We make a point of collaborating only with suppliers that comply with our code of conduct, which also respects the principles detailed in the International Labor Organization, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD and also those in the Global Compact. IIIMeasurements of outcomes  For 5 years, women composed 50% of the Board of Directors  50% of the Board of Directors is composed by independent directors CONFIDENTIEL  Almost half of the Group’s executives is women and women represent 40% of the Management Committee  Even if 1000mercis’ core business is fairly young, the company has put in place a specific plan for seniors about employment, annual personnel follow-up of each employee, a better organization of these employees’ working lives…etc. These seniors’ plan objectives are dealt with by the Work Council.  Last but not least, aware of the growing internationalization of its activities, 1000mercis did choose to favor geographic diversity inside its teams. Indeed, since 2011, the company has employed more than 20 different nationalities. CONFIDENTIEL Description of Actions or Relevant Policies Related to the Environment 1000mercis confirms its commitment to the respect of the environment and declares it has made commitments that are applied with both internal and external stakeholders, such as:  A huge support toward environmental responsibilities  Promotion of both the clarification and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies IEvaluation and objectives First, digital devices fit perfectly into a sustainable approach because they are part of today’s culture. They are at the heart of stakeholders’ relationships and also allow interesting social innovations. Both evolution of stakeholders’ relations and reduction of energy expenditures are consequences of the diversity of communication channels, development of internal services, as well as the application of all the new organizations. Furthermore, 1000mercis is committed to respecting equity and ethical principles with both its employees and partners. IIImplementation 1000mercis teams are highly concerned about recycling measures:  Informatics old devices are given to associations in order to be reused or recycled  Empty printer cartridges are stored and taken over to be recycled  Used battery collection is organized everywhere in the company for personal and professional purposes CONFIDENTIEL  Paper consumption is optimized by recycled draft paper uses.  Plastic consumable products have been reduced to a strict minimum (suppression of both tumblers and plastic bottles) to be replaced by longlasting dinnerware.  Selective sorting is done for paper and cardboard trash  Employees are aware of and responsible toward energy consumption. For instance, every employee ensures that his IT post is switched off anytime he leaves his office.  1000mercis has an action plan in favor of energy savings and reduction of greenhouse gas. Therefore the company has chosen one of the vehicles that gives off less greenhouse gas. 1000mercis has made a partnership with the company Les Joyeux Recycleurs. IIIMeasurement of outcomes  As said before, 10000mercis does not have any industrial production sites. lts activities are exclusively online and have a limited impact on the environment and greenhouse gas emission.  Today, 1000mercis sorts and Les Joyeux Recycleurs collects cardboard, paper, plastic bottles and tumblers, cigarette butts, light bulbs, coffee capsules etc. Then they give 1000mercis statistics upon its dust and deposits 5 cents to Ares Atelier (Adjustment Center to promote working life) for each kilogram of dust collected CONFIDENTIEL Description of Actions or Relevant Policies Related to the Fight Against Corruption IEvaluation and objectives 1000mercis is a limited listed (NYSE Euronext Paris) company and ruled by a board of directors and a CEO. 1000mercis is committed to conforming its politic to the Middlenext Code of Governance. The company takes actions to fight against corruption, particularly with:  A written zero-tolerance company policy about corruption  A guiding protocol to help employees to react in case of corruption  A policy that involves the company’s clients and suppliers in the fight against corruption II-Implementation The Board of Directors has accepted, since 2010, an insider trading prevention guide. These rules of conduct involve all of the company’s stakeholders and Board of Directors’ members who are supposed to have privileged information in terms of the AMF General Regulations. The Board of Directors has officially expressed their adherence to the Corporate Governance principles and codes. AFEP-MEDEF has a reference and is engaged to fulfilling and respecting its recommendations. For instance:  50% of independent directors in the Board of Directors (AFEP-MEDEF Code, article 8)  50% of the Board of Directors is composed by women. (AFEP-MEDEF Code, article 8) CONFIDENTIEL  In 2010, a Remuneration Committee was created. (AFEP-MEDEF Code, article 16) Moreover, 1000mercis has adopted a policy of payment of membership points regarding attendance and/or implication in the specialized committees. III-Measurement of outcomes 1000mercis measures and makes sure that all of the company’s employees know and adhere to the Group policy by internal controls. CONFIDENTIEL
