Always an Edge Ahead Daifuku CSR Report 2016 www.daifuku.com 1608-10CSR-E An Overview of Daifuku for FY2015 Contents DAIFUKU CSR REPORT ● Editorial Policy This report is published once a year for Daifuku’s stakeholders to understand its approach to and activities involving corporate social Corporate History 3 responsibility (CSR). In addition to examples of contributions by Daifuku toward solving social issues through the use of its advanced products and No.1 World’s Message from the President 5 technology, this issue focuses on a dialogue with employees, as they exchange their own thoughts and opinions regarding CSR. The report was designed to reflect our brand message, “Always an Edge Ahead,” with the in material handling industry sales goal of giving readers a sense of what makes Daifuku unique. Source: “Top 20 Systems Suppliers” U.S.-based magazine Modern Materials Handling ● Information Disclosure Tools and Approaches Net sales At Daifuku, we use different tools for different types of readers and objectives to ensure the information we disclose about our CSR and other corporate activities is conveyed to our various stakeholders in a way that is easily understood. CSR Management 7 336,184 million yen CSR Dialogue A Company That Draws Out Employee Diversity to 9 High Disclosed in this report Fiscal 2015 Highlights Print Version Report limited to conImportance to society Enable Each Individual to Fulfill Their Potential tent of particular importance to Daifuku and its stakeholders. Ratio of sales outside Japan Disclosed on our website Comprehensive Disclosure High Web Version Importance to Daifuku 66% In addition to the content of the print version, the website provides comprehensive details regarding governance, performance data and other information. Ratio of employees outside Japan Annual Report Always an Edge Ahead Corporate Profile Resolving Social Issues with Advanced Technology Provides an economic Basic information about view, primarily through Daifuku, including a definancial information, scription of its business Pharmaceutical Distribution 13 along with information and an overview of the on corporate govercompany. 59% A Range of Technology That Supports nance. the Pharmaceutical Value Chain Smart Mobility 15 ● Report Scope Number of patents acquired D-PAD, the Future of The report covers the activities of Daifuku Co., Ltd. Wireless Battery Charging and its consolidated affiliates (the Group companies) ● Reported Period Eco-Friendly Products and Services 17 2,773 Working with Customers Through Eco-Products April 2015 – March 2016 Note: Some content may fall outside the reported period. to Reduce Environmental Impact Contact: ● Date Published Daifuku Co., Ltd. August 2016 Contribution to CO2 reduction Daifuku Around the Globe 19 CSR Promotion, Human Resources Department ● Reference Guidelines 2-14-5 Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-0014 Japan Third-Party Opinion 21 ● United Nations Global Compact Phone: +81 3 3456 2230 FAX: +81 3 3456 2258 33,367 t-CO2 Corporate Data 22 ● *Note: An index to GRI guideline content is available on our website. ● Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) G4 Guidelines Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 version), *Office relocation scheduled for September 2016: Shiodome Shibarikyu Building, 1-2-3 Kaigan, Minato-ku, Tokyo Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan URL: www.daifuku.com Daifuku CSR Report 2016 2 March 2016 1978 1999 2011 Corporate History Komaki Works and Shiga Works obtain Sales exceed ● Formulates Daifuku Environmental Vision 2020 300 ISO 14001 certification ● Becomes the first material handling provider to be rated under a disaster preparedness 2002 program of the Development Bank of Japan (DBJ) The History of Business and Daifuku publishes billion yen its first Environmental Report 2012 TELELIFT System CSR at Daifuku Japan’s first book conveying system 1959 Chain conveyor system 1980 Trolley conveyor plays an active Delivered to Japan’s role in major repair of the first passenger automobile factory Great Buddha Hall at Todai-ji, a National Treasure of Japan 2004 2014 audit P1 4 Since its founding almost 80 years ago, A prescription checking system that prevents Daifuku has offered customers solutions prescription errors, and offers patients and pharmacists greater reliability by providing innovative products and technology. Putting CSR into practice 1963 1981 E-DIP through our business, we will continue An eco-friendly automobile paint line system working with our stakeholders to benefit society. 2004 ● Corporate Code of Conduct established March 2007 SPDR (Spider) ● Expansion and integration of ISO 9001 to include Temporary parts storage and service and sales divisions Sales exceed sorting system 200 ● Osaka headquarters, Tokyo head office and Develops the first Japan-made Waxmore 303 Tokai branch office obtain ISO 14001 certification Business and product milestones ten-pin bowling machine Japan’s first microcomputer-equipped car wash machine 2014 Delivered to the world’s largest bowling alley 2006 billion yen CSR milestones 1964 1982 Shiga Works becomes world’s largest material handling and logistics production site Daifuku’s main production site with 11 factories 2012 1937 ● Daifuku Eco-Products Certification Hini Arata, 2008 Program established Factory Automation (FA) system established as the company creed ● Seven production sites in China, Taiwan, South Delivered to the world’s most advanced motor factory Joins the United Nations Global Compact Korea, Thailand and the U.S. complete acquisition of ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 ● Shiga Works recognized with a Green Factory certification Award from the Kinki METI Bureau 1966 1984 1984 ● Establishes hands-on safety training facility 2009 at Shiga Works Company name ● Five sites in China, Taiwan, Thailand, ● Formulates Daifuku’s CSR and changes to Daifuku Co., Ltd. ● Four sites in Japan obtain OHSAS 18001 and the U.S. obtains ISO 9001 and CSR Action Plan certification: Osaka headquarters, Tokyo ISO 14001 certification head office, Shiga Works and Komaki ● Becomes first material handling systems Works manufacturer to obtain DBJ Environmental rating 2015 Sakaguchi Kikai Seisakusho Ltd. founded 2010 March 1990 ● Shiga Works receives the Chairman’s Award from the Cleanway, Sales exceed Japan Greenery Research and Development Center 2013 100 Rackbuill system Clean Stocker ● Launches Environmental Enhancement 1947 An innovative warehouse for consumer electronics Management Committee Developed at the start of the mass consumption era ● Inaugurates hands-on safety training facility Company name changes to for the semiconductor industry at Osaka headquarters Daifuku Machinery Works Co., Ltd. billion yen 1986 ● China subsidiary obtains OHSAS 18001 certification 1970 Recognized with an honorable mention 2011 eye-navi at the 2015 Environmental Leadership 1953 Plans for construction of an industrial park Development Awards High-performance digital picking Land acquired in Hino-cho, Shiga Prefecture system developed to support and development begins growing home delivery business 2015 Digital Pick system at Co-ops Daifuku Shiga Mega Solar 1976 D-PAD P15 Delivered to distribution centers for supermarkets, Generates capacity of 4,438 kW, Co-ops, and other producing 4.3 million kWh annually World’s first commercialization of a newly developed wireless charging system for forklifts 1993 2014 2011 Sorting Master Japan’s first steel Bulkveyor belt-type automated sorter Ramrun-HID Japan’s first grain and bulk unloading equipment World’s first non-contact power supply system for monorails Baggage Tray System Area Management System 1995 Travels at the world’s fastest speed of 600 m/min A control system for high-speed vehicles Electronic Control Division obtains with a running speed of 200 m/min Consolidated Sales Growth Daifuku’s first ISO 9001 certification 1937~1956 1957~1976 1977~1996 1997~2016 3 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 4 Message from the President Continuing to be a company that supports the future, responding to customer and social issues with advanced technology Masaki Hojo President and CEO Daifuku Co., Ltd. The Yui no Mori forest at the Shiga Works, where efforts are underway to protect biodiversity The increasing role of logistics in a logistics sites have become a serious problem. We with a diverse range of people of different cultures importance of CSR activities. changing society hop e t o c on tr ib u t e t o s ol v ing the s e s o cia l is s u e s and attitudes. As change in social environments and industrial through Daifuku’s technological capabilities. Employees coming together to achieve s truc tur es occurs more rapidly, logis tics s ystems Expanding pragmatic activities to instill sustained growth play an increasingly significant role in society. The CSR is the barometer of a sound company CSR company-wide In fiscal 2015, Daifuku set new records in orders spread of the internet is driving the creation of new For a company to continue growing requires not To clarify its CSR activities, in 2014 Daifuku received, net sales and income, marking our sixth businesses, with e-commerce among the fastestonly the pursuit of profit, but sound management. formulated the Daifuku CSR mediumto long-term consecutive year of increases. We are also making growing sectors and the business model that A healthy mind and body are as important to the policy, and laid out concrete measures in its CSR solid progress with our four-year business plan, integra tes the Interne t and logis tics, leading to a growth of a company as they are to a person, and Action Plan. Since 2015, we have established a series Value Innovation 2017, which ends this fiscal year, transformation in consumer behavior and lifestyles. CSR activities are necessary to measure how well a of key performance indicators (KPIs). Just as regular with growth exceeding our initial targets, However, This has resulted in an increased breakdown in units, company maintains sound management practices. We health check-ups are important to building a healthy we must continue to focus on the task at hand as going from pallet, to case, and to the individual hope to promote CSR activities unique to Daifuku by body, it is important that we have a visible picture we work to build an even stronger foundation for our piece, requiring both speed and accuracy. The key considering both our business attributes and social of our efforts to achieve our targets and keep track business. to responding to these needs is the use of robots conditions to identify and give priority to initiatives of progress of our activities. We regularly review the Business expansion and the creation of a sound a n d o t he r a d v a nc e d a u t oma tion a n d s t r e a mlining involving issues of greatest importance. results of our KPIs to confirm whether we are moving organization are two sides of the same coin. In technology. Daifuku provides solutions from a marketA key word that comes to mind is “safety.” For a forward and if we are meeting society’s expectations. May 2017, Daifuku will mark its 80th anniversary. oriented perspective through close association with business, safety, which involves its employees’ very In April 2016, we established a new team dedicated Our employees are ready to cooperate in our CSR our customers. lives, should be the highest priority, and is essential in to advancing our CSR initiatives. efforts so that we can respond to the expectations The knowledge and experience we have gained developing customer trust. At one time, Daifuku went Nevertheless, even with numerical targets and the of our stakeholders and continue to achieve healthy, in working with leading-edge customers in various a record 5,500 consecutive days injuryand accidentright structure in place, we are not able to meet our sustained growth. industries finds many uses among companies taking free. We will continue to clarify our commitment in objectives unless our employees make a conscious on new businesses, and I sense the weight of our this area as we work to spread our culture of safety effort in CSR activities. We have gradually begun to responsibility growing. Advancing the technological around the globe. see results: the Legal Department led an effort to capabilities that support our business foundations is Another important issue is “people.” Human promote awareness of compliance issues; a disabled an extremely important issue if we are to respond to resource development is essential for sustained employee suggested workplace improvements; and society’s expectations. There are numerous areas we grow th. For Daifuku, developing its global human we have seen more widespread efforts under should be addressing, including the Internet of Things resources is of particular importance. This goes t h e D a i f u k u E c o A c t i o n p r o g r a m, w h i c h s u p p o r t s (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI) and big data. As the beyond simply acquiring language skills, and we are independent involvement by employees in work force continues to shrink with lower birthrates striving to develop individuals who have the ability to environmental activities. By expanding these kinds a n d a n a g i n g p o p u l a t i o n, p e r s o n n e l s h o r t a g e s a t communicate effectively and can work successfully o f pr a gm a tic e f f or t s, w e a r e s tr i v in g t o in s till th e 5 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 6 CSR Management ■ Daifuku by KPI In accordance with the six initiatives, the CSR Action Plan defines medium-term targets with specific measures. Efforts tied to each of those initiatives were then assessed for their importance from the perspective of the Company and its Implementation of CSR Action Plan stakeholders, and the 10 items deemed most important by both were specified as material aspects and given the highest priority. Progress with these material aspects is tracked using KPIs*. based on six initiatives to guide *Key Performance Indicators: A quantitative performance evaluation index that measures target achievement. Details of the CSR Action Plan are available on our website at: www.daifuku.com/sustainability/management/plan/ our Corporate Policies Structure into practice Key CSR Action Plan targets and KPI results for fiscal 2015 ：Achieved ：Not Achieved ■ Daifuku’s CSR Material Aspects Material Aspects Material Aspects Material Aspects Daifuku’s CSR is a comprehensive and long-term policy that concisely pulls together our views on CSR. Maintain and improve product quality to satisfy Promote and strengthen Increase the number of certified Expand health and safety training It specifies six initiatives, and declares the implementation of our Corporate Policies Structure in corporate activities customer needs information security measures Daifuku Eco-Products as we move forward with our stakeholders. Employees who acquired Times information on security People who received training regulations reviewed, Certified Daifuku Eco-Products Safety Assessor certification at the Anzen-Taikan Dojo revised and publicized Target: 52 in the Daifuku Group Target: Once Target: 940 Target: 28 or more Results: Results: Results: Results: “A company that supports society and the future” To achieve that goal, we are engaged in the following six initiatives. 1 69 1,185 people 29 products Provide high quality products and services Respect human dignity (human rights, labor practices, safety, health) Strengthen risk management Six Create good relations with communities Initiatives Times information on Material Aspects Material Aspects Nurture relationships of trust with our suppliers Contribute to the environment through corporate activities Improvement proposals security education conducted Minimize (eliminate) workplace accidents Reduce CO2 from Target: 4,000 through e-learning and serious accidents products and services Target: Twice Target: Severity rate 0.01 Results: Contribution to CO2 reduction Results: Frequency rate 0.6 Target: 45,165 t-CO2 Results: Customers Employees 2 Results: Suppliers Company Creed Shareholders 3,623 Severity rate Frequency rate 33,367 and Communities Management Philosophy investors Material Aspects 0.09 0.85 t-CO2 Brand Ongoing expansion of Business Proposition Future initiatives Continuity Management (BCM) Enhance educational activities, including making Future initiatives Future initiatives examples of improvements more visible, and Safety confirmation Enhance safety awareness, reinvigorate safety Focus on contributing to CO2 reduction through Brand Message activities and provide safety education and products and services. encouraging improvement proposals. training sessions training. Target: Four times a year or more Material Aspects Daifuku Corporate Policies Structure Ensure compliance Results: Material Aspects Material Aspects and prevent corruption Expand employment of Conduct activities to conserve biodiversity 4 persons with disabilities Implementation of compliance and ethics training courses Employment rate of persons Conservation activities times Company Creed Management Philosophy Target: Completed with disabilities at the Shiga Works Target: Conduct conservation work Target: 2.0% at Yui no Mori forest Today we are doing better 1. Provide the best solutions to benefit the global markets Results: Results: Results: than we were yesterday. and the development of society. Risk assessment execution rate Tomorrow we will be growing 2. Focus on healthy, growth-driven global management 1.88% Target: 100% ahead of where we are today. under a diverse and positive corporate culture. Results: Completed Improved care for Yui no Mori 97 % Brand Proposition Brand Message Future initiatives Strive to expand employment and enable those with Always an Edge Ahead disabilities to enjoy a rewarding, goal-oriented work Value Innovator experience. Future initiatives Conduct more thorough interview-based surveys of affiliates outside of Japan to know and share information on risks. 7 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 8 CSR Dialogue A “Switch” is important you go to another country. I think hang back just because we don’t to transcending learning to control that switch really speak English well. That way, the nationality and language helps. person you’re talking to will adjust to your level, and that’s where real Kawata: I spent about six years Kawata: A switch—that makes communication starts. A Company That Draws Out assigned to our Group company in Thailand. One of the first difficulties sense. There are many things we Japanese understand without I felt upon taking the position was having to be explicit, but it’s not the Employees outside Japan Employee Diversity to Enable Each getting used to differences in work styles and cultures. At first, I was same outside Japan. I think we’ll increasingly be required to switch 2005 26.4 % constantly confused. Ms. Li, you’re back and forth, without obsessing 981/3,716 people Individual to Fulfill Their Potential from China, aren’t you? You must have felt the same way when you over what might be considered common sense in Japan. 2010 first joined Daifuku in Japan. At Daifuku, non-Japan sales have reached 66% of net sales, and non-Japanese employees represent more than half Kimoto: W h e n I w a s s t u d y i n g 41.0 % Li: Yes, often. It’s hard to put into at a U.S. university, I had a class 2,210/5,395 people of all personnel. Creating a workplace accepting of the growing diversity in personnel, in which all employees respect words, but there’s just something called Business Speech, where I did one another and are able to fulfill their potential, is an important aspect of the Company’s CSR. What kind of workplace different from the normal, everyday presentations in English in front of 2015 environment is needed for us to continue to grow as a global company, and what should we expect of the employees? Four of our employees from different occupations, careers and nationalities came together to discuss, from their perspectives, interactions. However, as the other people. I used to look at the Daifuku today and the issues it faces. saying goes, “When in Rome, do as the Romans do,” so I’ve made a audience’s faces and say whatever came into my head, but one time 59.1% habit of asking senior staff around the presentation was more difficult, 4,578/7,746 people me whenever I don’t understand and I read from a manuscript I’d Participants something. They’re all very nice prepared. The feedback I got was about it, and I believe that Daifuku that the audience didn’t understand (Note) Ratio of employees at non-Japanese affiliates is a comfortable place for nonwhat my message was. That taught and branch offices to all employees of the Group companies. Japanese staff to work. How me the importance of expressing about you, Mr. Dang—you’re from myself in my own words, even if my Vietnam, right? English isn’t that great. Dang: Certainly, it’s important to be Ichinose: Recently, President Hojo aware of differences in how people often reminds us to speak out. He Yoshihisa Ichinose Kouzou Kawata Chisato Kimoto work and in culture. You have to means that we should take the Corporate Officer Assistant Manager Assistant Manager make a “cultural switch” when initiative in a conversation, and not General Manager of CSR Division Production Management Group, Production Consulting Group, System Planning Control Department, AFA Operations Department, FA&DA Operations From Osaka. Joining the Company in 1992, has From Tokyo. Joined the Company in 1997. After worked in a wide range of operations, from systems working in simulation software sales, now in charge for automobile production lines, to assembly, of consulting work using CG technology. Creates procurement and production control. Spent six years 3D images of customer systems to provide effective working in Thailand, and has extensive experience proposals. working in the U.S., Mexico, and other countries. Li Xue Dang Dang Khoa Global Business Administration Engineering Group, International Division Department, Finance and Accounting FA&DA Operations Division From Sichuan Province, China. Joined the From Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam. Joined the Company in Company in 2006. Worked at Hini Arata Kan, and 2014. Provides proposals for efficient, thought out took childcare leave in 2011. After returning to system plans and designs to meet customer needs. work, assigned to her current department. Provides risk training for operations of and transactions by affiliates outside Japan. 9 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 10 Changing the concept are more women in management care for the elderly. The number of supervisors are unsure about how developing an environment that Systems and Training to Develop of “Made in Japan” to Global Human Resources positions. employees who leave to take care to handle newer staff, so a change supports an active role for women, consider the Daifuku of family members has grown, and in mindset among management and I hope they will continue to Group a single global team Global Business Trainee Program Dang: I joined the Company in this is an issue that all companies might be important. increase those efforts. This program offers young employees language training 2014, and three women among face. While Daifuku has begun and on-the-job training at our locations outside of Japan. Dang: Nearly 70% of Daifuku’s the 50 or so new hires. In Vietnam, introducing systems to assist Ichinose: T h e C o m p a n y a l s o Kawata: Like Ms. Kimoto, while sales come from outside Japan. men a nd women work together employees in those situations, we recognizes that issue, and I was familiar with the term CSR, Rather than just having Japanese st aff go t o ot h e r c o u n t r i e s , w e Total number of participants: 56 people (since 2005) equally, so I never noticed the difference in numbers. need to put more support in place. We hope to create an environment we’ve incorporated it into our management training programs. I never gave it much thought. Listening to everyone’s opinions need to create a framework for in which all employees, not just Putting in place programs and today made me more aware of a Global Leadership Training staff outside Japan to play a more Training to improve the skills of management Li: To develop oneself in Daifuku, women, can work in a way that fits working environments that lot of issues, so this has been a active role. candidates at affiliates outside of Japan I think on-site experience at where they are in life and enables recognize each employee’s valuable opportunity. I was also One way to do that would the production and installation them to achieve work-life balance. individuality—regardless of gender, glad to hear directly from everyone Total number of participants: be personnel exchanges between sites is important. With more nationality, religion and so on— about their experiences in their Group companies worldwide. Affiliate staff from Singapore could work at Group companies in India 37 people from 10 countries (since 2011) consideration of the kind Ms. Kimoto mentioned, even someone like me from an administrative Changes in Female Manager Numbers while maximizing their performance is a theme Daifuku must continue to focus on. own workplaces. Li: I a l s o t h o u g h t t h i s w a s a or Thailand, and vice versa. division might find it easier to 24 great opportunity. I hope this will 2011 visit. Ichinose: To conclude, I’d like to be the start of a relationship where Kawata: S t a f f would sometimes ask what each of you thought of I can turn to you all for any kind of 28 2012 travel to India to assist our Group Efforts needed to allow Kimoto: The Company is moving today’s dialogue. advice, including about work. company. There’s no need to be everyone to play an active ahead in promoting a more active overly fixated on Japan because role in the company role for female staff, so I think we’ll 2013 32 Kimoto: In the normal course of Dang: I learned a lot, too. One the headquarters is here. In terms see an increase in the number our work, we don’t have many thing I felt through our discussion of accepting greater diversity, I Kimoto: I looked this up after I’d of female staff. At the same time 2014 34 opportunities to think about CSR, is that Daifuku’s business is going 42 think it’s important that, wherever been asked to participate in this that means more women will be so it was a great experience to to continue expanding globally. 2015 we work, the environment is there dialogue, but apparently Daifuku involved in the production side talk with everyone about such a I look forward to our being able to allow us to build experience and has a very low attrition rate of the business. Since Daifuku relatable topic. I think Daifuku to contribute around the world our careers. among its female employees. And depends on its production sites, has made a lot of progress in through our work. (Note) Within Japan. Includes assistant managers personally, I feel the Company is a I hope women will be able to play Ichinose: T h a t m e a n ’ s b e i n g comfortable place for female staff. an even wider role. able to move not just between At the same time, because Creating a workplace Japan and other countries, but there are still few female staff Ichinose: As Ms. Kimoto pointed that recognizes between other countries besides overall, I sometimes see room out, creating workplaces where employee individuality Japan. I believe that’s going to be f o r i mpr ov ement. I occasionally female staff can have an active and draws out their full an issue for Daifuku. visit our production sites and I’m role is an issue we need to potential Despite how much we’ve always handed a man’s uniform. continue working on. At the same expanded globally, the way Daifuku I’m sure they have uniforms for time, I think we’ve also improved Kimoto: In dealing with newlyconducts its business and the women, so that’s one area I want our maternity and childcare leave hired female staff recently, I feel mindset of its employees are still t h e m t o c onside r . I t ma y se e m systems. Didn’t you make use of they are both success driven and rooted in Japan. That is why we like a minor issue, but this is the both, Ms. Li? highly motivated. introduced our Global Business kind of thing that can help change Trainee program and our Global people’s awareness. How about Li: Yes, and not just me; there Kawata: I see. That means that Leadership Training. As Mr. you, Ms. Li? are many other working mothers those of us welcoming them into Dang noted, only by encouraging around me. This was true for the Company need to be prepared employee exchanges among our Li: You’re right that the number me as well, but support in the to handle that kind of drive. I think Group companies around the world of female staff is still small. I joined workplace is strong, making the this will require a company-wide and recognizing that together we the Company in 2006, along with process of returning to work change in attitudes, starting with all make Daifuku can we truly call close to 100 other people, of smooth for everyone. the managers who will supervise ourselves a global company. whom only seven were women. these staff. The numbers have gradually Ichinose: A f t e r m a t e r n i t y a n d increased recently, and there childcare we need to consider Kimoto: I do hear of cases where 11 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 12 Production Distribution Dispensing Resolving Social Issues with Advanced Technology Pharmaceutical Distribution A Range of Technology That Supports the Pharmaceutical Value Chain Seismic isolation flooring under the racks Picking robot provides delicate handling of products of Simultaneous identification of multiple drugs of a unit load AS/RS employs a ball bearing system varying size and weight Reducing shaking with seismic isolation flooring (at seismic intensity of upper 6) Shipping accuracy “seven nines” (best in the industry) Total deliveries of the audit (From 2012 market launch through the end of March 2016) Daifuku technology in production and distribution centers that ensure stable supply even in Reduced 75 % 99.99999 % About 900 units emergencies and in high-precision Quakeproof automated warehouse supports Innovative distribution center mobilizes Preventing errors through image recognition and stable supply system robot technology weight inspection technology dispensing at pharmacies. Case 01 Nissin Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Case 02 Toho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Case 03 Heart Pharmacy Solutions using Daifuku’s technological capabilities contribute widely to the medicinal drug value chain, Nissin Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.’s Araya Plant (Tendo, Toho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. is involved in the Heart Pharmacy (Kizugawa, Kyoto Prefecture) has from production and distribution to dispensing at Yamagata Prefecture), which handles generic drugs and pharmaceutical wholesale business. At the company’s deployed the audit prescription checking system, which pharmacies. contract manufacturing of pharmaceuticals, is the large-scale distribution center, TBC Saitama (Kuki, uses image recognition and weight inspection Because their products directly involve health and company’s most advanced manufacturing site. As the Saitama Prefecture), Toho Pharmaceutical faced two technology. It compares the drugs picked by the human life, maintaining a stable supply is one area of market for generic drugs continues to grow, Nissin has major issues: a labor shortage resulting from a shrinkpharmacist with prescription data to instantly audit drug critical importance to drug-related companies, not only installed the latest production equipment in an effort to ing, aging population, and a need to further improve type and quantity. Prior to installation, the pharmacy in normal times but during disasters as well. boost production capacity, and has also deployed a shipping accuracy. TBC Saitama decided to build a risked mistaking one drug for another in the dispensing Issues for achieving a stable supply vary from quakeproof unit load automated storage and retrieval cutting-edge distribution center utilizing robot technolprocess, or other pharmacist errors; with a customer to customer. Daifuku responds to these system (AS/RS) for raw materials and products. This ogy; robots were deployed to automate 100% of case double-check system that combines human and diverse needs through leading-edge technology, upgraded their supply system by significantly reducing picking and 65% of piece picking. By also integrating machine verification, they are now able to prevent such whether for seismic isolation systems for production shaking during an earththeir computer system with errors. The system can also and distribution sites, automation via robots, deployquake by 75%, which each of their automated maintain a log, making it ment of IT or to address environmental concerns. prevents stored items warehouses, they were able easier to quickly respond to In addition, as Japan moves away from a policy of from falling, and enabling to reduce personnel by half questions from patients. hospital-centered care and shifts toward home care and an uninterrupted supply compared to distribution community-based medicine, pharmacies will take on an of products even during a centers of the same size important role as the direct suppliers of prescription disaster. and doubled productivity, drugs to patients. Daifuku’s image recognition and Parts composed of oil dampers while offering traceability Mini load AS/RS for temporary The system is highly effective in weight inspection technologies are used to help prevent and ball bearings and other high-quality distristorage of shipping containers pharmacies with just a single pharmacist dispensing errors. bution services. V O I C E I was responsible for project management for TBC Saitama, from initial system proposal to full operaA constant effort to evolve tion. The project was unprecedented in terms of distribution automation, requiring robots capable of to contribute to stable supply handling thousands of products of varying shapes and sizes. However, thanks to a flexible approach to system development and solid technology to make that possible—in short, Daifuku’s comprehensive strengths—we were able to meet the customer’s requirements. Using the new technology and expertise Manager System Planning Group, System Planning Department we gained through this project, we will continue to pursue even greater contributions to a safe, stable Masami Iwai FA&DA Operations supply of pharmaceuticals. 13 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 14 Exploring the potential of D-PAD for expansion into a wide range of fields Resolving Social Issues with Advanced Technology D-PAD works on the same principles as HID, We have had inquiries from customers not but uses a different method of transmitting only in manufacturing, but across a diverse Smart Mobility electric power; establishing that method proved to be the biggest hurdle in the develrange of industries. Once D-PAD’s benefits becomes more widely known, we think we will opment phase. As we work to enhance find application across an even broader range performance, reduce cost and make other of fields. D-PAD is also the first Daifuku D-PAD, improvements, we hope to develop D-PAD product designed as a unit type. In that sense, into a product that can respond to the expecas well, we believe it is a truly breakthrough tations of our customers regardless of indusproduct. the Future of try or field. Yoshio Doi (left) Fumio Funahashi (right) Wireless Manager WPT Group, Power Device Department Manager Sales Management Group, Power Device Department Battery eFA Operations eFA Operations V O I C E Charging supplies power while the equipment is running, while Future Potential the latter charges the battery at a fixed spot. The D-PAD system is expected to reach beyond industrial Development of D-PAD began in 2012, an attempt to vehicles and find uses in a wide variety of fields and applicaElectric forklift incorporating D-PAD respond to numerous customer requests for highly tions. A Breakthrough for the Future of Innovation Born of 20 Years of efficient large-current power transmission, coupled with a compact, lightweight design. Daifuku signed a Mobility Accrued Technology technical and licensing agreement with the University of From industrial vehicles, to more familiar applications Recently, much attention has been given to smart D-PAD was developed based on Daifuku’s non-contact Auckland in New Zealand for D-PAD, similar to the mobility, electric vehicles (EV) and other technologies power supply technology known as HID, for High agreement already in place with the University for HID Resolving maintenance issues through broader use of seen as the next generation of transportation Efficiency Inductive Power Distribution, in which the systems commercialized for electric forklifts, AGVs and technology. Following D-PAD’s first commercial other applications. infrastructure. At the same time, there is also a greater Company has a track record of more than 20 years. In application in automated guided vehicles (AGV) in 2014, focus on the question of how cleanly and efficiently 1993, Daifuku developed the world’s first electrified in February 2016, Daifuku worked with Komatsu Forklift As the units become even more compact, potential will electricity can be supplied. Wireless charging monorail system using a non-contact power supply. Japan Ltd. to develop the world’s first commercial emerge for application in cars for seniors, electric wheeltechnology is attracting particularly heavy interest. Since then, Daifuku’s non-contact power supply chairs and electric bicycles and motorbikes. wireless battery charging system for electric forklifts As the name implies, this technology requires no transport systems have been delivered to the (patent pending). connection to a conventional power cable, charging automobile, semiconductor, flat-panel display and devices wirelessly. Already commercialized for use in many other sectors, and have won both acclaim and an Expansion into the housing sector some household digital appliances, issues remained in overwhelming market share, particularly in the A Game Changer in Mobility, adapting the technology for high-power charging. semiconductor field, making the technology a global With Applications Across a Broad The system can be used not just for digital appliances, but for other household equipment requiring greater electric power. Daifuku’s D-PAD represents a breakthrough in wireless standard. Range of Fields The addition of waterproofing can offer safe use in toilets, charging technology, opening up new possibilities for The difference between power “supply” with HID Systems using D-PAD wireless battery charging bathrooms and other areas of the home with plumbing. the industrial sector. and power “charging” with D-PAD is that the former technology employ a transmission cart to wirelessly charge the forklift. Although charging time is equivalent The system comprises a transmission cart (transmission pad and high frequency inverter) to that of traditional plug-in systems, the D-PAD is more and a power receiving apparatus installed on the forklift itself (a power receptor pad and convenient since it eliminates plugging in a cable. It also 200v inverter). Standard equipment forklift batteries may be used. Proprietary wireless technology is used to automatically recognize the relative positions of the transmission reduces malfunctions caused by poor connections as and receptor pads, maintaining stable power transmission efficiency. well as the risk of electric shock. D-PAD Features D-PAD is not only capable of high-power (Power receiving unit) 200v inverter transmission, but is unique for the unit’s compact size. Power High-power receptor pad It can also transmit power at a distance of up to seven A broad range of uses in the industrial sector centimeters, making it possible to embed the Fast charging transmission unit in the floor and otherwise offering Charges in about the same amount greater flexibility in facility design. This technology has of time as plug-in systems the potential to significantly change the future of mobility Transmission pad Compact (Transmission cart) in the industrial sector. Easily applied to mobile carts Moving forward, we will work to expand applications Greater power for mobile carts and other factory equipment, while also transmission distance exploring possible uses in other fields such as mobility Transmission units can be High frequency inverter embedded in floors, providing scooters and household equipment. greater freedom in facility design Positioning guide 15 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 16 Case 01 Case 02 Solving Social Issues with Advanced Technology TOPIC 1 Eco-friendly Products Products Certified in Fiscal 2015 Products Certified in Fiscal 2015 Bolt-Up Rack (new cross-section) and Services S/R Machine (Model: R-L10) (Model: DC100) Deploying LCA to Visualize Environmental Impact in Greater Detail Working With Model change from the original S/R machine for unit load AS/RS. Equipped with a highly efficient motor and a reduced number of Enhancing the cross-section performance of the rack components enabled a switch from welded construction Customers parts, contributing to energy savings and resource conservation. to assembled construction. This contributed to energy and resource conservation, Daifuku has defined expanding the number of environmentally friendly products and services as a Through and reductions in CO2. priority under our Environmental Vision 2020. To achieve our targets, we are working to expand the number of products under the Eco-Products Eco-Products to Certification, and since fiscal 2015 have begun deploying LCA* as a tool for environmentally friendly Reduce design. Using LCA enables us to visualize in detail a variety of environmental impacts in each step in a Environmental product’s life cycle, which is useful in environmentally friendly design through comparison of new and old Impact products. *Life Cycle Assessment (LCA): A quantitative assessment of the environmental impact arising from the input of resources and from environmental loads in the product and Developing eco-friendly products service life cycle (raw material procurement, manufacturing and production, transport, use, disposal, and reuse). Assessment conditions (specifications) and services that meet our ● 10 banks x 25 bays, 14 levels = 3,500 pallets standards and making them ● Truss: 100 x 100mm (welded type) → DC100 (assembled type) Example of environmental impact assessment using LCA: Heavy Duty Storage Rack widely available to society Energy savings Energy savings Number of transport trucks: 75 (welded type) → 26 (assembled type) ● Materials and manufacture Assembly Transport Disposal Environmental problems, such as climate change, are Watt-hours Assessment conditions Energy consumption during manufacture 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 7.6% 32.2% (specifications) an issue for the international community. In 2012, Global warming Horizontal speed 160 m/min (kg-CO2e) Daifuku began an Eco-Products Certification system, Vertical speed 15 (30) m/min Waste with the goal of contributing to our customers’ efforts to reduction reduction (m3) Clearance height 15 m reduce their environmental impact by providing Ozone layer destruction Transfer equipment Fork type N/A environmentally friendly products and services. The (kg-CFC11 equivalent) Horizontal distance 50 m Eco toxicity system targets both the Group’s current products in Resource conservation Resource conservation (kg-benzene equivalent (soil emissions)) ( ) indicates speed when unloaded and outside Japan, and all products developed going Urban air pollution Main unit weight Rack weight 2.7% 10.7% forward. It assesses their environmental performance in (kg-SO2e) terms of energy savings, resource conservation and Water consumption (kg) pollution prevention, and products that meet our reduction reduction standards are certified as Daifuku Eco-Products. In TOPIC 2 fiscal 2015, eight products were added. To achieve more advanced environmentally Resource conservation CO2 reduction Steadily expanding Eco-Products friendly design, we introduced environmental impact Number of parts CO2 emissions during transportation assessments using Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)*. 10.1% 61.7% Under Daifuku’s Environmental Vision 2020, we have established a KPI of having more than 63 products certified as Eco-Products by fiscal 2020. In fiscal 2015, reduction reduction we successfully reached our fiscal year goal with a total of 29 certified products. We will continue to expand that Certification Process (Note) Reduction rates are versus Daifuku’s conventional models. (Note) Reduction rates are versus Daifuku’s conventional models. number by providing more of these products and Planning, development, design V O I C E V O I C E services to our customers. Features Rated Division ● Energy saving developing Environmental performance assessment ● Recyclable Rather than being led by the design For this model change, we deployed a life the product ● Lightweight division, development for this project was cycle assessment (LCA) based environ● Long life conducted through a collaboration of all mental impact assessment, which Reduced packaging Number of certified Daifuku Eco-Products Primary Screening ● the divisions involved. A monthly developshowed a significant reduction in CO2. ● Water conservation ment meeting made it possible to share We will continue our R&D efforts to apply 2012 7 ● Low noise issues and to decide on an optimal this assembled-type rack to even more 2013 15 Secondary Screening ● Water pollution division of roles, which I believe led to the products. Eco-Product prevention 2014 21 Committee project’s success. ● Harmful substance 2015 29 Eco-Product Certification reduction (Target) S/R Machine Section, AS/RS Group Assistant Manager, Structural Design Group Kunihiro Tsukamoto Design Department, FA&DA Operations Yasushi Sugimura Design Department, FA&DA Operations 2020 63 17 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 18 Daifuku Around the Globe Nine personnel from seven countries participate in Global Leadership Training During November 26 to December 2, 2015 at the Shiga Works, Daifuku held its Global Daifuku CSR activities Asia Leadership Training, a program intended to enhance the skills of executive candidates from subsidiaries outside Japan. This program included nine participants from the U.S., Taiwan, United States around the world Thailand, Indonesia, South Korea, China and India. The training included a lecture by President Hojo on the Group’s management philosophies, basic management policies and business strategies, as well as the Group’s investor relations, the role of global leadership, production structures and environmental Safety Activities Recognized With eight companies in Japan by Alaska Airlines management. Human resource and 49 elsewhere around the world, development, safety, information security, An employee of the Daifuku Group’s Elite Line Daifuku has a total of 57 consolidated affiliates, intellectual property, business continuity Services, Inc. (ELS) stationed at the and employees in each location implement a variety of CSR activities. China planning and communicating with other cultures were also covered. Group work Anchorage International Airport in Alaska was awarded the 2015 Safe Operations Award included sharing opinions and ideas on and Recognition (SOAR) by Alaska Airlines. As a global company with up to 66% of First Daifuku China Group issues in global business, as the The award recognizes outstanding non-Japan sales to net sales, we are working to Safety Conference held participants worked to deepen their achievement by employees of Alaska Airlines instill “Daifuku CSR” in our group companies knowledge and insight as leaders. and its subcontractors in contributing to a On March 8, 2016, Daifuku (China) Co., Ltd., Daifuku (China) worldwide. culture of safety based on the airline’s Manufacturing Co., Ltd. and Daifuku (China) Automation Co., V O I C E “Ready, SAFE, Go” safety slogan. This marks Ltd. got together to hold the first Daifuku China Group Safety the first SOAR award for an ELS employee. Conference at Daifuku (China). It was attended by about 30 As a member of a global company, I take responsibilThe employee was highly commended for people, including the heads of the three companies, divisional ity for my work. By enhancing communications within Germany his approach to preventive maintenance on managers from factories installation units, and members of a the Group, I hope we can all continue to grow and dollies used to transport containers, including Safety Council made up of subcontractors. The Group evolve. always removing burrs that occur with wear companies reviewed their safety slogans, number of work Joint exhibit of solutions for airports and considering the safety of accidents and the efforts of each company in fiscal 2015, and by five Group companies reported on targets and plans for safety activities in fiscal Gregory Robinson workers around them. 2016. Subcontractors Service Manager, eFA Division also shared their own Daifuku North America Holding Company on-site safety management activities and Americas exchanged opinions to increase awareness towards achieving an accident-free Commemorative badge workplace. Safety Management Opinion Exchange Session BCS Group Limited (New Zealand), Jervis B. Webb Company (U.S.), Daifuku Logan Ltd. (U.K.), Elite Line Services, Inc., Logan Teleflex, Inc., all five Group companies working on systems for airports, jointly exhibited at Passenger Terminal EXPO 2016, one of the world’s largest aviation-related ELS members with the Alaska Airlines manager in charge (far right) exhibitions held in Cologne, Germany March 15 to 17, 2016. The companies displayed models of the BAGgate automated baggage check-in system, the Mobile Inspection Members wrote their names on a safety banner, reconfirming their determination toward safety. Table, which uses an automatic guided cart (AGC), and the Baggage Tray System for baggage transport. Using videos and pamphlets, the visitors were shown a wide range of airport solutions, including software. Daifuku’s global production sites Daifuku America Jervis B. Webb (U.S.) Wynright (U.S.) Jervis B. Webb Canada Daifuku (China) Automation Daifuku (China) Manufacturing Daifuku (Suzhou) Cleanroom Automation Europe Daifuku Korea Clean Factomation Hallim Machinery Taiwan Daifuku Daifuku Singapore Daifuku Thailand Daifuku Logan (U.K.) (South Korea) (South Korea) 19 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 20 Third Party Opinion Corporate Data Keisuke deepening both to solve social issues, as well as the importance of CSR activities once you have fulfilled that Corporate name: Daifuku Co., Ltd. Representative: Masaki Hojo, President and CEO Takegahara mission and attained sustained growth, and that leaves a Headquarters: 3-2-11 Mitejima, Nishiyodogawa-ku Osaka 555-0012 JAPAN Employees: 7,835 (consolidated, as of March 31, 2016) General Manager strong sense of cohesive thinking. Economic and Industrial The report also effectively conveys your two main Established: May 20, 1937 Consolidated net 336,184 million yen Research Department subjects by using examples from pharmaceutical distribution sales: (fiscal year ended March 31, 2016) Development Bank of Japan Inc. Paid-in capital: 15,016.1 million yen and smart mobility to effectively demonstrate, through data, (as of March 31, 2016) Ratio of 66% the creation of value outside the company, and by including a non-Japan sales: Stock exchange First Section of Tokyo dialogue between employees of diverse backgrounds, listing: Stock Exchange Group companies: 57 (eight in Japan and 49 outside Japan) something unique to global companies. You have also followed up on the issue of materiality from the previous report. While your stance of proactively Areas of Business Born in Shizuoka Prefecture in 1966. Graduated from the Faculty of Law, disclosing those KPIs you failed to achieve is most Hitotsubashi University in 1989, and joined the Development Bank of Japan appreciated, it may be easier for your readers to understand (now the Development Bank of Japan, Inc.). Posted to Frankfurt in 1995. After working in the Research Department and the Policy Planning Department, was if you reevaluate how you present materiality in light of how appointed director of the CSR Support Office in the Business Development you have narrowed your subject matter and strengthened its Department in 2009, becoming General Manager of the Environmental Initiative integration with the business discussion. and Corporate Social Responsibility Support-Department in 2009. Named to his current position in June, 2016. That bold refocusing has been effective in terms of advancing the integration of CSR and business. However, the question, “is it truly a complete picture of the company”, The CSR Report 2016 narrows the focus that assumes a remains. What I would like to see at this point, as your report segregation between the report and the company’s website, evolves and now heads toward a new stage, is a stronger which provides more detailed information disclosure. As stakeholder perspective that continues from the previous FA&DA (Factory and eFA AFA noted in the Editorial Policy, the content focuses on two main report. The employee dialogue is a part of that, but I think Distribution Automation) (e-Factory Automation) (Automotive Factory Automation) subjects that relate directly to your corporate philosophy: even there, there are elements that could reflect materiality. P r o v id es auto m ated war eho us ing , Provides cleanroom transport and Provides systems for automobile Contributing to solving social issues through products and Also, due to the nature of your business, you contribute storage and transport systems, and storage systems essential in production processes worldwide, mainly technology, and instilling CSR in your employees. Sharing this significantly to the creation of value on the customer side not sorting and picking systems that are manufacturing semiconductors and flat for Japanese, Detroit’ s Big Three, focus consistently across the report has, I believe, resulted in just through your products, but through maintenance and optimized for each customer, to panel displays. We have deli vered Chinese and South Korean automakers. a format that will make readers strongly aware of the other services as well. In addition, the company has a wide distributors including e-commerce, numerous systems to the world’s leading The system conveys car bodies between integration of CSR and business. range of non-financial strengths, from your unparalleled retailers, wholesalers, and to electronics manufacturers in North each assembly process, including press, Notable to that integration are two sections, your standards for sound management, to your environmental manufactures including food and America, South Korea, China and weld, paint, and assembly shops. Corporate History and the Message from the President. preservation efforts drawing out specific site characteristics. pharmaceuticals. Taiwan. Presenting quantitative data on the company’s growth Using outside viewpoints is both necessary and effective in trajectory, supplemented with qualitative information from identifying those strengths. As you have already begun both the business and product and the CSR sides, and then moving forward organizationally by establishing a dedicated attempting to unify them was, I think, an excellent idea. The department to oversee CSR activities, I look forward to Message from the President clearly lays out Daifuku’s mission seeing you raise the bar even higher. to use advanced automation and efficiency technologies, Response to the third-party opinion I am most grateful that Mr. Takegahara has continued to provide us with his opinions over the four years since the start of our Four-Year Business Plan in 2013. ATec LSP Electronics In preparing the CSR Report 2016, we structured it around the themes of solving (Airport Technologies) (Lifestyle Products) social issues through products and technology, and instilling CSR in our stakeholders, Provides a wide range of solutions for Provides mainly car wash machines to Daifuku’s subsidiary Contec Co., Ltd. primarily our employees, and worked to create a communication tool that would airports, including baggage handling service stations and automobile dealers. provides high-end industrial personal connect Daifuku and its stakeholders. Mr. Takegahara recognized that the report fulfills systems, automated baggage check-in The business provides eco-friendly computers, computers built in digital the function of effectively conveying our business and CSR, the two main subjects of the systems, and baggage screening functions, including saving water and signage, and measuring and display report. systems, and airport facilities monitoring using plant-based liquid detergents. This systems for LAN products and solar Going forward, we will establish measures for reevaluating our CSR Action Plan, and controls. The business is deployed business boasts top shares in the Japan facilities. particularly material aspects, and by also reconfiguring our KPIs, will work to enhance worldwide in collaboration with its Group and South Korean markets. It also sells Yoshihisa Ichinose the PDCA cycle behind our CSR activities. We will also expand the extent to which we affiliates in the U.S., U.K., and New and services auto scoring systems and Corporate Officer disclose non-financial elements, incorporating outside viewpoints, as we continue our Zealand. related products for bowling alleys. General Manager of CSR Division sustained effort to ensure we are providing a complete picture of Daifuku. 21 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 Daifuku CSR Report 2016 22
