F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 2015 Sustainability Report Introducing Organized Disruption where science and technology is used for sustainable development 1 ABOUT THE COVER Environment and sustainability are at the heart and core business of most companies. We need to introduce “organized disruption”, an innovation initiated at a phase where science and technology is utilized by policy makers and civil society for sustainable development. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions provides the platform for better decision-making as we embrace data as the new currency. The design features boxes arranged in a seemingly haphazard manner but nevertheless held together by a larger background. The background resembles a computer motherboard, representing technology. Some of the boxes contain images that represent advances in renewable energy and other technologies based on sustainable principles. Other boxes are blank and empty, to signify how organized disruption depends as much on existing technologies as it does on exploring uncertainties, providing new answers and uncovering new possibilities. 2 ABOUT THE COVER 2 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT 5 Scope and Limitations 5 Development 5 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 6 Company Profile 6 Vision, Mission and Values 8 Ownership 10 Advocacy, Certifications and Recognitions 10 Product and Services 14 Corporate Governance & Compliance 15 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 19 Business & Controls 20 Risk Management 22 Compliance 25 Internal Audit 26 Issue Management 27 ENVIRONMENT 28 Sustainable Supply Chain 28 Sustainability Programs 29 Compliance with Environmental Regulations 30 Advocacies and Partnerships 30 HUMAN RESOURCES 31 Workforce 31 Conformance to Labor Laws 31 Employee Engagement and Development 32 SOCIAL VALUE 36 Data Privacy, Security and Storage 36 Customer Satisfaction 36 Community Initiatives 36 MARKET/ECONOMIC VALUE 37 Vendor/Supplier Accreditation and Evaluation 37 Stable Revenue 37 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I CONTENTS 3 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE Dear Fellow Stakeholders: We are honored to present to you, our fellow like-minded environmental stewards, this second annual sustainability report. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions remains steadfast in pursuing its vision of advancing sustainable practices around the world, as well as helping corporations and organizations grow responsibly in the light of sustainable development. This report evaluates the progress made by the Company on the United Nations Global Impact’s Ten Principles centred on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption over the past year. In 2015, we added fully-integrated Business Intelligence to the FCS service portfolio to ensure we continue to provide some of the best Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) solutions to clients worldwide. At the heart of our business is a technological breakthrough that transforms the surface of the industry, enabling organizations and introducing disruption. We create a nexus of science, policy and social development by delivering goods faster to the market. We foster innovation through the continuous development of products and services that not only respond to the requirements of the clients, but add significant value to the environmental, social and management interface. Our flagship product, the Sustainability WorkBench – a robust software-as-service, serves as a scalable platform that monitors and improves the sustainability as well as the financial and operational performance of our customers. Together with the launched fully integrated Business Intelligence tools, we create a new dimension to technology, propelling the organizations toward the realization of their vision. As the challenges to data revolution and climate change progress, rest assured that our company shall take the lead in developing innovative measures in the realm of Environmental, Social and Governance. It is through the cohesiveness of our business intelligence formula that cost-effective consulting, data management and software solutions are weaved into a comprehensive tool, optimizing the resources of our clients and aiding them to operate efficiently. We believe that by advancing data transparency, accountability and innovation, we can together drive businesses and organizations toward sustainable development, leaving a lasting impact. Our company has a vision of participating in societal change by utilizing big data for sustainable development and initiating a revolution of change. Our business is about organized disruption. Data revolution needs to take place within organized disruption by becoming a conduit for organizations, private sectors, policy makers and society to catalyze change and establish an innovative thinking approach as we recognize data being the new currency. James M. Donovan Chairman F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions 4 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE ABOUT THIS REPORT Scope and Limitations The details and information provided in this Sustainability Report are applicable to F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions in the Philippines, and do not cover the offices or global network This is the second-released sustainability report of in other countries. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions since 2014, which covers the 2015 fiscal year. The content includes the assessment of the sustainability pillars: economic, environmental, social and Development governance programs. In continuity with last year’s report to the United Nations Global Compact, materiality aspects The materiality aspects of the 2015 sustainability report for each element of the sustainability pillars were used this have been mostly based on the 2014 report, with additional year to evaluate the progress made on the Ten Principles, elements highlighting the improvements made over a year. covering the aspects of human rights, labor, environment The content of the report revolved on the significant materiality and anti-corruption. A table mapping the Ten Principles of aspects for each of the four sustainability pillars, translating the United Nations Global Compact is annexed to this report, to environment, human resources, social value, and market/ as a reference (Annex A). economic value. The significant topics were based on the company’s best practices and the previous year’s criteria The objectives of the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions to determine any progress in F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ Sustainability Report for 2015 include: operation and management as compared to 2014 efforts. Inputs from stakeholders including leads of organizational • The identification and evaluation of the F-I-R-S-T entities were also considered in determining the materiality Carbon Solutions business operations, particularly of the report. Regular and weekly consultations were the materiality aspects that have significant impacts to conducted with the finance, purchasing, human resource, economy, environment and society; legal, internal audit, research and development, compliance • The progress made in improving and implementing the office, facilities group and operation team to consolidate the human rights, labor, environmental and anti-corruption significant elements and aspects that need to be included. policies and management over the past year; and The chosen topics address the Ten Principles of the United • The innovation toward sustainable development Nations Global Compact, as mapped in the attached table employed by F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, responding (Annex A). to data revolution and consequently, promoting transparency and accountability in the market. The financial stability as a product of the Company’s innovative and sustainable approach in 2015 is presented as Annex B. In 2015, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions launched fully integrated Business Intelligence tools, governing the integration of cost-effective consulting, data management and software solutions, to address the specific needs of the client. This breakthrough has been considered in the scope of this report development. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT THIS REPORT 5 ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS Company Profile F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Corporation, incorporated in the Philippines, is a leading global provider of environmental and compliance solutions through integrated information technology, business intelligence and Environmental, Social and Governance consulting services. Who We Are F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions promotes and enhances sustainable practices around the world and helps organizations improve their business operations, including their financial and environmental performance. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions delivers cost-effective consulting, data management and software solutions to help various clients maximize their time and resources, reduce costs, address environmental impacts and improve operational efficiencies. The Company ensures that the ever-evolving environmental and compliance needs of the business, industry, governments, institutions, and non-profit organizations are met. 6 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS What We Do F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions develops comprehensive solutions through consulting, software and processing services in the fields of: Environmental assessment and planning Manage and address sensitive environmental concerns and impacts on air, biological and cultural resources, urban planning and noise to help the client comply with regulatory processes. Energy, air and carbon management Identify impacts and recommend cost-effective measures related to air, health and climate action; monitor and manage air and energy information to reduce energy consumption and alleviate air emissions; and track utilities, waste, and energy and water consumption to encourage savings and maximize resources. Sustainability and supply chain management Improve operational efficiency, enhance brand reputation, and drive significant reductions in resource costs and use. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions helps clients understand and improve environmental performance internally and across the supply chain to directly benefit a client’s bottom line. And, as the exclusive CDP scoring and sustainability outsourcing partner for since 2011, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has advised hundreds of organizations around the world how to improve and better communicate their climate change mitigation strategies. In addition, we have worked with a number of leading companies around the world to gather accurate environmental and social sustainability metrics from their global suppliers in order to provide them with unprecedented information transparency and ensure they are operating sustainably throughout their expansive supply chain. Entitlement and permitting Process applications for permitting and documentations for regulatory purposes including: • Site Investigation Reports • Entitlement Processing • License Management • Project Management Software and data processing Automate and monitor utility consumption, sustainability metrics, and other operational factors using F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions web-based platform, the Sustainability WorkBench. Data management services range from information collection, standardization, quality assurance to storage. Consulting and data management are backed up with back office data processing to reduce cost and improve operational efficiency. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 7 Where We Work F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is registered in the Philippines, with a total of 13 offices and global networks in North America, Europe, Africa, Australia and Asia. This Sustainability Report covers information related to the operation of the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions in the Philippines only. Philippines (Principal Business) 26th Floor, Philippine AXA Life Centre Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue, Makati City Vision, Mission and Values F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is a leader in Environmental, Social and Governance solutions. The Company is guided by its vision of creating impact towards sustainable development, challenging the market by advancing data transparency, accountability and innovation. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions provides impact by introducing efficient and effective technological breakthroughs, processes and solutions. MISSION VISION To create value by redefining and delivering Impact is our Business innovative Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) solutions worldwide. 8 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS Core Values F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions business is anchored on the CERTIC core values. With a high level of corporate standards, strong multilateral affiliations and business founded on values and quality service, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions develops the most feasible innovations that address the Environmental, Social and Governance requirements of its clients across the globe. C Customer Focus Continuously understanding the unique needs of our clients, enabling us to deliver unparalleled customer solutions through our world-class services. E Excellence Being dynamic, innovative and passionate for learning, fueling our relentless pursuit to achieve the highest levels of standards in everything we do. R Respect Treating stakeholders, clients, employees, suppliers and community with courtesy and compassion. T Teamwork Proactively working together and being accountable to each other to achieve our goals. I Integrity Advocating honesty in our workplace by doing the right thing even when no one is looking. C Commitment Making things happen by creatively maximizing our resources to ensure each other’s success. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 9 Ownership Advocacy, Certifications and Sixty-percent (60%) of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is owned Recognitions by REDECS Green Holdings Corporation, while the remaining 40% is equally shared by JICA BPO Holdings Limited and Associations, Affiliations & Partnerships ADEC Solutions, Ltd. Green Holdings Corporation, the parent company, is registered in the Philippines, with The Chairman of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, James business engaged in property disposal including real estate. Donovan, is the appointed head of the Assessment F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions receives trickle capital from the Methodologies, Data and Information Working Group for private organizations, but refuses any financial or material the Global Environment Outlook 6 of the United Nations favor from the government. Environment Programme. He has also been appointed to become part of the Business Advisory Board of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. ADEC Innovations, the parent company of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, has also entered into an agreement with the United Nations Office for South-South Cooperation since 2015 to facilitate the Global CEO Alliance toward the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Still in 2015, ADEC Innovations partnered with the Asian Institute of Management for the establishment of a Public-Private Partnership Research Laboratory. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is associated with advocacies related to business, green building, healthcare, and information technology through affiliations with local and international organizations. 10 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS ASSOCIATION OR AFFILIATION STATUS Climate change *One of CDP’s scoring CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) partners and go-to solutions provider British Chamber of Commerce Philippines Active Partner Third party audit Philippines-New Zealand Business Council Active Partner Australian-New Zealand Chamber Active Partner of Commerce Sustainable business American Chamber of Commerce Active Partner European Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines Active Partner Energy Efficiency Philippine Green Building Council Active Partner Australia Philippines Business Council Active Partner Healthcare Information Management Outsourcing Active Partner Association of the Philippines Third party audit IT & Business Process Association Philippines Active Partner Philippine Business for Environment, Inc. Active Partner Energy, economic & ecological Philippine Software Industry Association Active Partner F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is a company within the ADEC Innovations group of companies and has established partnerships with other consultancy and software engineering companies to provide value-added services and cater to the additional requirements of the clients, particularly in environmental and carbon management. Sustainability management F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 11 Management Systems Providing quality service is of utmost importance to F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions; hence, the Company continuously seeks consistency and excellence in its process and system, enabling optimum standard and security. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutionsis recognized for its best practices by industries and global certifying bodies. CDP-Accredited Provider • Exclusive Supply Chain Scoring Partner since 2011 • Primary Investor-Led Scoring Partner since 2013 • Exclusive Sustainability Outsourcing Partner since 2013 • Gold Consulting Partner since 2011 • Silver Software Partner since 2011 Information Security Management Systems ISO/IEC 27001:2005 • Data receipt and downloading • Data research, evaluation, analysis, and abstracting • Data conversion and entry, and data uploading Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2004) • Identification and analysis of environmental aspects • Establishment of objectives, targets, and programs • Management and reduction of environmental impacts • Compliance to applicable legal and environmental “laws and regulations” Quality Management System ISO 9001:2008 • For the provision of global business process sourcing services Sedex Member Ethical Trade Audit assessed 12 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS Awards and Recognitions F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions and its parent and sister companies received awards and recognitions for its responsible and sustainable business operation, environmental initiatives, and innovation efforts. • ADEC Innovations, the parent company of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, won in the Business Responsibility & Ethics category and received a special citation in the “Energy Management” category at the 1st Sustainable Business Awards Philippines. • F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ affiliate technology company, the Envirosite Corporation, Year 2014 bagged the Oracle Technology Company of the Year Award at the Asia CEO Awards. • F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ CEO, James M. Donovan, received the South-South and Triangular Cooperation Visionary Award from the United Nations Office for SouthSouth Cooperation at the Global South-South Development Expo held in Washington DC. Year 2013 • F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ CEO, James M. Donovan, along with CFO Carol S. Esguerra, received the Executive Leadership Team of the Year Award at the Asia CEO Awards. Year 2011 • F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions won the Most Innovative Company of the Year at the 5th Information and Communications Technology (ICT) International Awards Philippines. Year 2010 • F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions won the Best Eco-Industrial Service at the 2010 Philippine International Eco-Show Awards. As part of the parent company’s commitment to responsible leadership in the field of sustainability, ADEC Innovations presented The Asia CEO’s Green Company of the Year award to EMOTORS, Inc. in the prestigious 2015 Asia CEO Awards in November 2015. The award aims to encourage organizations, both corporate and non-corporate, to establish environmental protection initiatives as a response to the issue of climate change. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 13 Products and Services Globally Accessible Information System and Technology Platform Sustainability WorkBench is a software-as-a-service technology platform containing a suite of Environmental, Social and Governance applications that measure carbon footprint, provide information on the impacts of business operation, and manage data. Its highly scalable and customizable feature maximizes resource use, reduces operational costs and improves sustainability performance. Integrated Software and Data Bureau Supply-LINK™ platform is a data supply system that has consolidated operational and personnel information sourced from retail brands, suppliers and factory managers by the data bureaus. Verified data serve as benchmarks for industries and non-governmental organizations. Large Scale Business and Knowledge Processing F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is the Exclusive Supply Chain Scoring Partner since 2011. The Company provides scoring for investors in Canada and Benelux, India, Southeast Asia, South Africa, Australia/New Zealand, Japan, Italy and Nordic regions. Water was also part of the scoring last year. The Company has evaluated more than 15,000 disclosures. Expansion to other countries, regions and programs is ongoing. And in 2016, the Company will also be scoring Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, and there will be a continued expansion of the water services. 14 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS Corporate Governance & Compliance F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Governance Structure & Directors F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is governed by the Board of Directors, and the operation is managed by four committees and overseen by the Chief Executive Officer with the assistance of the Senior Management. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 15 Board of Directors The Board of Directors maintains the long-term success of the company and secures the competitive edge of the company, consistent with the corporate vision and values. It conducts an independent check on the Management and ensures that the interest of the Company is at the forefront. Internal control mechanisms are fastened by the board to pursue good governance and best practices while propelling profitable growth. The Board adheres to the established process for the selection of highly qualified leaders and adoption of an effective management plan. The Board and Management hold an annual review of its strategies to align its operation with the vision, mission and values of the company. JAMES M. DONOVAN CAROLINA S. ESGUERRA CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER AND DIRECTOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Ms. Esguerra is concurrently the Chief Financial Officer Mr. Donovan was elected as Chairman of the Board in 2013. and Director of REDECS Green Holdings Corporation, JICA He is concurrently the CEO of ADEC Innovations and likewise, BPO Holdings Limited and ADEC Innovations. She is also the President and Co-founder of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions a co-founder of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions in the USA, in USA, Australia, and the United Kingdom. He also worked Australia and the United Kingdom. as Vice President of Lehman Brothers Investment Bank Ltd. from 1989-1991 and Vice President of Daiwa Securities from 1993-1996. 16 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS VICENTE P. REVENTAR III DIRECTOR Mr. Reventar has been a Director of the Company since 2011, and concurrently, the Chairman of the Department of Quantitative Management and Information Technology at John Gokongwei School of Management, Ateneo de Manila University, where he has been a faculty member for almost 40 years. He was the President of SVI Technologies from 1997 to 2003 and served as Senior Vice President for the Home Development Mutual Fund from 1981 to 1996. JOSE RENATO T. BADELLES DIRECTOR Mr. Badelles is a Director of the company and is the President and Director of AMDATEX Las Piñas Services, Inc., and AMDATEX Services Corp. MARIA CORINA P. BUÑAG CORPORATE SECRETARY AND DIRECTOR Atty. Buñag has been a Director and the Corporate Secretary of the company since 2011, and the Corporate Counsel since November 2010. She is also the Director and Corporate Secretary of PharmaKPO Corporation and ADEC Innovations, and a Director of Maria Victoria Realty Development Corporation and Blue Pearl Management and Development Corporation. DONALD R. FELBAUM INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Mr. Felbaum was elected as an Independent Director of the Company in 2012. He is also an Independent Director of Merlin Philippines, Blue Cross Philippines, SPI Global and Integra Business Processing Solutions Inc, and the Managing Director of OPTEL Ltd. He is also the Vice President of PAMURI and an Ex-Officio of AMCHAM. SHERWIN JOHN Y. LIM INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Mr. Lim was elected as an Independent Director of the Company in 2012. He is concurrently the President of Asian Bonded Customs Warehouse Corporation. Previously, he was a Director of Taiga Building Products. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 17 Board Committees Executive Committee The Board of Directors convenes the executive committee executive committee if needed and establishes the procedures from which the executive committee is created. The executive committee may act upon specific matters by casting a majority vote, as vested by the corporate By-Laws and within the boundaries specified by the Corporation Code of the Philippines. Nomination, Election and Governance Committee The primary role of the nomination, election and governance committee is to evaluate the credentials of the persons nominated and appointed by the Board, including the potential conflict of interest. The three members of the nomination. election and governance committee are also responsible for scrutinizing the Board’s electoral and appointment processes and procedures. Lastly, this committee establishes the Performance evaluation mechanism of the Board and provides leadership programs and education to the members before assuming office. Remuneration Committee The remuneration committee develops a transparent procedure and policy for creating a remuneration package for directors and officers to ensure consistency with the corporate culture, strategy and environment. The remuneration committee is composed of the Chairman of the Board and two directors. As for the Chairman of the Board, this remuneration package shall be reviewed by a committee formed by the Vice-Chairman and two directors. Audit and Risk Committee The audit and risk committee assesses the oversight on financial, internal control system, audit, and monitoring of compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The audit and risk committee is composed of members with varying backgrounds on accounting, audit, finance and legal. This committee delineates the independent roles of the internal and external auditors to ensure strict compliance and avoid any conflicts. In addition, the audit and risk committee has the oversight responsibility on risk management including the Company’s credit, market, liquidity, operational, legal, environmental and other legal risks, thus managing the risk exposures and activities, as well as the due diligence processes. 18 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ABOUT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION Organizational entities are supervised by the Management, with delineated tasks to oversee: Business and Controls, Risk Management, Compliance, Internal Audit and Issue Management. The business and risk information are evaluated internally by the audit committee and executives, and externally by the stakeholders, auditors, regulators, and rating agencies. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 19 Business & Controls F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions integrates quality into its system and processes, generating high-valued services and products. The quality of the operation is controlled and managed by the senior management from each organizational entity and an innovative information system. The process begins by evaluating the requirements of the client through consultation, transforming their needs and expectations into a comprehensive and tangible platform. Strategic plans are drafted to regulate the process flow. Resources such as manpower, applications, systems and trainings are pooled together to address the requirements. Process and Management Flow 20 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION Products and services of the company goes through a continuous improvement cycle following the Project Lifecycle Management, consisting of five phases to ensure utmost quality for the client. This project delivery framework is designed to highlight the objectives and expectations of the client. The Project Lifecycle Management includes a cohesive platform that weaves the functional efforts of the project team and the interface of departments and entities, thus adding value to the service and product delivered to the client. ISO 31000:2009 Risk Management Standard Framework F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions regularly improves the existing process and quality of the operation through the Performance Management, Improvement and Monitoring Systems. The company has a standard protocol for process reviews and mapping to identify areas for improvement. Corporate Standards initiates the process flow, going through the phases of inception, planning, execution, communication, approval, reporting and monitoring. There are key performance metrics to determine the conformance of the product to the specified requirements. Feedback and online survey have been established to gauge client satisfaction, whether their expectations have been met or even surpassed. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions also conducts internal audit on the existing process and organization’s conformance to Quality Management System. The performance evaluation mechanism is part of the continual improvement philosophy of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions where opportunities for product and service enhancement are identified and corrective actions are implemented on any identified non-conformance. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 21 Risk Management Transparency through Relations Investor Relations Media Relations The stockholders and investors are engaged in the decisionThe corporate maintains a good relationship with the media making process of the Board as they are recognized as the and monitors its exposure in the media outlets. The company backbone of the company. Stockholders convene in the maximizes the potential of media as conduit of information Annual General Meeting to ratify the actions and approve by sending out at least two exposures in a month and the financial statements and established remuneration conducting media rounds. policies of the Board. The event also serves as an avenue for the stockholders to voice their issues and concerns to the Board. Risk Management Risk assessment is conducted annually using the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 31000:2009 – Risk Management Standard framework, involving all offices, the Management and the Board. ISO 31000:2009 Risk Management Standard Framework 22 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION Business Risks The identified risks for the past two years include the following: • Foreign currency risk – Exposure of the company to currency exchange rates and the risk of translating foreign-currency financial assets into Philippine pesos are up as primary transactions are carried out overseas in United States, New Zealand, and Australia. • Interest rate risk – This is considered as not material. There is no existing financial instrument subjected to floating interest rate except cash in banks. • Liquidity risk – Cash outflows monitored on a day-to-day and week-to-week basis, and a 30-day projection, while long-term liquidity needs for six months and one year are identified monthly. • Credit risk – Risk that a counterparty may fail to discharge, caused by granting of advances and recognition of receivables. • Business continuity during natural disasters and man-made events – The vulnerability of the headquarter office in the Philippines to natural disasters poses risks to the operation of the company. A Business Continuity Management Plan has been created to equip the company with business continuity measures should an emergency or disaster occur. This is to aid the resumption of the business activities during calamity or natural unforeseen events. • Technology risks – Arising competition against technological trends in terms of mobility, computing, processing and big data analysis. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions develops innovative solutions, services and more advanced processes to negate the risk to profitable growth. • Information security risks – Data security and breaches may disrupt F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ system. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is liable for any issues on security and transmission of information from client to the system. Risk of unauthorized disclosure of information may result to negative publicity, law suits, penalties and other business damages. A separate department primarily focused on Data and Information Security has been established to ensure that mitigating measures are in place for these types of risks. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 23 Internal Control Mechanism Against Risks The company’s internal control environment includes the roles of the: • Board that oversees the management and supervision of the company; • Management that directly manages and operates the organizational entities; • Management information and risk management reporting systems that support the organizational and procedural mechanisms; and • Independent audit party that monitors and evaluates the effectiveness and efficiency of the company’s operations. COSO Enterprise Risk Management Framework The Board performs specific internal control mechanisms as part of its oversight responsibility, which includes the definition of functions and selection of the most credible person for the CEO position, evaluation and approval of the senior management appointments, and review of the company’s human resource policies and programs for the employees. The internal audit organization of the company, led by a Chief Internal Auditor, ensures adherence of the Board, Management and shareholders to the established organizational and operational controls, guided by the Internal Standards on Professional Practice of Internal Auditing and in accordance to the framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission (COSO). They report at a level that fulfills their mandate. 24 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION There are three lines of defense for risk management and control. The first line consists of the internal controls which are owned and managed by the operational managers, with the identification, assessment, control and mitigation of risk mechanism in place. The risks are managed from the business units up the centralized processes including products and legal entities, and across the organizational hierarchy. At the second line of defense, the risk and compliance oversight is scrutinized by ensuring the effective implementation of the risk management practices by the operational management. There are compliance and controllership Three-Line Defense Mechanism functions to monitor various risks including noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations, and regulate financial risks and financial reporting issues, respectively. The third line is composed of an independent body that reports to the audit committee, as well as to the executive management. This last line of defense, the internal audit, deals with the identified significant risks and ensures the quality of the governance, risk management and internal controls based on the highest level of independence and objectivity. Improvement Management System F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has an open communication channel, known as the Improvement Management System (IMS), which also serves as a grievance mechanism for the employees to air various types of concerns including, but not limited to, fraud, information and infrastructure security and other auditable matters. Concerns may be communicated online, via telephone, and email or post, which shall be monitored and resolved by an independent body. An Improvement Management System has been created by the company to promote transparency and open communication at all levels of the organization. The matter could be escalated to the higher authority depending on the gravity of the subject and level of position or office of the complainant. In 2015, no grave concerns were forwarded to the Board or Management. Compliance F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has access to certifications that recognize the Company’s well-maintained and highly-innovative system in addressing environmental impacts, threat to information security, non-conformance and trade concerns. The Company observes the international requirements related to environment, information, quality and trade, as well as national and local standards, laws and regulations. ISO 14001:2004, Environmental Management System The Environmental Management System of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions aims to guide its employees toward environmental compliance and encourage best practices on resources and energy conservation, and waste management, in accordance to the ISO 14001 requirement. The identified environmental aspect is monitored and controlled by each department in the process and operation, and cascaded to the employees. Suppliers are involved in the implementation of the Environmental Management System requirement as well. Significant impacts of each process, product and services to air, land, and water, and factors contributing to energy and water consumption, and waste generation across all departments are regularly evaluated, at least once a year. Corresponding mitigation to potential environmental impacts are integrated in the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions system and operation. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has a Pollution Control Officer to ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations and observance of the Company’s environmental policy. In addition, employees are exposed to environmental initiatives such as tree planting activities to gain awareness and inculcate vigilance. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 25 ISO/IEC 27001:2005, Information Security Management Systems Information Security Management Systems minimizes the risk to business as the “information assets from all possible threats are secured from any unauthorized access, use, disclosure and other forms of distortion.” Having an Information Security Management Systems system eliminates information security incidents and reduces its potential impacts to the business, clients and stakeholders. The Information Security Management Systems scope includes the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions services, research, communication, administration services and application and development services. Integrity and confidentiality of information is at the core of business. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions observes the International Organization for Standardization and the International Electrotechnical Commission 27001:2005 requirements, as well as the regulations and legislations on data storage, security and privacy. Security breaches are reported and investigated, as annual audit of the system is regularly done. Operational risks are reduced through risk management, business continuity management, awareness campaign and refresher courses for employees, and systematized access control to information. ISO 9001:2008, Quality Management System Quality service is integral into the business of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions. The company provides the highest quality service, delivered on time, every time. The Quality Management System is anchored on customer satisfaction. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions harmonizes its operation with quality by establishing a quality policy, conducting management reviews, setting strategic action plans, allocating resources and advancing the corporate quality objectives. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has initiated Quality Programs for Operations for its employees such as the Clash of Channels in 2015 and KAIZEN Programs in 2014. Sedex Member Ethical Trade Audit Sedex Member Ethical Trade Audit is not a certification, but an audit procedure highlighting ethical audit and good trade practices. Together with the internal and international audit mechanisms, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions also observes the Sedex Member Ethical Trade Audit for a high-quality output that is acceptable to various retailers and trading organizations, encouraging greater transparency of audit. Sedex Member Ethical Trade Audit combines Ethical Trading Initiative code and local law as a measurement tool and incorporates the fields of healthy and safety, labor standards, environment and business ethics. The Company conducts competency-building, training and awareness activities including Integrated Management System online quiz challenges and Certification Trainings. Internal Audit Internal auditors of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions hold the check and balance of the Company. The auditors conduct activities such as human relations, confidentiality, values, proficiency and supervision requirements to monitor the Company’s compliance to policies and regulations. Internal audit procedures are also based on the International Professional Practices Framework that contains the mandatory guidelines from the Institute of Internal Auditors. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions evaluates the Company’s conformance to the established policies, procedure and customer requirements including ISO 14001:2004, ISO 27001:2005 and ISO 9001:2008 according to the operating procedure specified in the Internal Integrated Management Systems Audit. The procedure encompasses planning, audit, recording and reporting of the assessment results. The team of auditors is formed by qualified personnel with Internal Audit Training as minimum requirement. Internal management audits are conducted annually, except for instances concerning quality, delivery, customer satisfaction that needs investigation. Other audit activities include the Physical and Safety Inspection of company premises. External party auditors are also sought to maintain the check and balance of the system. Independent auditors such as the P&A Grant Thornton run through the financial statements and other compliance requirements of the Company, ensuring that no residual nonconformance is left behind. 26 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION Issue Management F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions controls nonconformity through the Issue Management System and Procedure, which involves personnel, processes, equipment and other resources. The Issue Management System is a platform that receives the issues, concerns and complaints from the employees, from which they are stored, monitored, evaluated and resolved. Levels of access to the system and operating procedures are detailed in the Systems Management Procedure. The system is accompanied by an operating procedure to ensure that all observations are well-accounted and effectively managed, taking appropriate action to address the root cause of the problems and prevent their recurrence. The Issue Management Procedure covers both the determined existing and potential problems and issues on processes, services, and products. Concerns are identified and assessed based on the phases of Issue Management, from identification to closure and review. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND OPERATION 27 ENVIRONMENT Sustainable Supply Chain The supply chain of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions is divided into three stages: (1) procurement; (2) development; and (3) delivery. Suppliers provide expert services, operating supplies and equipment at the procurement phase. The Company reviews the supplier’s compliance and monitors its compliance to the sustainability procedures through an accreditation process. Suppliers are accredited based on the metrics of the Supplier Assessment: technical capability, quality of products and services, delivery, cost and environmental compliance. The supplier’s contribution and potential risks to the Company’s business are also reviewed and considered in the Supplier Accreditation process. The materials and services are developed according to the requirements of the client. After subjecting the product to quality and assurance check procedures, the most feasible and sustainable solutions are delivered to the customers. 28 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ENVIRONMENT Sustainability Programs F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has built a sustainability working program on energy, water and waste management, involving infrastructure and policy review, monitoring and operational maintenance. Energy Management Program F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions promotes the efficient use of energy by conserving electricity and using low-energy consuming equipment. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions utilizes LED bulbs instead of fluorescent lamps and as replacements to busted bulbs. In addition, airconditioning units have been replaced with energy-efficient ones. The company actively disseminates information and raises campaign on energy saving measures such as the maintenance and proper use of office equipment and electricity fixtures. Reminders on electricity-saving techniques are posted near the light switches. In 2015, office spaces were consolidated to one building which maximized the use of utilities and reduced energy consumption. As a result of this internal movement and other energy management efforts, energy consumption has been reduced by 14% from 2014 to 2015. Water Management Program F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions monitors the company’s water consumption to ensure the effectiveness of the reduction strategy. Techniques to conserve water included the use of recycled water in the sanitation facilities, use of waterless urinals, and regular check-up for any leakage and maintenance of water fixtures. In 2015, only an average of 420 m3 of water usage was recorded. Waste Management Program F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions encourages its employees to segregate the biodegradable from non-biodegradable materials as part of the waste management scheme. Campaigns sustain the waste management activities of the company. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has secured a permit for the liquid wastes discharged from the company. Effluent quality is measured and compared against international standards. The company’s sewage treatment plant is regularly maintained. Prior to treatment, oil are physically removed through the grease traps installed in the kitchens. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ENVIRONMENT 29 Compliance with Environmental Regulations The Company complies with the conditions specified in the project’s Environmental Compliance Certificate which was issued by the Environmental Management Bureau of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources on 3 October 2014. Environmental permits for the operation of the Company have regularly been updated with the respective government issuing body. The discharge permit for the Company’s effluent was renewed in April 2016 and has a validity of two years. The permit to operate for the generator sets, which are air pollution sources, is valid until year 2019. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions monitors its operation and compliance to the national water and air pollution standards, and regulations on waste disposal through a self-monitoring report submitted on a quarterly basis, and a semi-annual compliance monitoring report. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has a Pollution Control Officer to evaluate and maintain the Company’s adherence to environmental regulatory requirements. Advocacies and Partnerships F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has various collaborations with non-government and multilateral institutions, and advocacy and industry groups. Together, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions and its partners, pursue strategies and awareness on environment, social and governance matters. Sustainability programs are held to advance the welfare of the participating members of United Nations and the like. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions attends the conferences and regular meetings and fora to discuss the sustainability programs. 30 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I ENVIRONMENT HUMAN RESOURCES Workforce Human resources are one of the significant assets of the company. In 2015, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has a total of 77 employees, 63 of which are regular, six are probationary and eight are project-based. The distribution of employees in terms of gender is almost equal in 2015 as 51% of the total F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions population is female and 49% is male. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions personnel are located in Makati, the business hub of the Philippines. Conformance to Labor Laws wage rate is proportional to the position. The remuneration package is competitive compared with what is available F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions complies with the national laws in the market, based on the national minimum wage and and regulations on employment including just compensation benefits, and considerate of the cost of living in the area. and benefits. The national labor code on fair wage, working The salary increase depends on the result of the employee’s hours, gender equality, and respect for diversity are closely annual performance evaluation, promotion and periodic job observed in the company. Policies on discipline have been evaluation. Hiring of employees is anchored on the strategic institutionalized to provide rules on the expected decorum of objectives, operational and financial capacity, and foreseen directors, officers and employees, including any corrective return on investment. measures in case of a violation. The Code of Discipline is stipulated in the Employee Handbook. The company conforms to the provisions of the Philippine Republic Act No. 7641, referred to as the Retirement Pay Law. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions practices the philosophy of Under this law, the minimum retirement age is 60 years old internal equity with regard to salary structure, taking into with at least five years of credit service. The retirement plan consideration the competency and skill set, educational covers 100% of the average monthly basic salary during the last attainment and qualifications of the employee; hence, the 12 credited months of service, for every year of credited service. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I HUMAN RESOURCES 31 Employee Engagement and Development F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions values its employees, as well as their professional development and wellness. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has employee engagement programs to encourage community-building, pursue advocacies and initiatives, and showcase talents, skills and abilities of employees. The programs create venues for holistic growth, foster opportunity and development, and nourish relationships across all levels. It is through employee engagement activities that exceptional talents are retained. 32 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I HUMAN RESOURCES Learning and Development F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions advances the holistic growth Town hall meetings serve as the communication bridge of its employees by providing technical and personal between the Company and employees, where employees development trainings and workshops to its employees, are graced with the opportunity to raise any concerns particularly on leadership and effectiveness. Internal and to the company. In addition to communication avenues, external trainings are available depending on the knowledge F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions has Issue Management and skill sets that need to be enhanced and acquired. The System as a platform for employees to convey their issues company has established a Learning and Development and concerns to the management. Employees are also guideline for the planning, execution and evaluation of all encouraged to be part of interest groups and associations to trainings. In 2015, a total of 880 man-hours were spent for express their freedom right. However, the company prohibits training, equivalent to an average of 11 hours per employee. illegal assembly or any unlawful engagement or activity Fifty-five percent (55%) of which were in-house trainings within the company premises and tapping the resources of and 45% were given by third-party facilitators, with the the company, as stipulated in the Employee Handbook. training courses varying from technical, behavioral, core skills, functional, health and safety, and soft skills. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I HUMAN RESOURCES 33 Health and Safety F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions gives importance to the wellness, health and security of the employees. Employees of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions, including their families as dependents, are enrolled in healthcare programs. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions also provides and maintains a safe working environment for its employees and conducts health and safety training including fire drills. In 2015, no incident was reported translating to zero lost time record. Advocacies and Community-Building Initiatives The business core of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions revolves around sustainability and ESG. Thus, sustainability-related and teambuilding activities geared toward the realization of these two advocacies are supported by the employees of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions. There are various programs that inculcate social and environmental awareness and responsibility among employees. In 2015, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions participated in Earth Hour as part of the global climate change action held during March. Employees also volunteered for the tree planting activity in the mountains of San Cristobal and Banahaw in Rizal, in the province of Laguna, where 1,250 seedlings were generated. 34 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I HUMAN RESOURCES Employee Recognition F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions recognizes the significant contributions and diligence of its employees, both in the micro and macro-scale level of the business. Loyalty awards and incentives for employees celebrating their fifth and tenth year anniversaries are part of the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Employee Recognition program. Employee Engagement F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions hosts a Team Bonding program aimed to develop sportsmanship and highlight work-life balance in the organization. The employee engagement program includes series of indoor sports tournament and other activities that foster camaraderie amongst employees. Annual year-end event of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions includes Pocket Events that showcase the talents of the employees. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I HUMAN RESOURCES 35 SOCIAL VALUE Compliance with Data Privacy, F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions supports and addresses the needs of the clients through a customer services group Security and Storage operating 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. The company provides dedicated technical staff to valued customers, as F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions ensures compliance with laws need arises and availability permits, to immediately respond and regulations pertaining to privacy, data storage, freedom to queries, issues and concerns. Clients could tap different of expression, intellectual property rights and other media forms ranging from online communication, telephone legal requirements on information system. A designated and video conferencing, and face-to-face meetings to seek compliance officer reviews and monitors the current system, assistance from FCS’ customer services organization. procedures and other material aspects of the services and For convenience, online self-help tools are available for operation, ensuring their alignment with the statutory customers to directly resolve minimal issues concerning requirements of the Philippine Corporation Code and the the product. Securities and Exchange Commission. Documents and generated information are well-monitored and controlled, from creation and authentication, to retrieval and archiving, Community Initiatives preventing any unauthorized access, damage and loss. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions continuously implements Customer Satisfaction Corporate Social Responsibility programs involving the local, national and global level. In 2015, activities include earth hour, tree planting, and medical mission. Part of F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions’ commitment is to provide the best quality products and services to its client. Periodic client feedback survey is conducted to determine client satisfaction and gather insights on how to better improve the service of the company, towards delivering excellent client experience. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions caters to a wide array of services for various types of clients which can be categorized by industry, focus area and service. Industry • Associations • Hospitality • Commercial Real Estate • Industrial • Consumer Products • Insurance • Developers • Manufacturing • Education • Municipality • Finance • Packaging • Food Products • Retail • Government • Restaurants • Healthcare • Telecommunications Focus Area Service • Sustainability • Consulting • Energy Management • Software • Environmental • Reprographics • Due Diligence • Data Processing and Entitlements • Supply Chain • CDP 36 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I SOCIAL VALUE MARKET/ECONOMIC VALUE Vendor/Supplier Accreditation and Evaluation Vendors and suppliers undergo an accreditation process to ensure that their philosophies are aligned with the Company’s. Vendors need to adhere to various national environmental, institutional and regulatory requirements and standards, as well as to the Company procedures. Compliance to these standards is covered in the prequalification and accreditation stages, and is even part of the contract obligations of the vendors and suppliers. F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions conducts a periodic evaluation of the performance of vendors and suppliers. Stable Revenue In 2015, the Company’s revenue reached a total of Php 11.6 million, equivalent to $ 0.255 million. Total Comprehensive Income of Php 3.3 million was generated, equal to $ 0.073 million as reflected in the company Audited Financial Statement (Annex B). The secured and stable financial status of the company could be attributed to its innovative data processing, reliable and secured service delivery, and customizable solutions reflecting or even exceeding the clients’ requirements. F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I MARKET/ECONOMIC VALUE 37 Annex A UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES and F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Commitment Matrix 38 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES AND F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Communication on Progress F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES 39 AND F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Annex B FINANCIAL STATEMENT 40 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 41 42 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 43 44 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 45 46 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 47 48 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 49 50 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 51 52 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 53 54 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 55 56 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 57 58 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 59 60 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 61 62 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 63 64 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 65 66 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 67 68 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 69 70 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 71 72 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 73 74 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 75 76 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 77 78 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 79 80 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 81 82 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 83 84 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT 85 86 F-I-R-S-T CARBON SOLUTIONS 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT I FINANCIAL STATEMENT Contact Information F-I-R-S-T Carbon Solutions Corporation 26/F Philippine AXA Life Centre Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue 1200 Makati City, Philippines Tel.: +63 2 775 0632 Contact Person Anthony A. Catajan Chief Compliance Officer Telephone: +63 2 798 8408 Local 8076 anthony.catajan@firstcarbonsolutions.com 87
