UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Period covered: from December 2015 to December 2016 Statement of Continued Support for the United Nations Global Compact December 7, 2016 As the Chairman of Printec Group, I am pleased to confirm that Printec Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Printec Group is an ICT solutions provider and Systems Integrator specializing in Transaction Automation solutions, operating in 16 countries in Central and Southeastern Europe. In this Communication on Progress (COP), the second for Printec Group, since joining the UNGC in 2014, we outline our continuous effort to incorporate the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Printec Group Company Profile Printec Group is the prime provider of Transaction Automation solutions in Central and Southeastern Europe, offering a wide range of ICT solutions tailored to the needs of financial institutions, petrol companies, large retailers, telecom operators, as well as service providers and government organizations in 17 countries. Printec’s technology is the force behind integrated technology solutions that improve human interactions, making everyday life easier: from cash transactions via ATMs, to electronic payments, self-service solutions and more, hundreds of organizations in Europe meet and exceed their customers’ expectations, while at the same time achieving cost efficiencies. The company’s deep insight and extended reach have enabled the provision of innovative solutions based on cutting-edge technologies, and have turned its global solutions into day-to-day efficiencies. The company’s R&D occurs in close cooperation with customers. Beyond its own expertise, Printec capitalizes on an extensive network of leading partnerships which provide reliable and efficient solutions and services to its customers. Printec’s core business entails the design, development, implementation and post-rollout support of:  Digital Transformation: HW & SW value added solutions that allows companies to transform their physical operation and accommodate their customers through all channels (digital & physical)  Electronic Payments: solutions that enable consumers perform electronic payments with convenience and security.  Self-Service Channels: solutions that enable consumers to do more on their own, saving them time, while at the same time allowing the business to save resources.  Security and compliance: Solutions that focus on data security (authentication, data loss prevention, etc), as well as on compliance (fraud detection, antimoney laundering, tax compliance reporting, etc).  Monitoring & Analytics: software solutions that enable businesses to better monitor their operations, and then use that data to better analyze their performance and make educated decisions with minimum risk. Further to product development and integration, Printec Group provides high-quality services that cover a large geographical footprint through a network of more than 400 specialized repair and maintenance engineers and support specialists in a wide network of 100+ service points. Printec’s growth is the outcome of strong partnerships with leading global vendors, like NCR, VeriFone, FICO TONBELLER, Inetco, Oracle, Flash Networks, Glory and many others. After 28 years, the company is among the leaders in the sectors where it operates and is privileged with the partnership of nearly every important business in the region. Vision, Mission, Values Our vision is to be the preferred technology brand of choice for easy and secure interactions anytime and anywhere. We exist to provide innovative technology-based solutions and services which enable efficiency, effectiveness and convenience. The core values of Printec Group, defining the guiding principles that dictate behavior and action are: Diversity: We embrace diversity in all of its forms and respect individuality. We give people room to think and act differently. Drive for Results: We pursue our goals with passion and with unrelenting focus on performance Entrepreneurship: We encourage our people to act on opportunities, take initiatives, and go beyond boundaries Customer-focus: We diligently service our customers. We understand what drives our customers’ business and we create innovative solutions tailored to their needs. Trust: We trust our people to do the right thing and conduct business with competence, expertise, positive attitude and cooperation on all levels. We value our relationships and we treat people well. Corporate Social Responsibility Recognizing the importance of Corporate Social Responsibility, Printec Group integrates corporate citizenship and social responsibility into every aspect of its operations, by including ethical, social and environmental issues into its decisionmaking process. The company takes the necessary actions to ensure responsible conduct in all its operations for the benefit of all its stakeholders: shareholder, customers, employees, partners, society and the natural environment. Printec strives to do business ethically and in an environmentally and socially responsible manner, while safeguarding growth and profit in line with the expectations of the company’s stakeholders. The main focus of the company’s CSR initiatives develops around the company’s market presence and business activity, on the way the company treats its human resources and contributes to social cohesion, as well as on minimizing the impact the company’s products and solutions have on the environment, all of which could be summarized in the following objectives:  Generate growth and economic value through long term performance improvement and continuous growth.  Governance and Ethics: promoting responsible business practices at every level of our business.  Develop our human resources in a sustainable manner, by treating our employees fairly and respectfully, as they are the most important aspect.  To engage in society and behave in a way that our operations are contributing to the strengthening of the local and global communities.  To be at least environmentally neutral in all our operations and provide environmentally friendly products CRI Pass distinction for Printec Group for the company's stance on Corporate Social Responsibility was achieved in June 2016. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Printec Group is committed to ensuring that all its employees are treated fairly and with respect. The Company encourages all employees and business partners to respect human rights and prevent potential abuses. This commitment is clearly stated in the written policies found in the company’s code of conduct, “One Group, One Code”, which has been published on the company website and which describes how Printec seeks to protect and promote human rights and basic freedoms for all its employees. According to Printec Group’s Code of Conduct, each employee should conduct company business with integrity and in compliance with applicable laws. The Company will not tolerate victimization, bullying or harassment in the workplace. To this respect the company will issue in 2017 an “Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy” and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect All employees receive at least the minimum wage. This is communicated in the contract provided to all new employees prior to employment. This contract contains among others the terms and conditions of employment and the working time regulations based on the specific job position. All employees are paid holiday leave, sick leave and parental leave in accordance with international minimum standards. Printec Group will continue to support and protect internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure that the Company is not complicit in human rights abuses. Implementation Being a company of a reasonable size, it is easy for Printec Group to communicate with employees, therefore the Company feels that it can effectively keep on top of supporting and protecting human rights. By maintaining an open and supporting working environment, Printec enables employees to freely communicate in cases where they feel their rights are being compromised or breached. Printec Group’s Code of Conduct, which addresses all relevant information on equal opportunities and nonharassment policy, is included in the company Induction/Onboarding package documentation, translated in the local languages required to support non English speaking employees and available for all in the company Intranet Portal. All Printec Group employees are required to read and confirm that they have understood and commit to abide by the Code. Upon employment each individual is presented with a contract, and an induction/onboarding package which provides access to all staff policies and procedures. For cases where –according to specific support contracts with customersthe Customer Services employees might be required to work after office hours, there is a “Stand-by and Call-out” Policy in place ensuring that employees who might be required to work overtime, are compensated accordingly. The Company ensures equal pay for equal work and equal opportunities for training and development for all employees, without distinction based on grounds of race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status such as ethnic origin, disability, age, health status, parental or marital status or sexual orientation, taking into account differences in wages by region of expertise. Printec Group ensures that hiring, promotion or termination are based on legitimate non-discriminatory business reasons and provides a safe, healthy & comfortable working environment to all employees. Printec Group’s commitment to the UN Global Compact has been published on the company’s corporate website reflecting Printec’s ethical business performance and engaging positively with stakeholders including employees, partners, customers and communities. Grievance Mechanism: Through the implementation of the Group’s Code of Conduct and the relevant policies, the company keeps human rights violation to a minimum. However if violations were to occur, then appropriate action would be taken. Employees are encouraged to speak with the senior members of the team and/or communicate directly with the Group Ethics Committee (via telephone, email or traditional mail) if they feel treated unfairly. The Ethics Committee: Printec Group’s Ethics Committee is responsible for the review of issues regarding human rights, or other ethical issues that have or may arise in conjunction with Printec Group activities. Regular controls by the Group Internal Auditor are applied on an annual basis. On site audits in each of the company’s locations of business operations ensure that the company policies and procedures are being meticulously followed, providing feedback and ensuring realignment in case of discrepancies (policies are being reviewed for suitability, sustainability and effectiveness on a regular or also ad-hoc basis should a significant change occur) Measurement and Outcomes Printec Group is monitoring and evaluating employee performance on a bi-annual basis through the company’s Performance Development Process, applicable to all employees. This regular review period, in combination with the established Code of Business Ethics, enable employees to also address any human rights issues or concerns they may have to the established Ethics committee. During 2016, one incident was raised, which was treated and solved with outmost discretion for all sides In 2016, Printec Group organized in some or all of its countries:  a Group wide Travel Insurance policy, covering all Printec employees travelling abroad;  access for its employees and families, to Employee Assistance Programs, during which they are supported to manage psychosocial pressure  trainings that took place for all the organizational levels, on soft and technical skills to advance our workforce personal and professional skills and abilities. Special attention was given to the Leadership Team, this year. Our leaders attended a nine month leadership program which incorporated proven practices that reinforce learning and building skills, addressing a broad range of issues faced by managers every day. For the first time in Printec, we implemented a blended training program, including online learning combined with in class interactive workshops;  pilates sessions bi-weekly in Printec facilities, inviting all employees to participate;  visits to museums and other cultural and of social interest events in which all employees and their families are invited to participate or activities promoting volunteerism, such as blood donations, participation in junior achievement seminars; All parameters of health and safety in the workplace are covered by local legislation such as: Controls by a dedicated safety engineer are held on a regular basis Scheduled visits by an occupational doctor A detailed evacuation plan is upheld by frequent fire and earthquake drills In Printec Group we follow the rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which we operate and in our company’s policies, we ensure that our employees and stakeholders are treated fairly and equally. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT LABOR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policies and Goals Printec Group’s commitment to Global Compact’s principles on Labour is reflected in its Code of Conduct. The Group’s compliance to the UN Global Compact’s principles on labour is ensured through policies such as the Hiring Policy as well as in processes such as the Performance and Development Process which describe how employees are selected and regularly evaluated. The company supports and is committed to the practice of equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and advancement. Printec Group believes in the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. All employees are made aware that any forms of forced or compulsory labour are not supported. All employees have individual contracts of employment therefore are fully aware of the employment terms and conditions. Printec Group does not condone any forms of child labour or human trafficking. Due to the nature of the business and the countries of operations, there have not been any recorded instances where the company has had to deal with any issues of this kind if this was to become apparent, Printec Group would take immediate action. With Diversity as one of its Values, Printec Group prides itself on having an authentically diverse culture: our workforce spans countries, cultures, languages, generations, perspectives, backgrounds and educational experiences. The company’s Code of Conduct covers policies concerning employee rights and responsibilities. Printec Group understands that employees with disabilities share the same general employment rights as other workers. With regards to the Health & Safety of Employees, Printec Group adheres to all local laws & regulations pertaining to employee health and safety. The company makes sure that the necessary procedures and precautions are in place with regards to Printec facilities, providing a safe and sanitary working environment. Implementation Printec Group adheres to sectional collective agreements in all countries of its operations, and, where applicable, allows the formation of Labor Unions. Upon hiring, a written contract is presented to employees, stating their terms and conditions, including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. Based on their job description, Printec Group employees are informed of the relevant Compensation Policy in place. Additionally, a comprehensive job description is communicated ensuring employees are fully aware of their roles and responsibilities, before signing the agreement prior to employment. Printec Group implements for the second year an Onboarding Program allows new employees to assimilate within their working environment, and informs them of all Printec Group Policies & Procedures, including, but not limited to, the Code of Conduct, Compensation & Benefits, Company’s Vision, Mission & Values, Performance & Development Process, Risk Management Process etc. Through this process, which is continuously enhanced when a new or an update of existing policy is released, Printec’s new employees are immediately informed about all relevant information on equal opportunities, employee rights & responsibilities. With regards to the Health and Safety of Employees, Printec Group is in full compliance with the relevant laws and regulations in the countries of its operations. Additionally, the company has achieved and continues to maintain the OHSAS 18001:2007 certification which relates to occupational health and safety in Romania and Bulgaria, and the “Employer as Partner Certificate” in Croatia. All employees are covered by the state medical insurance and supplementary private medical insurance is provided as a benefit for employees in the majority of Printec. We plan to extend this benefit to all countries. To improve the quality of life of employees and their families, they are permitted to work from home and encouraged to take all their annual paid time off, while they are encouraged to exercise and live a healthy lifestyle. We also organize team building activities to promote team bonding. Printec Group has a good mix of female and male although our industry is an area which is by nature male dominated. This however, in no way reflects our approach to encouraging and promoting staff within the organization. Through our Performance and Development Process, we run bi-annual reviews on employee performance each year to identify personal development needs and training requirements. As part of this process, Printec employees receive written and verbal feedback on their individual performance against their set of objectives. Discrimination in the development and advancement of employees has been mitigated through the Grading System which has been applied to each particular job position within the company. The specific Grading System classifies each job role in Grades based on benchmarks of industry standards on pays, therefore eliminating any issues of discrimination in the payment and compensation of the Group’s employees. Additionally, the “Hiring Policy” available for all HR department personnel and Managers involved in the hiring process, provides all the necessary tools and relevant processes for an objective candidate assessment. Printec Group will never advertise a job referencing discriminatory criteria such as race, gender or age. Likewise, the company ensures job applicants are not asked to give information about their marital status, pregnancy, intent to have children or similar information which may lead to discriminatory hiring decisions. Grievance Mechanism: Through the implementation of the Group’s policies, the company keeps labour risks to a minimum, however if violations were to be made apparent, action would be taken. Employees are encouraged to speak with the senior members of their team and/or communicate directly with the Group Ethics Committee (via telephone, email or traditional mail) if they feel overworked or treated unfairly. The Ethics Committee: Printec Group’s Ethics Committee is responsible for the review of rights regarding anti-discrimination, freedom of association, abolition of child labour and elimination of forced labour or other ethical issues that have or may arise in conjunction with Printec Group activities. All employees have been made aware of Printec’s policies in this area and have been required to read and familiarize themselves with the Code of Conduct. All policy documents are available to access at any time via the company’s Intranet Portal, and employees are encouraged to submit questions, feedback and any concerns through the listed individuals with special responsibility and oversight in this area. Regular controls applied through Internal Audit visits in each of the company’s locations on an annual basis, ensure that the company policies and procedures are being meticulously followed, providing feedback and ensuring realignment in case of minor discrepancies. Measurement of outcomes Printec Group has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles Printec Group operates in 16 countries of Central and Southeast Europe, therefore its team consists of a variety of demographics and is open to a range of ages, ethnicities and genders. Our diverse workforce spans countries, cultures, languages, generations, perspectives, backgrounds and educational experiences. We hold trainings for our employees to ensure they are skilled in the areas that will benefit them personally and professionally. We also have regular sessions where we knowledge-share so the entire team has exposure to our workforces’ skills. Within 2016 we performed internal “refresher” sessions to existing employees for the Performance & Development System, launched in 2015, and special trainings for the new members of Printec team in order to educate them on the principles and optimum use of the performance management system. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT – ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; a Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Technologies. Assessment, Policies and Goals Recognizing the importance of the environment, Printec Group continuously proceeds to the necessary actions to ensure responsible and environmental-friendly conduct in the entire company. The main activities of the company’s Environmental program are focused on minimizing the environmental impact from the company’s operations, as well as from its products and solutions. Printec has incorporated environmental concerns in its operations, the design of its inhouse products as well as the selection of key IT vendors and strategic partners whose products follow these principles. Further to product design and solution implementation, the company’s end-of life hardware management processes ensure secure and environmentally responsible product recycling, compliant with European Union’s Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). In addition to compliance with the relevant environmental legislation, Printec Group has also established an Environmental Policy in order to support the conservation of natural resources, the rationalization of work-related travel as well as the waste management and recycling. Printec Group Environmental Policy Statement Printec Group is a leading IT Solutions provider in Central and Southeastern Europe. We recognize that the primary environmental impacts relate to the company’s energy consumption from its facilities’ operations, to energy consumption related to the HW solutions the company integrates in customer locations, as well as the disposition of these HW products. Printec Group is committed to respecting and promoting environmental responsibility ensuring that such concerns are included in our day-to day operations and strategy development. Taking into account our business needs, customer requirements, and the desire to minimize our impact on the environment; we maintain our facilities, run our business operations and select our HW suppliers in a responsible manner. The company is committed to  Continual improvement of its environmental performance  Preventing pollution  Compliance with all environmental legislation, regulations and codes of practice relevant to the IT industry sector  Including environmental strategies and objectives in our business planning process to ensure that the management of environmental impact remains an integral part of our operations It is our policy to  Identify and implement ways to improve the efficiency with which the company uses materials and resources, prevents pollution, minimizes emissions, and recycles waste.  Set environmental objectives for our activities which have the most significant impact. The key actions to achieve this are:  Minimize toxic emissions through the selection and use of our car fleet, keep transport use to a minimum and regularly service vehicles to maintain their efficiency  Actively promote recycling and use recycled materials whenever these can be commercially justified  Encourage our employees to identify and act upon opportunities to improve environmental performance and waste management  Develop and promote solutions & products which minimize the environmental impact of our operations, as well as our clients’ operations  Incorporate environmental considerations into procurement processes  Meet or exceed all the environmental legislation that relates to our company  Strive to reduce business travel and promote alternatives wherever practicable This policy is communicated to all Printec Group employees and can be found in the company’s website. Printec Group reviews this policy on an annual basis, taking account of any changes within legislation and our organization, as well as other factors. Implementation Printec Group recognizes that the effective implementation of its environmental policy represents an opportunity to improve the company’s performance by reducing environmental risks and impacts, and increasing the efficiency of the Company’s operations. The company aims to reduce the environmental impact of its operations and products and promote environmental sustainability enabling the long-term success and sustainability of its own business and of its clients’ businesses by:  Focusing on improving the energy-efficient performance of its products and by collaborating with other IT solution providers in order to develop, and promote innovative technology solutions that will address long-term sustainability challenges.  Striving for continuous improvement in energy efficiency and emissions reductions from the company’s operations Printec designs, introduces and implements solutions that enable the reduction of the environmental impact (Green technologies). The following environmental-friendly solutions are included in the company’s product portfolio: Printec Watch4 family of products Branch automation & Green IT initiatives Transaction automation & Energy reduction Building Internet of Things solutions Cash management solutions & reduction of CTI travel InfoKiosks & Digital signage solutions Managed print services solutions Smart water solutions E-signature solutions Further to the compliance with applicable environmental laws and legislation, Printec Group also establishes processes and procedures which support the conservation of natural resources, the rationalization of work-related travel and commuting as well as the effective management of paper and the reduction of waste. A unified cooperation and collaboration solution has been implemented, enabling enhanced online communication and minimizing corporate travel. Employees with increased business travel are urged to evaluate the use of the available online communications tools (ie: video and web-conferencing, instant messaging, screen sharing) before they make a decision for travelling. Wherever feasible, we also allow our employees to work from home, reducing the need for daily travel and eliminating office space. The company has started to replace the car fleet with cars equipped with fuel-saving technologies, (diesel and hybrid) wherever feasible and evaluates if the implementation of an e-billing procedure is in compliance with local accounting and tax legislations. Measurement of outcomes Printec’s travel and fuel costs have decreased significantly by requiring virtual communications assessment before scheduling physical meetings with teams and clients. E-billing application is to be implemented for the first time in one of Printec subsidiaries effective 2017. Within 2016 three subsidiaries replaced hardcopy working orders forms with electronic application process. Printec Group has not had any reportable environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. The company’s line of business do not pose a serious threat to the environment, therefore there are no serious environmental risks to be considered. If incidents were to arise the Company would deal with the matter internally at a first point of call; should it escalate external help would be sought. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACTANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policies and Goals It is Printec Group’s policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our dealings wherever we operate. The Company has in place policies and procedures designed to prevent corruption as it is clearly stated in its Code of Conduct. Implementation Regular internal and external auditing of financial accounts ensures Printec Group’s expectations & policies in relation to corporate governance are maintained. All staff are aware that they can communicate with the Group Ethics Committee should they become concerned for the welfare or operations of the business or if they detect a violation of the company’s corporate governance policy. Should any issues arise, Printec Group would seek legal advice and deal with them immediately. Grievance Mechanism: Through the implementation of the Group’s Code of Conduct, the company keeps corruption risks to a minimum, however if violations were to be made apparent action would be taken. Employees are encouraged to speak with the senior members of their team and/or communicate directly with the Group Ethics Committee (via telephone, email or traditional mail) if they feel overworked or treated unfairly. The Ethics Committee: Printec Group’s Ethics Committee is responsible for the review of corruption or other ethical issues that have or may arise in conjunction with Printec Group activities. Regular controls through Group Internal Auditor visits in each of the company’s locations on an annual basis, ensure that the company policies and procedures are being meticulously followed, providing feedback and ensuring realignment in case of discrepancies. Through ISO27001 external audits, the Data Protection Policy is regularly reviewed Regular updates on the policies and procedures related are sent to all employees. Measurement of outcomes Printec Group Financial Statements are audited locally by external auditors each year and submitted for consolidation at Group Level to a separate independent external auditor in Austria. Printec Group had not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery.
