Communication on Progress on implementation of the principles of the UN Global Compact March 2016 Arcadis has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2009 and is committed to both its objectives as well as the ten universal principles regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental stewardship, and anticorruption. Our values, mission, and strategy are fully aligned with the UNGC principles, and our signing of these principles reflects our ambition to be a sustainability leader. The way in which we support ad enact these principles are included in our Annual Report 2015. We are committed to making the UNGC and its principles part of the day-to-day operations of our company. Arcadis regards its primary suppliers as partners and collaborates with them to help achieve its ambitions. Because of the nature of our business, we rarely face human rights and labor rights issues in our own operations. In situations where this is the case, our people have the possibility to address these through our compliance systems. Our changing geographical spread of recent years has introduced new risks in human rights and labor rights issues, especially in those projects where we work with subcontractors. We address these issues through our general purchasing principles. In relation to high risk countries and for the purposes of post-merger/ acquisition activities Arcadis has soft controls in place, which amongst other things focus on corruption. The “In Control” statement filed annually by all of the operating companies and subsidiaries to attest to the level and application of controls in their business, also includes information related to corruption. The Arcadis Annual Report 2015 contains an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact by Chief Executive Officer Neil McArthur on behalf of the Executive Board (in the message from the CEO on page 14) and provides further information on progress made in implementing the principles. The Annual Report is submitted every year to the UN Global Compact Office and forms the substance of our annual Communication on Progress (COP). In 2015 we continued our support for UN-Habitat, the United Nations agency for human settlements, aimed at a common goal: to improve the quality of life in rapidly growing cities. With this partnership, known as the Shelter program, we address the challenge of sustainable living conditions in rapidly growing urban areas. The United Nations has adopted 17 new Sustainable Development Goals. One is focused on the development of sustainable cities and communities, and Arcadis has committed to this goal with the Shelter program. In 2015 we also continued our contribution to the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Through the LowCarbon Technology Partnerships initiative (LCTPi), which challenges businesses to accelerate the development and deployment of low carbon technologies, we contributed to the COP21 Climate Summit in Paris with its leading role in the Energy Efficiency in Buildings project. CEO Neil McArthur chaired a lunch session on strategic city-business collaboration, joined the WBCSD panel on the role of collaboration in sustainability and also served as a panelist during the COP21 meeting organized by UN-Habitat on engaging the private sector on climate change. 2015 Summary Arcadis Communication on Progress Principle Description Arcadis Annual Report 2015 Human Rights Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of Chapter Sustainability (p.40). Arcadis internationally proclaimed human rights General Business Principles https://www.arcadis.com/en/global/wh o-we-are/business-practices/generalbusiness-principles/ Principle 2 Exclusion of human rights abuses Chapter Sustainability (p.40), Arcadis General Business Principles. Labour Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the Chapter Our people (p.16); Chapter effective recognition of the right to collective Sustainability (p.40). bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and Chapter Sustainability (p. 40). compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Chapter Sustainability (p. 40). Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect Chapter Sustainability (p.40); Arcadis of employment and occupation General Business Principles Environment Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to At a glance (p.2); Chapter environmental challenges Sustainability (p.40); Environment (p. 92 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Chapter Sustainability (p.40); environmental responsibility Environment (p. 96). Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion Chapter Sustainability (p.40); of environmentally friendly technologies Environment (p. 96). AntiCorruption Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, Chapter Risk Management (p.138); including extortion and bribery Chapter Sustainability (p.40); Supervisory Board Meetings in 2015, (p. 126); Arcadis General Business Principles.
