The World Internet Security Company Corporate Responsibility Report Communication on Progress 2015 WISeKey S.A World Trade Center II 29, route de Pré-Bois CP 853 1215 Geneva, Switzerland Tel: +41 22 594 30 00 Fax: +41 22 594 30 01 e-mail: info@wisekey.com www.wisekey.com The World Internet Security Company Contents Introduction ................................................................................................................................ 3 About WISeKey ......................................................................................................................... 4 Message from Carlos Moreira .................................................................................................... 5 Progress Report – Global Compact 2015 ................................................................................... 6 The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 2 The World Internet Security Company Introduction WISeKey shares the view that the Global Compact presents a unique strategic platform for participants to advance their commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship and to value creation in its more profound sense: making a positive difference in society. WISeKey’s Chief Executive Officer and Board are committed to making reality an ethical engagement that is embedded in the company’s business plan: expand the use of digital certification. WISeKey is driven by its commitment to bring security to the Internet and create the trust that is needed for e-commerce, e-business, e-government and all digitallybased transactions. WISeKey’s progress report, presented in the form of a log-frame, seeks to illustrate WISeKey’s compliance with the Global Compact 10 principles. The following UN publications have been used as reference:  Guiding principles on business and human rights. Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework. UN Human Rights. Office of the High Commissioner  The Labour Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. A guide for Business. ILO  Environmental stewardship strategy. Overview and Resource for Corporate Leaders. Duke University  Corporate sustainability with integrity: organizational change to collective action. United Nations Global Compact. Paragraphs in red show the activities in 2015 that are of direct relevance to the Global Compact. The main version of this document is electronic, since it allows access to additional information through a series of hyperlinks. Thanking you for your kind attention and looking forward to receiving your feedback. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 3 The World Internet Security Company About WISeKey WISeKey SA is a leading information security and digital identity management company. We provide solutions to respond to business, government and individual digital security needs, from Mobile Services to Digital Brand Management and Online Trusted Solutions. Our solutions are used worldwide to secure mobile, home and office data, transactions and communications, as well as being used to provide you or your brand with a personalized digital identity to secure you against fraud and counterfeiting. Through our partnership with the OISTE Foundation, under Swiss law, we can ensure geopolitical neutrality for data and communications that are secured by WISeKey. WISeKey’s digital identity management and information security is used to address a variety of day to day digital security needs, such as:  Secure electronic data exchange and storage online and locally  Secure mobile data  Secure financial transactions from computers and mobile phones  Distinguish authentic from counterfeit goods, anytime, anywhere (even over the internet)  Protect your customers’ data and identities when they trust your site with their information  Ensure privacy and security e-government citizen services  Securely log on to social networks  Manage all your log on details from a single, encrypted place  Leave evidence of a communication or transaction (using WISeKey’s e-notary services)  Reduce your carbon footprint with a paper-free environment and legally valid digital signatures WISeKey is a dynamic and innovative company that embraces change to stay ahead of the digital security threats and to protect its current and future clients. WISeKey’s facilitation of the mass-use of secure digital identities in everyday life allows us to promise that the millions of users around the world can trust WISeKey secured information and objects and protect their privacy. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 4 The World Internet Security Company Message from Carlos Moreira 2015 will remain a milestone year for WISeKey. Fundamental developments took place throughout the year that ended with the company going public at the Swiss Market SIX Stock Exchange in 2016. WISeKey’s efforts to achieve public listing have given new vitality to its business vision. WISeKey has refined and redefined its spheres of influence in order to be able to best serve our current and future consumers in the ever-developing market. The digital age means that people are carrying out more and more business and social activities online, through networks, and with mobile devices. With this shift away from face-to-face interaction, trust becomes essential for individuals and businesses alike, who need to ensure that the person they are dealing with remotely is legitimate, and that the data they are accessing or receiving is secure and trustworthy. Data protection is becoming a priority on the agenda for banks, governments and corporations, as we realize that our data, identities, and digital interactions are not as safe as they should be. WISeKey’s relationship with the OISTE Foundation, which acts as guardian of a proprietary cryptographic-root, allows us to guarantee geo-political neutrality for our clients’ data and communications, setting us apart from other companies in the domain. WISeKey is dedicated to securing mobile data, online data and communications in order to protect people’s rights. We are also committed to using our technology to fight counterfeiting, and also to help others and ourselves work in a greener environment. This includes our work on e-Governments, replacing the traditional paper-based processes with electronic ones, giving citizens the possibility of conducting their requests and filling in their forms online, as well as following the whole process online, thus replacing lengthy paper-based processes and saving time and money. WISeKey has also signed commitments towards the Clinton Global Initiative in order to bring mobile banking to underbanked and unbanked areas of the world. WISeKey continues to work towards the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact through initiatives such as this. The UN Global Compact has allowed us to highlight areas of our business where improvement is recommended, as well as to hone our solutions and business practices to be better aligned with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. We look forward to another year of responsible opportunity in line with the 10 principles. Carlos Moreira CEO and founder WISeKey WISeKey S.A World Trade Center II 29, route de Pré-Bois CP 853 1215 Geneva, Switzerland Tel: +41 22 594 30 00 Fax: +41 22 594 30 01 e-mail: info@wisekey.com www.wisekey.com The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Progress Report – Global Compact 2015 Objective: implement the 10 principles proclaimed by the UN Global Compact Goals – Human Rights Principles Impact indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey is committed with the protection of WISeKey’s engagement with The company’s Corporate Governance Rules The company’s internationally proclaimed human rights the protection of human and Code of Conduct enforce the respect of business model is rights is publicly recognized human rights economically sustainable WISeKey is not complicit in human rights abuses WISeKey abstains from The last yearly corporate report is available at doing business with countries https://cdn.wisekey.com/uploads/images/WISe Appropriate level or companies responsible of Key-Annual-Report-20151.pdf of information proven human rights abuses regarding See also: https://davos.wisekey.com/2015/ business’ partners human rights’ And Carlos Moreira’s presentation at: records https://www.youtube.com/embed/4q3myV_Vt 48 Publicly known cases of human The company’s upper management publically rights abuses embraces the promotion and respect of human where potential rights: business’ partners and/or providers WISeKey endorses the APC Internet Rights are held Charter, established by the Association for responsible Progressive Communications (APC) in February 2001. The APC states that the ability to share information and communicate The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 6 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 freely using the internet is vital to the realisation of human rights as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. WISeKey campaigns for a system of digital identity management that will be respectful of the fundamental right to privacy. As stated in Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: “No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks”. Contracts signed / MoUs signed / Deals under study / Deals concluded / Pipeline of products / Products under development – WISeKey supported the engagement of the OISTE Foundation on concrete actions to protect and defend the human right to privacy on the digital world, namely the launch of the Diktyo initiative during the WEF Davos Forum 2015 (21 January 2015 – more details below) Outcomes Outcome indicators Means of verification Assumptions The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 7 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 WISeKey incorporates human rights awareness into its WISeKey is actively Participation in ITU, WEF, WSIS and ICANN business practices involved with the meetings and working groups: International WISeKey is engaged in multilateral institutions Telecommunications Union Participation in WEF activities addressing the issue of human-rights protection (ITU) and the World Summit of the Information Society Round table sponsored by WISeKey on the (WSIS) 21st January 2015 during the WEF Davos annual meeting. The round table was WISeKey is actively moderated by Carlos Moreira, CEO and involved with the World founder of WISeKey, having as pannelists : Economic Forum (WEF) Radu-Popescu Zeletin former director of the Fraunhofer Fokus Institute ; Jean-Manuel WISeKey is paramount in ROZAN, CEO of Qwant; Thomas Andersson, creating awareness about the head of the IKED and coordinator of the GINI risks to the human right to Consortium ; David Fergusson, CEO of M&A privacy in Internet Advisor. Mr Fadi Chehadé, CEO of ICANN contributed (life) with valuable comments. Through its sponsorship of the OISTE Foundation, The following link gives access to the actual WISeKey is in permanent round table : contact with state and nonstate actors such as ICANN, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xt3csSymGyg the APC, the EFF, Privacy International, the Geneva Diktyo is the greek word for “network”. Internet Platform and many Diktyo is also an invitation to join in a others. campaign to provide a new type of privacyprotection environment for Internet users, where the individual which generates information is put on control of the data he/she generates. The Diktyo declaration states: « The Davos The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 8 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 follow-up process entails the development of a consolidated portfolio of project work. Some of these activities are research-oriented while others are devoted to innovation, solutionsdeployment and implementation. Forming a coherent set of activities, however, they complement each other in underpinning a systematic advance of the DIKTYO agenda, i.e. taking us forward towards a coherent system for trusted identities in the digital world. The founding bodies behind the DIKTYO are taking the lead in shaping the project portfolio but the discussion is ongoing with other organisations how to advance. There is the opportunity for other players to join and those interested are encouraged to contact the secretariat for more detail. Updates will further be provided in continuous reporting on this web-site The following represent key strands of work: 1. Analysis of the Identity Ecosystem including the specification of present gaps and distortions 2. Specification of the required architecture as well as other functional and nonfunctional building blocks for a coherent eco-system for identity management The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 9 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 3. Specification of mechanisms and incentives for the development of operational business models across the main domains of the system 4. Strengths, weaknesses and inter-linkages in the way that our multi-jurisdictional world economy influences the advance of a coherent system for trusted identities 5. Pilot activities, presently in preparation for two particular areas: Financial services, including on principles and mechanisms for risk management, insurance and the distribution of liabilities capable of spurring financial sector engagement to promote a combined enhancement of interoperability in identity management along with greater usability and security; The smart city, with the advance of a framework promoting interoperability and scalability in handling seamless authentication and authorisation processes underpinning continuous information exchanges and user engagement in new services development, involving intelligent and adaptive utilities, logistics systems, smart buildings, health and wellness promotion, and so forth. 6. Evolving cross-border policy frameworks See also the website: The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 10 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 https://davos.wisekey.com/2015/roundtable/ WISeKey’s active engagement with the World Economic Forum (WEF) is expressed through Carlos Moreira’s re-appointment as vicechairmanship of the Global Agenda Council on Illicit Trade. The WEF Global Agenda Council on Illicit Trade includes a wide range of topics of direct relevance to human rights such as Human Trafficking; Drug trafficking; Counterfeiting; Arms Trafficking. WISeKey joins forces with 70 companies and government bodies across 15 sectors and 25 countries to create the WEF Partnering for Cyber Resilience Initiative. See more at https://www.weforum.org/globalchallenges/projects/partnering-for-cyberresilience/ Public statements / Press releases / Participation in specialized events / Products developed and marketed that improve security and privacy for individual users in Internet / Services offered to companies and countries to improve security and confidentiality in data management See above: Diktyo declaration, launched at the WEF Davos meeting 2015 Outputs Output indicators Means of verification Assumptions Four product lines being offered and permanently Availability of new software Applications developed by WISeKey as The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 11 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 improved via new software development New services being offered support to human-rights enhancing initiatives:  WISwatch New contracts signed  WISecurity New clients added Publicity on WISeKey’s web page +  WISeID promotional material available  WISefans Please refer to the company’s web page…  WISeAuthentic https://www.wisekey.com/projects/ showing  WISeID Personal Cloud the linkages between the company and various public-interest endeavors: The company continued working on its products seeking Hub Valenciano Málaga Valley to always improve the manageability of its digital HighTrusted Communities certificates. Association for International Mobility Launching events organized See under “Means of verification”, below Activities Process Indicators Means of verification Assumptions WEF Davos, see all the information related to the Diktyo Nominated as a New Press releases and news posted in WISeKey’s initiative launched on the 21st of January 2015 Champion by the World website. Economic Forum https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/4/wiseke y-among-120-partners-microsofts-servicesCommitment holder at the global-outlook-launch Global Clinton Initiative On Mobile-Banking and digital https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/4/oisteidentification for poverty org-wisekey-showcase-multiplealleviation groundbreaking-digital-identity-cybersecurityinitiatives-2015-wef https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/4/andorr a-telecom-wisekey-forge-trusted-encryptedThe Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 12 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 clouds-partnership-world-economic-forumdavos https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/4/wiseke y-oiste-org-launch-cybersecurity-alliancedavos https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/3/op-edbig-trust-the-new-coin-of-the-realm https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/3/wiseke y-granted-patent-authentication-identificationconnected-objects-iot-mobile-world-congress https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/3/solarimpulse-wisekey-form-mobile-app-partnership https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/3/wiseke y-launch-nfc-trustedr-internet-thingstransactions-identity-injection https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/2/interna tional-financial-forum-roundtable-on-cybersecurity https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/2/wiseke y-cyber-security-ma-advisor-things-2015international-financial-nyc https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/2/wiseke y-deploying-large-scale-iot-digital-identitieswearables-wiseid-nfctrusted-technology The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 13 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/2/busine ss-case-corporate-entrepreneur-interview-byinsead-mba-student https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/2/wiseke y-smrtcty-com-at-bloomberg-technologyconference-smart-cities https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/2/diagon o-e-magnesium-bulgari-wisekey-strategicpartnership-mitigate-cybersecurity-risk https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/2/wiseke y-cryptographic-root-of-trust-to-iot-providersand-chipmakers-to-bring-security-connecteddevices https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/2/wiseke y-selected-as-one-of-2015-world-economicforum-global-growth-partner-at-newchampions-meeting-in-china https://www.wisekey.com/press/page/2/wiseke y-presents-a-positive-technology-outlook-atthe-ft-cybersecurity-summit-in-london-23september https://www.wisekey.com/press/carlosmoreira-founder-of-wisekey-warns-usconsumers-at-the-chicago-ideas-week-ofemerging-threats-of-having-user-personalThe Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 14 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 information-and-iot-hacked https://www.wisekey.com/press/wisekeyselected-by-the-government-of-seychelles-toprovide-egovernment-services-to-citizens https://www.wisekey.com/press/wisekeycontributes-its-smrtcty-com-technology-tomicrosoft-citynext-a-global-initiativeintended-to-build-smart-cities-around-theworld https://www.wisekey.com/press/wisekeyunveils-the-trusted-iot-bottle-using-digitallysigned-anti-refill-caps-that-can-beauthenticated-via-smartphones Goals – Labour principles Impact indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey upholds the freedom of association and the WISeKey’s reputation as Management team meetings The company effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining a fair employer is firmly The management met regularly, any time that stays in business established business required it. WISeKey upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and Pressing priorities compulsory labour Respect of Swiss Civil Pension fund staff representatives elections and staff travel Code & international A representative to the pension fund executive allow time for the WISeKey upholds the effective abolition of child labour labour law board was elected by the personnel in 2015 management team meetings WISeKey upholds the elimination of discrimination in WISeKey employs multiWISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules – respect of employment and occupation. cultural staff. WISeKey’s last updated January 2011, based on the staff is gender balanced. “Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance” offer guarantees of lawful and WISeKey’s pension fund fair labour practices. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 15 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 decisions are on the hands of a group with Means to monitor performance – Legal and employee’s Ethics Committee appointed by the Board of representation. Directors (seven shareholder representatives with at least 3 non-executive directors) WISeKey makes sure that business partners or There are no open processes against WISeKey suppliers do not employ before labour courts in Geneva. child labour WISeKey’s personnel appreciate contractual conditions: working hours, holidays, maternity protection, occupational safety, training opportunities. Outcomes Outcome indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey complies with the Global Compact criteria on Positive review by the Feed-back to corporate responsibility report labour principles Global Compact Outputs Output indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey’s Board of Directors oversees the respect of WISeKey’s management Company’s productivity and personnel WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules by management. upholds the company’s motivation are high. Corporate Governance Management team makes a positive contribution to Rules Applications available on the App Store and WISeKey’s business. Google Play – visit Management team made https://www.wisekey.com/products/ The pension fund plan chosen provides the best possible important contributions in advantages for employees. contracts signed with WISeFans and WISeID technology continued clients to be improved by WISeKey developers. Management team made valuable contributions in the development of new products The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 16 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Activities Process Indicators Means of verification Board meetings’ minutes Board meetings: 14th April 2015, 8 June 2015, June 24th, 7 July Management team 2015, 15th September 2015. meetings Staff representatives to the pension fund Goals – Environmental principles Impact indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey supports a precautionary approach to WISeKey develops means Number of smart-cards produced and shipped WISeKey’s environmental challenges to measure the Packaging and shipping methods used. business require environmental footprint of WISeAuthentic has a low environmental international WISeKey undertakes initiatives to promote greater its products and services impact. WISeKey is not responsible to ship mobility and environmental responsibility smartcards to clients individually. Watch travelling WISeKey develops a manufacturers are responsible. Smartcards are WISeKey encourages the development and diffusion of holistic and purchased abroad, Both the cards and the chip Cost efficiency is environmentally friendly technologies comprehensive strategy, that goes with it are manufactures abroad. balanced against recognising the linkage Manufacturers seek cost efficiency environmental among various impact environmental issues Impact on Green House Gas emissions (GHG). The volume of the company’s business is not WISeKey successfuly big enough to follow up on WISeKey’s impact embeds environmental on Green House Gas emissions (GHG). Apart stewardship in the from international travelling, the impact seems company’s strategy and to be average for a small ICT company. management Control of public utilities’ bills. With regard to WISeKey’s data center is energy intensive. environmental protection, The cooling system employs important WISeKey balances shortquantities of water. From the electricity The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 17 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 term targets and long-term consumption side it is difficult to reduce the goals, diffuse best bill when the company operation grows; practices and translates however, there is a favorable trend thanks to best practices into the reduction of physical servers, in exchange processes for virtual servers. The processing capacity increases, but energy consumption remains the same. Purchase of new equipment New equipment purchasing decisions are weighted considering its environmental impact. Energy efficiency is a criteria when deciding on the purchase of new equipment. Obsolete equipment is disposed respecting Swiss and European safe-disposal directives: Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) Company’s recycling facilities WISeKey endeavors to reduce physical mail and paper use. The company recycles paper, ink toners and PET on-site. Control on international travelling In order to reduce travelling: (1) WISeKey encourages the use of teleconferencing; (2) WISeKey implements teleworking arrangements for as many cases as possible. WISeKey engages the services of foreign software developers in Southeast Asia. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 18 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 WISeKey’s meeting rooms are fitted to offer state of the art technological facilities for tele + video conferencing. All personnel often use Skype for video conferencing. Nature of the company’s products and services The dematerialization of processes plays an important role in the company’s business strategy. Dematerialization means less paper consumption. WISeKey’s clients have a positive environmental impact thanks to reduced transport and the simplifications of energy consumption processes. WISeKey has a positive impact because its business model implies an increase in the consumption of virtual rather than tangible products. Outcomes Outcome indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey’s successful strategy is translated into an increase Sales increases Statistics showing sales’ increases quoted in of online businesses and services using dematerialized the company’s activity report. processes, thus having a positive impact on the environment Outputs Output indicators Means of verification Assumptions Energy bills are carefully monitored in WISeKey’s offices Measures taken to reduce Discussions with the owner / manager of Control of the energy consumption in WISeKey’s premises public utilities WISeKey’s offices The cooling system for the data centre is a bit systems is on the out-dated. There are more energy-efficient hands of the cooling machines in the market; however, the premises’ owner / The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 19 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 WISeKey’s operations fall under the category of Marketing of WISeFans decision to change the equipment is not manager information & communications technology services that products and services directly on the hands of the company but on simplify people’s mobility the hands of the building’s owner / managing company. The matter has been discussed with them, however there is a financial issue to resolve, since changing the cooling system implies a significant investment. As mentioned before, the company has opted for increasing the data processing capacity via new processing technologies which do not represent an increase in energy consumption. WISeAuthentic creates an electronic certificate containing the product’s unique identity code. A non-duplicable digital certificate, containing the product’s identity is stored on a cryptographic smart chip embedded into a branded SmartCard or into the product itself. At any time the customer can verify the item authenticity over the Internet with the highest level of security. WISeID FCB enables fans to stay in touch with their favourite players, providing them with real time updates on their social posts, commentaries and the latest pictures and videos of the team. Sport clubs with strong team brands recognize that fans are their main asset. FCB WISeID creates a collective identity shared by both supporters and players that allows a wide range of on-line interactions with our without commercial goals. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 20 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Goals – Implement anti-corruption Impact indicators Means of verification Assumptions practices WISeKey works against corruption in all its forms, Digital certification Applications developed. including extortion and bribery. contributes to reduce illicit “Should I buy it”, an application being trade and fight corruption developed by WISeKey, uses lawenforcement mechanisms developed by Interpol, i.e. the Global Register. “The INTERPOL Global Register is a project under development to counteract illicit trade by enabling people to scan and verify the legitimacy of a product from their mobile device. Users – consumers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers, law enforcement and government officials – will be able to use an Internet-based application on a mobile phone or other Internet-connected device to scan and receive information on a product to verify whether the product is being legitimately sold, access product information and see what safety features are in place.” Meetings and conference-calls in 2015 related to curbing illicit trade. WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules include a “Whistle blow act”… reporting on violations of the law, rules, regulations and the company’s Code of Conduct are contemplated and protected… These rules explicitly state: “it is forbidden to demand or The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 21 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 accept payments or other advantages for themselves or others from third parties, nor may they grant third parties unlawful advantages…” WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules also include clauses contemplating the disclosure of conflict of interest Outcomes Outcome indicators Means of verification Assumptions An extended use of digital certification reduces illicit trade WISeKey’s More companies and governments use and contributes to fighting corruption worldwide. WISeAuthentic products WISeKey’s digital certification services as a have a positive impact in means to curb illicit trade and fight brand protection and corruption. reduce counterfeiting Outputs Output indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeAuthentic products marketed to the luxury industry Clients’ satisfaction. Contracts signed: in the period 2014 2015 Jean-Claude Biver, Cf. Hublot’s CEO : https://cdn.wisekey.com/uploads/images/WIS “The technology consists eKey-Annual-Report-20151.pdf of creating an electronic guarantee certificate with an algorithm...Hublot sales outlets and clients are able to use the SmartCard to check instantly online if the watch is genuine. This combination provides a fail-safe solution, impossible to replicate, at a fraction of the amount lost in sales due to counterfeits. …” The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 22 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Activities Process indicators Means of verification Assumptions New security solutions Press releases / board meetings developed The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2015 23 International Secure Electronic Transactions Organization Organización Internacional para la Seguridad de las Transacciones Electrónicas Fondation OISTE World Trade Center II – 29 Rte de Pré-Bois, CH – 1215 Geneva 15 Tel: 022 594 30 00; Fax: 022 594 30 01; e-mail: info@oiste.org www.oiste.org; www.facebook.com/iosetransactions Organization in special consultative status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations (ECOSOC) Member of the Not-for-profit Operational Concern (NPOC) constituency of ICANN
