Communication on Progress 2015 CONTENTS Comments from the CEO 3 Focus on people 4 Our stakeholder dialogues 5 People development and equal opportunities 6 Governance and ethical business practice 8 Supply chain CSR in the procurement process 9 Environmental care 10 Community engagement 11 Comments from the CEO At Transcom, we have chosen to focus our corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts on people, which is reflected in the focus areas of our CSR governance program, Transcom Cares. We focus on people development, equality & diversity and community engagement. In addition to the CSR focus areas we have defined for our Transcom Cares program, Transcom fully supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor rights, environmental care and anti-corruption work. These principles are an integral part of our corporate strategy, business culture and day-to-day operations. Therefore, as part of our ongoing pledge to deliver an outstanding customer experience in a global sustainable society, Transcom is a signatory of the UN Global Compact. We are whole-heartedly committed to ensuring that we comply with the UN Global Compact and its principles. I invite you to read more about CSR at Transcom in 2015 on our special website 2015.transcom.com, which replaces the traditional front section of the annual report. On this site, you will also find content on other areas, such as operations, business development, finance and HR. Let me also invite you to read the Hello Transcom magazine, which features stories from the year. It is available on www.transcom.com. Let me close by thanking our clients and shareholders for their continued support, as well as our 30,000 employees for their hard work, commitment and dedication during 2015. Stockholm, June 2016 Johan Eriksson, President & CEO of Transcom Transcom Communication on Progress 2015 3 Focus on people Every day, Transcom’s 30,000 customer experience specialists handle a multitude of interactions with our clients’ customers in more than 33 languages all over the world. People truly make all the difference in our business. Our ambition to deliver an excellent customer experience in every single interaction depends on an engaged, skilled and highly motivated workforce. Our ability to attract people with the right attitudes and mindset, in combination with efficient training methods and processes to drive perfor• People development mance, is essential to achieving our goals. High performing, skilled and motivated people are the key ingredient in providing excellent customer experience, and it is therefore OUR RESPONSIBILITY critical that we have a process to support high performance as well At Transcom, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) means that we as the ability to attract new employees and retain our talents. always do our utmost to do the right thing by our clients, our people and our communities. We are convinced that our commitment to • Equal Opportunities sustainability also helps us to attract, retain and develop the best We believe that being an employer that provides equal opportunipeople, which is critical to our long-term success. ties to all is an important key to our future success. It is our people’s Transcom Cares is the overarching governance program for skills, knowledge and attitudes that matter. We have zero tolerance Transcom’s Corporate Social responsibility (CSR) activities, which for discrimination. are an integral part of our day-to-day business. Transcom Cares started several years ago as a concept for our community engage• Community engagement ments in the Philippines, but in 2013 it was established as a global Local community engagement is how Transcom Cares started. CSR program with three focus areas: People want to work for a company that has a sustainable approach to business and that contributes to building communities. Transcom Communication on Progress 2015 4 Our stakeholder dialogues In a people-intensive business like ours, where long-term success ESG ANALYSTS largely depends on the ability to attract and develop the right peo• Focus on fair working conditions for our employees ple, we believe it makes sense to focus our corporate social • Uphold freedom of association and right to collective bargaining responsibility (CSR) efforts on people as well. Our stakeholder dia• Ensure high degree of customer satisfaction logues and materiality analysis verify this view. Our materiality analysis was performed in order to identify CLIENTS which sustainability aspects are considered to be most material • Have fair and transparent recruitment practices and to prioritize amongst these in order to allocate adequate • Be an equal opportunity employer resources to achieve the highest impact. The list below summa• Focus on fair working conditions for employees rizes the most important sustainability issues to each key stakeholder group. As part of this process, we organize specific stakeholder dialogues with our employees, e.g. through web-based surveys and feedback EMPLOYEES meetings. In addition to this, we conduct an annual employee satis• Be an equal opportunity employer faction survey, “Voice of Our Employees”, which is open to all • Be transparent with financial reporting employees, including temps and agency workers. Gathering feed• Work proactively with anticorruption back from our employees on their satisfaction is critical in order to continuously improve our workplace and make it a great place to OWNERS work. In order to make sure that we get the insights we need, we • Provide continuous training for employees revised the content of the survey during 2015, and also improved • Be transparent with financial reporting the technical platform. Our aim is to engage with our people and • Have fair and transparent recruitment practices encourage everyone to make their voices heard. Therefore, it is very positive that 85.9 percent of our workforce participated this INVESTORS year. The response rate improved quite significantly compared to • Provide continuous training for employees the 2014 survey. In this year’s survey, as well as last year, approxi• Focus on fair working conditions for employees mately 80 percent of respondents stated that they would recom• Ensure high degree of customer satisfaction mend Transcom as a good place to work. The results are analyzed • Focus on health and safety management for employees and discussed on the local as well as on the global level. An action plan to address the findings is created at every site and in every EQUITY ANALYSTS country throughout the organization. • Be transparent with financial reporting • Focus on fair working conditions for our employees • Be an equal opportunity employer Transcom Communication on Progress 2015 5 People development and equal opportunities PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT Number of employees by region High performing, skilled and motivated people are the key ingrediDecember 2015 ent in providing excellent customer experience, and it is therefore North Europe 5,092 critical that we have a process to support high performance as well Central & South 6,102 as the ability to attract new employees and retain our talents. Iberia & Latam 6,765 North America & Asia Pacific 11,446 Developing careers Other (mainly CMS) 108 In order to ensure that we are successful in finding the right people; Total 29,513 the company has a clear goal of becoming an employer of choice in our industry. Besides offering a stimulating working experience, competitive compensation and robust training, the opportunity for Full-time employees and temporary staff career development is one of the key factors that attract new talDecember 2015 ents to the company. Full-time employees 26,321 At Transcom, we truly believe in developing our people and we Temporary staff 3,192 offer unique opportunities for our employees to develop in their Total 29,513 roles. There is a clearly defined career progression, either as a line manager or in a specialist role. There are hundreds of examples of senior leaders at Transcom who started out as agents or in junior Health and safety support roles. Please visit blog.transcom.com for stories about We are committed to ensuring that Transcom work centers are people who have chosen to build their careers with us. safe and secure places for all those that visit and use them. Our Internal candidates fill the absolute majority of our first line centers comply with applicable health, safety and environmental management positions, as well as functional specialist roles. All laws and all related policies. We aim to make sure that our employour Business Managers, and five out of six Team Leaders, are interees benefit from an appropriate standard in their physical environnally recruited. When recruiting externally, many candidates come ment, technology equipment and office furniture by: to us through referrals from employees. • Observing common safety recommendations and good In many countries where we operate, our employees are reprepractices sented by an independent trade union or are covered by collective • Participating in evacuation drills and safety training sessions agreements that entitle them to healthcare and retirement beneTranscom has not experienced any serious work-related accidents fits. in the last years. Also, all of our suppliers are expected to provide At Transcom, we are committed to maintaining high international employees with safe working environments where risks of accilabor standards and we also expect our suppliers to offer fair and dents are minimized, in compliance with applicable health, safety reasonable compensation and working hours to employees in line and environmental laws. with legal requirements as stipulated in their countries of operation. Performance and Talent Management Employee security We firmly believe that talented, passionate and innovative people Transcom always tries to minimize the negative impact on employare fundamental to delivering an outstanding customer experience. ees in cases where downsizing or restructuring actions cannot be Effective tools and systems are becoming more important, but our avoided. In many cases, we will offer training, relocation support, true differentiators are our people. Transcom relies on high perjob search assistance, or other forms of support. forming people with the right skills to provide value to our clients. Performance and Talent Management Programs have been designed with a holistic view that encompasses recruitment, perCountry Manager Support functions, e.g.: formance management and appraisals, competence and abilities, Contact Center Manager training and continuing individual development/succession plans –IT Business Manager –Quality for our employees. –Operations –HR The aim of the Performance Management Program and PerTeam Leader –Finance formance Appraisal is to define key objectives for each individual to Agent measure performance against and, consequently, creating a Transcom Communication on Progress 2015 6 People development and equal opportunities results-orientated culture in our company. This global annual tic approach enables us to attract and retain the most talented process enables an open, transparent and integrated system for people, while also making sure that we can quickly identify availamanaging people. ble talent when job opportunities arise. The overall aim of our Talent Management is to identify our internal talent and develop high-potential employees. Also, this EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES program guarantees that Transcom has a succession plan and We believe that being an employer that provides equal opportunimap any competence gaps and need for development of potential ties to all is an important key to our future success. It is our people’s future leaders at all levels, in order to ensure the sustainability of skills, knowledge and attitudes that matter. We have a zero tolerthe Company. We want to ensure that Transcom has a talent pool ance for discrimination. of potential successors when job opportunities arise, therefore we The gender distribution among managers is good overall, with will continue working to identify and develop our internal talent and women making up 52 percent of managerial employees. Our tarcreate great opportunities for people to growth with us. Because get is to improve this number even more. the way we develop our people as leaders is what will make the difA unique position that Transcom is proud to fill in many markets ference in the end. is that of a platform for career development for young people and In 2015, we enhanced the quality of the process and introduced new graduates. In many countries, we are a top employer of people a new Group-wide tool that will increase visibility and support our aged 18–26. Our agents learn about direct client interaction in a managers. Managers and specialists received refresher training on dynamic environment, strengthening their communication and the process during the year in order to ensure that quality is maintechnology skills; they become product specialists, handle conflicts tained. The Performance Management Program not only supports and, in turn, are rewarded for a job well done. Transcom is proud of performance, but also serves as an important platform for the the role we play in the lives of our current and former employees. Talent Management Process. In 2015, we also continued the implementation of our Talent Gender distribution, all employees Management Program, which was launched in 2014 with the overYear 2015 2014 all aim of identifying internal talent and developing high-potential Women 57% 57% employees. This program is an important part of succession planMen 43% 43% ning in that it supports the identification of potential future leaders at all levels in order to ensure the sustainability of the organization. Gender distribution, managers Our employees can directly influence the Talent Management Year 2015 2014 process. We view the program as being both a personal and a colWomen 52% 52% lective learning experience. It also supports the implementation of Men 48% 48% efficient business processes for recruitment, career path management, compensation and individual development plans. This holisRecognition Transcom Lithuania was recognized at the National Responsible Business Awards 2015, organized by the Ministry of Social Security and Labor of the Republic of Lithuania, as a “Workplace of the Year”. The awards were given to national and foreign companies operating in Lithuania to recognize the contribution to socially responsible practices and initiatives that benefit companies and society by strengthening social welfare as well as minimizing negative impact on the environment. Transcom Communication on Progress 2015 7 Governance and ethical business practice Corporate responsibility at Transcom is an integral part of safeCODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT guarding not only our values but also the reputation of the clients Transcom’s Board-approved Code of Business Conduct applies to that choose to partner with us. In the coming years, we will strive to all employees and promotes ethical, sustainable and transparent be recognized as one of the most sustainable global customer business practices within the Group. The Code is available in 17 experience specialists on the market. languages and covers the four areas of The UN Global Compact, environmental care, human rights, labor rights and anticorruption GOVERNANCE practices. All our employees sign this document when they start Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) (“Transcom’’ or the “Company’’) their employment, and are given suitable training on the key values is a Swedish public limited company, and its ordinary shares are of the Code. listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange. The Company’s governance framework encapsulates key principles, which govern the ANTI-CORRUPTION PRACTICES relationship between the numerous stakeholders of Transcom. It To combat all forms of corruption, we have the following governing further includes an internal framework for decision making, and documents in place: Supplier Code of Business Conduct, Code of assignment of responsibility for the Company’s management, Business Conduct for employees and our Whistleblower reporting administration and internal control. Transparent reporting is one of policy & mechanism. We enforce periodic mandatory and refresher the cornerstones of corporate governance at Transcom, in that it training on Whistleblower reporting and the Code of Business Confacilitates the understanding and monitoring of key developments duct. Furthermore, the awareness of the Code of business conduct in the Company by its stakeholders. Transcom’s corporate governis evaluated during internal audits. ance framework further supports Transcom in ensuring that it is an Transcom has decided to formalize the refresher-training ethical corporate citizen. Transcom adheres to principles of corposchedule, ensuring that training is conducted frequently, and to rate governance found in both internal and external rules and regucontinue with communication activities to increase awareness lations. As a Swedish public limited company listed on Nasdaq among all our employees. We have received positive feedback Stockholm, Transcom is subject to the Swedish Companies Act, from the investor community, our employees and our partners on the Annual Accounts Act and other applicable Swedish and foreign our dedicated efforts to uphold the highest ethical standards in our laws and regulations, including the Rule Book for Issuers of Nasdaq operations and to push the boundaries of responsibility throughout Stockholm and the Swedish Corporate governance Code (the our full value chain. “Code’’). In addition, to ensure compliance with all applicable legal requirements, Transcom has adopted internal instructions that WHISTLEBLOWER PROCESS include the Code of Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Business The Board of Directors has established a whistle blowing process Conduct as well as a number of internal policies. which enables personnel to report violations in accounting, reportRead more in the 2015 Corporate Governance Report: ing, internal controls, non-compliance with the Code of Business http://www.transcom.com/Global/Corporate%20Governance/ Conduct, Group policies, applicable laws, etc. Personnel are Transcom_Corp_Gov_2015.pdf requested to report the matters to local Human Resources manager or to Transcom’s internal whistle blower function at whistleRISKS blower.reporting@transcom.com. The whistleblower reporting Transcom’s Group Internal Audit function is responsible for followmechanism also facilitates anonymous reporting. All allegations ing up on critical risks and action plans and reporting the status of are taken seriously and an enquiry is conducted to not only investiaction plans to the Audit Committee on a periodic basis. Further, gate the alleged violations, but also to identify root causes to faciliTranscom’s annual internal audit plan, that is, the scope and the tate further strengthening of internal controls. areas of operations to be reviewed during audits, is reviewed and approved each year by the Audit Committee. Risk-based internal audits are carried out independently to evaluate if the key risks are managed appropriately. Transcom Communication on Progress 2015 8 Supply chain – CSR in the procurement process In 2015, we continued to strengthen the management of our supthe replies against internationally ratified conventions and decla­ ply chain process. A new Head of Global Procurement was rations and OECD guidelines for multinational companies. appointed, whose responsibilities include to ensure that a solid proThe supplier assessment process enables us to take quick cess is in place in terms of coordinating our vendor management action if any malpractice or breach of our Supplier Code of Busiand ensuring that the principles of sustainable procurement are ness Conduct is identified. Our escalation process consists of three implemented in the organization. As part of this, we will continue to main steps; dialogue and learning, visits and relationship building evaluate sustainability performance of our suppliers. and, as a last step, contract termination. To begin with, we engage Key purchases include IT equipment and human resources in discussions regarding the appropriate corrective action plan related services. We have assessed the inherent overall CSR risks at (CAP) for the supplier. At this stage, we focus on assessing the a medium level from a value chain perspective based on the princimanagement process and evidence of genuine understanding of ples of the UN Global Compact. Respect for human rights, including the impact of the area of concern. If necessary, we continue with a no tolerance for child or forced labor as well as equal and fair worksupplier site visit to ensure compliance and comprehension of the ing conditions for all employees are among the top priorities. supplier code of conduct. If major non-conformities are detected, We regularly carry out CSR assessments of our key vendors by these must be addressed within three months. For minor non-cona third party through web-based self-assessments covering all ten formities we request a change within the coming year. If, at the end principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor rights, of this period, the supplier still does not comply with Transcom’s environmental care, anti-corruption and information on their Supplier Code of Business Conduct, we initiate a process of exiting implementation of ethical governance practices. A systematic the cooperation with this partner, as our commitment to a sustainevaluation of the responses is done to ensure a fair judgment on able value chain is critical to our license to operate in society. Transcom Communication on Progress 2015 9 Environmental care At Transcom, we strive to reduce the environmental impact of our ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND ENVIRONMENTAL operations, with a particular focus on limiting business travel and AWARENESS decreasing energy consumption in our facilities. Transcom continWe conduct training and support local initiatives with our employues to make efforts to minimize our carbon emissions, e.g. by ees in order to encourage greater environmental responsibility in reviewing the meeting needs in the company and creating suitable our workplaces. Our employees are committed to minimizing the alternatives to travel. In 2015, the energy consumption in our faciliimpact and to working together to contribute to a better environties increased slightly, by approximately 1.5 percent, while CO2 ment. Our environmental policy that includes respect for the preemissions from business travel decreased by 35 percent. CO2 cautionary principle guides us in lowering emissions from air travel, emissions per employee were also lower compared to 2014 (from supports us in selecting goods and services produced with respect 0.055 ton per employee to 0.034 ton). for the nature and is a tool to push our environmental demands Transcom continues to make efforts to minimize our carbon throughout our supply chain. emissions, e.g. by reviewing the meeting needs in the company and creating suitable alternatives to travel. In 2015, the energy NEW TECHNOLOGY consumption in our facilities increased slightly, by approximately We also promote environmentally friendly technologies and equip1.5 percent, while CO2 emissions from business travel decreased ment. During 2015, Transcom moved all its employees to the by 35 percent. CO2 emissions per employee were also lower comGoogle Apps for Work platform. We expect that this move will be pared to 2014 (from 0.055 ton per employee to 0.034 ton). beneficial from an environmental standpoint. It will be easier for all We are committed to encouraging, educating and promoting our people to collaborate across teams and geographical locations, a sustainable business model that keeps environmental impact at thereby reducing the need for travel. a minimum and reduces the carbon emissions at a steady pace for us today and, most importantly, for generations to come. Carbon emissions Year 2015 2014 CO2 emissions, business travel (tonnes) 1,017 1,575 CO2 emissions, per employee (tonnes/employee) 0.034 0.055 CO2 emissions, by Revenue (tonnes/million euros) 1.62 2.56 Transcom Communication on Progress 2015 10 Community engagement Local community engagement is how Transcom Cares started. operate in the markets where we choose to compete. People want to work for a company that has a sustainable Transcom also runs programs to make life easier for our approach to business and that contributes to building communities. employees. On-site child care centers, pharmacies, and employee Many of our community engagement activities depend on our microloans are some examples. employees’ passion to contribute their time and energy. It is clear Visit blog.transcom.com to stay informed about Transcom that these activities support recruitment and staff retention. GetCares activities and other news from Transcom. Our goal for the ting involved in the communities in which we operate not only blog is to open a window into our company, culture and day-to-day strengthens our employer brand, but also maintains our license to operations. Transcom Communication on Progress 2015 11 Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) Gjörwellsgatan 30 SE-112 60 Stockholm Sweden Company registration number: 556880-1277 www.transcom.com
