2016 CITIZENSHIP CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2015 VALUES VISION MISSION Quality commercial understanding We set the standard To provide value-adding solutions with spirited teamwork credibility commitment and dedication 470 1900 DAYS SPENT ON COURSES 640 EMPLOYEES PRO BONO HOURS 14 % INCREASE 55 % 55 INTERNAL COURSES WOMEN 35,8 29 AVERAGE AGE SECONDMENTS ADOPTED CODE OF CONDUCT FOR LAWYERS 1,9 % 63 ABSENCE DUE TO SICKNESS PARTNERS IN TOTAL PER EMPLOYEE 20 % OF PARTNERS ARE WOMEN KROMANN REUMERT VELCOME TO CSR-RAPPORT 2016 KROMANN REUMERT CITIZENSHIP In this report, we describe the CSR initiatives that we have launched since the spring of 2015. A year where we joined advokatKODEKS and where focus was on openness, knowledge sharing with the Danish business community, and increased pro bono efforts in relation to children, young people and education. In 2015, we also launched a number of CSR is an integrated part of our day-to-day initiatives allowing us to share our knowwork, our strategy and our culture and it ledge with the outside world. We have for is not possible, therefore, to provide an instance dealt with EU’s new rules on data exhaustive description in this report. But protection and whistleblower schemes in you can read about some of our numerin-depth articles we call them Insights ous efforts to remain a socially responsible and at in-house events. At the beginfirm, a know-ledge centre for the Danish ning of 2016, we launched our Learning business community, a great workplace Center which makes it easy to get access characterised by spirited teamwork, and Kromann Reumert depends on young talto all our knowledge. We also expanded a place where people grow and improve ents. They are key to our future, and we our presence on Facebook and Instagram their skills both in Denmark and abroad. work every day to help our employees where our young lawyers give an idea of realise their full potential. This is deepeveryday life at Kromann Reumert. We call our CSR work Kromann Reumert ly rooted in our DNA. It is only natural, Citizenship: a dedicated effort to be a detherefore, that many of our chosen partWe have joined forces as colleagues and cent fellow citizen in our society. nership organisations work for the benefit learned how to communicate better with of children and young people and for the our clients at workshops. Communication Enjoy the read. promotion of education. The young taland other staff development projects are ents are not only the basis for Kromann also high on the list of initiatives in 2016 Arne Møllin Ottosen Reumert’s growth, but for the growth of and we have already started. In this resociety as a whole, locally as well as gloport, you can read about them and other bally. activities. Managing Partner CONTENT 4 Our ambitions 6 Adoption of ADVOKATkodeks 8 Knowledge sharing 10 New talents 14 Employees with an international focus 17 Staff development 18 Employees and working conditions 21 Pro bono: Children, young people and education 23 Danmarks Indsamling 25 School cooperation 26 The World's Best News 27 Pro bono partnerships 28 In-House Lawyer of the Year 30 We make compliance easier for Danish businesses 31 Denmark is still the world's least corrupt country 32 We participate in the development of Danish businesses 35 One year with the independent legal think tank Justitia 37 Whistleblower schemes 37 We demand certain standards of our suppliers 37 We care for our employees 38 Integration of the 10 UN Global Compact principles 41 Environment and climate 42 About Kromann Reumert and this report 3/44 OUR AMBITIONS Over the years, we have achieved impressive results by integrating our ambitions in our day-to-day work, strategy and culture. And it is exactly on the basis of our day-to-day work providing legal advice to our clients that we now add yet another ambition: We open up and share our knowledge. We will to an even greater extent than before share our knowledge with the Danish business community and new talents. Kromann Reumert has worked with CSR at a strategic level since AMBITION 2 2008. Back then, we launched our first ambition to integrate CSR An important element of our efforts to raise awareness of CSR in our commercial and organisational processes as a natural eleamong Danish businesses has been our adoption of the code of ment of carrying on business in a responsible manner. In 2012, we conduct for lawyers referred to as advokatKODEKS. AdvokatKOadded our next ambition: To promote CSR in the Danish business DEKS consists of five principles openness, social responsibility, community. Two years later in 2014 we then defined our third ethical dilemmas, modern management, and diversity for attorambition to focus on pro bono work in relation to children, young neys to follow when working with CSR. A signal to our clients and people and education. the outside world that we as a law firm take our social responsibility seriously. You can read more about advokatKODEKS on page 6. AMBITION 1 We are dedicated to maintaining our consumption at a reasonable Furthermore, we continue to take responsibility for contributing to level and to reducing it where needed. Back in 2014, our heat the development of Danish businesses and encouraging them to consumption reached a reasonable level and we have managed carry on their activities in a (socially) responsible way. We do that to continue reducing it, realising a 6 % saving this year compared through our legal services, but also through our partners’ and emto last year. We have also achieved a 6 % electricity reduction and ployees’ membership of committees, trade forums, boards and asmaintained the same level of water consumption and CO2 emissociations, e.g. as co-founders of the Board Leadership Society in sions. We will continue our work in relation to the environment Denmark, through partner Marianne Philip’s office as chairman of and climate, including by focusing on food waste, and we have the Danish Committee on Foundation Governance, and through already started! our cooperation with EY and CBS to offer the best board training AMBITION 1 WE WANT TO INTEGRATE CSR IN OUR COMMERCIAL AND ORGANISATIONAL PROCESSES AS A NATURAL ELEMENT AMBITION OF DOING BUSINESS WE WANT TO PROMOTING BUSINESSES 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 KROMANN REUMERT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 programme in Demark. You can read more about this work on in printing material for these organisations, helping with events page 30. that were hosted by Kromann Reumert, etc. In 2015, we participated once again in the Danish campaign The In 2014, we also set out to focus our pro bono work on local World’s Best News (“Verdens Bedste Nyheder”), the object of projects. We do that through our cooperation with Gentofte which is to raise awareness about the 17 new development goals. Børnevenner and with local schools. In 2015, Sortedamskolen visAnd we continue our participation in 2016. ited us and in 2016 we welcomed pupils from Ingrid Jespersens Gymnasieskole. AMBITION 3 Young talent is the basis for not only Kromann Reumert’s growth, AMBITION 4 but for the growth of society as a whole at both local and global Kromann Reumert wish to lead the way within knowledge sharing level. It is therefore natural to focus our pro bono work on children, and learning. That is why we have added one more ambition to young people and eduction. In 2015, our lawyers registered 640 our CSR goals: We will to an even greater extent share our knowlhours of pro bono work, i.e. 640 hours spent on providing free edge with new talents and the Danish business community. We legal advice to our pro bono partners. And an increasing number want to be the place to go to when looking for new knowledge of these hours were spent helping organisations that work for chilabout current legal issues. And we want to make it easy to learn dren, young people and education, including SOS Børnebyerne, more about the specific legal areas that are relevant to the Danish Børnehjælpsdagen, Human Practice Foundation and Ombold. In business sector. You can read more about our new ambition on addition, our administrative staff has contributed with assistance page 8 and about our work with young talents on page 10. 2 CONTRIBUTE TO CSR AMONG DANISH AMBITION 3 WE WILL INCREASINGLY FOCUS OUR PRO BONO EFFORTS ON AMBITION 4 CHILDREN, YOUNG PEOPLE AND WE WILL LEAD THE WAY WITHIN EDUCATION KNOWLEDGE SHARING AND LEARNING 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 5/44 ADOPTION OF ADVOKATKODEKS 2015 was the year where we joined advokatKODEKS. An important step in our efforts to increase awareness of CSR in the Danish business community and in the legal profession. In 2015, the Association of Danish Lawyers (Danske Advokater) THIS IS HOW WE WORK WITH THE FIVE PRINCIPLES OF launched advokatKODEKS a number of guidelines for attorneys’ ADVOKATKODEKS CSR work. It is voluntary for law firms to join advokatKODEKS, but for us it was natural. We are already working with CSR in a OPENNESS structured way and have done so for several years. We have also We work actively to show the world what kind of firm we are for several years published this report our CSR report describing and we speeded up this process in 2015, i.a. through our emour initiatives and work with corporate social responsibility. So we ployer branding initiatives where we ask our junior lawyers to tell wanted to support the initiative and to share our CSR experience about their everyday life on social media. We also achieved greatwith other law firms. er openness through our increased focus on sharing knowledge with clients, the profession and Danish businesses in general, In brief, AdvokatKODEKS consists of five principles openness, including through our Insights where we give legal recommensocial responsibility, ethical dilemmas, modern management, and dations within areas of current interest. And for the first time diversity for attorneys to follow when working with CSR. A signal ever, we have published an external annual review. We have also to our clients and the outside world that we as a law firm take our commented on current public debates, including in relation to corporate social responsibility seriously. paternity leave and workplace requirements for high grades. You can read more about our use of social media on page 10 “The attorney has become a trusted adviser in this report and on advokatkodeks.dk/cases/aabenhed/advokater-paa-instagram and about our knowledge sharing on page 26. and legal expert who assists not only in the courtroom, but who also prevents conflicts, MODERN MANAGEMENT drafts contracts and provides guidance within Modern management is when our clients’ needs match our emthe limits of the law. Someone who upholds ployees’ skills to form a synthesis. Our staff development project values and takes care of failing companies and “Our advice our communication” launched in 2015 is a good private individuals. Someone who cooperates example of this. The seven communication principles and 10-step with businesses to pave the way for growth advisory model help us ensure that we deliver value-adding, diand internationalisation. This role involves rect and targeted advice and communication. For this purpose, we have introduced “SUSKA” which is an abbreviation of the great responsibility.” Danish words for: “Situation”, “Challenge”, “Question”, “ConThe Association of Danish Lawyers clusion” and “Recommendation”. With SUSKA, we contribute on advokatKODEKS to our employees’ continuous training and development while at the same time ensuring the best possible advice to our clients. As part of our efforts to increase awareness of CSR and inspire You can read more about the project on page 17. others, we have already contributed to two cases on the advokat KODEKS website where we describe our pro bono work and our commitment to openness on social media. You can find our and other inspiring cases on advokatKODEKS.dk. KROMANN REUMERT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 ETHICAL DILEMMAS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY As a law firm, it is important that we take our ethical responsibiliYoung talents are the key to our future and we work every day to ty seriously. We therefore use significant resources to ensure high help our employees realise their full potential. This is deeply rootethical standards in our work. ed in our DNA and in the way we work with our social responsibility. We do that through our pro bono work and it is therefore All Danish attorneys are subject to the rules of the Danish Adminnatural that many of our partnership organisations work for the istration of Justice Act on good legal practice. The Council of the benefit of children and young people and for the promotion of Danish Bar and Law Society supervises compliance with the rules education. You can read more about our pro bono work on page on legal ethics and has prepared a code of conduct which re21. Many of our young lawyers also choose to spend time as quires attorneys to adhere to high ethical and professional stanvolunteers at Copenhagen Legal Aid, providing free legal aid. dards. We obviously comply with these rules, and our terms of business describe how we handle e.g. the duty of confidentiality DIVERSITY and the anti-money laundering rules. Kromann Reumert is a law firm, but in fact we employ almost as many administrative employees as lawyers. We have employees Good legal practice is a code which includes rules on duty of who are responsible for maintaining our buildings, facilitating confidentiality and conflicts of interest. As part of our general meetings, preparing food in our canteens, fixing our computers, quality assurance measures, we have implemented internal rules communicating our messages and recruiting our new colleagues. and procedures to supplement the code of conduct, i.a. to idenAnd among our lawyers, you will find an equally diverse group tify and solve potential conflicts of interest. We have also introof people, each with their own strengths and needs. More than duced rules to prevent insider trading and money laundering. It is half 55 % to be more precise of our employees are women, the attorney’s own responsibility to comply with the ethical rules and we also have a number of international employees you can which are administered by Kromann Reumert’s Ethics Committee meet two of them on page 14. We work every day to accommoconsisting of five partners. The Ethics Committee must always be date this diversity by offering i.a. in-house courses, home workconsulted in case of doubt and it also addresses issues on its own stations for more than half of our employees, a working environinitiative. We offer all relevant employees regular in-house trainment policy aimed at promoting job satisfaction, and dialogue ing in the code of conduct and in those parts of Global Compact groups for our attorneys, assistant attorneys and secretaries. that are of particular relevance to Kromann Reumert. Kromann Reumert is involved in the work carried out by the professional organisations, including the continuous updating of the code of conduct. 7/44 KNOWLEDGE SHARING We live by our knowledge and knowledge sharing is a cornerstone of our way of carrying on business. We believe it is important to share our knowledge and legal skills in the areas where we specialise both with our clients and with the Danish business community and society in general. We have been doing so for a long time through our numerous events and newsletters. In 2015, we started publishing our in-depth newsletter Insights, and at the beginning of 2016 we launched our Learning Center which brings together all our learning and knowledge sharing activities and also offers formats such as podcasts. In 2015, we hosted more than 100 events and issued more than 120 newsletters, dealing with 20 current topics within our fields of expertise. In 2015, we took the first step towards “Our ambition is to make our increasing focus on knowledge sharing Learning Center the place to by launching the newsletter Insights in go to for existing and potenaddition to our existing newsletters. In Insights, we share our knowledge on issues tial clients in search of new of current interest and offer practical soluknowledge about current tions to specific challenges. legal issues. By having all subjects gathered in one In the autumn of 2015, we addressed the place, it is easy to learn more “Knowledge sharing is decinew Data Protection Regulation and its about one’s own specialist sive for our work and sharing relevance to Danish businesses, describfields and with the new ing how they ensure compliance with the information not only with formats in the manner that new rules. We did that by hosting events clients, but with the business in Copenhagen and issuing an Insight on suits one best. Our ambition community in general is a the topic, and at the beginning of 2016 is to create value for our natural part of our everyday we followed up with events in Aarhus clients and for the Danish life. Most of our events are and a series of podcasts. In 2016 we will business sector in general.” therefore open to the public continue working with knowledge sharAnders Wiedemann, COO ing, launching our Learning Center which and everyone can subscribe makes it easy for Danish businesses to to our newsletters.” learn more about current legal issues. Pernille Høstrup Dalhoff, knowledge management In addition to podcasts, the new Learning senior attorney Center will also offer new formats such as webinars to constantly meet the need of Danish businesses to stay updated in the legal area. KROMANN REUMERT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 Man bliver ikke rigtig klog af at vide det samme som alle andre. Ny viden giver nye muligheder. kromannreumert.com/bliv-klogere 9/44 NEW TALENTS #velkommentilkr At Kromann Reumert, our employees are our strongest card. They set the standard every day and we have a long tradition of developing some of Denmark’s best business law talents. It is therefore essential that we are able to attract the very best law students, just as it is natural for us to share our knowledge with future talents. We do that by cooperating with the students’ associations Legal In 2015, it was possible on Facebook and Instagram to follow law Debating Society at the University of Copenhagen, the Elite Modstudents in our talent network, attend career exhibitions, gain inule at Aarhus University and ELSA Aarhus, by offering compendisight into our assistant attoneys’ work on high-profile cases and ums, by organising examination cases, career dialogues and talent much more. networks, and by increasing our openness and transparency, using i.a. social media. “On Instagram we offer our most junior and newest employees a chance to broadcast their “Based on Kromann Reumert’s business experiences, their work and their everyday strategy and our four values quality, comlives here at Kromann Reumert and, not least, mercial understanding, spirited teamwork the very special brand of spirited teamwork and credibility we contributed to improving you will find with us. To this end, we use professional standards at law schools in 2015. Instagram takeovers. The idea is to go behind At the same time, we seek to give a more the scenes both when our young lawyers are personal and transparent picture of working working in the office and when they are on life at Kromann Reumert.” exchange visits or seconded to other countries Birgitte Brix Bendtsen, HR Manager and to create greater openness in a traditionally closed profession.” Birgitte Brix Bendtsen, HR Manager ADVICE ON FUTURE PLANS In 2015, we had more than 100 career dialogues with law students. Our career dialogue is an offer to law students who are considering a career as a business attorney. We give them advice in relation to future prospects and they learn more about what it takes to reach their goals. Kromann Reumert has introduced the career dialogue in order to stay in close dialogue with the law students and get to know them and their dreams. And the dialogue also allows us to make our knowledge of possible careers in the SOCIAL MEDIA CREATE OPENNESS legal profession available to the students. We will continue offerSocial media have played an important part in our increased opening career dialogues in 2016 and improving the concept to ensure ness to law students and others. 2015 was the year in which we that the young talents get on the right track when entering the reached 5,000 followers on Facebook and got on Instagram. On labour market. both media we focus on professional standards, spirited team work and internationalisation. KROMANN REUMERT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 11/44 NETWORK FOR THE TALENTED COOPERATION WITH STUDENTS’ ASSOCIATIONS Every year, Kromann Reumert’s talent network gives 15 talented Students’ associations contribute positively to both the quality of and ambitious law students at four universities an opportunity to the law studies and social life at the universities. Their commitment develop their professional and personal skills and to work with the and enthusiasm have a positive impact on both the students and practical aspects of law. During a period of eight months, they the legal professions. We therefore appreciate our long-standing develop their network, obtain individual advice from a lawyer, get cooperation with i.a. the Legal Debating Society and ELSA Aarhus, access to office and library facilities and learn what it means to and our lawyers always look forward to hosting events and giving work at Denmark’s preeminent law firm. lectures in cooperation with the associations. “I have transcended several personal barriers “Our cooperation with Kromann Reumert and obtained a lot of useful tools that can be makes it possible for us to offer law students used both professionally and personally for at Aarhus University events at a high academic instance how I work most efficiently and how level. Kromann Reumert has i.a. helped thirdI communicate and argue more assertively. year students pass the property law exam by I have added law students from other univerinviting them to an event on set-offs in banksities to my professional network and acquired ruptcy proceedings. Kromann Reumert is very a taste for working in the legal profession.” open and listens to our ideas and we Simone Brøker, participant in the 2015 appreciate the cooperation very much!” talent network Mathilde Engelund, ELSA Aarhus SCHOLARSHIP We are dedicated to supporting legal talents. Therefore, we offer the Kromann Reumert Scholarship to selected students twice a year. The scholarship, which amounts to DKK 40,000, gives talented law students an opportunity to dedicate all their time to complete their master’s thesis. The theses are selected by a committee consisting of one partner and two attorneys or assistant attorneys. In addition to the grant, the students are also offered office space in Copenhagen or Aarhus, guidance in information retrieval and access to our library. THE LAW STUDENTS’ PREFERRED WORKPLACE COMPENDIUMS IN THE PROFESSION Professional excellence is crucial for the quality of our services. We take pride in providing the best possible settings allowing our We want to pass on some of that excellence to law students for assistant attorneys and student interns to make the most of their use in their future career. We have therefore developed a series legal talent. We were therefore pleased that Universum’s 2015 surof compendiums covering various legal subjects including for invey showed that we are still the preferred place to work among stance the law of obligations and the law of property. Students law students. The survey also showed that the law students attach may request or download the compendiums and use them in their great importance to professional development and the possibilistudies or when reading for an examination. The compendiums ty of working for charitable purposes when selecting their future describe the practical aspects of the law and are a valuable suppleworkplace. Our pro bono work gives our employees exactly this ment to their classes. opportunity. You can read more about the work on page 27. Last but not least, it is important for the law students to see the world EXAMINATION CASES and get an international career. You can read more about our emTaking an examination is hard work and our lawyers still rememployees’ international focus on page 14. ber their examination periods as both exciting and full of reading. Study groups and discussions with fellow students are good alNETWORK FOR COMING LEADERS ternatives to traditional learning methods and bring the students For the third year in a row, our assistant attorneys in Copenhagen closer to the law. We want to contribute to that by offering exhosted an event for members of their business network. Two Ph.D. amination cases in cooperation with the Legal Debating Society. students presented their analysis of the composition of more than Here, the law students get an opportunity to study an area of the one thousand boards of directors, foundations, committees and VL law in depth. Over the past year, we have held examination cases groups to 120 young talents gathered at our office in Nordhavn. in the law of obligations and the law of property both times with participation of 200 law students. KROMANN REUMERT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 13/44 EMPLOYEES WITH AN INTERNATIONAL FOCUS As part of our ambition to be Danish businesses’ preferred international business partner, we offer our employees the best opportunities to work with law in an international context. In 2015, we therefore had lawyers seconded to law firms and companies in e.g. New York and London, and our business partners also second their employees to work at our offices in Denmark. In addition, some of our employees follow both business and leSTRENGTHENING OF LONDON OFFICE gal studies abroad and every year three of our employees attend As part of our focus on internationalisation, we have as at 1 Janua summer school programme at reputable universities abroad. In ary 2016 strengthened our presence in London. Also, we continue 2015, the three employees chose to study at University of Berkeley developing our Outbound Services where we”‘follow the client in California, Cambridge University in the UK and Cornell Univerout into the world”, assisting Danish businesses in their activities sity in Paris. abroad. We do that through our specialist teams covering the Nordic countries, Greenland, Germany, the UK/North America and It is vital to our business that we stay updated on current develAsia/Pacific, and we are we are making continuous efforts to gain opments in other sectors, cultures and countries. For this purpose, specialist knowledge of other regions as well, including Africa. foreign studies and secondments are extremely important. Carina Vang Kristoffersen is attorney and was seconded to Jenner & Block, LLP on Manhattan, New York, from September 2015 to May 2016. “The stay learned me so much that I can take with me to Denmark and use in relation to Kromann Reumert’s clients, and I have built a strong network in New York both among “big law” firms, in entrepreneurial circles, and at Danish diplomatic missions in New York.” Several Kromann Reumert colleagues were seconded to our London office in 2015, among them Jacob Gents, attorney. “Kromann Reumert has a very good reputation around the world and it was really great to experience it up close. Many cases come in through referrals from other law firms, highlighting the importance of social activities and a broad network. Closeness to clients is key! In addition to the invaluable legal knowledge I have gained by working with cross-border transactions, my stay at the London office gave me a lot of valuable acquaintances, both personal and professional.” KROMANN REUMERT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 Assistant attorney Jesper Juul worked as summer associate in the corporate and commercial departments of the UK law firm Penningtons Manches LLP. “While the specific assignments did not differ too much from the assignments at a comparable Danish office, there were nevertheless some differences. Acquisitive work was given a high priority. During just one week, I worked i.a. on a research to identify potential local clients and an article on shareholders’ agreements and participated in a couple of lunch and coffee meetings with potential business partners. Legal Consultant Chen Chen Hu is from China and started working with Kromann Reumert in 2015 after having finished his Ph.D. at the University of Copenhagen. “I came to Denmark due to my curiosity about the legal systems in others countries. Just like many Chinese, before I came to Denmark, my basic impression was that Denmark is the happiest country. I got to know more and more about Denmark, especially its business-friendly legal and social environment within a global context. I understand that there would be an increasing need and interest for Danish and Chinese firms to cooperate with each other in many aspects.” Attorney Kumaran Thavarajah joined Kromann Reumert in 2015, but started his career in the New Zealand law firm Russell McVeagh in 2008. Kumaran has worked for the law firm Linklaters LLP in London and Paris, and has been seconded to clients in leading investment banks. Kumaran is admitted to practice law in England and Wales, New York and New Zealand. “My role at Kromann Reumert includes working with Danish businesses and lawyers on international transactions. My role is to use my experience and to apply it to the Danish perspective so that Kromann Reumert’s clients are on a level playing field to the foreign parties involved.” OUR TALENTS WANT TO MOVE FORWARDS. LEX MUNDI #WHYPROBONO AND OUT INTO THE WORLD We are the only Danish law firm to be a member of the interWe encourage our student interns to undertake some of their national Lex Mundi organisation, consisting of more than 21,000 studies abroad and ask them to share their experiences in travel lawyers in 160 of the world’s leading law firms. In 2016, we will as letters on our website, on Facebook and through Instagram takepart of the Lex Mundi campaign #whyprobono share stories about overs. You can read more about our work with social media and our pro bono work on social media. openness on page 10. 15/36 KROMANN REUMERT STAFF DEVELOPMENT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 What we sell in a knowledge-based firm our product is the high level of expertise of our employees. That makes our employees the most important parameter in terms of creating a high level of client satisfaction. And it is therefore crucial that we continue developing and enhancing our skills to ensure that we can meet our clients’ needs. That requires staff development and we years’ lessons to assistant attorneys only. therefore have constant focus on develNow, we also offer English courses to all oping our employees’ skills. In 2015, we our student interns. continued developing new training and education activities which are linked to OUR ADVICE OUR COMMUNICATION the career paths of our staff groups. In the In 2015, we launched the staff developfuture, we will to an even greater extent ment project “Our advice our commuseek to establish a mentor system where nication” which, based on seven communew leaders get inspiration and advice nication principles and a 10-step advisory from more experienced colleagues. Also, model, is to ensure that we deliver val“The project has been a huge we will bring more coherence into the ue-adding, direct and targeted advice and success, both internally and activities that an attorney participates in communication. For this purpose, we have in the market. It is an during his career from assistant attorney introduced “SUSKA” – an abbreviation of to attorney and perhaps later as a partner. the Danish words for: “Situation”, “Chalexample of a successful lenge”, “Question”, “Conclusion” and in-house project that has We will therefore maintain the manage“Recommendation”. involved the whole organisament training programme for attorneys tion and really improved the that we launched in 2014. The programme At workshops, courses, boot camps, and way we communicate.” involves not only traditional management our annual company outing, everyone in Jeppe Buskov, partner training, but also personal development the firm was introduced to the new comand is based on the idea that in order to munication model in 2015 and trained in become a good leader, you have to start using it. In-house ambassadors have been with yourself. All attorneys go through appointed to identify new, creative ways the training programme which is targetof maintaining top-of-mind awareness. ed at the skills and competencies of the This work will continue in 2016. individual. As part of our increased internationalisation, we have also strengthened our English courses which used to include 1.5 17/44 EMPLOYEES AND WORKING CONDITIONS EMPLOYEES 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of employees 585 588 557 517 498 470 Number of partners 67 70 65 66 65 63 Total percentage of women 53,2 54,9 54,2 54,9 52,9 55 Total percentage of female partners 22 20 19,7 19,7 20 20 Average age 35,3 34,6 35 37,1 36,4 35,8 HEALTH 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Percentage of absence due to sickness, per employee 5 3,4 3,5 2,12 1,87 1,9 WORK-LIFE BALANCE 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Women working reduced hours 32 39 27 38 19 31 Men working reduced hours 1 2 0 0 0 2 Number of mobile workplaces 410 400 380 356 360 300 Employee satisfaction survey work-life balance 67 -* 68 -* 66 -* (rated on a scale of 1-100 where 100 is the highest) TRAINING 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total number of days spent by all employees on courses 2600 2700 2500 2100 1750 1900 Number of days spent on courses, per employee 4,5 4,5 4,4 4,1 3,5 3,8 Number of in-house courses 82 80 70 65 50 55 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION Overall result employee satisfaction survey 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (rated on a scale of 1-100 where 100 is the highest) 80 -* 80 -* 72 -* Management (rated on a scale of 1-100 where 100 is the highest) 77 -* 76 -* 73 -* The above table shows employee data collected every year for the period 1 January to 31 December. *As the employee satisfaction survey is conducted every 18th month, no survey was made in 2011, 2013 and 2015. KROMANN REUMERT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 19/44 KROMANN REUMERT PRO BONO: CHILDREN, CSR-RAPPORT 2016 YOUNG PEOPLE AND EDUCTATION Kromann Reumert depends on young talents. They are key to our future, and we work every day to help our employees realise their full potential. We all depend on the young people who will shape our future. At Kromann Reumert, we would like to contribute to ensuring that even more young people get a future to the benefit of themselves and society. Our pro bono work is therefore aimed at organisations working with children, young people and education. We entered into our first pro bono partnership in 2008 by offering THE DANISH FOUNDATION FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP legal assistance to SOS-Børnebyerne. Since then, many more partIn 2015, Kromann Reumert entered into a partnership with the nerships have been added. In 2015, we offered free legal advice to Foundation for Entrepreneurship which works to ensure that the a number of Danish organisations, including Børnehjælpsdagen, ability to be innovative becomes a fundamental element at all levGentofte Børnevenner, Ombold, Human Practice Foundation and els of education from primary school to Ph.D. Partner Jakob Hans the Danish Foundation for Entrepreneurship. By working pro bono Johansen is member of the board of representatives which works for these organisations, we can make a difference. to promote this agenda. Kromann Reumert has also assisted the Foundation in connection with the new rules on commercial foun“Our pro bono work is driven by the comdations, and attorney Ronnie Kandler is member of its Evaluation mitment of our employees and our pro bono Committee which offers micro grants to students who have come up with new innovative ideas. partner organisations have therefore primarily been selected by employees who have a special “Our society and our economy are increasrelationship with that particular organisation. ingly dependent on innovation. Innovation Both the organisations and our employees can be based on purely commercial ideas, but gain the most by this approach.” also on scientific ideas and many are probably Christian Lundgreen, partner somewhere in-between. But good ideas do not automatically lead to innovation the ideas In 2015, Kromann Reumert assisted Human Practice Foundation must be executed, further developed and disin drafting contracts for a number of its donors and contracts beseminated in order to create value and change tween Danish organisations and their local cooperative partners. society. The Foundation for Entrepreneurship makes it possible for even more talented “All of our projects are intended to give the people to realise their innovative ideas, and as local community that we cooperate with member of the Evaluation Committee I make better methods, better education, new skills a difference for those talents who will hopeand a mutual cooperation, so that they can fully one day make a difference for all of us.” jointly create a more sustainable future. Ronnie Kandler, attorney and member of the To measure the result of our investments, Evaluation Committee of the Danish we note how many children come to school, Foundation for Entrepreneurship how many women are working and how the village develops.” Human Practice Foundation 21/44 DANSK ERHVERVSLIV STÅR SAMMEN FOR 10. GANG Skal jeres virksomhed også være med? Ring 70 10 52 52 i morgen aften fra kl. 19 og giv jeres bidrag. Danmarks 12 største humanitære organisationer og DR samler ind til 12 konkrete projekter, som vil hjælpe mennesker i dyb fattigdom i verdens udviklingslande. KROMANN REUMERT MORE THAN 97 MILLION DANISH KRONER TO COMBAT POVERTY In February 2016, Kromann Reumert and our employees supported Danmarks Indsamling with DKK 125,000. Together with the other donors, we contributed to 12 humanitarian organisations’ work to combat extreme poverty worldwide. This year, Danmarks Indsamling focused on extreme poverty. The “Through our pro bono work with i.a. SOS kind of poverty that leads to hunger, diseases and malnutrition Børnebyerne, we contribute with what we for millions of families in the world’s most vulnerable areas and are best at legal assistance allowing the prevents them from making progress. The 12 largest humanitarian organisations in Denmark had taken the initiative to Danmarks organisations to concentrate on what they do Indsamling 2016, culminating in a primetime TV show on DR1. best: Helping children in some of the world’s poorest regions. Once a year, we then contribMany of the organisations’ projects focus on education as a longute a little extra together with our employees term approach to fight poverty. At Kromann Reumert, we focus through our internal fund raising project and our pro bono work on children, young people and education, ofjoint contribution to Danmarks Indsamling.” fering free legal advice to one of the organisations behind DanArne Møllin Ottosen, managing partner marks Indsamling, SOS Børnebyerne. With the money from Danmarks Indsamling 2016, SOS Børnebyerne will work to improve the lives and prospects of children in the slum of Nairobi and Dar es Salaam. Photo: Bjarne Bergius Hermansen/DR 23/44 KROMANN REUMERT THE WITNESS SAID: CSR-RAPPORT 2016 “THAT WAS STUPID” Stupid seems to be the right word: A boy eager to win DKK 10,000 in a radio program throws a cake in the head of a shop assistant in a bakery. But who is responsible for the stupidity and how should it be punished? This year again, it was up to the pupils from Sortedamskolen and Ingrid Jespersens Gymnasieskole to make a decision by presenting arguments. For the fourth straight year, we invited Sortedamskolen and Ingrid Two of the pupils, Hannibal and Victor, explained that it had been Jespersens Gymnasieskole to learn more about the legal system. fun seeing how a real trial works and that it was interesting to see Both days, it was pupils from two 9th classes who had an opporhow many people are actually involved. tunity to act as prosecutors, defendants and judges in a case involving a radio presenter, a boy, a cake and a shop assistant. “It was great to get out of the classroom and learn in a different way and to see how things A CASE FROM REAL LIFE are on a real workplace.” The case, which is from “real life”, once again provided the settings for a mock trial where the pupils were assigned roles as prosHannibal and Victor, Sortedamskolen ecutors, defendants and judges. The pro bono work group facilitated the mock trial to ensure that the litigation was as realistic WHAT IS RIGHT AND WHAT IS WRONG? as it could be with 60 15-year old youngsters in the “courtroom”. The school day is not only about giving the pupils an idea of how it And while the form of address may have been a little more relaxed is to work at Kromann Reumert. It is also about making them conthan would normally have been acceptable, the commitment and sider their future education. Besides, the mock trial is educational determination to win were intact. in terms of solving problems and learning how to see things from different perspectives. “They learn to listen to each other and to accept that there may be different views on what is right and what is wrong.” Kristine Bernhoft, teacher at Ingrid Jespersens Gymnasieskole “The pupils were initially a bit cautious, but ended up to being both inquisitive and committed, and many of them continued discussing the reasonableness of the judgment long after the trial had ended.” Inneke Padilla Wolthoorn, assistant attorney and responsible for the school project 25/44 KROMANN REUMERT SHARES THE WORLD’S BEST NEWS The Danish humanitarian organisations have, together with the UN and Danida, launched the campaign The World's Best News. The campaign is aimed at all businesses wishing to tell the positive stories about the progress made in developing countries. We have for several years supported The World’s Best News and continued doing so in 2015. THE WORLD'S MOST IMPORTANT YEAR 2015 was the year that world leaders set new targets for the future to replace the UN's 2015 goals. They agreed on 17 Sustainable Development Goals and 169 targets which together represent the most ambitious plan in human history. Like the 2015 goals, the new goals will affect billions of people worldwide and they are not only intended to reduce the problems with hunger, poverty and diseases, but in many cases to solve them entirely. It is important that we communicate the message that development efforts pay off, that we spread news about the progress made in the developing countries, and that we encourage others to contribute to the 17 goals not only internally, but also in relation to our clients and business partners. Arne Møllin Ottosen, managing partner PRINCIPAL MESSAGE OF THE YEAR: WE LIVE LONGER AND BETTER TAKE OFF YOUR CLOTHES! Important progress has been made in the world over the last deAt the beginning of 2016, we placed containers at our offices in cades. Life expectancy and income levels have increased all over Aarhus and Copenhagen and collected clothes for poor people the world. The world population lives longer in nine out of ten in connection with the campaign Throw Your Clothes which was countries, four out of five can now read and write, and the least . launched by Red Cross, TV2 and Coop. developed countries now earn almost three times as much as in 1990. These years, most progress is being made in the eastern part of Asia and Africa south of the Sahara. Actually, the world’s so-called least developed countries are currently developing 4.6 times as fast as the most developed countries. It means that the difference between rich and poor countries will narrow if the trend continues. KROMANN REUMERT PRO BONO CSR-RAPPORT 2016 27/44 IN-HOUSE LAWYER OF THE YEAR As part of our efforts to increase awareness of CSR and contribute actively to the development of the Danish business community, we choose the “In-House Lawyer of the Year” in cooperation with the Danish Association of In-House Lawyers”. The prize is awarded to an in-house lawyer or team of lawyers who stand out because they make a creditable and value-adding contribution to the company they work for and, as such, to the Danish business sector. In 2015, the prize was awarded to Novozymes’ legal team who donated the DKK 75,000 to Avocats Sans Frontieres (Lawyers Without Borders). An increasing number of Danish businesses are setting up in-house Today, Danish businesses have to cope legal departments, and many businesses are expanding their exwith increased regulation and an increasing isting departments. As this trend becomes common, Denmark's number of requirements. In-house legal dein-house lawyers play an increasingly strategic and value-adding role in businesses. partments or lawyers are therefore no longer confined to large international groups since “With this prize, we recognise in-house laweven small businesses may need qualified legal yers who have performed exceptionally well assistance. The increasing number of in-house and who have contributed to promoting the lawyers contributes to professionalising the understanding of the in-house lawyer’s role Danish business community.” and value to the Danish business community.” Joachim Brøns, chairman of the Association Anders Lavesen, partner and chairman of In-House Lawyers and chairman of the of the board of directors Award Committee On 19 June 2015, the “In-House Lawyer of the Year” prize was awarded for the second time at a ceremony held at Kromann Reumert's office. The winner was the legal department of Novozymes. The prize was given by Anders Lavesen, partner and chairman of Kromann Reumert’s board of directors, to Mikkel Viltoft who is head of Novozymes' legal team consisting of 12 lawyers and two secretaries. Having received the award, Mikkel Viltoft thanked Novozymes’ hard-working legal teams in Denmark, the USA and China. In addition to the title as In-House Lawyer of the Year 2015, Novozymes’ legal team also received DKK 75,000 which they donated to Avocats Sans Frontieres (Lawyers Without Borders), an international organisation that works to promote due process of law and fundamental human rights. KROMANN REUMERT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 29/44 WE MAKE COMPLIANCE EASIER FOR DANISH BUSINESSES In 2015, we established a new practice group that makes it easier for businesses to comply with international conventions, codes and ethical guidelines. Maintaining a strong legal risk manage“We help clients adopt a Globalisation and digitisation do not transment and corporate compliance proproactive risk management late into corporate deregulation, however. gramme designed to prevent harmful or ilQuite the contrary. Rules are tightened and compliance strategy, legal conduct may sound simple, but most and fine levels increased so fast that it is businesses find it a real challenge. That is contribute with relevant hard to keep up. In addition, authorities why we introduced a new practice group management tools and advise increasingly cooperate across borders to in 2015 which helps our business clients on all aspects of laws, interenforce the regulations. stay abreast of events, pursue a proactive national conventions, codes strategy, and comply with the increasingly and ethical guidelines which We provide general advice on legal risk complex regulation. management/enterprise risk manageare relevant to the client’s ment, including compliance policies and business.” Today, multinationals often have thoucodes of conduct, compliance audits, persands of employees, work with countless Tina Brøgger Sørensen, sonal data, identification of data flows and business partners and engage in a wide responsible partner the coming EU regulation, whistleblower spectrum of activities in markets that in schemes, anti-corruption and internal interms of culture and business ethics are vestigations and crisis management. very different from their home markets. Also, businesses have to navigate and compete in a world characterised by increased digitisation, access to big data and cloud solutions, and by significant regulatory variations globally. KROMANN REUMERT DENMARK IS STILL CSR-RAPPORT 2016 THE WORLD'S LEAST CORRUPT COUNTRY Each year, we assist Transparency International Denmark in its assessment of the Danish authorities' efforts to fight corruption. And again in 2015, Denmark could take pride in being the least corrupt country in the world. Fighting corruption is an important part of Danish authorities' efforts to comply with ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION COMMISSION our own work and the work we perform the OECD Convention on Combating We cooperate with many Danish compafor our clients. With the growing internaBribery of Foreign Public Officials. nies which have a broad global perspectionalisation, an increasing number of our tive. It is therefore important that we can clients operate in regions where they have In Transparency International's most recontinue putting anti-corruption on the to deal with corruption. cent Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), agenda. We do that i.a. as member of the Denmark obtained a score of 91 out of ICC Anti-Corruption Commission, a task Transparency International is one of the 100. This makes Denmark the least corgroup set up by the International ChamNGOs that are most active in fighting corrupt country in the world. In comparison, ber of Commerce (ICC). ruption and bribery all over the world. North Korea, Somalia and Afghanistan are at the bottom with only eight points. CPI Since we started cooperating with Transmeasures the perceived level of corruption parency International Denmark, we have in the public sector in 175 countries and assisted the organisation in assessing the territories on a scale from 0-100. LOCATION COUNTRY 2012 2013 2014 2015 1 Denmark 90 91 92 91 2 Finland 90 89 89 90 3 Sweden 88 89 87 89 4 New Zealand 90 91 91 88 5 The Netherlands 85 86 86 87 5 Norway 85 86 86 87 31/44 WE PARTICIPATE IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF DANISH BUSINESSES We are responsible for contributing to the Danish business community also other than through our advisory services. We therefore participate in a number of forums, committees, etc. where our expert knowledge contributes to growth and development. Claus Juel Hansen, partner and member of the board of directors of the Association of Danish Lawyers There are many important issues to be addressed by the Association of Danish Lawyers, among them the need to ensure that the legal profession is constantly alert and able to meet the increasing demands of the business community and that our regulatory framework remains up-to-date, preserving the integrity and independence of Danish lawyers. Marianne Philip, partner and chairman of the Danish Committee on Foundation Governance Commercial foundations play a key role in the Danish business sector. Not only do they own some of Denmark’s largest enterprises, but many medium-sized enterprises also have commercial foundations as their principal shareholders. I can contribute to the work of improving the quality of directorships in many Danish businesses and thereby contribute to their growth and development. Carsten Fode, partner at Kromann Reumert and adjunct professor at the School of Business and Social Sciences at Aarhus University. I am both happy and proud of being appointed as adjunct professor. It is a strong indication of a much closer cooperation between the university and practitioners like us. It also serves as a recognition that we, as practicing lawyers, can contribute academically.” Anders Stubbe Arndal, partner and Kromann Reumert’s initiator of the Board Leadership Society in Denmark. “Working as board member is a subject of growing interest as requirements have been increasing in recent years. We see our involvement as an opportunity to contribute to upgrading the work of Danish boards of directors. For this reason, we have together with CSB and EY developed a board training programme which is the best and most comprehensive programme offered in Denmark.” KROMANN REUMERT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 33/44 KROMANN REUMERT ONE YEAR WITH THE CSR-RAPPORT 2016 INDEPENDENT LEGAL THINK TANK JUSTITIA When Kromann Reumert in 2014 invited the think tank Justitia to move into its premises in Nordhavn, the newly established think tank had not much of a history. One and a half years later, Justitia headed by Jacob Mchangama has become a reputable think tank that is hard to ignore. In 2015, Justitia celebrated its one year birthday. Kromann Reber of analyses dealing with subjects such as civil rights, human umert made its premises available for the reception and the day rights, surveillance, litigation and due process of law. The analyses was celebrated with business partners, sponsors and friends. And are intended to “move society in a direction where civil rights and much has happened since Justitia took its first steps into the new fundamental human rights enjoy more respect” as stated on its premises bringing no more than a computer, some books and a website. stuffed buzzard. Since the beginning of 2016, Esben Cordes, assistant attorney at Its first report hit the headlines of the Danish paper Berlingske. A Kromann Reumert, has been seconded to Justitia. good start, Jacob Mchangama thought back then. After six years in the conservative-liberal think tank CEPOS, he established JustiWhile my work so far has been to provide tia to create an independent organisation which has as its longspecific legal advice to clients, working for term ambition to promote the rule of law and fundamental human Justitia has changed my focus to be on decirights. sion-makers, the media and the public debate. “Justitia is a group of enthusiasts who are I have worked with protection of civil rights, passionate about what they do and about particularly in relation to tax law, and the the law. Just as we are.” principle of equal access to the courts.” Arne Møllin Ottosen, managing partner Esben Cordes, assistant attorney, seconded to Justitia If you look at Denmark, we live in a good and free country compared to other countries. But Justitia has its own entrance and address at Lautrupsgade, and there is still a trend towards a gradual weakKromann Reumert's and Justitia's facilities and operations are kept ening of due process and of the rights of both completely separate. citizens and businesses. In my view, we should not take it for granted that we live in a free democracy. In a historical context, these principles are relatively new and should therefore be protected. And that is what we try to do. Jacob Mchangama, Director of Justitia Since then, Justitia has been chosen as one of the best new think tanks in the world in 2015 by the University of Pennsylvanias Think Tank and Civil Socities Program. And it has published a large num35/44 KROMANN REUMERT WHISTLEBLOWER SCHEMES CSR-RAPPORT 2016 Since September 2014, financial businesses have been required to give their employees access to report any suspected breach of the financial regulation through a so-called whistleblower scheme. Back then, Kromann Reumert developed software for reporting purposes and provided advice to a large number of financial businesses. We continued this work in 2015. We assist financial businesses i.a. in obtaining the required HR and vices. The businesses have since then forwarded the disclosures whistleblower permissions from the Danish Data Protection Agenreceived to Kromann Reumert which has acted as their trusted cy, in drafting whistleblower policies and in implementing internal advisor. guidelines for the handling of disclosures. In 2015 and at the beginning of 2016, we also hosted whistleSince we launched our whistleblower system, it has been put into blower events with more than 1,000 participants in both Aarhus operation by 29 financial businesses, including banks, insurance and Copenhagen. companies, pension funds and providers of paid subscription serWE DEMAND CERTAIN STANDARDS OF OUR SUPPLIERS We seek as far as possible to use suppliers that have adopted an and new suppliers, and we will continue giving weight to an amambitious CSR policy and/or meet the 10 UN Global Compact prinbitious CSR policy when choosing new suppliers. ciples or similar principles. This applies both in relation to existing WE CARE FOR YOUR EMPLOYEES We not only ask our suppliers to ensure good working conditions; At Kromann Reumert we are also dedicated to protecting our emour own working conditions must also meet certain standards. Our ployees' health. Our workstations are subjected to regular ergoworking environment committee works continuously to improve nomic checks and we offer our employees massage at favourable our physical and mental working environment and to achieve a prices, flu vaccination and reimbursement of their expenses for high degree of job satisfaction in Kromann Reumert. The reprecomputer glasses. We have extensive health insurance and offer sentatives contribute with their knowledge of different working membership of fitness centres at reduced prices. environment areas and the committee responds to inquiries and proposes joint solutions. We also give a high priority to our employees' professional and personal development. We offer a wide variety of in-house coursAs part of the committee's work, we installed three defibrillators es, home workstations for more than half of our employees and at the beginning of 2016 two in Copenhagen and one in Aarhus. dialogue groups for our attorneys, assistant attorneys and secreThey are registered on the website hjertestarter.dk and the one taries. You can read more about our staff development efforts on located in Copenhagen is accessible 24 hours a day. Further, many page 17. of our employees have attended first aid courses to enable them to help both colleagues and fellow citizens. 37/44 INTEGRATION OF THE 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES THE 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES KROMANN REUMERT'S ACTIVITIES HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection of internaIn-House Lawyer of the Year, page 28 tionally proclaimed human rights. We support Danmarks Indsamlingen, page 23 We support Justitia's work for human rights, page 35 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in huWhistleblower schemes, page 37 man rights abuses. We demand certain standards of our suppliers, page 37 We share The World's Best News, page 26 LABOUR Pro bono: Children, young people and education, page 21 Pro bono partnerships, page 27 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. LABOUR Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Adoption of advokatKODEKS, page 6 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Staff development, page 17 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employEmployees with an international mindset, page 14 ment and occupation. Employees and working conditions, page 18 New talents, page 10 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Environment and climate, page 41 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of We make compliance easier for Danish businesses, page 30 environmentally friendly technologies. We cooperate with Transparency International, page 31 ANTI-CORRUPTION We contribute to the development of the Danish business community, page 32 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, inWe are member of the ICC Anti-Corruption Commission, page cluding extortion and bribery. 31 KROMANN REUMERT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 39/44 KROMANN REUMERT ENVIRONMENT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 AND CLIMATE We are dedicated to maintaining our consumption at a reasonable level and to reducing it where needed. Back in 2014, our heat consumption reached a reasonable level and we have managed to continue reducing it, realising a 6 % saving this year compared to last year. We have also achieved a 6 % electricity reduction and maintained the same level of water consumption and CO2 emissions. FOOD WASTE Our water consumption has reached a reasonable level and reAt Kromann Reumert, our canteen has for a long time been paying mains constant. However, our volume of waste has gone up by attention to food waste. The kitchen staff in Aarhus and Copen13 % compared to last year. We will therefore start looking into hagen are working every day to eliminate food waste. In 2015, we ways of reducing our waste and recycling more of it. We will do started e.g. using smaller plates in our Aarhus canteen in order to that by focusing on waste separation and elimination of food reduce portions and the amount of food that is not eaten. waste. In 2016, we will focus even more on food waste and the environment and draw up guidelines on measures to be taken by our kitchens to avoid food waste. We focus, among other things, on serving plated meals and dishes without meat on the buffet and on using the whole of the vegetable. Trine Hardy, hospitality manager ELECTRICITY SAVING We managed once again in 2015 to reduce our electricity conKROMANN REUMERT BIKES TO WORK sumption. A saving which is expected to be even bigger in 2016 In 2015, we participated once again in the national campaign “We where we will be replacing all light bulbs in the circulation areas bike to work”. We do that in order to contribute to a cleaner enat our Copenhagen office. At our office in Aarhus, we are also vironment and less traffic congestion and for health reasons. 123 testing new light sources in order to reduce consumption. Finally, employees supported the campaign by dropping the car and pubwe will continue our cooperation during the last 5 years as climate lic transport and taking the bicycle instead. In the period, we rode partner with DONG. a distance of 14,878 km in total. LOWER HEAT CONSUMPTION In 2013, we believed that our heat consumption had reached a reasonable level. Nevertheless, we had in 2014 achieved a saving of no less than 18 % and we also realised a saving in 2015 this time the percentage was 6 %. There are several reasons for the declining heat consumption during recent years, including new radiator technology, new windows at our office in Aarhus and the fact that we sit closer in our office in Copenhagen. 41/44 ABOUT KROMANN REUMERT Kromann Reumert is dedicated to providing the best legal services in the market. We are a knowledge-based firm and our product is inside the head of our employees who advise clients every day. We are Denmark's preeminent law firm with offices in Copenue-adding solutions and advice with commitment and dedication, hagen, Aarhus and London. We are approximately 470 employees, and we do that based on our values: spirited teamwork, quality, a little more than half of whom are lawyers. They specialise in a commercial understanding, and credibility. These values define us variety of legal areas and work every day to set the standard in the as a law firm and the services we offer to our clients every day. legal profession. INTERNATIONAL OUTLOOK Kromann Reumert is a partner-owned firm. The partnership is We have an international mindset with many clients in both Denbased on the principle of equal sharing which ensures that we mark and abroad. We have an extensive international network and work together to achieve the best possible solution for our clients are the only Danish member of the international organisation Lex no matter who they contact. Mundi, consisting of 160 of the world's leading independent law firms and offering the services of more than 20,000 lawyers. To Kromann Reumert's history dates back to 1889, and we draw our clients, it means that we have unique access to a range of on our many years of experience every day when assisting some specialists all over the world, allowing us to brief them on internaof Denmark's leading companies. Our mission is to provide valtional trends that may affect Danish businesses. ABOUT THE REPORT This is Kromann Reumert's seventh CSR Report and our seventh Communication on Progress (COP) to be submitted to the UN Global Compact once a year. With this CSR report, we want to give our clients, employees and We also describe our CSR work on the basis of the 10 UN Global other stakeholders an understanding of Kromann Reumert and Compact principles see more on page 38. the way we work with CSR. The report focuses in particular on our pro-bono work which is an important part of our CSR work and which reflects our desire to do what we do best: providing legal advice. KROMANN REUMERT CSR-RAPPORT 2016 43/44 KROMANN REUMERT
