West Atlantic AB (publ) United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 – 2015 Gothenburg, Sweden December 18th, 2015 Statement for continued support from the CEO of West Atlantic AB (publ). “I am pleased to confirm that West Atlantic AB (publ) continues to support and encourage the ten principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our Group, and to engage in collaborative projects, which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. West Atlantic will continue to make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy.” Yours sincerely, ___________________ Gustaf Thureborn Chief Executive Officer West Atlantic AB (publ) About West Atlantic Group The West Atlantic Group is one of the market leading providers of dedicated air freight services to European NMOs and air freight capacity to Global Integrators and Freight Forwarders. The Group has a well-established geographic network, based around six logistic hubs, and currently operates 51 scheduled destinations. The aircraft portfolio includes 46 customised aircraft in service, whereof a majority is wholly owned. West Atlantic was founded in 1962 and is headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden. Operations are performed all over Europe and per December 31 2014 West Atlantic had 488 employees. West Atlantic AB (publ) Org. no: 556503-6083 Box 5433, SE-402 29 Gothenburg, Sweden Phone: +46 (0) 31 – 703 04 50, Fax +46 (0) 31 – 703 04 55 Contact Email: info@westatlantic.eu Webpage: www.westatlantic.eu Human Rights Principles  Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights;  and make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy & Goals The West Atlantic Group employs close to 500 employees within the European Community and comprises of many different nationalities with different religious and cultural backgrounds. The Group policy related to human rights is included in a strict “code of conduct” on respecting human rights at all times, in line with European Union legislation that are in parity with the stipulations set out by the United Nations. Reports of any human rights abuse/violation are to be dealt with in cooperation with law enforcement. Labour Principles  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  the effective abolition of child labour;  the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals As a Group cargo airlines Group, it is imperative for us that our staff are well taken care of, as human capital is a critical component of our service offering and value proposition. Following our highly regulated business, many positions offered in the West Atlantic Group organisation require substantial education, certification and in most cases plentiful previous experience, such as pilots and engineers. The Group follow nationwide collective working agreement (CWA), as customary in Sweden, or better and we are in continuous discussions with committees representing different unions/workgroups in accordance with practises in countries where WA operates. Moreover, we have developed CWAs and/or company agreements in place for staff groups in different jurisdictions. These agreements cover relevant labour principles and the Group support all employees and their freedom of association. During 2015, an initiative has been launched to examine the possibility of setting up local satellite production units in countries that could operate with local staff under local CWA:s, to the mutual benefit of employee and employer as this will decrease complexity in rotating staff in different operations. The Group continuously strive to make our culture and working environment as safe, satisfying and productive as possible therefore, we do not approve of discrimination of any kind and such activities will not be tolerated. Environmental Principles  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility;  and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals West Atlantic has a policy of minimising its environmental impact and we strive to be the best possible corporate citizen that we can. We actively support the development of social and economic infrastructure to refine society’s infrastructure and efficiency for mail and parcels carried by air. We support the continued development of the Single European Sky project and participate mainly through our participation in the European Regional Airlines association. We expect that it can increase efficiency and lower cost of navigation for both airlines and society, while also lowering fuel emissions due to fewer delays and flying closer to optimal vectors, leading to less flight time.  Fuel Emissions West Atlantic continuously work with minimizing fuel consumption and as part of that, we monitor fuel efficiency on flight level, as also mandated within the EU ETS directive that includes emission regulation within a ‘cap and trade’ CO2 market in intra-EU aviation. Thereto, we seek out and plan for optimal flight patterns, i.e. adjust climb & descent to maximise cruise length for minimum fuel burn as well as raise awareness amongst pilots for fuel efficiency and possible savings.  Research & Development During the year we have continued to invest into the implementation of the second-generation cockpit with a full electronic flight instrument system (EFIS) that makes our aircraft more productive with less diverted flights and thus lower emissions. This also lowers consumption of energy dense semiconductors and circuitry from the replaced cockpit avionics. The development of a new propeller, which could have granted up to five per cent lower fuel burn, has been discontinued as it was deemed beyond economic feasibility. The Group seeks continuous refinement and invest in our aircraft fleet with modifications and upgrades to improve efficiency as well as to maintain competitive advantages in the marketplace. During 2014 the Group has progressed rapidly with the introduction of a “Electronic Flight Bag” (EFB) solution where the Pilots’ entire workspace become digitalised and closely integrated to Operations, saving time, paper and decreasing fuel burn as the aircraft no longer needs to carry all operating manuals etc.  Management of Petroleum based products West Atlantic, through its subsidiaries, deals with oils and other petroleum based products. We strive to minimise consumption and waste as well as always complying with environmental regulation. Naturally also fulfilling our responsibility to notify authorities if any incident occurs. No incident has been reported during the period covered in this report.  Noise emissions Given upgrades made to the aircraft fleet we are also continuing on our strategy to lower the overall noise signature in the environment surrounding us. During the year, we have opted to modify and upgrade the larger B737 fleet to lower noise signatures and allow for a less noisy operation. Anti-Corruption Principle  Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Following European legislation, West Atlantic has a zero-tolerance towards any form of corruption and actively controls the compliance through audits and controls. During 2012, the Group developed a new anti-corruption and anti-mafia policy that is more firm and strict, following the Global Compact framework as it does not only ban corruption, it also sets a policy that we actively shall work against it. The Group’s financial department is tasked with surveillance for corruption and the internal quality department frequently perform audits on the operations. The Group is proud to have no incident during the period covered by this communication. Any reports of corruptions or initial investigations are reported to CEO and any case with substance of fraud or corruption is to be immediately filed with local authorities and law enforcement. We look forward to integrating these principles further into our business. Following the publication of the annual report for 2014 by West Atlantic, we included a risk evaluation of the operating environment as planned. Prepared on December 18th 2015 by ______________ Roderick Nilsson Senior Business & Procurement Analyst West Atlantic AB (publ)
