ANNUAL REPORT 2016 (For the year ended March 31, 2016) ABOUT OKI Corporate Philosophy The people of OKI, true to the company’s “enterprising spirit,” are committed to creating superior network solutions and providing excellent information and communications services globally to meet the diversified needs of communities worldwide in the information age. Profile Founded in 1881, Meikosha, Ltd. was the forerunner of today’s OKI and Japan’s first telecommunications equipment manufacturer. Meikosha’s success came from the company’s “enterprising spirit” to attempt to become the first domestic manufacturer of telephones only five years after Alexander Graham Bell’s invention of the telephone in 1876. Underpinned by this “enterprising spirit,” which has been nurtured and passed down throughout the Company’s long history, OKI has developed and provided a succession of products that have contributed to the development of today’s information society. Always in the vanguard of technology innovation, OKI began selling computers containing Japan’s first domestically developed core memories, developed the world’s first cash recycling automated teller machine (ATM) that recycles deposited bills as funds for withdrawals, developed LED printers, and introduced the first Voice-over-Internet Protocol (VoIP) system to the Japanese market. As a company that supports social infrastructural development, OKI will quickly grasp and incorporate the needs of the market into the development of products that satisfy customers, while contributing to the development of an information society. Guided by its brand statement, “Open up your dreams,” OKI will diligently strive to achieve the dreams and hopes of stakeholders, to become the preferred global partner of choice and achieve continuous growth. 1 Profile 21 Management CONTENTS 2 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 22 Risk Management/Compliance 4 To Our Stakeholders 23 Information Security 8 Special Feature: Our EMS Business 24 Improvement of Customer Satisfaction —EMS Customers Chose 25 Respect for Employees 10 At A Glance 26 Consideration for the Environment 12 Overview of Operations 28 Social Contribution 12 ICT 29 OKI Group’s CSR 13 Mechatronics Systems 14 Printers 30 Financial Section 15 EMS 56 Investor Information 16 Research and Development 57 Company Profile 18 Corporate Governance Editorial Policy Annual Report 2016 is published with the aim of disseminating useful information to investors and other stakeholders. In addition to the OKI Group’s financial information such as business activities and results for fiscal year 2015, we have also reported information on our environmental, social, and governance initiatives, which had previously been published in our CSR reports. For specifics on our policies and systems in the areas of environmental and social matters, please visit our website. Annual Report 2016 1 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars (Note 1) Ended March 31 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 For the year Net sales ¥ 423,480 ¥ 455,824 ¥ 483,112 ¥ 540,153 ¥ 490,314 $ 4,377,803 Operating income 11,980 13,475 27,196 32,415 18,594 166,017 Profit attributable to owners of parent 1,555 13,599 27,359 33,091 6,609 59,008 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities 22,791 (11,619) 31,868 40,999 (3,573) (31,901) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (9,392) (9,214) (13,977) (18,583) (13,762) (122,875) Free cash flow 13,399 (20,833) 17,890 22,415 (17,335) (154,776) At the year end Total assets ¥ 368,065 ¥ 349,322 ¥ 412,514 ¥ 439,358 ¥ 411,776 $ 3,676,571 Shareholders’ equity 41,125 56,072 88,735 119,626 106,733 952,973 Interest-bearing debt 136,478 120,524 119,004 107,570 122,084 1,090,035 Ratios Return on assets (ROA) (%) 0.4 3.8 7.2 7.8 1.6 Return on equity (ROE) (%) 3.9 28.0 37.8 31.8 5.8 Shareholders’ equity (%) 11.2 16.1 21.5 27.2 25.9 U.S. dollars Yen (Note 1) Per share amounts Net income ¥ 0.32 ¥ 17.24 ¥ 36.21 ¥ 40.03 ¥ 7.61 $ 0.06 Net assets (shareholders’ equity, excluding warrants and non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries) 13.42 34.40 79.32 137.74 122.91 1.09 Cash dividends — — 3.00 5.00 5.00 0.04 Non-financial data(Note 2) Number of employees 16,736 17,459 21,090 20,653 20,190 Employment rate of challenged people (%) 1.83 1.99 2.17 2.12 2.13 Ratio of manager-level females (non-consolidated, %) 2.34 1.98 2.14 2.42 2.60 Note 1: The U.S. dollar amounts in this annual report are translated from yen, for convenience only, at ¥112 = U.S. $1.00, the approximate exchange rate prevailing on March 31, 2016. Note 2: Environment-related data are disclosed in the OKI Group Environmental Report and on the website: http://www.oki.com/en/eco/. Forward-looking Statements This annual report contains forward-looking statements concerning the OKI Group’s future plans, financial targets, technologies, products, services and performance. These forwardlooking statements represent assumptions and beliefs based on data and calculation methods currently available to OKI as of the date of publication, and therefore OKI does not guarantee the accuracy of statements are subject to changes attributable to business risks and uncertainties, which may affect OKI’s performance and consequently cause actual results to differ from our forecasts. 2 Annual Report 2016 Net Sales Operating Income Profit Attributable to (Billions (Billions (Billions Owners of Parent of yen) of yen) of yen) and Return on Equity (ROE) （%） 600 40 40 100 540.2 483.1 490.3 32.4 33.1 455.8 30 30 75 423.5 27.4 400 27.2 20 20 50 18.6 13.5 13.6 37.8 200 12.0 31.8 10 10 28.0 25 6.6 1.6 3.9 5.8 0 0 0 0 (Ended 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Ended 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Ended 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 March 31) March 31) March 31) Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent (left scale) Return on Equity (ROE) (right scale) Total Assets Shareholders’ Equity R&D Expenses (Billions (Billions and Shareholders’ Equity Ratio (Billions of yen) of yen) （％） of yen) 500 120 119.6 40 20 439.4 106.7 412.5 411.8 400 368.1 90 88.7 30 15 349.3 14.0 13.8 27.2 13.1 13.0 13.3 300 25.9 60 56.1 21.5 20 10 200 41.1 16.1 30 11.2 10 5 100 0 0 0 0 (As of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (As of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Ended 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 March 31) March 31) March 31) Shareholders’ Equity (left scale) Shareholders’ Equity Ratio (right scale) Capital Expenditures Interest-bearing Debt Free Cash Flow (Billions and Depreciation (property, (Billions and Debt/Equity Ratio (Billions of yen) plant and equipment, at cost) of yen) (Times) of yen) 15 200 8 60 13.1 11.5 11.7 10.8 10.8 11.2 150 6 10.2 136.5 30 10 9.6 9.3 120.5 119.0 122.1 8.6 22.4 107.6 17.9 100 4 13.4 3.3 5 0 (20.8) (17.3) 50 2.1 2 1.3 1.1 0.9 0 0 0 -30 (Ended 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (As of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Ended 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 March 31) March 31) March 31) Capital Expenditures Interest-bearing Debt (left scale) Depreciation (property, plant and equipment, at cost) Debt/Equity Ratio (right scale) Annual Report 2016 3 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS We aim to build a business foundation for sustainable growth, sowing seeds for new business creation. Profile Date of birth Feb. 9, 1959 Career Apr. 2016 President, Representative Director Apr. 2015 General Manager, Corporate Planning Division, Chief Compliance Officer Jun. 2014 Director and Senior Vice President Apr. 2014 Chief Technology Officer Shinya Kamagami Apr. 2012 Senior Vice President President Apr. 2011 Executive Officer and General Manager, Systems Hardware Business Div. Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. Apr. 2010 General Manager, Automated Business Dept., Systems Hardware Business Div. Apr. 2001 General Manager, Hardware Development Dept.-2, Systems Hardware Business Div. Systems Solution Company Apr. 1981 Joined Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. 4 Annual Report 2016 Greetings from Our New President I want to respectfully express my sympathies to the people the creation of a safe, comfortable society and retaining the afflicted by the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquakes in southern trust of our stakeholders while constantly ensuring our cliJapan, and let them know that everyone in the OKI Group ents feel secure. hopes from the bottom of our hearts that they are safe and In the thirty years since I joined the OKI Group, I have recover quickly. In my new capacity as the president and been involved in many fields, ranging from technical develrepresentative director of the OKI Group, I would also like to opment in mechatronics systems, which centers on ATMs, extend a warm greeting to all our stakeholders. to marketing and business management. “Frontline first” The global economy faces a dizzying array of changes. has always been my motto. No matter how challenging a Emerging countries were until recently an engine for the situation has seemed, I have always overcome such chalglobal economy but they have slowed sharply, affecting lenges by seeking input from those closest to the issues our earnings considerably. I believe, however, it is preat hand whether the issues involved design, manufacturcisely in such an environment that an unremitting growth ing, sales or problems requiring us to visit customers. From strategy is necessary. here, the OKI Group will prepare seeds for future growth, Regardless of how much the environment around us factoring in the changing business environment, while lischanges, the OKI Group seeks to increase its corporate tening closely to the voices of those in the field and factory value. As a company that supports social infrastructure floor. We will devote all our strength and resources to mandevelopment, we believe the basis for boosting corporate aging the Group in a way that enables us to achieve sustainvalue is providing products and services that contribute to able growth and respond to the hopes of our stakeholders. Fiscal Year 2015 Business Results In fiscal year 2015, the business environment changed sharply, As for our financial position, total assets came to ¥411.8 coming off a strong first year for the Mid-term Business Plan billion, a decrease of ¥27.6 billion from the previous fiscal 2016 as the OKI Group reported strong performance in fiscal year-end. While there were no major changes in the asset year 2014. Net sales came to ¥490.3 billion, a decline of ¥49.9 mix versus the previous fiscal year-end, shareholders’ equity billion year on year, and operating income to ¥18.6 billion, a declined by ¥12.9 billion to ¥106.7 billion from the previous decline of ¥13.8 billion year on year. These declines reflected fiscal year-end. Despite booking net income and adding to slower economic growth in emerging countries, exchange retained earnings, valuations of our shareholdings and penrate fluctuations, and the ongoing suspension of ATM shipsion assets declined due to flagging stock markets. In addiments to a sales partner in China. Ordinary income was ¥11.4 tion, accumulated other comprehensive income fell as a billion, a ¥26.5 billion decrease year on year due to the swing result of shifts in translation adjustments stemming from to foreign currency losses this fiscal year against gains in the foreign exchange impacts. The shareholders’ equity ratio of prior fiscal year in non-operating income and expenses. Profit 25.9% was 1.3 points lower than the level of the previous attributable to owners of parent was ¥6.6 billion, a ¥26.5 billion fiscal year-end, and the DE ratio of 1.1 times was 0.2 points decrease year on year. higher than the level of the previous fiscal year-end. Net Sales Operating Income (Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) 600 40 540.2 483.1 490.3 32.4 455.8 30 423.5 27.2 400 20 18.6 200 13.5 12.0 10 0 0 (Fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Annual Report 2016 5 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Outlook for Fiscal Year 2016 Fiscal year 2016 is the final year of the Mid-term Business mechatronics systems business to continue remain robust Plan 2016, which was announced in November 2013. Our on domestic sales of cash handling equipment. As for overnew forecasts for fiscal year 2016 factor in major changes seas sales of ATMs, we are working to rebuild our China to the business environment such as a slumping economy business, and we will continue to expand in markets globin Brazil, a falloff in ATM sales due to the suspension of shipally. The printer business will strive to achieve deeper penements to a sales partner in China, and foreign exchange rate tration with a high-value-added, niche strategy of developing volatility, to go along with printer market contraction and markets in specific industries such as medical care and fiercer sales competition. On this basis, we forecast net design. Moreover, the business will also expand sales in sales of ¥500.0 billion and operating income of ¥20.0 billion. professional printing markets via sales synergies with the Our policies for fiscal year 2016 are “securing stable profwide format printer business. As for the EMS business, itability,” “generating growth businesses,” and “consolidatsales are expected to remain brisk. ing a financial foothold.” As for “securing stable profitability,” we will work to further expand earnings by securing profits at stable-earnings businesses aimed at domestic markets by leveraging our high-grade customer base. With regards FY2016 Targets to “generating growth businesses,” we announced major changes to our organization structure that came into effect Net sales ¥500.0 billion on April 1, 2016. Mechatronics systems had been subsumed in the former info-telecom systems segment but with its Operating income ¥20.0 billion growth as a core business for the OKI Group, we spun it Profit attributable to off as a standalone segment so it can work to further step up its global expansion. Moreover, we established the ICT owners of parent ¥12.0 billion Business Division via the merger of the solutions & services business, the telecom systems business, and the social infrastructure business in an effort to create new businesses that Policies for FY2016 would work to fuse together info-telecom fields. As for “consolidating a financial foothold,” we are working to further enhance our balance sheet via a reduction of working capital • Secure stable profitability and the generation of cash flows. • Generate growth businesses We expect the ICT business to fare well mainly on the back of transportation infrastructure-related systems for • Consolidate a financial foothold road traffic, flight control, and the like. We look for the Our Thinking on Corporate Governance With the adoption in fiscal year 2015 of the Japan’s as nominating two outside directors to the Board and setCorporate Governance Code, the OKI Group has taken steps ting up the Personnel Affairs and Compensation Advisory to bolster the effectiveness of the Board of Directors such Committee as a voluntary committee to secure transparency in decision-making processes for appointments of board members and executive officers and remuneration for them. We believe it is vital to reinforce risk management and ensure compliance is deep rooted across the Group, improve fairness and transparency in management, and further speed up decision-making processes to answer the trust our stakeholders place in us and endeavor to enhance corporate value over the mediumand long-term and sustainable growth. With these as our basic policies, we will continue to strive to improve and strengthen corporate governance. 6 Annual Report 2016 To Fulfill Our Social Responsibilities Amid further global business expansion, we are making be advanced properly based on international norms, OKI governance at the Group level even stronger so we can joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2010 and advance the notion of responsible management. At the engages in activities concerning human rights, labor, same time, we believe it is important to contribute what the environment, and anti-corruption in support of the we can to creating a sustainable society in terms formCompact’s ten principles. ing an accurate recognition of social issues from various angles in our corporate activities. The OKI Group strives to fulfill its social responsibility in accordance with its corporate philosophy. To that end, OKI established the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct as a statement of values that OKI Group companies need to share and it set up the OKI Group Code of Conduct to be conformed to by all OKI executive officers and employees, and it is working to ensure thoroughgoing adherence to them. To advance proactive initiatives to reduce the Group’s environmental impacts, we adopted the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 that sets targets for 2020 in four areas: realization of low-carbon societies, prevention of pollution, resource circulation, and biodiversity conservation. In recognition such activities should Returning Profits to Shareholders OKI considers shareholder return to be a management prior¥2 and a year-end dividend of ¥3 for an aggregate full-year ity and endeavors to return profits to shareholders in a condividend of ¥5. tinuous and stable manner. Our per-share dividend payment As a plank in our efforts to strengthen our financial base, in fiscal year 2015 was an interim dividend of ¥2 and a yearwe are building up our shareholders’ equity with a target of end dividend of ¥3 for an aggregate full-year dividend of ¥5. increasing our shareholders’ equity ratio to over 30%. Our In view of the business plan mentioned earlier and our polaim is to pay dividends in a stable and continuous manner icy on returning profits to shareholders, our per-share diviwhile taking into account how to balance returning profits to dend plan for fiscal year 2016 is for an interim dividend of shareholders with other considerations. In Conclusion 2016 will mark 135 years since our birth in 1881. Since our socially responsible corporation drawing on the “enterprisfounding we have contributed to social progress, responding spirit” that informs our corporate philosophy. As we ing to change at each and every juncture and overcoming strive to increase our corporate value, we will provide proddifficulties while facing an environment where change has ucts and services that contribute to realizing a safe, secure been the only constant. The social trust we have earned society by leveraging our strengths in info-telecom and over the years and the wonderful customers who do busimechatronic technologies, which we have honed unceasness with us are a treasure we would not trade for anyingly over our long history. I look forward to support and thing. With the expectation the years ahead will continue cooperation from all our stakeholders. be shaped by groundbreaking change, we will grow as a July 2016 Annual Report 2016 7 Designing Mounting Special Feature EMS Customers Chose Since starting out in 2002, OKI has continued to expand in the electronic manuOur EMS facturing services (EMS) business. We provide “Japanese EMS” that mega Business EMS vendors overseas are not able to keep up with and build up a unique status in this field, with an aim to expanding our business further. Manufacturing Testing What “Advanced M&EMS” Means at OKI EMS Business Sites OKI provides consigned manufacturing services covering mechatronics and electronics underpinned by an extensive track record as well as design and manufacturing technologies we have amassed through our monozukuri Design OKI IDS (manufacturing) culture in info-telecom fields. From conventional EMS consignments to options that include DMS processes, we offer a one-stop service across the entire PCB artwork design, PCB artwork design, substrate manufacturing gamut from design and development to mass production. substrate manufacturing OKI Printed Circuits At domestic Group companies starting with the OKI Honjo OKI Circuit Technology plant, the mother factory for our EMS business, we offer Design, PCB mounting, high-end EMS services that aim to serve as the “virtual machine assembly factory” of our customers. Among the benefits for our Nagano OKI EMS customers are: (1) faster product development and improved cash flow as they can channel resources into their core competencies such as product planning and marketing; (2) the creation of high-value-added products as our production know-how and proprietary technologies Design, PCB mounting, OKI Honjo plant can be fused with their ideas and technologies; (3) greater machine assembly leeway to hedge sales volatility risk as they can manage OKI Communication Systems factory expenses such as fixed assets and capital investments as variable costs; and (4) faster delivery and market Evaluation, testing launch of products they plan and develop. OKI Engineering 8 Annual Report 2016 Four Competitive Advantages Four Reasons Customers Prefer OKI OKI has for over 130 years continued to build social infrastructure products such as phone networks and many categories of telecom equipment that are vital and never afford 1 High-quality, high-reliability monozukuri 2 Strong capabilities in high-mix, low-volume manufacturing even a second of break. Our technologies for realizing high For customers products, we We are flexible in responding quality and high reliability were developed over this span. In draw on technological capato customers needs, even for bilities and know-how honed at consigned production work that the production of our own products, our record in high-mix, the frontlines of Japan’s monoother EMS providers seem to low-volume manufacturing spans many years and is formizukuri manufacturing culture, avoid, drawing on the know-how dable. Drawing on our years of experience and track record, globally recognized for its high in high-mix, low-volume manuquality and reliability. facturing we have amassed over we have leveraged our proprietary technologies and knowthe years in honing our products. how to expand our EMS business. Moreover, we have become proficient in managing flexi3 4 ble production lines, drawing on the know-how we amassed Flexible on A rigorously in efficiently managing high-mix, low-volume manufacturdelivery times low-cost approach ing through our many customer dealings to date. With the entire team constantly searching for task process efficiency We fine-tune our response on In addition to low-cost proimprovements, we advance such initiatives by shining a delivery times, from quick decurement leveraging the OKI light on sub-tasks embedded in each phase of the entire livery to even a sudden reviGroup’s scale economies, we sion in deadlines. prune processing costs via an process and search for task process efficiency improveiterative kaizen approach and ments with the delivery deadline firmly in mind. Our EMS ingenuity. business can deliver low-cost solutions via scale economies as an OKI Group member, benefits from group procurement of materials and parts, and synergies from pruning processing costs using just-in-time (JIT) manufacturing methods. Net Sales (Billions Current Initiatives of yen) 60 In fiscal year 2015, we acquired the Ome factory of Yokogawa Manufacturing Corporation as a follow-on move 40.3 42.4 40 to the printed circuit board business we obtained from 37.1 31.3 32.7 TANAKA KIKINZOKU KOGYO K.K. in fiscal year 2012. We have commenced production there as the factory handover 20 came with a consignment for all the printed circuit board (PCB) and substrate mounting Yokogawa Manufacturing had previously carried out in Japan. The Ome factory enables an integrated production approach extending from 0 PCBs to PCB mounting, helping to open a way with custom(Fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ers requiring quick delivery. Since we launched the EMS business in 2002, it has expanded while developing markets for communications high quality and high reliability and high-mix, low-volume equipment, industrial instruments, measuring instruments, manufacturing—differentiate us from rivals. We will seek and medical equipment. We will go further in developing to develop new markets such as energy and aviation and customers with products where our strengths—delivering space equipment and further expand our business. Responsibility for People’s Safety Infuses Our monozukuri Culture For medical equipment, adherence to extremely high task process standards is necessary because malfunctions could result in incidents that put people’s lives at risk. There is considerable pride that goes into a monozukuri culture that prizes high quality, and medical equipment requires a different sort of monozukuri approach than what is commonly accepted for info-telecom systems. It was a culture shock for me, but I have gained an appreciation for the safety-first values and sense of mission necessary to manufacture medical equipment where people’s lives could be at stake. Morale among frontline employees is high, and we constantly look for ways to be original and creative every day, such as coming up with our own ideas for tools. Voice EMS Production Section-2 EMS Business Division Takao Kimura Annual Report 2016 9 AT A GLANCE BUSINESS SEGMENTS MAIN PRODUCTS AND SERVICES • Traffic infrastructure-related systems (flight control systems, ITS-related systems) ICT • Disaster-related systems (firefighting-related systems, disaster prevention administrative radio systems for municipalities) • Self-defense-related systems • Communications equipment for telecom carriers Business providing solutions that • Bank branch systems and centered-administration use IoT and solutions that enable systems for financial institutions business processes to be optimized • Ticket reservations and issuing systems • UC* systems (IP-PBX/business telephones, contact centers, etc.) and streamlined • 920MHz band wireless multi-hop communication systems *UC: Unified Communication • ATMs Mechatronics Systems • Cash handling equipment • Bank branch terminals Business offering products built • Ticket reservations and issuing terminals on core mechatronics technology • Check-in terminals including ATMs and cash handling • Currency exchange machines equipment • ATM monitoring and operations services • Color LED and monochrome LED printers Pr int ers • Color LED and monochrome LED multi-function printers (MFPs) • Dot-impact printers Business offering printers leveraged • Wide format inkjet printers by OKI’s unique LED technology • Consigned design & manufacturing services for EMS communications equipment • Consigned design & manufacturing services for industrial instruments • Consigned design & manufacturing services for Business offering consigned design measuring instruments & manufacturing services based on • Consigned design & manufacturing services for our extensive record in social inframedical equipment structure equipment • Consigned design & manufacturing services for broadcasting, electricity, and traffic-related • Electronic components Other s • Power devices • Precision compact motors • Reliability testing and environmental conservation-related services Independent business via subsidiaries 10 Annual Report 2016 SALES COMPOSITION NET SALES (Billions of yen) OPERATING INCOME (Billions of yen) MAJOR CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES 300 30 • OKI Customer Adtech • OKI Software 200 191.2 188.0 20 39.0% • OKI Wintech 13.5 • Shizuoka OKI 11.6 100 10 0 0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 Results Plan Results Plan 200 10.0 • Japan Business Operations • OKI Electric Industry (Shenzhen) 150 7.5 23.2% 113.7 112.0 6.0 5.5 • OKI Banking Systems (Shenzhen) 100 5.0 • OKI Brasil 50 2.5 0 0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 Results Plan Results Plan 200 4 • OKI Data • OKI Data Infotech 150 3 124.6 133.0 2.5 25.4% • OKI Digital Imaging 100 2 • OKI Data Americas 1.4 • OKI Europe 50 1 • OKI Data Manufacturing (Thailand) 0 0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 Results Plan Results Plan 60 4 • Nagano OKI 48.0 • OKI Printed Circuits 42.4 3 40 2.5 8.6% 2.3 • OKI Communication Systems 2 • OKI Circuit Technology 20 • OKI IDS 1 0 0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 Results Plan Results Plan 30 6 • OKI Micro Engineering • OKI Techno Power Systems 4.2 20 18.5 19.0 4 3.8% 3.5 • OKI Sensor Device • OKI Engineering 10 2 0 0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2015 FY2016 Results Plan Results Plan *Figures for fiscal year 2015 have been restated to reflect the segment reorganization. Annual Report 2016 11 OVERVIEW OF OPERATIONS ICT While working to further bolster the profitability of stable-earnings busiSales nesses, we aim to achieve sustainable Composition 39.0% growth by creating new solutions that go beyond conventional frames based on IoT. • Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings firm footing as a whole and as private-sector capital investNet sales declined 14.3% year on year to ¥191.2 billion. In ment edges up gently. We also expect the ICT business to the enterprise solutions business, sales were brisk in part evolve into a growth area as needs grow for solutions that due to front-loaded demand in systems for domestic financial address social problems such as managing infrastructure institutions. In the corporate market, the trend was steady on maintenance, labor shortages, medical nursing care, and progress in securing new projects, etc. In the telecom sysdisaster prevention and mitigation, while initiatives in the tems business, telecom carriers wound down investments area of new technologies, such as the Internet of things (IoT), related to existing network systems, and the large impact are actively promoted. from the end of related sales in the first quarter translated Within such a business environment, we forecast firm into a sales decline. In the social infrastructure systems busitrends led by transportation infrastructure-related systems ness, there were solid order inquiries for flight control syssuch as flight control systems and road traffic. In the solutems and disaster prevention systems for municipalities but tions business for enterprises, we also expect growth in overall sales declined as demand for digitizing firefighting systems-related projects for transportation, distribution, and wireless systems peaked out in the previous fiscal year. manufacturing industries. Meanwhile, in the public sector Operating income came to ¥11.6 billion for an operating systems business, we expect sales to decline as the nummargin of 6.1%. Despite the large impact of a decline in ber of large projects shrinks and the replacement demand sales volume, there were benefits from reductions to fixed cycle ebbs for digital wireless communication systems for costs and progress on structural reforms. firefighting in the disaster prevention business. In the ICT business, we will make stable-earnings busi• Outlook for Fiscal Year 2016 nesses even more rock solid with the aim of further enhancThe Japanese economy is expected to remain in a mild recoving profit margins through optimal allocation of resources. ery phrase in fiscal year 2016. We expect social infrastructure In addition, we will accelerate initiatives aimed at creating investment as a whole to remain steady as the government’s new growth businesses utilizing IoT-based solutions that go growth strategy keeps social infrastructure investment on a beyond the conventional framework. TOPICS Launched Drone Detection System OKI launched a system to detect approaching drones day or night using its aerial acoustic sensing technology. The system detects in-flight drones, collecting and analyzing flight noises specific to drones. Calculating distance, direction, and the angle of the vehicle, the system can issue alerts to monitors. It offers configuration flexibility to respond to various needs such as video confirmation using embedded cameras, expansion of the detection range, and remote monitoring using a network. 12 Annual Report 2016 Mechatronics Systems We work to bolster our earnings base by further accelerating the global Sales expansion of the ATM business and Composition 23.2% focusing on sales of cash handling equipment in Japan. • Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings • Outlook for Fiscal Year 2016 Net sales declined 11.3% year on year to ¥113.7 billion. While slowing in a few emerging countries is evident, from As for ATM shipments overseas, our sales partner in China a global perspective, we think there is still ample latent to which we have extended sales credit defaulted on outATM demand. In the overseas ATM business in fiscal year standing debts, so we suspended new shipments to this 2016, we are rebuilding our sales system in China, signing partner from June 2015. We are continuing with arbitration a contract with a new sales partner. We expect unit sales proceedings to seek payment against sales credit extended. of OKI brand products to decline overall, taking into account As a result of this, our sales in China fell sharply but our a likely fallback against the sales increase of the prior fiscal direct sales under the OKI brand without going through our year. While the severe economic environment in Brazil is sales partner fared well there. In emerging countries, sales likely to continue, we expect the start of shipments for large from our businesses in Brazil declined on curtailed investorders from state-run banks received in fiscal year 2015 to ment by customers as the country’s economy slowed. In contribute to earnings improvement. The goal of the overother regions, we delayed shipments owing to slowing seas ATM business is still to grow globally, and we look for economies and changing customer circumstances, so unit growth in regions apart from China and Brazil. In the domessales of ATMs undershot our plan. In Japan, however, sales tic market, we expect briskness in the previous fiscal year of cash handling equipment to retail stores and service vento be sustained and support further growth in cash handling dors grew steeply, and bank branch terminals for the finanequipment sales. cial institutions also recorded brisk sales. We expect earnings overall to be even with the yearOperating income came to ¥6.0 billion for an operating marearlier level on a decline in unit shipments of ATMs to gin of 5.3%. Sales were robust overall at the domestic busiChina despite a likely improvement in Brazil on shipments ness, but sales volume overseas dropped off considerably. for large orders. TOPICS Launched Withdrawal/Deposit Machine “USCOS II-CV” for Narrow Spaces We launched the USCOS II-CV withdrawal/deposit machine for space-constrained stores that supports stricter cash management and greater task efficiency for administrators. The USCOS II-CV performs the basic functions of a medium-sized withdrawal/deposit machine and small banknote and coin changer but installation requires a space of just 42cm across, so it can fit into a small store where a conventional withdrawal/deposit machine could not be installed. It reduces the task burden of administrators with an easy-to-navigate user interface. Annual Report 2016 13 OVERVIEW OF OPERATIONS Pri n t e rs In addition to strengthening sales of high-value-added products, we strive to Sales enhance our profitability by developing Composition 25.4% niche market globally. • Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings • Outlook for Fiscal Year 2016 Net sales decreased 3.6% year on year to ¥124.6 billion. For fiscal year 2016, we expect fierce price competition in Sales of LED printers remained brisk overall, with sales of the printer market to persist as the printing needs of the high-value-added strategic products such as color multioffice market continues to shrink. This mainly reflects less function printers (MFPs), the product line on which we have printing demand as mobility becomes increasingly common been most focused, getting a lift thanks in part to a stronamong office workers, along with changing work styles and ger sales support structure. Meanwhile, in existing prodIT infrastructure. In this environment, as a result of strengthucts, the overall market continued to shrink, led by color ening of the sales channel support system in the United single-function printers (SFPs) for office use. Our decision States and Europe, sales of strategic products at the printto maintain the price level amid the intensifying price comers business are growing and improving the product mix. petition in the market also led to lower sales volumes of We aim to increase sales by globally deepening our niche our existing products. From the middle of the second quarstrategy through the development of markets in specific ter of fiscal year 2015, however, we were able to apply the industries such as medical care and design, as well as by brakes to the decline in sales volumes in part by selective improving product mix. In addition, we expect the wide forprice revision of products. In addition, we acquired from mat printer business we acquired in fiscal year 2015 to conSeiko Instruments Inc. its wide format printer business on tribute to sales across the entire year in fiscal year 2016. October 1, 2015. With sales synergies from the wide format printer business, Operating income came to ¥1.4 billion, a decline of ¥5.3 we seek to expand sales in the professional printing marbillion year on year. A better product mix stemming from ket. We expect earnings to grow on an increase in sales an increase in high-value-added products helped to offset volume and a further shift toward high-end models in our the negative impacts of the unit sales decline in existing product mix. products and price competition but fluctuations in foreign exchange rates drained ¥4.6 billion from operating income on a year-on-year basis. TOPICS Establishes Wide Format Printer Company OKI Data Infotech was established on October 1, 2015 after the acquisition of the globally-deployed wide format printer business of Seiko Instruments Inc. to OKI Data. The acquisition comes with new technologies and development resources such as large inkjet printers as well as a product portfolio and relevant sales channels that enable us to offer one-stop solutions targeted at the printing, distribution, and retail sectors. We will strive to strengthen the printer business in the professional printing market. 14 Annual Report 2016 EMS We strive to further expand our proprietary high-end electronics manufacturing Sales services using our strength in combinComposition 8.6% ing high-mix, low-volume manufacturing with high quality and reliability. • Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings • Outlook for Fiscal Year 2016 Net sales rose 5.1% year on year to ¥42.4 billion. In parSince its founding, the EMS business has continued growth ticular, sales at the circuit board business were solid due in in sales and income. We look for sales growth again in fiscal part to the effect of the acquisition from Yokogawa Electric year 2016 on increased new customers and new projects Corporation of the Ome Factory of Yokogawa Manufacturing received from our existing customers. We will continue to Corporation on April 1, 2015. In the market for industrial expand operations using M&A opportunities like we have in instruments and measuring instruments, sales increased as the past. We expect income growth on an increase in sales new customers came onboard. In contrast, sales fell in the from new customers and new projects. We will endeavor to market for communication equipment in response to curmaintain profit margins at a certain level taking into account tailed investment by end-users. the profitability of each project while eyeing on developing Operating income increased by ¥0.3 billion year on year new business opportunities. to ¥2.3 billion on higher sales volumes and other factors. Existing technology Heat sinks TOPICS Mass-production Technology for Multi-layer Copper-coin PCBs for Steel case High Speeds and High Frequencies PCB Through-holes for heat dissipation OKI Circuit Technology successfully developed deHeat-generating components sign and mass production technologies for multilayer printed circuit boards that support high speeds and high frequencies based on copper coin inserNew technology tion. The new technology achieves a 20-fold improvement in heat dissipation. Inserting cylindrical copper coins into through-holes without leaving gaps using a specially-developed method that minimizes pressure loading ensures greater area for Copper coin heat conduction for a limited number of throughSteel case holes. The newly developed T-Coin* structure enables a long service life and high reliability. PCB Heat flow *T-Coin: Technology of copper Coin insert Heat-generating components Annual Report 2016 15 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Aiming to Improve the Business Value through Development of Advanced Technology The OKI Group actively develops cutting-edge technologies with the aim of contributing to building “a safe, secure and comfortable society” as an important theme for R&D. We designate the important areas of technology for “a safe, secure and comfortable society” as “sensing,” “smart network,” and “data mining.” We are further advancing the integration of OKI’s traditional strengths of media processing technologies and optical signal processing technologies with OKI’s ability to build basic systems. Furthermore, we are pouring effort into innovation development that will connect the fruits of research and development with new business value, aiming for the creation of new businesses. 1. Research and Development for OKI’s Safe, Secure and Comfortable Society Vision The ICT foundation for a safe, secure and comfortable soci2. Research and Development Leveraging OKI’s Strengths OKI has strengths traditionally in media processing technoloety is formed by organically connecting the technologies gies for audio and video and optical signal processing technolof “sensing,” “smart network,” and “data mining.” Our ogies, and is able to compete on a global level in these areas. efforts in these technological areas include the following. Aiming for Audio and Video Sensing Technologies that Provide More Comfort OKI successfully developed optical fiber sensing technolOKI developed the Area Sound Enhancement System with ogy that detects the distributions of strain and temperature multiple directional microphones positioned surrounding the tarvariation from subtle changes in optical signals propagating geted sound pickup area to capture sound exclusively from that through optical fiber. The technology can be used for infraarea. The technology makes it possible to capture clear voices in structure health monitoring via embedded optical fiber sena specified area in conference rooms, offices, and other environsors as well as fire detection and other tasks. This technology ments where several people may be talking at the same time. will contribute to next-generation social infrastructure along The technology can also have applications for voice recogniwith existing imaging and radio sensing technologies. tion in high-noise conditions such as in cars. In addition, through Smart Network the fusion of video coding technology and sensing technology, OKI developed the world’s first 920MHz band wireless OKI is developing technologies that provide more comfortable multi-hop network technology with enhanced power effisound and video, such as surveillance cameras that retain highciency and capability of accommodating both largeand resolution data only of the faces of people in video images. small-scale systems. This versatility allows various sensors Aiming for Further Development of and equipment to be connected to networks regardless of Optical Signal Processing Technologies the environment. This technology can potentially be inteIn order to realize further improvements in energy conservation grated with data mining technology for use in the structural and compactness, OKI is working to develop new optical signal monitoring field. processing technology for next-generation optical access netData Mining works with a view to the coming 5G and the IoT era. OKI is developing data mining technology to find and utilize 3. hidden “meaningful information” from among an expansive environment of diversified information and information on Development of Basic Technologies people’s activities conveyed via networks after obtained from sensing, as well as from text information in various locations. for the Future The accumulation of technologies that we develop will become the foundation that supports OKI’s future businesses. In particular, OKI is researching usability technologies, quantum cryptography technologies, and recognition technologies. Usability technologies are indispensible to terminal equipment that we have many years’ research experiences. Quantum cryptography technologies will enable the realization of indecipherable encoding when everything in society becomes interconnected and security turns to be more important. Recognition technologies, also, is necessary to replicate human intellectual functions. 16 Annual Report 2016 TOPICS 1 Optical Fiber Sensing Technology Enables Precise, Real-time Monitoring of Large Structures OKI developed optical fiber sensing technologies that enable To address this, we successfully achieved simultanereal-time fire detection and health monitoring of large strucous sharp reductions in costs and measurement times (a tures such as bridges and tunnels. hundredth of previous spans) by introducing a new meaOptical fiber sensing technology is a distributed measurement method via an optical detecting unit that serves surement technology that detects the location and degree as the core optical fiber sensor. As a result, phenomenon of strain in structures as well as temperature changes from that had been difficult to measure, such as real-time disoptical signals in optical fiber attached to structures. Existing tributed measurement of dynamic strain in large structures, measuring instruments for optical fiber sensors are expenbecomes a low-cost project. In addition, distributed measive with lengthy measurement time requirements, ranging surement of multiple structures with one measuring instrufrom tens of seconds up to several minutes, limiting applicament is performed repeatedly, so we expect costs to be bility and preventing broad adoption. further reduced. Data mining Strain Slopes Tunnels Alarm er Height Slopes level er l fib Strain & l fi b ca a Op Width temperature detection tic ti Temperature Strain Op distribution distribution Dangerous Tunnel Sensing dataa Tunnels depth 1 2 3 1 2 3 Safe Optical fiber Optical fiber Bridges Strain/ Alarm level Strain Bridges temperature Temperature Position Optical fiber Comment from the Technical Engineer A major strength of the optical fiber sensing technology is that it can comprehensively grasp the status of structures without using a large number of sensors. Capitalizing fully on this strength of this technology, we are working to develop data mining and reliable sensing technologies that can accurately grasp the status of large structures such as bridges and tunnels that are seen as an aging risk given their long service record. TOPICS 2 “Intelligent Surveillance Camera” Limits High-resolution Data to Facial Area, Reduces Transmission Load OKI is developing an intelligent surveillance camera with new “Intelligent surveillance cameras” functions achieved via the fusion of its proprietary image rec(Image of product form) (Monitoring center) ognition technology and video coding technology. Monitoring and replaying surveillance camera footage The installed base of surveillance cameras to prevent crime, etc. has increased in the past several years, and these surveilIP lance cameras have shifted to digital from analog formats. As network a result, multiple locations can be monitored remotely via high resolution video but the resulting flood of video data has led to ballooning costs for communication lines and storage. Cameras embedded with image To address this, we developed software that detects the recognition features faces of people captured in surveillance camera video and reduces the size of video files to a tenth of their normal size Software retains a highwith only data for the facial region retained high-resolution. resolution image of the We aim to launch an “intelligent surveillance camera” embedfacial region alone (blue ded with this software as a product soon. Furthermore, we frame) but surrounding will strive to expand the range of applications and add even images are low resolution, reducing video more value to our products by introducing functions such as data files to one-tenth facial recognition and vehicle recognition. the normal size. Comment from the Technical Engineer We created new value with the development of an “intelligent surveillance camera” that combines two notable technologies, image recognition and video coding. The Face Sensing Engine (FSE) is based on image recognition technologies we developed, and OKI has worked on video coding for many years. I was impressed with how interesting it is to fuse together elemental technologies, along with the depth of the well for elemental technologies. Annual Report 2016 17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The OKI Group recognizes sustainable growth and increases corporate value over midand long-term as its most important management priorities in earning the trust of its various stakeholders. To this end, we are working to bolster and enhance corporate governance based on our fundamental policies, including “enhancement of management fairness and transparency,” “timely decision-making processes,” and “full compliance and fortification of risk management.” •Executive Officer System Corporate Governance Structure OKI appoints executive officers to implement operations in accordance with management policies determined by the OKI maintains a corporate auditor system, with the Board of Board of Directors so as to separate the functions of busiDirectors and the Audit & Supervisory Board. With an executive ness execution and oversight of management and promote officer system in place, it strives to promote timely decisiontimely decision-making processes. Moreover, to assist the making processes by separating business execution and president in making decisions, the Company has established oversight. It endeavors to improve the fairness and transparthe Management Committee. ency of management by nominating outside directors to the •Utilization of Voluntary Committees Board as well as setting up a voluntary committee on nominaOKI has established the Personnel Affairs and Compensation tion, remuneration, etc. so as to ensure effective supervision Advisory Committee as a voluntary committee to secure transfrom an independent and objective standpoint. In addition to parency in the decision-making processes for appointments of objective audits by Audit & Supervisory Board members and the board members and executive officers and remuneration for Audit & Supervisory Board, OKI seeks to bolster risk managethem. Outside directors play leading roles on the committee. ment and ensure rigorous compliance via the Risk Management After deliberating from an objective perspective on appointCommittee, which includes outside directors. ments or dismissals of board members and executive officers •Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board as well as the structure and level of their compensation etc., The Board of Directors in principle meets once a month but can the committee reports their findings to the Board of Directors. call extraordinary meetings when necessary, and is responsible Moreover, with the establishment of the Risk Management for deciding fundamental management policies and other imporCommittee, where outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board tant matters and overseeing business execution. To enhance members attend as advisors, to grasp the risks attendant with busimanagement fairness and transparency, two of the Board’s ness execution and respond to them unerringly, OKI strives to proseven members are outside directors with a high level of indemote rigorous compliance and reinforce risk management. pendence. The chairman presides over meetings of the Board of Directors. To clarify management responsibility for each fiscal year, directors are appointed for single-year terms. The Audit & Supervisory Board comprises four Audit & Internal Controls Supervisory Board members, two of which are outside Audit & Supervisory Board members with a high level of indepenIn accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and the Ordinance for dence. Based on audit policies, methods, etc. decided at Audit Enforcement of the Companies Act, the Board of Directors passed & Supervisory Board meetings, Audit & Supervisory Board a resolution concerning the Basic Policy for the Establishment of members attend Board of Directors’ meetings and other imporan Internal Control System and OKI has been developing a systant meetings, verify the content of reports received from directem to secure appropriate business operations. Pursuant to the tors etc., and conduct investigations into matters concerning Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, we also have an internal the Company’s operations, financial status, etc. Collaborating control reporting system in place, through which we submit interclosely with outside directors, the internal Auditing Division, and nal control reports to the Kanto regional bureau of the Ministry of the accounting auditors, Audit & Supervisory Board members Finance and disclose assessment results of the effectiveness of audit the performance of duties by directors. our internal controls related to financial reporting. Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Nomination/Dismissal Nomination/Dismissal Nomination/Dismissal Personnel Affairs and Audit & Supervisory Board Compensation Advisory Committee Board of Directors Advisory (including independent directors) Audit & Supervisory Board Members Directors (including independent Audit & Audit (including independent directors) Risk Management Committee Accounting Supervisory Board members) (including independent directors/Audit & Report Auditors Audit Oversight findings Supervisory Board members) Collaboration Business execution President Management Committee Accounting audit (Executive officers) Internal controls audit Internal Auditing Division Business Sections, Subsidiaries and Affiliates Audit 18 Annual Report 2016 the needs and perspectives of their various stakeholders. In its Response to Corporate Governance Code preamble, the code promotes self-motivated actions by companies to seek sustainable growth and increase their corporate •Japan’s Corporate Governance Code value over midand long-term via appropriate implementation Adoption of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code at the Tokyo of the principles. In this way, adoption is expected to contribStock Exchange commenced from June 2015. The code estabute to the development and success of companies, investors lishes fundamental principles for transparent, fair, timely and and the Japanese economy as a whole. decisive decision-making by companies with due attention to Corporate Governance Code: Overview of General Principles 1. Securing the Rights and Equal Treatment of Shareholders Companies should take appropriate measures to fully secure shareholder rights and develop an environment in which shareholders can exercise their rights appropriately and effectively. In addition, companies should secure effective equal treatment of shareholders. Adequate consideration should also be given to minority shareholders and foreign shareholders. 2. Appropriate Cooperation with Stakeholders Other Than Shareholders Companies should fully recognize that their sustainable growth and the creation of midto long-term corporate value are brought as a result of the provision of resources and contributions made by a range of stakeholders, including employees, customers, business partners, creditors and local communities. As such, companies should endeavor to appropriately cooperate with these stakeholders. The board and the management should exercise their leadership in establishing a corporate culture where the rights and positions of stakeholders are respected and sound business ethics are ensured. 3. Ensuring Appropriate Information Disclosures and Transparency Companies should appropriately make information disclosure in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations, but should also strive to actively provide information beyond that required by law. This includes both financial information, such as financial standing and operating results, and non-financial information, such as business strategies and business issues, risk, and governance. The board should ensure that such disclosed information is useful. 4. Responsibilities of the Board Given its fiduciary responsibility and accountability to shareholders, in order to promote sustainable corporate growth and the increase of corporate value over midto long-term and enhance profitability and capital efficiency, the board should equally and appropriately fulfill its roles and responsibilities, including: (1) Setting the broad direction of corporate strategy; (2) Establishing an environment where appropriate risk-taking by the senior management is supported; and (3) Carrying out effective oversight of directors and the management from an independent and objective standpoint. Such roles and responsibilities should be equally and appropriately fulfilled regardless of the form of corporate organization. 5. Dialogue with Shareholders In order to contribute to sustainable growth and the increase of corporate value over midto long-term, companies should engage in constructive dialogue with shareholders even outside the general shareholder meeting, and work for developing a balanced understanding of the positions of shareholders and other stakeholders and acting accordingly. •Status of Response to Corporate Governance Code In recognition of ongoing responsibilities to all of its OKI filed a “Corporate Governance Report” presenting its response stakeholders and in keeping with the spirit of the Corporate to the Corporate Governance Code to the Tokyo Stock Exchange in Governance Code, OKI is working to achieve sustainable December 2015 and has since filed updates as appropriate. growth and increase corporate value over midand long-term. Main Disclosure Items Based on Principles in the Corporate Governance Code Apart from stocks held for pure investment purposes, OKI works to strengthen, maintain, and built relationships with business partners and alliance partners and, on this basis, OKI holds shares in those parties where it recognizes it is conducive to increasing corporate Cross shareholdings value over midand long-term. As for voting rights as to its cross shareholdings, OKI exercises them on the basis of whether actions are suitable for the investee company as well as whether doing so increases OKI’s corporate value over midand long-term. Aiming to promote transparent processes and ensure objective judgments concerning decisions on the selection of directors and Policies and procedures for executive officers and their compensation, OKI established the “Personnel Affairs and Compensation Advisory Committee” comprising four members, including two outside directors. The committee deliberates on the structure and level of compensation for determining compensation directors and executive officers and reports its findings to the Board of Directors. for the management and OKI’s basic policy for director and executive officer compensation is that it should serve as an incentive to improve earnings directors performance for the purpose of continuously increasing corporate value and reinforcing in corporate competiveness of OKI while enabling it to secure exceptional human resources. Policies and procedures for The aforementioned “Personnel Affairs and Compensation Advisory Committee” deliberates on personnel decisions involving directors electing the management and executive officers and report its findings to the Board of Directors. Regarding personnel decisions involving candidates for the Audit & Supervisory Board, the committee offers its view to Audit & Supervisory Board members. and nominating candidates In nominations and elections, OKI takes into consideration whether candidates satisfy the following requirements as well as legal eligibility: for directors and Audit & “good character, capacity for insight, high ethical standards, fairness, and integrity as well as a strong law-abiding spirit.” OKI seeks those who Supervisory Board members can “execute their duties toward the realization of the OKI Group’s corporate philosophy and continuous improvement of corporate value.” Recognizing that proper use of input from investors on management and business activities can translate into greater management Policies concerning conefficiency and increase corporate value, the president and the chief financial officer are the pillars of dialogue with shareholders, and structive dialogue with the dedicated Investor Relations section performs a supporting role. Information disclosure forms the basis of dialogue, and OKI shareholders discloses information in a fair, timely and appropriate manner while rigorously disseminating information on strict management of insider information in accordance with rules and regulations. Annual Report 2016 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Two outside directors with a high level of independence on OKI’s Board of Directors use their expertise to support strong and effective governance. Strong and Effective Governance that is Positive and Forward-looking I have endeavored over the past six years as an outside director to contribute to strong and effective governance using my knowledge as a legal specialist. With the addition in 2015 of Mr. Minoru Morio, who has extensive experience as a corporate executive, the Board has two outside directors who can each draw on their fields of expertise to voice their objective viewpoints. My impression is debate at Board meetings has become much livelier. There were times soon after I joined the Board when I felt perplexed because I could not grasp insider terms unique to OKI used in debates. Now agenda items are explained to us in advance much more thoroughly, and I can come to meetings well prepared for debates. The word “governance” tends to be seen as imposing “constraints” or “top-down controls” but the sort of governance we should aspire to is one that cultivates a “corporate culture where executive officers do not fear failure” and boldly seek to address challenges with confidence. With a new president at the helm, the OKI Group will need to reinforce the Group’s management system so it can fly even further. If, in doing so, it restrains or rejects free speech in the workplace and value creation by those offering a rich variety of ideas, this would put the methods “cart” before the “value creation” horse. I would like to check steadfastly from an objective viewpoint whether decision-making by management is carried out properly while always keeping in mind the notions of “positive and forward-looking.” Outside Director Takuma Ishiyama Turning an Urgent Sense of Need for “Change” into Seeds for Growth This is my second tenure as an outside director at OKI. I began my career at a company that was in many ways a pioneer in Japanese corporate governance such as its decision to seat an outside director on its Board, so when I joined OKI’s board for the first time in 2001, my first impression was that its culture was quite traditional. Even when I voiced my views as an outside director at Board meetings, this more often than not did not provoke discussion, so I felt more than a few times there were missed opportunities. OKI’s current management team feels a strong sense of urgency on the need for change, and has put into place a framework for change. The operation of the Board of Directors has improved as executive officers provide us with detailed explanations of agenda items in advance so Board members can openly debate them based on the current situation facing those closest to the matter. Even for companies with a conservative governance approach, I believe fostering an environment where employees feel they can openly state whatever they believe to be the truth inside the company— rather than just the Board of Directors—is very important for risk management, etc. The Personnel Affairs and Compensation Advisory Committee was formed in the previous fiscal year. As a member of the committee, I made an effort to offer objective viewpoints as someone outside the Company such as confirming the processes by which the names of executive officer candidates are escalated up to the committee. Outside Director I will continue to support further growth at the Group through the sort of strong and Minoru Morio effective governance that OKI ought to have. 20 Annual Report 2016 MANAGEMENT (As of June 24, 2016) Directors Chairman of the Board, Representative Director Director Director Representative Director Shinya Kamagami Toshinao Takeuchi Toshiya Hatakeyama Hideichi Kawasaki Director Director Director Masayuki Hoshi Takuma Ishiyama*1 Minoru Morio*1 Audit & Supervisory Board Members Executive Officers Standing Audit & Supervisory President Executive Officer Executive Officer Board Member Shinya Kamagami Yoshiyuki Nakano Masashi Tsuboi Hisao Suzuki Executive Vice President Executive Officer Executive Officer Standing Audit & Supervisory Toshinao Takeuchi Masaaki Hashimoto Yuichiro Katagiri Board Member Tsutomu Tai Senior Vice President Executive Officer Executive Officer Toshiya Hatakeyama Hiroshi Endo Toru Miyazawa Audit & Supervisory Board Member Senior Vice President Executive Officer Executive Officer Kuninori Hamaguchi*2 Kenichi Tamura Kiyoshi Yokota Hiroshi Tsuchiya Audit & Supervisory Senior Vice President Executive Officer Executive Officer Board Member Katsuhiko Koseki Masashi Fuse Masayuki Hoshi Yoichi Nitta*2 Senior Vice President Seiji Mouri Senior Vice President Toru Hatano Senior Vice President Tetsuya Izaki *1 Outside Directors *2 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Annual Report 2016 21 RISK MANAGEMENT/COMPLIANCE The OKI Group is working to reinforce risk management under the Risk Management Committee. In accordance with our “Compliance Commitment” and “OKI Group Code of Conduct” and, in order to perform corporate activities fairly, we are focusing on the enhancement of training, and we have established consultation and reporting channels. and roll out the gained knowledge in Advancement of Risk Management their business units. The deployment of such knowledge is checked through an OKI is working to reinforce risk management under the Risk e-learning program for all executive offiManagement Committee (with the President as Committee cers and employees of the Group. We Chairman, and outside directors and Audit & Supervisory have tools in place to promote learning Board members as advisors). The committee deliberates and and retention of program content such decides basic policies relating to managing risk that accomas sharing specific examples through pany the Group’s business activities. The committee receives the booklet called “Case Examples of reports on risk information that accompany business activiCompliance.” ties from executive officers and divisions and promotes meaIn fiscal year 2015, in response to an sures to prevent manifestation of risks. onsite investigation at OKI by the Fair Trade Commission in the The compliance risks (risks associated with violation of previous fiscal year, we created training materials based on real laws, regulations and in-house rules) requiring common mancases regarding antitrust law, violations of anti-bribery related agement across the Group are managed by the Compliance laws, and improper accounting, etc. and we reiterated in a rigorCommittee (the chair is a chief compliance officer), which ous manner the importance of compliance in training sessions oversees the Control Division that registers risks and implefor compliance managers. The results of these programs and ments preventive measures within the Group, thereby buildissues are confirmed via compliance awareness studies that ing and operating the management cycle that carries out are continuously implemented, and study results are reflected regular verification of implementation status. Moreover, in in our training planning. order to discover and rectify improper activities at an early stage, we have established consultation and reporting channels to enable anonymous reports as well as reports to outParticipation Rates in Compliance Training Programs (for the OKI Group in Japan) in Fiscal 2015 side directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members at every Group company, and stipulated whistle-blowing regulaParticipation Training overview tions such as those about the protection of whistle-blowers. rate In April 2016, we established the Risk & Compliance Training sessions for compliance managers Management Division as a corporate headquarter division to (implemented from July to August 2015) 100% further strengthen these activities. Focused themes: Importance of compliance, labor law-related risks The e-learning program (about on-the-job compliance) (Implemented from December 2015 to January 2016) 100% Emergency/Disaster Response The OKI Group has established “Safety Countermeasure Committees” at its domestic and overseas sites, as well as at Approaches to Anti-Corruption Group companies, in order to ensure “protect people’s lives,” “prevent secondary accidents,” “contribute to local communiWe put into practice in fiscal 2013 the “OKI Group Anti-Corruption ties and foster good relationships with them,” and “continuity and Anti-Bribery Policy” in the Group companies in and outside of of business operations” in the event of disasters. For “contiJapan, and are enhancing our approach to anti-corruption. nuity of business operations,” each business and corporate The “OKI Group Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy” sets (headquarter) division develops a Business Continuity Plan out fundamental points for carrying out operations properly while (BCP), based on BCP Development Guidelines. The contents complying with the related regulations applicable to each counof each BCP are reviewed annually to improve its effectivetry and region in which the OKI Group operates. As company ness. In fiscal year 2015, BCPs were reviewed with a focus on bylaws, we established specific rules governing the exchange of initial response to disasters in particular. gifts and receiving/offering entertainment, and we have put into place and administer a system for the entire Group. In addition, OKI joined the Anti-Corruption Working Group of Enhancement of Compliance Training Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ) and served as a managing member of the working group from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2015. The OKI Group implements training sessions for compliance OKI shares issues for engaging in anti-corruption measures with managers at six sites in Japan for employees at the senior manthe participant companies, promotes information exchanges with ager level as regular training. Participants learn in these sessions, experts and examines effective anti-corruption measures. 22 Annual Report 2016 suppliers within the supply chain is essential. Recognizing Elimination of Anti-Social Forces this point, OKI will dedicate itself to building a trusting relationship as a partner, and promote CSR procurement based In our “Basic Policy for the Establishment of an Internal Control on the “OKI Group Procurement Policies.” System,” OKI has clearly expressed its firm stance of resolutely Based on the “OKI Group Supply Chain CSR Promotion preventing any kind of relationship with organized crime across Guidebook*1,” we implement a survey on CSR promotion our entire organization by working with the police against antiand the activities at our major suppliers in Japan while surveysocial forces. The “OKI Group Code of Conduct” declares all ing their usage situation on conflict minerals. Since fiscal year employees to be thoroughgoing on this front. We have compiled 2014, we referred to the EICC*2 Code of Conduct to compile a manual on how to respond to organized crime, and our transaca survey chart, and have started surveys also on overseas suption contracts carry a clause for eliminating organized crime. pliers using this chart. *1 Our guidebook conforms to the “Supply Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook” of the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Teaming up with Suppliers Industries Association (JEITA) *2 Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition For the OKI Group to promote fair corporate activities in response to the voice of stakeholders, cooperation from INFORMATION SECURITY Based on the OKI Group Security Policy, the OKI Group has established a system to ensure information security under the leadership of the Information Security Committee and we work to properly manage and protect company and customer information. Three Perspectives of Information Security Enhanced Actions at Overseas Sites In the OKI Group, we use the three perspectives shown in the The OKI Group has promoted information security measures diagram below to broadly promote information security meaat overseas sites, moving forward with laying down rules consures for computers, networks and information systems. We cerning information security in each region, appointing secuhave established an organization specializing in security incirity managers and introducing actions. In fiscal year 2015, to dent response called OKI-CSIRT*, which collaborates with strengthen measures to protect against information leaks in external organizations, in order to enhance our preventive China, we set usage limits for online storage services and measures against threats to computer security in the Group implemented restrictions on sending and receiving messages and improve our capacity to respond to them. via free email sites and services. *CSIRT: Computer Security Incident Response Team Enhancing Protection of Personal Information Network invasion Monitoring of computer IT usage detection security status monitoring We in the OKI Group have enhanced the protection of personal Systems for Visibility information, based on the Privacy Policy. We have commit(Monitoring, etc.) ted to the protection of personal information under the leaderOKI Group ship of our Chief Privacy Officer. Privacy managers have been Information Security Basic Policy appointed in all divisions and in Group (IT governance) Systems for Support Systems for Protection companies. OKI and seven Group com(Introduction of IT) (Rules, training, etc.) panies have acquired PrivacyMark certiManagement of Definition of confidential fication as of June 2016. confidential data data and regularization of using a shared server management process Organization of IT Implementation of platform to prevent information security information leak routes training and blanket checks Annual Report 2016 23 IMPROVEMENT OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Under its quality philosophy of “providing products that always make customers happy,” the OKI Group is moving ahead with initiatives that pay sufficient heed to safety concerns and user-friendliness in developing and providing products and services so they elicit customer satisfaction. (CE) who are responsible for maintenance tasks at customerQuality Assurance System and Management run sites and responding to malfunctions, and how effectively they respond to customers. The “Quality Assurance Regulations,” the most significant At the 22nd contest held in November 2015, 20 CEs rules among all quality-related rules and regulations of the selected from Group companies and business offices nationcompany, defines OKI’s quality philosophy, responsibility and wide competed over the accuracy of their responses to sceauthority. Specific rules for activities based on these regulanarios where equipment at clients stopped working properly tions are incorporated into the quality management system using onsite ATMs and servers as the non-functioning equipand operated in accordance with the nature of each operament. The judges, who also played the role of clients, checked tion. We have obtained ISO9001 certification at almost all our various processes from arrival at a client’s place of business production sites, and have built the most appropriate quality and repair work performed to departure from the standpoint control system for each production line or product. of how important it is to respect what has been promised to Based on our “Product Safety Basic Policy,” OKI has clients in performing maintenance work and how reliable and made various efforts to ensure product safety, including the skilled they are as engiincorporation of provisions about product safety into agreeneers in performing repair ments with our suppliers. For in the event of product acciand maintenance work. dent, we have put in place rules to cope with any accident as There was also a demonthe Group in a coordinated way. Also, continuous efforts are stration event on ATM unit being made in each operation to incorporate the customers’ repair tasks by our repair voices, which are received through daily communication and center, a logistics support the surveys on their satisfaction levels, to improve our prodsection. ucts, services and systems. A CE showing his skills at the “IT Engineering Contest” Supporting Enhancement of Manufacturing Universal Design Initiatives We at OKI brought together our engineering functions—such as production control, product safety, environment and intelOKI Group defines universal design as the achievement of a lectual property—in the Engineering Support Center estabhigher level of usability (basic user friendliness) and accessilished in our Corporate (head office). We now use these bility (consideration of elderly and disabled, etc.) in products gathered functions to support manufacturing in business and services so that all customers can use them properly, sections and Group companies. effectively and satisfactorily. User opinions gathered in veriTaking production control as one of its functions, the Engineering fication experiments etc. are reflected in our products and Support Center holds the “OKI Group Production Reform Awards services. For Automated Teller Machines (ATMs), one of our Presentation Meetings.” These provide an opportunity for staff core products, we are working to improving operability by from various bases to share their approaches to making reforms integrating universal design techniques such as handsets in order to involve peer to enable the visually impaired to operate them using audio groups. At the meeting held guidance and an ergonomic design that allows wheelchair in December 2015, represenusers to get close to them. tatives from nine divisions, In September 2015, as one way to bolster customer satisincluding overseas bases faction (CS) at The Hyakugo such as Thailand and China, Bank, Ltd. (head office is in gave presentations on variTsu City, Mie Prefecture), ous themes. we upgraded all ATM A scene at the December 2015 screens to universal design presentation fonts*. Initiatives to Improve Customer Satisfaction with Maintenance Service Post-upgraded ATM screens An “IT Technology Contest” is held every year at OKI *Universal design fonts: Fonts that are designed by taking into consideration Customer Adtech, a maintenance service business, with the that, by using such fonts, anyone without regard to age, gender or disability aim of improving the technical skills of customer engineers can comfortably use products, services, residences, and facilities. 24 Annual Report 2016 RESPECT FOR EMPLOYEES Believing that protection of each employee’s human rights underlies all business activities, we work for thorough implementation through training and other such activities. We strive to build work environments with respect for diversity founded on our vision: “Pride, Passion, and Sincerity.” Initiatives to Promote Diversity Ongoing Support for Development of the Next-Generation Based on the notion that diversity is a wellspring of innovaIn recognition of activities that respond to the “Act on tion, the OKI Group is bolstering such initiatives by establishAdvancement Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation ing an organization dedicated for this purpose. In particular, Children,” we were granted the “Act on Advancement of one of our priority measures is supporting the success of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children” cerwomen in the workplace. In our action plan based on the “Act tification (nicknamed “Kurumin”) by the Tokyo Labor Bureau of Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in in 2009 and 2012. During fiscal year 2015, we implemented the Workplace,” we set targets for 2020 to (1) increase the system changes to make it easier for employees to use paid ratio of women among all new graduate hires from 9% now leave around the time a child is born such as extending the to over 20%; and (2) double the ratio of female manager-level length of period they can use paid leave. employees from 2% now to 4%. Promotion of Work-Life Balance Column OKI Hosted Seminar to Support Advancement of Women We at OKI established the Work-Life Balance Promotion The December 2015 seminar Committee, comprised of labor union and management we hosted to support the admembers, to verify the employees’ work hours and leave elivancement of women at OKI gibilities. We have also amplified various systems such as Group is the second such event the flextime system, HOP work (a discretionary labor) syswe have held. About 380 people tem, systems to provide special work conditions for persons attended the seminar, namely female employees, directors and caring for children and nursing the elderly, as well as “Special executive officers, and division Leave for Particular Purposes” which can be used to particheads. At a panel discussion on ipate in volunteer activities, to treat illness and injuries, to the theme of “enabling women at OKI to be more active and sucnurse family members, or to attend children’s school events, cessful,” seminar participants also forthrightly shared their views on cultivating a career mindset and bolstering the development of to further promote the employees’ work-life balance. female employees. In fiscal year 2015, we achieved our labor-management goal of reducing to zero the number of employees who took less than six days of paid annual leave over the year. Promoting Employment of Challenged People Labor Safety and Health, and Health Improvement Initiatives The OKI Group has been working to employ challenged people, especially in OKI WorkWel, a special purpose subsidiary* OKI established “Safety and Health Committees” in each of the Group, which promotes telework for the severely disregion, with members from management and the labor abled. The percentage of challenged employees at the group union. These strengthened the safety and health system, crein fiscal year 2015 was 2.13%. ate labor injuries and accidents prevention plan, patrol workplaces, provide safety and health training, etc. The Central *Special purpose subsidiary: Company established to provide special considerations for the employment of challenged people, as defined in the Act on Safety and Health Committee shares information on situaEmployment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities. tions and initiatives in each region. OKI’s fiscal year 2015 incidence rate of occupational accidents* was 0.11. Employment Rates of Challenged People Furthermore, the OKI Group promotes a fitness promo(%) tion activity called “Kenko OKI21” as an initiative to support 2.2 2.13% mental and physical health. In particular, mental health is 2.17% 2.12% 2.1 addressed by setting up an expert committee at the Central 2.0 1.99% Committee of Safety and Health that promotes the use of Mandatory employment rate a support tool for self-care, while also boosting support 1.9 (Fiscal year 2013 onwards) for efforts made by specialists including industrial doctors 1.8 1.83% through a consultation counter. 1.7 Mandatory employment rate *Incidence rate of occupational accidents: Number of casualties due to indus2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (Fiscal year) trial accidents, per million man-hours worked. Employment rate of disabled persons Annual Report 2016 25 CONSIDERATION FOR THE ENVIRONMENT On the basis of the “OKI Group Environmental Policy” developed by taking environmental issues into consideration, the OKI Group plans specific activities and implements them under the banner of our “Environmental Vision 2020” that comprises midand long-term targets around four themes. Moreover, we operate environment management systems for the entire Group as the foundation for our environmental management. OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 OKI Group Environmental Management System 1.Realization of low-carbon societies Maximize energy consumption efficiency in the business In-house operations, and reduce energy consumption by 8% per OKI Group Top Executive Environmental nominal sales (corresponds to 12% reduction per real sales) from fiscal 2012. Contribute to the realization of Audit Committee Review by third-party examining bodies low-carbon societies by continuously providing environPlan Act mentally friendly products and services. Group Environmental Policy 2.Prevention of pollution Group Environmental Review by Executives Check Activity Plan Reduce emission of chemical substances, that can adversely affect people’s health and environment, into the atmosphere Manager Responsible for and water system by 8% per nominal sales (corresponds to 15.5% reduction per real sales) from fiscal 2012. Environmental Management 3.Resource circulation Increase the amount of recycling of used products by 25% Plan Check from fiscal 2012. In addition, minimize the new input Monitoring of plan implementation Action Plan resources through expanded recycling of waste materials, Measurement of compliance status Check reduced input material during production and promotion of environmentally friendly designs. Business Unit/Group Company 4.Biodiversity conservation Do Engage in conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity through prevention of global warming, prevention of air Environmental impact reduction activities through products and water pollution caused by chemical substances, Environmental impact reduction expansion of recycling processes and minimization of new activities through business activities input resources. OKI Group Main Environmental Activity Plan (Fiscal Year 2015): Targets and Achievements Category Activity Content Fiscal 2015 Targets → Outcome Realization of low-carbon societies 5 or more products → 7 products Products Development of energy-saving products (reduction of over 50% in comparison to conventional products) Energy-savings in business locations Reduction of 8% or more → 1% reduction Business activities (plants and offices) (consumption vs FY2012*1) Prevention of pollution Development of products complying with regulations Products 30 or more products → 49 products on chemical substances in products Reduction of chemical substance emissions from Reduction of 7% or more → 3.2% reduction plants (atmosphere/water/soil) (consumption vs FY2012*2) Business activities Compliance with chemical substance related Compliance with legal audits; zero legal violations → regulations (atmosphere/water/soil) achieved Resource circulation Recycling of used products Over 4,000t → 3,330t Products Development of easily recyclable products 20 or more products → 30 products Implement zero emissions at 11 sites in Japan → Business activities Reduction and appropriate disposal of waste achieved Common Realization of low-carbon societies/prevention of Biodiversity conservation Promotion of the above initiatives pollution/resource circulation Comprehension level 95 points → 95 points Employee education Implementation of training based on in-house needs (14 lectures conducted) *1 Energy consumption (converted in crude oil: kℓ)/consolidated sales (100 million yen) *2 Chemical substance emissions (t)/output (Billions of yen) 26 Annual Report 2016 Environmental Activities across Life-cycles Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Impacts via Products As an enterprise supporting social infrastructure, the OKI We are actively pressing forward with initiatives on “the Group delivers safety and security to customers and comreduction of power consumption,” “conformity with regulamunities, while ensuring its compliance with laws and regutions to control chemical substances,” and “resource conserlations and reduction of environmental impacts in each step vation” so we can contribute to reducing our environmental of product life-cycle. impact by offering environmentally-friendly products. •OKI Group Life-cycle CO2 Emissions •Standby Power Consumption The OKI Group conducts life-cycle CO2 surveys so as to grasp CO2 Key for Energy-saving ATMs emissions across its entire supply chain in Japan and overseas. “ATM-Bank IT Pro” and the space-saving The survey results showed that the entire Group’s CO2 emisATM “CP21Z” consume much less electricity sions across all life-cycles came to about 2 million tons, and about in standby mode than the previous models. 60% of these emissions are Energy-saving features such as flexibility to from when our products are Breakdown of the Ratios of manage the power source of each peripheral in use. We thus need to do OKI Group Life-cycle CO2 unit individually while ensuring instant startup Emissions (FY 2015) more to improve the energy from standby mode so as not to affect easeefficiency of our products 64% of-use for customers successfully reduced while ensuring we satisfy our electricity use by up to 75% for “ATM-Bank customers’ needs. IT Pro” and by up to 60% for “CP21Z”. ATM “CP21Z” The OKI Group is pushing 31% forward with measures to promote reductions in enviInitiatives to Reduce Environmental Impacts in Business Activities ronmental impacts such as 5% 0.3% 0.04% improving the energy effiProcurement Production Transportation Product Use Disposal At every OKI Group site, various activities to contribute to ciency of our products. reducing our environmental impacts are moving forward. •Internal System to Promote Energy-Saving Products •Production Line Reforms Reduce Electricity The OKI Group has introduced a system to certify prodand Resource Use by 70% ucts with superior environmental performance as “OKI Eco At Nagano OKI, the introduction of Point DIP machines for Products.” For energy-efficient performance in particular, attaching electronic parts to printed circuit boards reduced the system promotes the development energy-saving prodelectricity use for this stage of the production process by ucts by establishing standards for three levels of energy74% and solder use by 70%. savings effect with the highest rank going to products that Before this, vast amounts of electricity were required to reduce energy use by at least 50% versus the previous heat the solder into a molten form so entire circuit boards model and others. could be dipped into the molten solder bath and the parts In fiscal year 2015, seven products were newly regissoldered onto the boards. With Point DIP machines, it is postered in the system under the highest rank of “Eco Product sible to apply solder at the necessary spots with pinpoint preDouble Plus.” cision, sharply reducing electricity and solder use. Environmental Activities of the OKI Group from the Perspective of Life-cycle Procurement Production Transportation Product Use Disposal • Improvement of • Selection of energyproduction efﬁciency Low-carbon efﬁcient components • Modal shifts • Energy-saving products • Shortening of product • Re-examination of • Reduction in transportation • Optimization of product loading • Use of remote maintenance recovery routes societies facility operations frequency through • Reductions in size and weight • Simpliﬁcation of organization • Use of biomass plastic • Renewal of production bulk purchase facilities • Reduction of chemical substance usage and emission Prevention • Procurement of components • Adoption of packing • Reduction in the quantity of • Reduction in the quantity of • Prevention of mixing and materials that do not materials that do not contain chemical substances used in chemical substances used in of pollution hazardous substances contain hazardous substances prohibited substances products and packing materials products and packing materials • Adoption of replacement substances Resource • Optimization of input materials • Simple packing • Extension of product lifespan • Recycling of used products • Optimization of procurement • Optimization of input resources • Reuse of transportation • Reduction of maintenance • Design for simple recycling circulation • Reuse of packing materials • Recycling of waste materials components • Reductions in size and weight Details of the OKI Group’s environmental activities are provided in Website “Environmental Conservation”: the “OKI Group Environmental Report” and on our website. http://www.oki.com/en/eco/ Annual Report 2016 27 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION As a good corporate citizen, the OKI Group will consider and take actions in order to realize the genuine enrichment of society, and will implement social contribution activities that earn the support of the public. We in the OKI Group take an organized stance to promote support of donating, community contributions and employee volunteer work. a local soy sauce maker and relayed streaming video of the Ongoing Reconstruction Support for Earthquake Disaster-Affected Areas inside of kura brewing warehouse at the island’s soy sauce maker via a network link back to the main school where the The OKI Group is engaged in ongoing support activities to help children could enjoy a “virtual” tour, learning about the history rebuild areas damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake. of the soy sauce brewing warehouse and the series of steps As part of its voluntary support activities, the Group has that goes into making soy sauce. since fiscal year 2013 participated in “Collective Action for Recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake” organized by the Global Compact Network Japan as a part of voluntary Implementing Volunteer Activities for Environmental Preservation at Home and Overseas activities to support the “Watari Green Belt Project,” which aims at the re-growth of the tide-prevention forest in Watari At OKI Group sites at Town, Miyagi Prefecture. home and overseas, In response to the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquakes that hapwe implement ongoing pened in April 2016, we contributed ¥3 million for use in the volunteer programs for restoration of the affected region and to rescue those affected. employees to contribute to activities with an Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Support Activities in Fiscal Year 2015 environmental conserOKI employees volunteer to participate vation purpose. in a mangrove planting event. • Volunteer activities for reconstruction support by employees (Watari Town, Miyagi Prefecture): a total of 18 employees Environmental Conservative Activities in Fiscal Year 2015 • Organizing Tohoku product fairs at OKI Warabi Culture Festival (for Activity location Overview Fukushima Prefecture and Miyagi Prefecture) Japan A total of 207 employees participated in ﬁve (Takasaki City, Gunma Prefecture; Izu tree planting volunteer activities centering on • Participation in the “Christmas Project to Send Picture Books to City, Shizuoka Prefecture; and Komoro improvement cutting and periodic thinning at Children in the Disaster Area” organized by the Japan PhilanthropCity, Nagano Prefecture) satoyama forested areas. ic Association: Donated 115 books collected across the Group Employees and their family members, 200 in total, participated in planting 6,000 saplings Thailand deemed to be nationally designated protected (Saraburi Province) tree varieties in October in an area where trees had been felled. Donating through “The OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love” Thailand Employees, 81 in total, helped plant 300 man(Chonburi Province) grove trees in a coastal area in June. Employees and their family members, 60 in total, We in the OKI Group have made various assistance efforts China released 150,000 juvenile ﬁsh on World Oceans (Shenzhen City, Guangdong Province) Day, a United Nations-sponsored ceremonial through “The OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love,” used to support the event, in June. actions of volunteer groups. The participants in the fund include executives and employees of the member companies of the OKI Group (30 companies as of April 2016) who agree with the Voice purport of the program. As a part of this, we have since fiscal Participated in Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers year 1996 provided ongoing support to the blood program of OKI Software, No. 2 Group Telecom Solutions, Haruka Ota the Japanese Red Cross Society (JRCS). In February 2016, we donated our 26th vehicle for collecting blood donations to the For two years since July 2013, using the participation system for OKI Shizuoka JRCS blood center in Shizuoka Prefecture. Group in the Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers program, I have been involved in installing a library system at Tanzania’s National Central Library and instructing library personnel on how to use it. In addiSupport for Field Trips for Disabled Elementary Students tion to a shortage of engineers and frequent electricity outages, I also directly encountered cultural differOKI WorkWel, a special purpose subsidiary of the OKI Group, ences in areas such as working styles provides ongoing support for career training to students at and ways of thinking. As the employees and I gradually built up a sense special support schools. In January 2016, via a distant learning of trust and the system came online, solution we provided with voice, video, and whiteboard funcI came to realize the importance of tions to the Takamatsu Special School in Kagawa Prefecture, seeking out ground for compromise Instructing library personwe enabled students with physical disabilities at the school’s and speaking with others regardless nel on how to input data elementary program to enjoy “virtual” social study field trips. of the environment as well as asseron its book collection into tive action. the library system A teacher at the Shodoshima-island school annex went to 28 Annual Report 2016 OKI GROUP’S CSR The OKI Group’s initiatives of corporate social responsibility (CSR) focus on contributing to the improvement of the quality of life for people around the world through sound corporate activities based on our corporate philosophy. True to the company’s enterprising spirit, our employees always take on new challenges and carry out corporate activities with sincerity. This is our response to the trust our stakeholders place in us. Foundation of CSR at the OKI Group Participation in the United Nations Global Compact The OKI Group, as described in its corporate philosophy, In May 2010, OKI signed the United Nations Global Compact aims at contributing to people around the world through its to declare its support for the Compact. It also became a memcore business, namely the provision of products and services ber of the Global Compact Network that can serve the development of the information age. What Japan, which is a local network in underlies the Group’s CSR initiatives is our commitment to Japan. The OKI Group supports the the pursuit and fulfillment of this idea. Global Compact’s 10 principles in the Committed to CSR, OKI established the OKI Group areas of human rights, labor, environCharter of Corporate Conduct as a statement of values that ment, and anti-corruption, and will OKI Group companies need to share for the entire Group to work to contribute to creating a susfulfill its social responsibilities in accordance with the corpotainable society. rate philosophy. In addition, in accordance with the Charter, OKI set up the OKI Group Code of Conduct to be conformed to by all OKI executive officers and employees. This Code of The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Conduct has been adopted across all Group companies and incorporated into OKI’s educational programs. Human Rights We will further strengthen contributions from our core busiPrinciple 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internaness as we reconfirm the social responsibilities the OKI Group tionally proclaimed human rights; and ought to fulfill in light of both international norms such as our Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. support for the United Nations Global Compact and adoption Labor of ISO26000, an internationally recognized standard for social responsibility and the trust our stakeholders place in us. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; CSR Initiatives by the OKI Group Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Contributing to the Improvement of the Quality of Life Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and for People around the World occupation. Customers Shareholders/Investors Business Partners Environment Local Communities Global Environment Governments NPO/NGO Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environCorporate Activities Creation of Economic Value mental challenges; コーポレート・ガバナンス Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responCorporate Governance sibility; and Customer Satisfaction Good Communication Respect for Human Rights Respect for Employees Social Contribution Regional Awareness A Better Fair Corporate Activities Intellectual Property and Environmental Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Information Management Working Environment Conservation Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, inCompliance cluding extortion and bribery. Employees 7KH2.,*URXS·V Activities Social Responsibilities Stakeholders in Business Status of our SRI Index Inclusion A socially responsible investing (SRI) index is a stock index which looks at CSR as important evaluation criteria in addition to financial aspects. As of April 1, 2016, OKI is a stock in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investing Index (MS-SRI)*. *The Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) is the first socially responsible investment index in Japan. Morningstar Japan K.K. selects 150 companies from among approximately 3,600 listed companies in Japan by assessing their social responsibility, and converts their stock prices into the index. Annual Report 2016 29 FINANCIAL SECTION FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars (Note 1) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012* 2016 For the year: Net sales ¥ 490,314 ¥ 540,153 ¥ 483,112 ¥ 455,824 ¥ 423,480 $ 4,377,803 Cost of sales 361,250 399,647 354,635 337,406 316,939 3,225,446 Gross profit 129,064 140,506 128,477 118,417 106,541 1,152,357 Operating income 18,594 32,415 27,196 13,475 11,980 166,017 Other income (expenses), net (6,905) 5,116 4,564 5,159 (6,386) (61,651) Profit (loss) before income taxes 11,689 37,532 31,761 18,634 5,593 104,366 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent 6,609 33,091 27,359 13,599 1,555 59,008 Comprehensive income (10,271) 39,462 22,442 16,040 3,461 (91,705) At the year end: Total current assets ¥ 277,630 ¥ 293,629 ¥ 278,522 ¥ 246,994 ¥ 273,888 $ 2,478,839 Total investments and long-term receivables 60,343 69,228 60,291 28,638 27,031 538,776 Property, plant and equipment, net 56,691 57,176 56,193 57,829 52,592 506,169 Other assets 17,111 19,323 17,506 15,861 14,552 152,776 Total assets 411,776 439,358 412,514 349,322 368,065 3,676,571 Total current liabilities 199,162 211,580 242,272 197,129 214,355 1,778,232 Total long-term liabilities 105,228 106,362 78,322 95,567 112,457 939,535 Total net assets 107,384 121,414 91,918 56,625 41,251 958,785 Capital stock 44,000 44,000 44,000 44,000 44,000 392,857 U.S. dollars Yen (Note 1) Per share amounts: Earnings per share ¥ 7.61 ¥ 40.03 ¥ 36.21 ¥ 17.24 ¥ 0.32 $ 0.06 Cash dividends per share (Common stock) 5.00 5.00 3.00 — — 0.04 Number of shareholders (Common stock) 87,089 84,926 85,073 88,516 95,618 Number of employees 20,190 20,653 21,090 17,459 16,736 Ratios (%): Return on equity 5.8 % 31.8 % 37.8 % 28.0 % 3.9 % Return on assets 1.6 7.8 7.2 3.8 0.4 Shareholders’ equity 25.9 27.2 21.5 16.1 11.2 *As restated (See Note 2) Note 1: The U.S. dollar amounts in this annual report are translated from yen, for convenience only, at ¥112 = U.S. $1.00, the approximate exchange rate prevailing on March 31, 2016. Note 2: On August 8, 2012, the Company announced that improper accounting had been conducted at an overseas consolidated subsidiary. Based on the investigation reports by outside experts, the Company restated the consolidated financial statements for 2012. 30 Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL SECTION FINANCIAL REVIEW Annual Report for OKI Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and its Consolidated Subsidiaries OVERVIEW OF THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2016 NET SALES AND OPERATING INCOME (Billions (Billions Net Sales Operating Income During the fiscal year under review, in the global economy, the of yen) of yen) 600 40 economy in the United States was on a recovery track as seen in improved employment condition and increased consumer 540.2 spending, while the economies in Europe also moved towards a 483.1 490.3 32.4 moderate recovery. The Japanese economy continued to recover 30 400 27.2 mildly overall, supported by improvements in employment conditions and corporate earnings, despite some effects of economic slowdown in emerging countries such as China and the drop in 20 18.6 crude oil price. In this business environment, the OKI Group recorded net sales 200 of ¥490.3 billion (a year-on-year decrease of 9.2%), owing to a de10 crease in sales volume in the Info-Telecom Systems business and Printers business. Operating income was ¥18.6 billion (a year-onyear decrease of ¥13.8 billion), due to factors such as a decrease in 0 0 sales volume and the effect of exchange rate change in the Print(Ended 2014 2015 2016 (Ended 2014 2015 2016 ers business. March 31) March 31) SEGMENT INFORMATION Info-Telecom Systems Info-Telecom Systems Net sales came to ¥304.8 billion (a year-on-year decrease of (Billions Net Sales (Billions Operating Income 13.5%). In the solutions & services business, sales increased as of yen) of yen) the business was generally firm thanks to winning new orders 400 30 from enterprises. Telecom systems business’ sales decreased 352.5 25.9 because the investments related to existing network systems by 303.6 304.8 23.4 telecom carriers came to an end and sales of them was ended 300 in the first quarter. In the social infrastructure systems business, 20 sales decreased owing to the digitizing demand for firefighting 16.5 wireless system which peaked out in the previous fiscal year, while 200 the demands for flight control systems and disaster prevention systems for municipalities were firm. In the mechatronics systems 10 business, despite the robust sales of cash handling equipment 100 in Japan, sales decreased due to a fall in the sales of ATMs to overseas caused by ongoing suspension of shipments to our sales partner in China, and continued restraint on capital investment of 0 0 the customers in Brazil due to the local economic slowdown. Operating income came to ¥16.5 billion (a year-on-year de(Ended 2014 2015 2016 (Ended 2014 2015 2016 March 31) March 31) crease of ¥9.4 billion) due to the decreased sales volume, which offset our efforts in fixed cost reduction, etc. Printers Printers (Billions Net Sales (Billions Operating Income Net sales amounted to ¥124.6 billion (a year-on-year decrease of of yen) of yen) 3.6%). In LED printers, sales were generally firm for high-value150 10.0 added strategic products including color MFPs, our main focus, 129.3 partially due to strengthening the sales support system. On the 124.8 124.6 120 other hand, unit sales of existing products, mainly color SFPs for 7.5 office use, decreased due to the impact of the shrinking market 6.7 and our decision to maintain the price level amid the intensifying 90 price competition in the market. From the late second quarter, 5.0 5.1 however, we selectively revised the price of products, whereby 60 the falling sales volume stopped. On October 1, 2015, we acquired wide format printer business from Seiko Instruments Inc. 2.5 Operating income amounted to ¥1.4 billion (a year-on-year 30 decrease of ¥5.3 billion) due to a decline in sales volume and the 1.4 effects of foreign exchange rates. 0 0 (Ended 2014 2015 2016 (Ended 2014 2015 2016 March 31) March 31) Annual Report 2015 31 FINANCIAL SECTION FINANCIAL REVIEW EMS Segment, Others PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF PARENT Net sales in the EMS segment came to ¥42.4 billion (a year-on-year Profit attributable to owners of parent decreased by ¥26.5 billion increase of 5.1%) particularly due to the solid sales of circuit board year on year to ¥6.6 billion, due to recording foreign exchange lossbusiness owing to the effect of the acquisition of Ome Factory of es in this fiscal year despite posting foreign exchange gains in nonYokogawa Manufacturing Corporation from Yokogawa Electric Coroperating income in the previous fiscal year. Against this backdrop, poration on April 1, 2015. Operating income increased to ¥2.3 billion earnings per share came to ¥7.61 for the fiscal year ended March (a year-on-year increase of ¥0.3 billion). 31, 2016. Net sales in the Others came to ¥18.5 billion (a year-on-year increase of 2.2%) and operating income increased to ¥4.2 billion (a ASSETS AND LIABILITIES year-on-year increase of ¥0.7 billion) thanks to the continued steady At the end of the fiscal year under review, total assets decreased performance by reed switches and other components. by ¥27.6 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year to ¥411.8 billion. Meanwhile, shareholders’ equity decreased by ¥12.9 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year to ¥106.7 billion mainly due to the decrease of ¥15.3 billion in accumulated other comprehensive income and distribution of ordinary dividends of ¥4.3 billion, despite the recording of profit attributable to owners of parent of ¥6.6 billion. As a result, shareholders’ equity ratio stood at 25.9%. With respect to major decreases in assets, there were decreasEMS Segment, Others es of ¥5.8 billion in cash and deposits, ¥6.6 billion in inventories, (Billions (Billions ¥5.8 billion in investment securities, and ¥3.2 billion in net defined of yen) Net Sales of yen) Operating Income 80 8 benefit asset. Total liabilities decreased by ¥13.5 billion. The major decrease was ¥13.6 billion in notes and accounts payable – trade. Loans pay6.5 60 58.4 60.8 6 able increased by ¥14.5 billion from ¥107.6 billion at the end of the 54.7 5.5 previous year to ¥122.1 billion. 2.3 4.5 2.0 CASH FLOW 40 4 Net cash used in operating activities amounted to ¥3.6 billion (an 37.1 40.3 42.4 1.7 increase of ¥44.6 billion year on year in cash outflow) mainly due to deterioration in profit before income taxes and working capital. 20 2 4.2 Net cash used in investment activities amounted to ¥13.8 bil2.8 3.5 lion (a decline of ¥4.8 billion year on year in cash outflow) mainly 17.6 18.1 18.5 due to purchases of property, plant, and equipment. 0 0 As a result, free cash flow, which is the sum of cash flows from (Ended 2014 2015 2016 (Ended 2014 2015 2016 operating activities and cash flows from investment activities, reMarch 31) March 31) sulted in a net outflow of ¥17.3 billion (an increase of ¥39.8 billion EMS Others EMS Others year on year in cash outflow). Profit Attributable to Cash Flows (Billions Owners of Parent/ (Billions of yen) （%） of yen) Return on Equity (ROE) 60 60 60 41.0 31.9 40 40 30 37.8 33.1 31.8 11.1 27.4 20 20 0 (4.3) (20.7)(3.6) 6.6 (14.0) (13.8) 5.8 (18.6) 0 0 -30 (Ended 2014 2015 2016 (Ended 2014 2015 2016 March 31) March 31) Profit Attributable to Cash Flows from Operating Activities Owners of Parent (left scale) Cash Flows from Investing Activities Return on Equity (ROE) (right scale) Cash Flows from Financing Activities 32 Annual Report 2015 Net cash provided by financing activities amounted to ¥11.1 bilof ATMs to overseas is forecast to decrease due to the fall in sales lion (an increase of ¥31.8 billion year on year in cash inflow) mainly to our partner in China from that in the previous fiscal year. Also in due to an increase of loans payable. China, there was a reactionary decline from the OKI brand products As a result, cash and cash equivalents at the end of the fiscal in the previous term. In Brazil, the shipment of large-scale projects to year under review decreased from ¥53.6 billion at the end of the begin will contribute to the business performance. For overseas ATM previous fiscal year to ¥46.3 billion. business, we continue to pursue midto long-term growth. In Printers business, as a result of strengthening the sales CAPITAL EXPENDITURES, DEPRECIATION, channel support system in the United States and Europe, sales of AND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES strategic products is gradually growing to improve the product mix. Capital expenditures increased by ¥0.2 billion year on year to ¥11.7 Going forward, we aim to expand sales in the professional markets billion and depreciation increased by ¥0.4 billion year on year to through exploring the markets of certain industries such as medi¥11.2 billion. R&D expenses totaled ¥13.3 billion, down ¥0.5 billion cal and design, deepening our strategy focused on “niche and year on year on declines at each segment. high-value-added,” as well as benefitting from the sales synergy generated with wide format printer business. The EMS business has been growing field since its founding. OUTLOOK FOR We will work for its further growth in the next fiscal year. FISCAL YEAR ENDING MARCH 31, 2017 In the Others, steady performance will continue in the componentsrelated business of our subsidiaries. In the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017, while the economies in The above forecasts for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017 the Unites States and Europe are expected to remain on a moderare based on exchange rate assumptions of ¥110 to the U.S. dollar ate recovery trend and the Japanese economy is also expected and ¥125 to the euro. to continue toward recovery, there are concerns for the downturn risks in the global economy due to the economic slowdown in China and other emerging countries. As the business outlook for the OKI Group for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017, we project a ¥9.7 billion year-on-year increase in net sales to ¥500.0 billion, a ¥1.4 billion increase in operating income to ¥20.0 billion, a ¥6.6 billion increase in ordinary income to ¥18.0 billion and a ¥5.4 billion increase in profit attributable to owners of Performance Forecasts for the Fiscal Year Ending March 31, 2017 parent to ¥12.0 billion. Currency translation differences are not fac(Billions of yen, unless otherwise stated) tored in for the non-operating income and expenses. The ICT business is forecast to be steady mainly in the traffic Profit infrastructure-related systems including flight control and road Operating Attributable to Earnings Net Sales traffic. For solution-related business, improvements in project mix Income Owners of per Share (Yen) are expected. Parent In the Mechatronics Systems business, solid performance of cash ¥500.0 ¥20.0 ¥12.0 ¥13.82 handling equipment is projected in the domestic market. The volume Capital Expenditures/ R&D Expenses/ (Billions Depreciation (property, plant (Billions R&D Expenses to Net Sales （%） of yen) of yen) and equipment, at cost) 15 20 6.0 11.5 11.7 10.8 11.2 10.8 13.8 10 10.2 13.3 13.0 10 3.0 2.7 5 2.7 2.6 0 0 0 (Ended 2014 2015 2016 (Ended 2014 2015 2016 March 31) March 31) Capital Expenditures R&D Expenses (left scale) Depreciation (property, plant R&D Expenses to Net Sales (right scale) and equipment, at cost) Annual Report 2015 33 FINANCIAL SECTION CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries As of March 31, 2016 Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars (Note 2) ASSETS 2016 2015 2016 Current assets: Cash on hand and in banks (Note 7): Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 46,322 ¥ 53,598 $ 413,589 Other 1,507 33 13,455 Notes and accounts receivable (Note 7): Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 1,426 1,674 12,732 Other 146,438 147,275 1,307,482 Less: Allowance for doubtful receivables (8,314) (7,940) (74,232) Inventories (Note 4) 79,469 86,055 709,544 Other current assets (Note 9) 10,780 12,932 96,250 Total current assets 277,630 293,629 2,478,839 Investments and long-term receivables: Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates (Notes 5 and 7) 6,182 6,236 55,196 Other investments in securities (Notes 3, 6 and 7) 26,583 32,509 237,348 Asset for retirement benefits (Note 8) 27,286 30,478 243,625 Other long-term receivables 1,108 824 9,892 Less: Allowance for doubtful receivables (818) (820) (7,303) Total investments and long-term receivables 60,343 69,228 538,776 Property, plant and equipment, at cost: Land 13,079 12,461 116,776 Buildings 78,563 77,351 701,455 Machinery and equipment 120,356 120,363 1,074,607 Construction in progress 576 785 5,142 212,577 210,961 1,898,008 Less: Accumulated depreciation (155,885) (153,785) (1,391,830) Property, plant and equipment, net 56,691 57,176 506,169 Other assets (Note 9) 17,111 19,323 152,776 Total assets ¥ 411,776 ¥ 439,358 $ 3,676,571 34 Annual Report 2016 Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars (Note 2) LIABILITIES 2016 2015 2016 Current liabilities: Short-term borrowings (Notes 6 and 7) ¥ 50,597 ¥ 44,981 $ 451,758 Current portion of long-term debt (Notes 6 and 7) 22,095 18,348 197,276 Notes and accounts payable (Note 7): Unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 586 689 5,232 Other 79,684 93,780 711,464 Other accrued expenses (Note 7) 33,265 38,589 297,008 Other current liabilities (Note 9) 12,932 15,191 115,464 Total current liabilities 199,162 211,580 1,778,232 Long-term liabilities: Long-term debt (Notes 6 and 7) 49,391 44,241 440,991 Liability for retirement benefits (Note 8) 25,304 23,196 225,928 Other long-term liabilities (Note 9) 30,532 38,924 272,607 Total long-term liabilities 105,228 106,362 939,535 Total liabilities 304,391 317,943 2,717,776 NET ASSETS Shareholders’ equity (Notes 10 and 17): Capital stock: Authorized—2,400,000,000 shares Common stock: Issued—872,176,028 shares in 2016 and 2015 44,000 44,000 392,857 Additional paid-in capital 21,673 21,554 193,508 Retained earnings 44,255 41,989 395,133 Less: Treasury stock, at cost: 3,782,833 shares in 2016 and 3,705,236 shares in 2015 (468) (453) (4,178) Total shareholders’ equity 109,460 107,090 977,321 Accumulated other comprehensive income: Net unrealized holding gain on other securities 4,642 8,291 41,446 Loss on deferred hedges (562) (72) (5,017) Translation adjustments (12,835) (10,433) (114,598) Retirement benefits liability adjustments 6,028 14,750 53,821 Total accumulated other comprehensive income (2,726) 12,536 (24,339) Subscription rights to shares 79 79 705 Non-controlling interests 572 1,708 5,107 Total net assets 107,384 121,414 958,785 Contingent liabilities (Note 16) Total liabilities and net assets ¥ 411,776 ¥ 439,358 $ 3,676,571 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. Annual Report 2016 35 FINANCIAL SECTION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries Year ended March 31, 2016 Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars (Note 2) 2016 2015 2016 Net sales ¥ 490,314 ¥ 540,153 $ 4,377,803 Cost of sales 361,250 399,647 3,225,446 Gross profit 129,064 140,506 1,152,357 Selling, general and administrative expenses 110,469 108,090 986,330 Operating income 18,594 32,415 166,017 Other income (expenses): Interest expense (1,990) (2,357) (17,767) Interest and dividend income 1,180 1,057 10,535 Equity in earnings of affiliates 423 652 3,776 Foreign exchange gain (loss), net (6,374) 7,035 (56,910) Insurance dividend 335 270 2,991 Litigation expenses (376) (223) (3,357) Gain on sale of investments in securities 1,935 225 17,276 Loss on sale and disposal of property, plant and equipment (305) (621) (2,723) Loss on impairment of fixed assets (Note 12) (1,059) — (9,455) Provision for environmental measures (Note 13) (247) — (2,205) Other, net (424) (921) (3,785) (6,905) 5,116 (61,651) Profit before income taxes 11,689 37,532 104,366 Income taxes (Note 9): Current 1,916 7,725 17,107 Deferred 4,495 (2,359) 40,133 6,412 5,365 57,250 Profit 5,277 32,166 47,116 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests (1,332) (924) (11,892) Profit attributable to owners of parent (Note 17) ¥ 6,609 ¥ 33,091 $ 59,008 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 36 Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL SECTION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries Year ended March 31, 2016 Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars (Note 2) 2016 2015 2016 Profit (loss) ¥ 5,277 ¥ 32,166 $ 47,116 Other comprehensive income Net unrealized holding gain (loss) on other securities (3,627) 3,930 (32,383) Gain (loss) on deferred hedges (489) 317 (4,366) Translation adjustments (2,688) (82) (24,000) Retirement benefits liability adjustments (8,899) 3,148 (79,455) Share of other comprehensive income of equity-method affiliates 155 (17) 1,383 Total other comprehensive income (15,548) 7,295 (138,821) Comprehensive income ¥ (10,271) ¥ 39,462 $ (91,705) Comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥ (8,653) ¥ 40,395 $ (77,258) Non-controlling interests ¥ (1,617) ¥ (932) $ (14,437) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. Annual Report 2016 37 FINANCIAL SECTION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries Year ended March 31, 2016 Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income Net unrealTotal Numbers Additional Treasury Total ized holding (Loss) gain Translation Retirement accumulated Subscription NonTotal net of shares Capital Retained beneﬁ ts rights to controlling paid-in stock, at sharehold(loss) gain on deferred adjustments liability other assets issued stock earnings shares interests capital cost ers’ equity on other hedges adjustments comprehensecurities sive income (Thousands) Millions of yen Balance at March 31, 2014 731,468 ¥ 44,000 ¥ 21,554 ¥ 18,382 ¥ (432) ¥ 83,504 ¥ 4,333 ¥ (389) ¥ (10,358) ¥ 11,644 ¥ 5,230 ¥ 79 ¥ 3,104 ¥ 91,918 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies (Note 1) (4,522) (4,522) (4,522) Restated balance at April 1, 2014 731,468 44,000 21,554 13,860 (432) 78,982 4,333 (389) (10,358) 11,644 5,230 79 3,104 87,396 Cash dividends paid (4,962) (4,962) (4,962) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent 33,091 33,091 33,091 Purchases of treasury stock (21) (21) (21) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 0 0 Other, net 140,707 3,958 317 (75) 3,106 7,305 — (1,395) 5,910 Net changes during the year 140,707 — — 28,129 (21) 28,107 3,958 317 (75) 3,106 7,305 — (1,395) 34,018 Balance at March 31, 2015 872,176 44,000 21,554 41,989 (453) 107,090 8,291 (72) (10,433) 14,750 12,536 79 1,708 121,414 Cash dividends paid (4,343) (4,343) (4,343) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent 6,609 6,609 6,609 Purchases of treasury stock (14) (14) (14) Change in parent’s ownership interests arising from capital increase of consolidated subsidiary 118 118 118 Other, net (3,649) (489) (2,402) (8,722) (15,262) — (1,136) (16,399) Net changes during the year — — 118 2,265 (14) 2,369 (3,649) (489) (2,402) (8,722) (15,262) — (1,136) (14,030) Balance at March 31, 2016 872,176 ¥ 44,000 ¥ 21,673 ¥ 44,255 ¥ (468) ¥ 109,460 ¥ 4,642 ¥ (562) ¥ (12,835) ¥ 6,028 ¥ (2,726) ¥ 79 ¥ 572 ¥ 107,384 Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income Net unrealTotal Numbers Additional Treasury Total ized holding (Loss) gain Translation Retirement Subscription NonCapital Retained ts accumulated Total net of shares paid-in stock, at sharehold(loss) gain on deferred adjustments beneﬁ other rights to controlling assets issued stock earnings liability capital cost ers’ equity on other hedges comprehenshares interests adjustments securities sive income (Thousands) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 2) Balance at March 31, 2015 872,176 $ 392,857 $ 192,446 $ 374,901 $ (4,044) $ 956,160 $ 74,026 $ (642) $ (93,151) $ 131,696 $ 111,928 $ 705 $ 15,250 $ 1,084,053 Cash dividends paid (38,776) (38,776) (38,776) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent 59,008 59,008 59,008 Purchases of treasury stock (125) (125) (125) Change in parent’s ownership interests arising from capital increase of consolidated subsidiary 1,053 1,053 1,053 Other, net (32,580) (4,366) (21,446) (77,875) (136,267) — (10,142) (146,419) Net changes during the year — — 1,053 20,223 (125) 21,151 (32,580) (4,366) (21,446) (77,875) (136,267) — (10,142) (125,267) Balance at March 31, 2016 872,176 $ 392,857 $ 193,508 $ 395,133 $ (4,178) $ 977,321 $ 41,446 $ (5,017) $ (114,598) $ 53,821 $ (24,339) $ 705 $ 5,107 $ 958,785 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 38 Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL SECTION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries Year ended March 31, 2016 Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars (Note 2) 2016 2015 2016 Cash flows from operating activities: Profit attributable to owners of parents ¥ 6,609 ¥ 33,091 $ 59,008 Adjustments to reconcile profit attributable to owners of parent to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 14,382 14,464 128,410 Loss on impairment of fixed assets 1,059 9 9,455 (Reversal of) provisions 466 (1,945) 4,160 Equity in earnings of affiliates (423) (652) (3,776) Gain on sale of investments in securities (1,928) (224) (17,214) Loss on sale and disposition of property, plant and equipment 305 590 2,723 Deferred income taxes 4,495 (2,359) 40,133 Other, net 2,968 (2,010) 26,500 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Notes and accounts receivable (8,743) 8,693 (78,062) Inventories 3,539 3,905 31,598 Notes and accounts payable (4,784) (8,906) (42,714) Accrued income taxes (5,021) 2,229 (44,830) Other accrued expenses (2,079) 356 (18,562) Other assets and liabilities (14,419) (6,241) (128,741) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (3,573) 40,999 (31,901) Cash flows from investing activities: Increase in investments and other long-term receivables (240) (1,656) (2,142) Purchases of property, plant and equipment (11,598) (10,598) (103,553) Purchases of intangible assets (2,630) (3,931) (23,482) Proceeds from sales of investment securities 2,680 319 23,928 Purchases of investment in subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation — (2,717) — Payment for businesses acquired (1,973) — (17,616) Net cash used in investing activities (13,762) (18,583) (122,875) Cash flows from financing activities: Increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings 6,622 (12,442) 59,125 Issuance of long-term debt 28,537 48,460 254,794 Repayment of long-term debt (19,249) (49,637) (171,866) Proceeds from payment by non-controlling shareholders 608 — 5,428 Proceeds from sale and lease-back transactions 1,428 927 12,750 Repayment of lease obligations (2,470) (3,084) (22,053) Cash dividends paid (4,314) (4,917) (38,517) Other, net (23) (28) (205) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 11,138 (20,724) 99,446 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1,079) 997 (9,633) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (7,276) 2,688 (64,964) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 53,598 50,866 478,553 Cash of newly consolidated subsidiaries at beginning of the year — 44 — Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year ¥ 46,322 ¥ 53,598 $ 413,589 Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information: Cash paid during the year for: Interest ¥ 1,938 ¥ 2,423 $ 17,303 Income taxes ¥ 6,938 ¥ 5,495 $ 61,946 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. Annual Report 2016 39 FINANCIAL SECTION NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and consolidated subsidiaries March 31, 2016 1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES translated at the contracted rates. (a) Basis of presentation All revenues and expenses are translated at the average The accompanying consolidated financial statements of Oki Electric rate for the month prior to the transaction. Industry Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) and consolidated subsidiaries Gains and losses arising from foreign exchange differ(the “Group”) have been prepared in accordance with accountences are credited or charged to income in the year in which ing principles generally accepted in Japan, which are different in they are made or incurred, except for those arising from certain respects as to the application and disclosure requirements forward foreign exchange contracts pertaining to long-term of International Financial Reporting Standards, and have been comdebt which are deferred and amortized over the periods of the piled from the consolidated financial statements prepared by the respective contracts. Company as required by the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan. (d) Cash equivalents As permitted, amounts of less than one million yen have been All highly liquid investments, generally with a maturity of three omitted. As a result, the totals shown in the accompanying conmonths or less when purchased, which are readily convertible into solidated financial statements (both in yen and in U.S. dollars) do known amounts of cash and are so near maturity that they reprenot necessarily agree with the sum of the individual amounts. sent only an insignificant risk of any change in value attributable to The accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows, changes in interest rates, are considered cash equivalents. which have not been prepared under the same requirements as those specified in the Japanese accounting standard for cash (e) Securities flows, are presented in a format similar to that required under acOther securities with quoted market prices are carried at market counting standards generally accepted in the United States, and value. The difference between the acquisition cost and the carrythe concept and format are almost identical to those required uning value of other securities, net of the applicable income taxes, is der the Japanese standard. recognized as a component of net assets and is reflected as “Net unrealized holding gain (loss) on other securities.” The cost of (b) Principles of consolidation and accounting for investments other securities sold is computed by the moving average method. in unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates Other securities without quoted market prices are stated at cost The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the based on the moving average method. accounts of the Company and all significant subsidiaries over which substantial control is exerted either through majority ownership of (f) Inventories voting stock and/or by other means. All significant intercompany Inventories are principally stated at cost determined by the folbalances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. lowing methods. Overseas subsidiaries adopt the lower of cost or Investments in significant affiliates are accounted for by the market method. equity method. Other investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries Finished goods—Moving average method and affiliates are stated at cost or less. Where there has been a Work in process—Specific identification method permanent decline in the value of such investments, the Company Raw materials and supplies—Moving average method has written them down to reflect the impairment. (g) Property, plant and equipment, and depreciation (c) Foreign currency transactions (Except for assets leased) (1) The Company translates the revenue and expense accounts of Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation the overseas consolidated subsidiaries at the average rates of of property, plant and equipment is principally computed by the exchange in effect during the year. The balance sheet accounts, declining balance method over the estimated useful lives of the except for the shareholder’s equity, are translated into yen at respective assets. However, buildings (excluding leasehold imthe rates of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date. The provements) acquired on or after April 1, 1998 by the Company and components of the shareholder’s equity are translated at their domestic consolidated subsidiaries are depreciated by the straighthistorical exchange rates. Differences arising from translation line method over their respective estimated useful lives. Significant where two exchange rates have been used are presented under renewals and betterments are capitalized at cost. Maintenance and translation adjustments as a component of net assets. repairs are charged to income. (2) Current and non-current monetary assets and liabilities de(h) Intangible assets and amortization nominated in foreign currencies of the Company and domestic (Except for assets leased) consolidated subsidiaries are translated into yen at the exIntangible assets, including capitalized computer software costs, change rates in effect at the balance sheet date, except for are amortized by the straight-line method over their respective esthose hedged by forward foreign exchange contracts which are timated useful lives. 40 Annual Report 2015 (i) Leases foreign currency exchange rates. Interest-rate swaps which meet Depreciation of assets on finance leases which do not transfer the required criteria are accounted for by a special method (as ownership of the leased assets to the lessee is calculated by the stipulated in the accounting standard for financial instruments) as straight-line method over the lease period with their residual value if the interest rates applied to the interest-rate swaps had originally of zero, except the leases started on or before March 31, 2008. applied to the underlying borrowings. Interest-rate swaps contracts The leases which were started on or before March 31, 2008 are are utilized to hedge market risks which may arise in the future principally accounted for as operating leases. with respect to long-term loans with variable interest rates. The Group has developed hedging policies to control various (j) Retirement benefits aspects of derivatives transactions, including levels of authorization 1) Attributing expected retirement benefits to a period and transaction volume. Based on these policies, the Group hedgWhen calculating retirement benefit obligations, the Company es risks arising from fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates applies the benefit formula basis to attribute expected retireand interest rates. During the period from the inception of a hedge ment benefits to the period until the end of the fiscal year. position to the assessment of its effectiveness, the Group reviews 2) Accounting for actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs the effectiveness of all its hedging policies in order to monitor and Prior service costs are amortized by the straight-line method control the cumulative cash flows and to respond to any changes over a set number of years (11 to 13 years) within the average in the market. remaining years of service of employees. Actuarial gains and losses are amortized by the straight line method over a set num(m) Changes in methods of accounting ber of years (11 to 13 years) within the average remaining years The Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries adopted of service of employees at the time of their accrual in each fis“Revised Accounting Standard for Business Combinations” (ASBJ cal year. Amortization of such gains and losses is deemed to be Statement No.21), “Revised Accounting Standard for Consolidated effective from the year after the one in which they arise. Financial Statements” (ASBJ Statement No.22) and “Revised Accounting Standard for Business Divestitures” (ASBJ State(k) Income taxes ment No.7), effective from April 1, 2015. As a result, under these Deferred income taxes are recognized by the asset and liability revised accounting standards, the accounting treatment for any method under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are deterchanges in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary when the mined based on the difference between financial reporting and the parent retains control over the subsidiary and the corresponding tax bases of the assets and liabilities, and are measured using the accounting for acquisition-related costs were revised. Accounting enacted tax rates and laws which will be in effect when the differtreatment for adjustments to provisional amounts during measureences are expected to reverse. ment period was also changed. In addition, the amendment of the presentation method of profit (loss) attributable to owners of par(l) Hedge accounting ent, and the change from “minority interest” to “non-controlling Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swap contracts interests”, were made. The previous year’s presentation of the are accounted for by hedge accounting which requires that unrealconsolidated financial statements was reclassified to reflect these ized gains or losses be deferred as assets or liabilities. Forward changes in presentation. foreign exchange contracts and currency swap contracts which The Company applies these revised accounting standards from April meet certain criteria are accounted for by the allocation method 1, 2015 on a prospective basis, based on the transitional provisions. which is utilized to hedge against risks arising from fluctuation in The impact on the consolidated financial statements was immaterial. 2. U.S. DOLLAR AMOUNTS The translation of yen amounts into U.S. dollar amounts is included solely for convenience and has been made, as a matter of arithmetic computation only, at ¥112 = U.S.$1.00, the approximate exchange rate prevailing at March 31, 2016. This translation should not be construed as a representation that yen have been, could have been, or could in the future be, converted into U.S. dollars at the above or any other rate. Annual Report 2015 41 FINANCIAL SECTION NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SECURITIES Securities at March 31, 2016 and 2015 were summarized as follows. Securities for which it is extremely difficult to reasonably measure its fair value are not included in the table below. Other securities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Amount Amount Amount recorded Acquisition recorded Acquisition recorded Acquisition Difference Difference Difference in balance costs in balance costs in balance costs sheet sheet sheet Other securities whose fair value recorded in balance sheet exceeds their acquisition costs: Equity securities ¥ 18,065 ¥ 10,930 ¥ 7,135 ¥ 24,337 ¥ 12,085 ¥ 12,251 $ 161,294 $ 97,589 $ 63,705 Subtotal 18,065 10,930 7,135 24,337 12,085 12,251 161,294 97,589 63,705 Other securities whose fair value recorded in balance sheet does not exceed their acquisition costs: Equity securities 1,440 1,965 (525) 1,074 1,322 (248) 12,857 17,544 (4,687) Other 5 5 — 5 5 — 44 44 — Subtotal 1,445 1,970 (525) 1,080 1,328 (248) 12,901 17,589 (4,687) Total ¥ 19,511 ¥ 12,900 ¥ 6,610 ¥ 25,417 ¥ 13,414 ¥ 12,003 $ 174,205 $ 115,178 $ 59,017 4. INVENTORIES Inventories at March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Finished goods ¥ 36,599 ¥ 37,355 $ 326,776 Work in process 19,496 22,406 174,071 Raw materials and supplies 23,373 26,293 208,687 Total ¥ 79,469 ¥ 86,055 $ 709,544 5. INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO UNCONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates at March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Investments stated: By the equity method ¥ 5,515 ¥ 5,162 $ 49,241 At cost or less 594 849 5,303 Advances 72 223 642 Total ¥ 6,182 ¥ 6,236 $ 55,196 42 Annual Report 2016 6. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND LONG-TERM DEBT Short-term borrowings at March 31, 2016 and 2015 consisted of the following: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Loans, principally from banks, at weighted-average interest rates of 1.2% and 1.3% at March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively: Secured ¥ 10,000 ¥ 3,500 $ 89,285 Unsecured 40,597 41,481 362,473 Total ¥ 50,597 ¥ 44,981 $ 451,758 Long-term debts at March 31, 2016 and 2015 were summarized as follows: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Loans from banks, insurance companies and government agencies, due through 2020: Secured ¥ — ¥ 359 $ — Unsecured 71,487 62,230 638,276 Subtotal 71,487 62,589 638,276 Less: Current portion (22,095) (18,348) (197,276) Total ¥ 49,391 ¥ 44,241 $ 440,991 At March 31, 2016, ¥10,000 million ($89,285 thousand) of short-term borrowings were collateralized by assets amounting to ¥14,112 million ($126,000 thousand). As is customary in Japan, both short-term and long-term bank loans are made under general agreements which provide that collateral and guarantees (or additional collateral or guarantees, as appropriate) with respect to present and future indebtedness be given at the request of the lending bank, and that the bank shall have the right, as the obligations become due or in the event of default, to offset the obligations with any cash deposited with the bank. The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt subsequent to March 31, 2016 were summarized as follows: Thousands of U.S. Year ending March 31, Millions of yen dollars 2017 ¥ 22,095 $ 197,276 2018 18,999 169,633 2019 19,209 171,508 2020 10,429 93,116 2021 and thereafter 753 6,723 Total ¥ 71,487 $ 638,276 The Group has access to substantial sources of funds at numerous banks worldwide. Total unused credit available to the Group at March 31, 2016 was ¥22,585 million ($201,651 thousand). 7. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (a) Summary of financial instruments The Group mainly uses short-term deposits and highly safe marketable securities for fund management, and raises its funds primarily through borrowings from financial institutions and issuance of corporate bonds. The Group strives to mitigate credit risks associated with notes and accounts receivable from customers, which are operating receivables, by carrying out customer credit investigations in accordance with regulations for the management of accounts receivable of individual companies. For borrowings, the Group raises short-term funds mainly for working capital and long-term funds for working capital and capital investment. For borrowings exposed to the interest rate risk, the Group applies derivative instruments (interest rate swap transactions) to hedge its risk. The Group executes and manages derivative transactions in accordance with Oki Group’s policy. Annual Report 2016 43 FINANCIAL SECTION NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (b) Disclosure about fair value of financial instruments The fair values of financial instruments at March 31, 2016 and 2015 were summarized as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Amount Amount Amount recorded Fair recorded Fair recorded Fair Difference Difference Difference in balance value in balance value in balance value sheet sheet sheet (1) Cash on hand and in banks (*1) ¥ 47,829 ¥ 47,829 ¥ — ¥ 53,632 ¥ 53,632 ¥ — $ 427,044 $ 427,044 $ — (2) Notes and accounts receivable 135,910 137,895 1,213,482 Allowance for doubtful receivables (*2) (8,314) (7,346) (74,232) 127,596 127,596 — 130,549 130,549 — 1,139,250 1,139,250 — (3) Investments in securities (*3) 22,992 22,481 (510) 28,742 29,803 1,060 205,285 200,723 (4,553) Total assets 198,418 197,908 (510) 212,924 213,985 1,060 1,771,589 1,767,035 (4,553) (1) Notes and accounts payable 65,477 65,477 — 79,053 79,053 — 584,616 584,616 — (2) Short-term borrowings 50,597 50,597 — 44,981 44,981 — 451,758 451,758 — (3) Other accrued expenses 33,265 33,265 — 36,060 36,060 — 297,008 297,008 — (4) Long-term debt (*4) 71,487 72,265 777 62,589 62,844 255 638,276 645,223 6,937 Total liabilities 220,827 221,605 777 222,684 222,939 255 1,971,669 1,978,616 6,937 Derivative transactions (*5) ¥ 3 ¥ 3 ¥ — ¥ 385 ¥ 385 ¥ — $ 26 $ 26 $ — *1 Cash on hand and in banks are included in “Cash and cash equivalents” and “Other” in the consolidated balance sheets. *2 It comprises the allowance for doubtful receivables in respect to Notes and accounts receivable. *3 Investments in securities are included in “Cash and cash equivalents,” “Securities,” “Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates” or “Other investments in securities” in the consolidated balance sheets. *4 Long-term debt that will be reimbursed within one year is classified as “Current portion of long-term debt” in the consolidated balance sheets. *5 The amount of the receivables and payables derived from derivative transactions is presented on a net basis and the amounts in parentheses are liabilities as the result of netting. Notes: 1. Fair value measurements of financial instruments and investment in securities and derivative transaction Assets (1) Cash on hand and in banks, and (2) Notes and accounts receivable These fair values are presented at amount recorded in balance sheets, since they are settled in a short period of time and their fair value reasonably approximates the amount recorded in the balance sheets. (3) Investments in securities The fair value of securities is based on the market price on the stock exchange. The fair value of bond is based on the quotes presented by the financial institutions. Liabilities (1) Notes and accounts payable, (2) Short-term borrowings, and (3) Other accrued expenses These fair values are presented at amount recorded in balance sheets, since they are settled in a short period of time and their fair value reasonably approximates the amount recorded in the balance sheets. (4) Long-term debt The fair value is based primarily on the method of calculation whereby the sum of principal and interest amounts is discounted by an assumed interest rate to be applied for newly borrowed long-term loans. Some long-term borrowings with floating interest rates and related interest rate swaps are accounted for using special accounting treatment applicable to interest rate swaps. Hence, the fair value of a long-term borrowing is based on the method of calculation whereby the sum of principal and interest, treated in combination with the said interest rate swap, is discounted by a reasonably estimable interest rate to be applied for newly borrowed long-term loans under similar borrowing terms. Derivative transactions Described in Note13. 2. Financial instruments whose fair value is considered extremely difficult to assess Unlisted equity securities (¥9,612 million ($85,821 thousand) and ¥9,690 million) at March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, are not included in (3) Securities and investments in securities because they have no market price and it is deemed extremely difficult to assess their fair values. 44 Annual Report 2016 8. RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Company and domestic consolidated subsidiaries have either funded or unfunded defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans. The noncontributory defined benefit plan that is a funded plan adopts a cash balance plan. In this plan, amount of benefit in which the “Point” based on the pay level is multiplied by rate based on the Japanese Government Bonds is provided to employee as pension or lump-sum payment. The lump-sum retirement benefit is provided employee in accordance with the “Point” based on the business results, and the length of service. The lump-sum retirement payment plans are unfunded plans excluding the Company. The Company’s plan is a funded plan due to contribution to the pension and retirement benefit trust. Several overseas consolidated subsidiaries have defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. The Company has pension and retirement benefit trust. Certain consolidated subsidiaries appraise projected benefit obligation and retirement benefit expenses of lump-sum retirement payment plans by the simplified method. The changes in the retirement benefit obligation during the year ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Retirement benefit obligation at April 1, 2015 and 2014 ¥ 112,442 ¥ 108,713 $ 1,003,946 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies — 4,862 — Restated balance at the beginning of the year 112,442 113,575 1,003,946 Service cost 2,868 3,006 25,607 Interest cost 1,341 1,012 11,973 Actuarial gain/loss 9 106 80 Retirement benefit paid (6,766) (6,971) (60,410) Prior service cost — 1,700 — Other (357) 12 (3,187) Retirement benefit obligation at March 31, 2016 and 2015 ¥ 109,538 ¥ 112,442 $ 978,017 The changes in plan assets during the year ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Plan assets at April 1, 2015 and 2014 ¥ 120,103 ¥ 115,995 $ 1,072,348 Expected return on plan assets 2,986 2,878 26,660 Actuarial gain/loss (10,061) 2,293 (89,830) Contributions by the Company and subsidiaries 4,757 4,720 42,473 Retirement benefits paid (5,801) (5,785) (51,794) Plan assets at March 31, 2016 and 2015 ¥ 111,983 ¥ 120,103 $ 999,848 *The plan assets include the Company’s retirement benefit trust of ¥38,983 million ($348,062 thousand) and ¥48,044 million for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The following table sets forth the funded status of the plans and the amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2016 and 2015 for the Company’s and the consolidated subsidiaries’ defined benefit plans: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Funded retirement benefit obligation ¥ 94,864 ¥ 98,239 $ 847,000 Plan assets at fair value (111,983) (120,103) (999,848) (17,119) (21,863) (152,848) Unfunded retirement benefit obligation 14,673 14,203 131,008 Net liability for retirement benefits in the balance sheet ¥ (2,445) ¥ (7,660) $ (21,830) Liability for retirement benefits 24,841 22,817 221,794 Asset for retirement benefits (27,286) (30,478) (243,625) Net asset for retirement benefits in the balance sheet ¥ (2,445) ¥ (7,660) $ (21,830) Annual Report 2016 45 FINANCIAL SECTION NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The components of retirement benefit expense for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Service cost ¥ 2,868 ¥ 3,006 $ 25,607 Interest cost 1,341 1,012 11,973 Expected return on plan assets (2,986) (2,878) (26,660) Amortization of actuarial gain/loss (1,727) 21 (15,419) Amortization of prior service cost (1,450) (1,514) (12,946) Amortization of transition obligation arising from the initial adoption of a new method of accounting — 2,111 — Other 142 406 1,267 Retirement benefit expense ¥ (1,811) ¥ 2,165 $ (16,169) The components of retirement benefits liability adjustments included in other comprehensive income (before tax effect) for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Prior service cost ¥ (1,450) ¥ (3,518) $ (12,946) Actuarial gain/loss (11,805) 2,598 (105,401) Transition obligation arising from the initial adoption of a new method of accounting — 2,120 — Total ¥ (13,255) ¥ 1,200 $ (118,348) The components of retirement benefits liability adjustments included in accumulated other comprehensive income (before tax effect) as of March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Unrecognized prior service cost ¥ (3,192) ¥ (4,642) $ (28,500) Unrecognized actuarial gain/loss (11,630) (23,435) (103,839) Total ¥ (14,822) ¥ (28,078) $ (132,339) The fair value of plan assets, by major category, as a percentage of total plan assets as of March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 Bonds 42% 38% Stocks 38 45 Other 20 17 Total* 100% 100% *The Company’s pension and retirement benefit trust consists of 31% of the total plan assets for the year ended March 31, 2016 and 36% of the total plan assets for the year ended March 31, 2015, respectively. The expected return on assets has been estimated based on the average rate of the latest 3 years in consideration of the assets composition ratio. 46 Annual Report 2016 The assumptions used in accounting for the above plans were as follows: 2016 2015 Discount rate 0.9% 0.9% Expected rate of return on plan assets 2.5% 2.5% The Company and domestic consolidated subsidiaries paid for defined contribution pension plans of ¥2,140 million ($19,107 thousand) and ¥2,130 million for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 9. INCOME TAXES Deferred tax assets and liabilities at March 31, 2016 and 2015 consisted of the following: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Deferred tax assets: Loss carryforwards ¥ 14,515 ¥ 15,538 $ 129,598 Liability for retirement benefits 12,836 15,180 114,607 Accrued bonuses 4,301 4,637 38,401 Accounts payable for revision of retirement payment plan 3,455 5,075 30,848 Write-downs of inventories 2,519 2,805 22,491 Excess of allowance for doubtful receivables and bad debts expenses 2,261 3,126 20,187 Write-downs of investments on securities 1,857 1,920 16,580 Loss on impairment of fixed assets 1,739 1,303 15,526 Elimination of unrealized intercompany profits 1,649 1,637 14,723 Other 6,187 5,561 55,241 Gross deferred tax assets 51,324 56,787 458,250 Less: Valuation allowance (41,435) (42,111) (369,955) Total deferred tax assets 9,889 14,676 88,294 Deferred tax liabilities: Asset for retirement benefits (9,219) (13,381) (82,312) Taxable unrealized gain on contribution of securities to a pension trust (3,298) (3,405) (29,446) Net unrealized holding gain on other securities (1,989) (3,758) (17,758) Other (1,074) (1,420) (9,589) Total deferred tax liabilities (15,582) (21,965) (139,125) Net deferred tax liabilities ¥ (5,693) ¥ (7,289) $ (50,830) Net deferred tax assets are included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Other current assets ¥ 6,750 ¥ 9,647 $ 60,267 Other assets 1,299 2,403 11,598 Other current liabilities — 0 — Other long-term liabilities 13,742 19,340 122,696 Net deferred tax liabilities ¥ (5,693) ¥ (7,289) $ (50,830) Annual Report 2016 47 FINANCIAL SECTION NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income taxes applicable to the Company and domestic consolidated subsidiaries comprised corporation tax, inhabitants’ taxes and enterprise tax, which, in the aggregate, resulted in statutory tax rates of approximately 33% and 36% for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Income taxes of the overseas consolidated subsidiaries are based generally on the tax rates applicable in their respective countries of incorporation. A reconciliation between the statutory tax rates and the effective tax rates as a percentage of profit (loss) before income taxes for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were summarized as follows: 2016 2015 Statutory tax rates 33.0 % 36.0 % Additions to (deductions from) income taxes resulting from: Permanent differences not recognized for tax purposes such as dividends received (2.0) (0.7) Permanent nondeductible differences such as entertainment expenses 7.2 2.3 Increase (decrease) in valuation allowance for deferred tax assets 9.2 (58.1) Per capita portion of inhabitants’ taxes 2.4 0.8 Downward adjustment of deferred tax assets at the end of the year due to tax rate change 2.2 1.0 Other, net 2.9 33.0 Effective tax rates 54.9 % 14.3 % The “Act to Partially revise the Income Tax Act and Others” (Act No.15 of 2016) and the “Act to Partially revise the Local Tax and Others” (Act No.13 of 2016) were enacted on March 31, 2016. As a result, the effective statutory tax rate used to measure the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities was changed from 32.0% to 31.0% for the temporary differences expected to be realized or settled in the year beginning April 1, 2016. The effect of the announced reduction of the effective statutory tax rate was to decrease deferred tax assets, after offsetting deferred tax liabilities, by ¥10 million ($89 thousand) and increase deferred income tax expense by ¥259 million ($2,312 thousand), net unrealized holding gain on other securities by ¥71 million ($633 thousand) and retirement benefits liability adjustments by ¥176 million ($1,571 thousand) as of and for the year ended March 31, 2016. 10. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Companies Act of Japan (the “Act”) provides that amounts from additional paid-in capital and retained earnings may be distributed to the shareholders at any time by resolution of the shareholders or that of the board of directors if certain provisions are met subject to the extent of the applicable sources of such distributions. The Act further provides that amounts equal to 10% of such distributions be transferred to the capital reserve included in additional paid-in capital or the legal reserve included in retained earnings based on the applicable sources of such distributions until the sum of the capital reserve and the legal reserve equals 25% of the capital stock account. 11. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES Research and development expenses for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 ¥ 13,317 ¥ 13,755 $ 118,901 12. LOSS ON IMPAIRMENT OF FIXED ASSETS For the year ended March 31, 2016, along with the deteriorating of economic conditions in Brazil, OKI BRASIL INDÚSTRIA E COMÉRCIO DE PRODUTOS E TECNOLOGIA EM AUTOMAÇÃO S.A., a consolidated subsidiary in Brazil, recognized impairment losses of ¥1,032 million ($9,214 thousand) on assets held for operation due to the decline in the profitability. The calculation of impairment losses was based on the assets value in use. 48 Annual Report 2016 13. PROVISION FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES The provision for environmental measures for the year ended March 31, 2016 was estimated and recorded due to the possibility of the future potential losses related to environmental remediation. 14. DERIVATIVES Derivative transactions at March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: (a) Derivative transactions which do not qualify for hedge accounting Forward foreign exchange contract Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Contract Contract Contract Fair Unrealized Contract Fair Unrealized amount over amount over amount value gain/loss amount value gain/loss 1 year 1 year Sell: Euro ¥14,977 ¥ — ¥ 816 ¥ 816 $ 133,723 $ — $ 7,285 $ 7,285 Brazilian Real 4,059 — (112) (112) 36,241 — (1,000) (1,000) Buy: U.S. Dollars 2,393 — (139) (139) 21,366 — (1,241) (1,241) Total ¥21,429 ¥ — ¥ 565 ¥ 565 $ 191,330 $ — $ 5,044 $ 5,044 Millions of yen 2015 Contract Contract Fair Unrealized amount over amount value gain/loss 1 year Sell: Euro ¥ 6,264 ¥ — ¥ 395 ¥ 395 Buy: Pound Sterling 2,674 — (10) (10) Total ¥ 8,938 ¥ — ¥ 385 ¥ 385 Note: Fair value is based on the quotes presented by the financial institutions. (b) Derivative transactions which qualify for hedge accounting (1) Forward foreign exchange contract (The principle deferral hedge accounting) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Contract Contract Contract Fair Contract Fair amount over amount over Hedged item amount value amount value 1 year 1 year Sell: U.S. Dollars Accounts receivable ¥ 90 ¥ — ¥ 0 $ 803 $ — $ 0 Euro Accounts receivable 2,763 — 91 24,669 — 812 Buy: U.S. Dollars Accounts payable 14,615 — (654) 130,491 — (5,839) Total ¥ 17,469 ¥ — ¥ (561) $ 155,973 $ — $ (5,008) Millions of yen 2015 Contract Contract Fair amount over Hedged item amount value 1 year Sell: U.S. Dollars Accounts receivable ¥ 96 ¥ — ¥ 0 Note: Fair value is based on the quotes presented by the financial institutions. Annual Report 2016 49 FINANCIAL SECTION NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (2) Forward foreign exchange contract (The alternative deferral hedge accounting) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Contract Contract Contract Fair Contract Fair amount over amount over Hedged item amount value amount value 1 year 1 year Sell: U.S. Dollars Accounts receivable ¥ 97 ¥ — * $ 866 $ — * * Derivative transactions subject to the alternative deferral hedge accounting applied to forward foreign exchange contract are treated in combination with accounts receivable as hedged items. Hence, their fair value of forward foreign exchange contract is included in that of accounts receivable. Note: Fair value is based on the quotes presented by the financial institutions. (3) Currency swaps Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Contract Contract Contract Fair Contract Fair amount over amount over Hedged item amount value amount value 1 year 1 year Pay Yen/receive U.S. Dollars Long-term borrowings ¥ 1,270 ¥ 762 ¥ 102 $ 11,339 $ 6,803 $ 910 Millions of yen 2015 Contract Contract amount over Fair Hedged item amount 1 year value Pay Yen/receive U.S. Dollars Long-term borrowings ¥ 1,778 ¥ 1,270 ¥ 278 Note: Fair value is based on the quotes presented by the financial institutions. (4) Interest rate swaps Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 2016 Contract Contract Contract Fair Contract Fair amount over amount over Hedged item amount value amount value 1 year 1 year Pay fixed/receive floating Long-term borrowings ¥ 50,231 ¥ 36,033 * $ 448,491 $ 321,723 * Millions of yen 2015 Contract Contract Fair amount over Hedged item amount value 1 year Pay fixed/receive floating Short-term borrowings ¥ 20,000 ¥ — ¥ (72) Long-term borrowings 41,314 32,584 * Total ¥ 61,314 ¥ 32,584 ¥ (72) * Derivative transactions subject to special accounting treatment applied to interest rate swaps are treated in combination with long-term borrowings as hedged items. Hence, their fair value is included in that of long-term borrowings. Note: Fair value is based on the quotes presented by the financial institutions. 50 Annual Report 2016 15. LEASES Lease payments relating to finance leases started before March 31, 2008, accounted for as operating leases in the accompanying consolidated financial statements amounted to ¥3 million ($26 thousand) and ¥16 million for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The leases which were started on or before March 31, 2008 are principally accounted for as operating leases. Leased assets held under finance leases accounted for as operating leases at March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 Machinery and equipment ¥ 28 ¥ 28 $ 250 Less: Accumulated depreciation 23 20 205 Total ¥ 4 ¥ 7 $ 35 Depreciation is computed by applying the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets assuming that the Company guarantees a nil residual value at the end of the term of each lease. The following is a schedule of future minimum lease payments under finance leases accounted for as operating leases: Year ending March 31, Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2017 ¥ 3 $ 26 2018 and thereafter 2 17 Total ¥ 5 $ 44 Minimum rental payments subsequent to March 31, 2016 required under operating leases with noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year are summarized as follows: Year ending March 31, Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2017 ¥ 2,337 $ 20,866 2018 and thereafter 12,714 113,517 Total ¥ 15,052 $ 134,392 16. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Contingent liabilities at March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Millions of yen dollars 2016 2015 2016 As guarantors of employees’ housing loans ¥ 309 ¥ 384 $ 2,758 17. AMOUNTS PER SHARE In accordance with the accounting standard for earnings per share, basic earnings per share is computed based on the profit attributable to owners of parent of common stock and the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each year. Diluted earnings per share is computed based on the profit attributable to owners of parent available for distribution to the shareholders and the weightedaverage numbers of shares of common stock outstanding during each year assuming full conversion of the convertible bonds and full exercise of the subscription rights to shares. Net assets per share are based on the number of shares of common stock outstanding at the year end. Yen U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Earnings: Basic ¥ 7.61 ¥ 40.03 $ 0.06 Diluted — 38.13 — Yen U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Net assets ¥ 122.91 ¥ 137.74 $ 1.09 Annual Report 2016 51 FINANCIAL SECTION NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18. STOCK OPTION PLANS At March 31, 2016, the following employee stock option plans of the Company had been approved by the shareholders: Date of approval by shareholders June 29, 2006 June 26, 2007 10 directors, 9 directors, 11 executive officers, 10 executive officers, Grantees 7 management officials and 6 management officials and 1 director of a subsidiary 1 director of a subsidiary Type of shares to be issued Common stock Common stock Number of shares reserved 342,000 shares 509,000 shares Exercise price ¥ 277 ¥ 248 July 1, 2008– July 1, 2009– Exercisable period June 28, 2016 June 25, 2017 19. SEGMENT INFORMATION Business segments The Group classifies its businesses into Info-Telecom Systems, Printers and EMS. The segment information for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were summarized as follows: Millions of yen 2016 Segments Info-Telecom Other Total Adjustments Consolidated Printers EMS Subtotal For the year ended March 31 Systems Sales to third parties ¥ 304,841 ¥ 124,647 ¥ 42,354 ¥ 471,843 ¥ 18,471 ¥ 490,314 ¥ — ¥ 490,314 Inter-segment sales and transfers 4,016 5,580 308 9,905 24,183 34,089 (34,089) — Net sales 308,858 130,228 42,662 481,748 42,655 524,403 (34,089) 490,314 Operating income (loss) 16,533 1,426 2,284 20,243 4,185 24,429 (5,834) 18,594 Total assets 208,595 71,652 31,649 311,897 26,439 338,337 73,438 411,776 Depreciation and amortization 6,461 4,120 1,048 11,630 1,115 12,746 1,243 13,989 Amortization of the goodwill 211 — — 211 — 211 — 211 Investments in equity-method affiliates 2,102 — — 2,102 30 2,133 3,381 5,515 Increase in property, plant, equipment and intangible assets ¥ 7,902 ¥ 3,355 ¥ 1,010 ¥ 12,267 ¥ 1,556 ¥ 13,824 ¥ 1,133 ¥ 14,957 Millions of yen 2015 Segments Info-Telecom Other Total Adjustments Consolidated Printers EMS Subtotal For the year ended March 31 Systems Sales to third parties ¥ 352,505 ¥ 129,271 ¥ 40,308 ¥ 522,086 ¥ 18,067 ¥ 540,153 ¥ — ¥ 540,153 Inter-segment sales and transfers 4,472 5,445 387 10,305 22,644 32,949 (32,949) — Net sales 356,978 134,717 40,696 532,391 40,711 573,103 (32,949) 540,153 Operating income (loss) 25,920 6,720 2,027 34,667 3,467 38,134 (5,719) 32,415 Total assets 223,571 75,272 26,429 325,272 26,190 351,462 87,895 439,358 Depreciation and amortization 6,254 4,236 935 11,425 993 12,418 1,192 13,611 Amortization of the goodwill 71 — 9 81 — 81 — 81 Investments in equity-method affiliates 1,903 — — 1,903 29 1,932 3,230 5,162 Increase in property, plant, equipment and intangible assets ¥ 8,825 ¥ 3,141 ¥ 738 ¥ 12,706 ¥ 1,319 ¥ 14,025 ¥ 1,155 ¥ 15,181 52 Annual Report 2016 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2016 Segments Info-Telecom Other Total Adjustments Consolidated Printers EMS Subtotal For the year ended March 31 Systems Sales to third parties $ 2,721,794 $ 1,112,919 $ 378,160 $ 4,212,883 $ 164,919 $ 4,377,803 $ — $ 4,377,803 Inter-segment sales and transfers 35,857 49,821 2,750 88,437 215,919 304,366 (304,366) — Net sales 2,757,660 1,162,750 380,910 4,301,321 380,848 4,682,169 (304,366) 4,377,803 Operating income (loss) 147,616 12,732 20,392 180,741 37,366 218,116 (52,089) 166,017 Total assets 1,862,455 639,750 282,580 2,784,794 236,062 3,020,866 655,696 3,676,571 Depreciation and amortization 57,687 36,785 9,357 103,839 9,955 113,803 11,098 124,901 Amortization of the goodwill 1,883 — — 1,883 — 1,883 — 1,883 Investments in equity-method affiliates 18,767 — — 18,767 267 19,044 30,187 49,241 Increase in property, plant, equipment and intangible assets $ 70,553 $ 29,955 $ 9,017 $ 109,526 $ 13,892 $ 123,428 $ 10,116 $ 133,544 (1) Adjustments of Operating income (loss) consist principally of expenses in the Company’s General and Administrative Department and research and development expenses within the Group amounting to ¥5,908 million ($52,750 thousand) and ¥5,923 million for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (2) Adjustments of total assets consist principally of the Company’s surplus funds, funds for long-term investments and assets belonging to the General and Administrative Department amounting to ¥200,287 million ($1,788,276 thousand) and ¥209,779 million at March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 20. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION On October 10, 2015, Oki Banking Systems (Shenzhen), a consolidated subsidiary of the Company, submitted a dispute to arbitration demanding payment of outstanding accounts receivable of RMB 1,115,463 thousand or ¥19,397 million ($173,187 thousand) and related damages against a distributor, Shenzhen Yihua Computer Industrial Co., Ltd. The case is currently under examination by the South China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission Shenzhen Court of International Arbitration (SCIA). 21. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Change in the Number of Shares per Trading Unit and Share Consolidation At the Board of Directors’ meeting held on May 20, 2016, the Company resolved to submit a proposal on a “Share Consolidation and Change in the Number of Shares per Trading Unit” to the 92nd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016. The proposal was approved by resolution of the general meeting of shareholders. The details are as follows: 1. Purpose of Change in the Number of Shares per Trading Unit and Share Consolidation For the convenience of investors, Japanese stock exchanges announced the “Action Plan for Consolidating Trading Units”, aiming to standardize the number of share trading units of domestic companies listed on Japanese stock exchanges to be 100 shares of common stock per 1 trading unit, which is expected to be completed by October 1, 2018. Based on this action plan, the Company, as a listed company in Japan, resolved to change the number of shares per trading unit from 1,000 shares to 100 shares. The Company has also decided to implement a 10-for-1 share consolidation in order to maintain a consistent price level per trading unit and preserve the number of shareholders’ voting rights despite the change in the number of shares per trading unit. 2. Details of Change in the Number of Shares per Trading Unit The number of shares per trading unit of common stock will be changed from 1,000 shares to 100 shares as of the date of the share consolidation. 3. Details of Share Consolidation (1) Class of stocks Common stock (2) Consolidation method and ratio On October 1, 2016, 10 shares of common stock will be consolidated into 1 share of common stock, based on the number of shares held by shareholder recorded in the latest shareholder register as of September 30, 2016. Annual Report 2016 53 FINANCIAL SECTION NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (3) Total number of authorized shares as of the effective date Based on the consolidation ratio, the total number of authorized shares will be reduced as follows. Total number of authorized shares Total number of authorized shares (Prior to October 1, 2016) (On or after October 1, 2016) 2,400,000,000 240,000,000 (4) Change in number of shares as a result of the shares consolidation Total number of outstanding shares before consolidation (As of March 31, 2016) 872,176,028 shares Number of shares decreased due to consolidation 784,958,426 shares Total number of outstanding shares after consolidation (As of October 1, 2016) 87,217,602 shares “Number of shares decreased due to consolidation” and “Total number of outstanding shares after consolidation” are the theoretical number calculated based on the total number of outstanding shares before the share consolidation and the share consolidation ratio. (5) Treatment of fractional shares If fractional shares of less than one share arise as a result of the share consolidation, the Company shall sell them in accordance with the Companies Act. The proceeds from the sale shall then be distributed to the shareholders in proportion to their respective ownership interests. 4. Schedule of Change in the Number of Shares per Trading Unit and Share Consolidation Resolution at the Board of Directors’ meeting May 20, 2016 Resolution at Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders June 24, 2016 Effective Date of Change in the Number of Shares per Trading Unit and Share Consolidation October 1, 2016 5. Impacts on Per Share Information Assuming the share consolidation was conducted at April 1, 2014, per share information for the years ended March 31, 2015 and 2016 would be as follows: Yen U.S. dollars 2016 2015 2016 Net assets per share ¥ 1,229.09 ¥ 1,377.44 $ 10.97 Earnings per share: Basic ¥ 76.10 ¥ 400.34 $ 0.67 Diluted — 381.27 — 6. Adjustment to Exercise Price of Stock Options The exercise price of stock options will be adjusted effective October 1, 2016 as a result of the share consolidation. Resolution at the Board of Directors’ meeting Pre-adjustment exercise price Post-adjustment exercise price June 26, 2007 ¥ 248 ¥ 2,480 54 Annual Report 2016 FINANCIAL SECTION REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Annual Report 2016 55 INVESTOR INFORMATION Number of Shares (As of March 31, 2016) Stock Exchange Listing Authorized: 2,400,000 thousand First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Issued: 872,176 thousand (including 3,501 thousand treasury stock) Administrative Agent for the Company’s Number of Shareholders (As of March 31, 2016) Shareholder Register 87,089 Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Major Shareholders Number of Shares Held Percentage of Shares Held Name of Shareholders (thousands of shares) (%) MSIP CLIENT SECURITIES 37,782 4.3 CHASE MANHATTAN BANK GTS CLIENTS ACCOUNT ESCROW 35,675 4.1 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 32,111 3.7 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 28,999 3.3 Oki Denki Group Employees’ Shareholdings Committee 17,554 2.0 Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 14,196 1.6 SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. 14,111 1.6 Hulic Co., Ltd. 14,076 1.6 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 14,000 1.6 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 4) 13,146 1.5 Common Stock Price Range on the Breakdown of Shares Held by Tokyo Stock Exchange (Fiscal Years ended March 31) Shareholder Type (As of March 31, 2016) (Yen) Japanese corporations Foreign corporations 300 and others and others 12.7% 18.7% 200 100 0 Japanese individual Japanese I II III IV I II III IV I II III IV I II III IV I II III IV investors Financial Institutions 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 43.3% 25.3% • Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. aims to be a globally recognized growth company; throughout this annual report, the Company is referred to as OKI. • All company and product names included in this annual report are trademarks or registered trademarks of each of the companies they represent. 56 Annual Report 2016 COMPANY PROFILE Profile (As of March 31, 2016) Company Name: Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. Founded: 1881 Company Established: November 1, 1949 Common Stock: 44,000 million yen Employees: 20,190 (Consolidated) 3,914 (Non-consolidated) President, Representative Director: Shinya Kamagami Head Office: 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-Ku, Tokyo 105-8460, Japan Tel +81-3-3501-3111 URL http://www.oki.com Contact for Further Information Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. Investor Relations, Corporate Planning Division, Corporate Planning Group 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8460, Japan Tel: +81-3-3501-3836 E-mail: ir-info@oki.com IR website: http://www.oki.com/en/ir Risk & Compliance Management Division, Corporate Planning Group Tel: +81-3-3501-3820 E-mail: oki-csr@oki.com CSR website: http://www.oki.com/en/csr Annual Report 2016 57
