2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Key events in 2015 FEBRUARY MARCH Hrvatski Telekom doubled 4G network HT launched a new service based on the Panspeed from 75 to 150 Mbit/s. European IP network – Cloud VPN. COMBIS launched a model of promoting startup culture within the company – MAY Neostartup. In Dubrovnik, Hrvatski Telekom implemented the “smart lamp” as part of the “smart city” infrastructure. JUNE Hrvatski Telekom supports uniGluko, a ground-breaking system offering a JULY solution for analysis of diabetes data. Hrvatski Telekom is “Best in Test” – testing was conducted by P3 Communications. COMBIS developed a unique Big Data platform – Husky, enabling SEPTEMBER customers to monetize large quantities of data. Hrvatski Telekom presented new innovative services – HT BusinessConnect, HT WebConnect, Cloud Backup, and Cloud Disaster Recovery. OCTOBER Hrvatski Telekom certified the IaaS HT and PhotoMath jointly popularize (Infrastructure as a Service) Cloud Server as mathematics among young people. Cisco Powered Cloud Service. COMBIS opened the Zen room for its employees. DECEMBER Hrvatski Telekom migrated its fixed COMBIS Conference Feel Digital. Live Digital. ALL-IP network to the All-IP environment. MAMFORCE Hrvatski Telekom was awarded COMPANY STANDARD the Mamforce Company Standard NOVEMBER Certificate. Hrvatski Telekom donated HRK 720,000 CITRIX COMBIS is the only one in the PLATINUM PARTNER Region to achieve the top status – for 12 socially valuable projects. Citrix Platinum Partner 3 Contents: 3 Key events in 2015 29 Thank You for the Extra Mile 4 Contents Zen room 5 Letter of the President of the Management Board 30 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS CUSTOMERS COMPANY PROFILE 31 Customer Satisfaction Surveys 32 Communication with Customers 7 Incorporation and History Customer Service 8 HT Group 33 Responsible Communication 10 Awards and recognitions 34 Special Services and Customer Protection 11 Certificates 35 Continuous Investment in the Future 12 Memberships 13 Activities focused on the customer 37 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS SUPPLIERS 14 Activity areas of corporate social responsibility 15 Compliance 39 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT 16 Anti-Corruption Policy 41 Environment as a Valuable Resource Code of Conduct Education of the Youngest 17 Corporate Responsibility Policy Through Education to Improvement of Environmental Indicators CORPORATE SOCIAL 42 A Step towards Smart and Energy Efficient Buildings RESPONSIBILITY Smart Solutions for Environmental Protection 19 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE SOCIETY 43 Optimizing Energy Consumption 20 Philanthropy and Voluntary Work 44 Greenhouse Gas Reduction Initiatives 21 Relations with the Community Responsible Water Consumption 22 Knowledge Society 45 Proper Waste Disposal 23 Collaboration with the Academic Community Reducing Waste Quantities 24 Culture T-HTnagrada@msu.hr Roman@tportal.hr Award 46 ELECTROMAGNETIC EMISSION IN MOBILE Sport NETWORKS Music Care about the Environment and Employees’ Health 25 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS EMPLOYEES 47 Table HT 26 Employee Satisfaction Survey 48 Table Combis Zdravko – Healthy Life Program 27 HT World 49 IMPLEMENTATION OF GLOBAL COMPACT Leaving the Company PRINCIPLES 28 Employee Development 4 Letter of the President of the Management Board Dear Reader, You have in front of you our new Sustainability Report, a comprehenand put into effect some tough decisions, convinced that in overcosive overview of activities conducted on HT Group level in order to ming short-term difficulties, we were building the foundations for our achieve the strategic goals of our operations. These goals include long-term progress and sustainable business operations. the reinforcement of corporate responsibility and long-term sustainability of business operation. We are convinced that the experience gained by internal transformation would be, to a large extent, applicable to the overall Croatian ecoFrom the very beginning, we are contributing to the community we operanomy which in the last couple of years, unfortunately, unsuccessfully te in, primarily by setting goals that are not related to business results only. endeavored to make significant progress in terms of global competitiveness. This is why it is even more important to put even more effort into By our activities we want to make our contribution as a technology lehigh technology sectors, such as ICT, as only such efforts can make us ader, the largest investor, and as an important driver of digital society. competitive. A lot of success has been achieved already in this field; in A part of such contribution is certainly transparent business operatisome of the projects, HT has played a leading role, while some other on presented to the overall community through this Report as a clear ongoing projects are going to affirm the globally high position of the overview of what we do and what we plan to do. Croatian telecom industry. We hope that other sectors will join us in this position, first of all the state administration, as without its support and After six years of recession, in 2015 we are beginning to see first efficiency, our operations would be made considerably more difficult. signs of economic recovery, albeit still weak and insufficient. However, we are optimists and believe that better times lie ahead of us. The prepared Report is part of our commitment to the principles of But, to make the optimistic expectations come true, a high level of the UN Global Compact initiative, which we signed in 2007 and which determination is required in the realization of an entire range of meais based on transparent reporting on all our activities. We believe that sures aimed at improvement in the business climate. sustainability is possible only if we persistently and consistently review the impact our decisions have on the well-being of the society. In 2015, Hrvatski Telekom made its contribution by investing HRK 1.47 billion into infrastructure development, mostly into the new network, We trust that this Report also reflects a substantial part of our commibut also into fixed and mobile broadband Internet and into All-IP tment to participation in the development of society, and particularly transformation. We are the third telecommunications operator in the the importance of investing in new technologies and operation driven European Union to have migrated all of its customers and services to by innovation, vision and creativity for growth and development. All-IP network architecture. This step has just confirmed the leading position of Hrvatski Telekom on the Croatian market and created preWe plan to pursue this way of operation in the future. requisites for the provision of better-quality services to the customers, development of advanced future services, as well as a true convergenDavor Tomašković, ce of fixed and mobile telephone and data services. President of the Management Board of HT-a and CEO In 2015, we implemented many transformation measures that made us a more efficient and better organized company. We have also made 5 Company profile The core business of the company Hrvatski Telekom d.d. (HT d.d. or Company) and its subsidiaries is the provision of electronic communications services and the design and construction of electronic communications networks in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the provision of fixed telephony services, HT Group also provides Internet, IPTV and ICT services, data transmission services, and GSM, UMTS, and LTE mobile services. HT Group is the leading telecommunications company in Croatia, providing services of fixed and mobile telephony, wholesale, Internet, as well as data services. Incorporation and History Hrvatski Telekom d.d. is a joint-stock company majority owned by merger came into effect on 1 January 2010, following which the HT Deutsche Telekom Europe B.V. It was incorporated on 28 December Group was restructured into Residential and Business units. 1998 in the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to the provisions of the Act on the Separation of Croatian Post and Telecommunications into On 21 May 2010, the Company’s Croatian Post and Croatian Telecom. The Company commenced operations on 1 January 1999. registered name was officially changed from HT – Hrvatske telekomunikacije In 2002, HT mobilne komunikacije d.o.o. (HTmobile) was establisd.d. to Hrvatski Telekom d.d. hed as a separate legal entity and subsidiary wholly owned by HT d.d. for the provision of mobile telecommunications services. HTmoOn 17 May 2010, HT d.d. completed the acquisition of IT services bile commenced its commercial activities on 1 January 2003, and in company Combis d.o.o., extending its reach into the provision of IT October 2004, the company name was officially changed to T-Mobisoftware and services for a client base that ranges from small busile Croatia d.o.o. (T-Mobile). nesses to government institutions. On 1 October 2004, the Company was re-branded as T-HT, thus In December of 2010, according to records held at the Cenbecoming a part of the global “T” family of Deutsche Telekom. The tral Depository and Clearing Company, the Republic of Croatia change of corporate identity was accompanied by the creation of transferred 3.5% of Company shares to the Pensioners’ Fund. trade marks for the two separate segments of HT Group: the fixed Following this transfer, on 12 December 2013, the Pensioners’ network operations business unit, T-Com, which provides wholesaFund transferred 3.5% of Company shares to the owner account of le, Internet, and data services, and the mobile operations business the Restructuring and Sale Centre – CERP. CERP was founded by unit, T-Mobile. the Republic of Croatia in July 2013 as legal successor to the Government Asset Management Agency. As a result of this transfer, On 17 February 2005, the Government of the Republic of Croatia the Government of the Republic of Croatia is again present in the transferred 7% of its shares in HT d.d. to the Fund for Croatian Hoownership structure of Hrvatski Telekom d.d. In December 2015, meland War Veterans and Their Families, pursuant to the Privatizafollowing the public auction, CERP sold 500,000 of its shares in tion Act. the Company (0.6% of HT d.d. share capital) via Zagreb Stock Exchange trading system. Following this sale of shares CERP reduced In May 2006, the Company acquired 100% of shares of Iskon Interits holding from 3.5% to 2.9%. net d.d., one of the leading alternative telecom providers in Croatia. In June 2014, HT took over management of OT-Optima telekom Carrying on with privatization of HT d.d., on 5 October 2007, the Re(“OT”), following the completion of the pre-bankruptcy settlement public of Croatia sold 32.5% of HT ordinary shares by Initial Public procedure. By the conversion of claims into share capital, and Offering (IPO), of which 25% were sold to Croatian retail investors, following the realization of a Mandatory Convertible Loan instrument while 7.5% were acquired by Croatian and international institutional in July 2014, HT acquired total of 19.1% of Optima’s share capital. investors. Zagrebačka banka, as the largest creditor of Optima Telekom, tranFollowing the sale of shares to current and former employees of Hrsferred controlling rights acquired in the pre-bankruptcy settlement vatski Telekom and Croatian Post in June 2008, the Government of procedure to HT. AZTN has determined a set of measures defining the Republic of Croatia reduced its holding from 9.5% to 3.5%, whithe rules of conduct for HT with regard to management and control le private and institutional investors hold 38.5% in total. over Optima Telekom. The duration of the concentration of HT and Optima Telekom shall be limited to a period of four years, starting In October 2009, T-Mobile Croatia was merged into HT d.d. The from HT’s acquisition of control over Optima Telekom. 7 Shareholder structure as at 31 December 2015 51,0 % 8,7 % 7,0 % 2,9 % 30,4 % Deutsche Telekom Raiffeisen Mandatory Fund for Croatian Restructuring and Sale Private and institutional Europe B.V. Pension Funds Homeland War Veterans Centre (CERP)/Republic investors of Croatia Total number of shares issued: 81 888 535 Deutsche Telekom Europe B.V. is the majority shareholder in HT with and Sale Centre (CERP)/Republic of Croatia holding 2.9%. a 51% holding (Deutsche Telekom Europe B.V. is 100% owned by Deutsche Telekom Europe Holding B.V., whose 100% owner is DeThe remaining 39.1% are owned by Croatian citizens and other doutsche Telekom Europe Holding GmbH (former name was T-Mobile mestic and foreign institutional investors. The company Raiffeisen Global Holding Nr.2 GmbH)). Deutsche Telekom Europe Holding obvezni mirovinski fondovi (Raiffeisen Mandatory Pension Funds) is GmbH is 100% owned by Deutsche Telekom AG. the investor with the largest shareholding among private and institutional investors. As at 31 December 2015, Raiffeisen obvezni miroThe Croatian War Veterans’ Fund owns 7%, with the Restructuring vinski fondovi had 8.7% of shares of the Company. HT Group HT Group is comprised of Hrvatski Telekom d.d. and the following subsidiaries: Ownership share COMBIS d.o.o. Iskon Internet d.d. KDS d.o.o. E-tours d.o.o. E-tours d.o.o. Republic of Croatia Republic of Croatia Republic of Croatia Republic of Croatia Republic of Croatia 31 December 2015. 31 December 2015. 31 December 2015. 31 December 2015. 31 December 2015. 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 19,02 % 31 December 2014. 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 19,11 % 8 HT Group COMBIS D.O.O. ISKON INTERNET D.D. COMBIS, a regional systems integrator, is a member of the HT Group Iskon is a modern telecom company recognized for its dynamic and wholly owned by Hrvatski Telekom since 2010. The company is and entrepreneurial business culture and service quality, and defocused on the development of application, communication, security, veloped relationships with private and business customers who and system solutions and the provision of development and integratiare provided broadband Internet access based services. on of ICT solutions, management of ICT infrastructure and support, and with the integration of advanced technology it provides complete In addition to the Internet, it provides telephony service and dibusiness solutions, tailored to the specific requirements of customers, gital television (IPTV) services, as well as viewing TV content via according to the “turnkey” principle. mobile devices. In Croatia, it is present with eight service locations, and for years it has The company operates as an independent company, and since 2006 been active in the region, with three service locations in Bosnia and it is a member of HT Group and wholly owned by Hrvatski Telekom. Herzegovina and in Serbia. With the adoption of contemporary trends of European and international business, and continually improving the Through its own infrastructure, Iskon provides services in the quality of work and working environment, COMBIS is today among area of Zagreb, Split, Dubrovnik, Rijeka, Pula, Osijek, Velika Gorithe leading ICT companies in the region in the segment of service proca, Samobor, Opatija, and Solin, while its association with the HT vision, and is the leading provider of IT services in Croatia. Group provides availability in the whole of Croatia. KDS D.O.O. KDS – Kabelsko distributivni sustav (Cable Distribution System) – is a limited liability company for telecommunications services. E-TOURS D.O.O. e-Tours d.o.o., travel agency, is a member of the HT Group and The Company provides services of flight ticketing, accommodatiwholly owned by Hrvatski Telekom since 2013. on, packaged travel, and car and boat rental. OT — OPTIMA TELEKOM D.D. Optima Telekom (OT) is a fixed telecommunications operator whose took over the management of Optima Telekom. The aim is to improve the IP-technology based network, which provides greater networking market position of OT and stabilize its financial results for the purpose of through the dominance of broadband connections, is present in more protecting the interests of customers, employees, shareholders and otthan 100 Croatian towns. By using the latest technology and global teher stakeholders of OT and the telecommunications market in general. lecommunications solutions, Optima creates added value in the fixed market in Croatia. Citizens are given the option to choose and upgrade Each of the member companies of the HT Group, (Iskon, COMBIS, KDS, voice services, data transmission, Internet, and video content. E-tours, and OT-Optima Telekom) has its own Management Board responsible for managing the business operations of the respective company. After the pre-bankruptcy proceedings and with the strict requirements of the Croatian Competition Agency (AZTN), in 2014 Hrvatski Telekom This Report covers activities of HT and COMBIS. 9 Awards and recognitions Hrvatski Telekom is continuously working on improving the quality of services and products offered, which is being recognized every day by the wider community, the professional world, institutions, and partners. In 2015, Hrvatski Telekom was the recipient of many awards, incluFurthermore, at the 5th Regional Investor Conference held in Belgrade, ding, particularly worth mentioning being the award for the second Hrvatski Telekom won the second prize in the category for Best Investor place in “Best Investor Relations” according to the choice of PoslovRelations. The rating was conducted based on around 20 selected crini dnevnik magazine and the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Candidates teria, of which the most significant were those concerning the quality for the award were companies whose shares were included in the of announcements for the investor community, transparency in relations calculation of the CROBEX 10 Index and companies listed in the Rewith analysts and investors, participation at investor conferences, and, in gular Market of the Zagreb Stock Exchange. The winners were detergeneral, the overall appearance on the capital market. Hrvatski Telekom mined on the basis of statistical criteria related to compliance by the can also boast to be the winner of the “Share with Highest Turnover” priissuers with the Exchange Rules and results of a survey conducted ze awarded by the Zagreb Stock Exchange for 2015, as well as to be the among capital market participants. holder of the Employer Partner certificate, awarded to companies with a highly developed human resources management system. 10 Certificates Since 2002, HT has been the holder of the ISO 14001 certificate Particularly in the area of rewarding employees based on achieand the certificate under the OHSAS 18001 standard. vement of strategic targets, HT achieved the best possible result. In October 2015, the renowned international certification orgaIn 2014, HT is the sixth consecutive year has been included in the nization DEKRA conducted an external audit of HT’s Integrated CEERIUS Sustainability Index for 2015, the sustainability index of Environmental, Health, and Safety at Work Management System the Vienna Stock Exchange for the region of Central and Eastern as part of the Integrated Management System of Deutsche TeEurope, which evaluates the leading companies in this region in lekom Aktiengesellschaft. The audit findings were affirmative terms of social and environmental quality, as and economic effect. and confirmed that environmental care had been integrated in all work processes and that employees were highly aware of the In 2015, Hrvatski Telekom was also awarded the prestigious importance of environmental protection. Mamforce Company Standard. An independent assessment was conducted of HT’s current practices, as well as of new responsiHT also has the ISO 27001 certificate for information security. ble policies and practice to be implemented during the following year besides the existing positive policies in the segment of famiFurthermore, the management systems have also been certified to ly responsibility and gender equality. the ISO 9001 standard in HT’s organizational units related to human resources and corporate strategy and business development. COMBIS has a defined Quality Policy that has been presented to all employees. The COMBIS Quality Management System has In 2008, oekom research AG included HT in the PRIME category been certified to the ISO 9001:2009 standard. of companies as a result of its corporate responsibility standards and sustainable development policy. In 2014, this category was Moreover, COMBIS has also met the safety standard confirming confirmed for the next period. its responsible conduct with regard to its own and other parties’ information. This certification confirms that COMBIS has impleHrvatski Telekom provides the fastest mobile Internet and the mented an Information Security Management System that meets best mobile voice service among all networks in Croatia, as conthe requirements of the ISO 27001 standard. firmed by tests conducted by the company P3 Communications. HT was therefore awarded a P3 “Best in Test” certificate, an inThis standard calls for a systematic approach to conducting ternationally accepted proof of network quality. controls in order to make information available only to those who need to have access to it, and to allow information to be changed For the third year in a row, Hrvatski Telekom was awarded the only by those who have permission to make changes; it also sets prestigious Employer Partner Certificate for excellence in human forth that documents must have security classifications. Furtherresources management and thus reaffirmed its position among more, ISO 27001 establishes a firm and formalized responsibility companies with the best business practice in the area of devesystem, guarantees reliable software infrastructure, and conlopment, monitoring, motivating, and rewarding of its employees. firms implemented control by means of the “Log & Audit” policy. Best in Test CEERIUS Sustainability Index oekom Prime category of companies 11 Memberships The cooperation of HT with business ked for advertising HT offers to customers. ABC Croatia is a full memand interest organizations is focusing ber of the International Audit Bureaux of Certifications – IFABC. on exchange of information and HT has been actively participating in the work of the Energy Assodevelopment of good practice in ciation with the Croatian Employers’ Association since its inception business operation as well as on in 2013. The goal of the Energy Association is to provide a better mutual and public exchange of views. and more sustainable economic environment by including energy production in the national strategic plan. Thus, in addition to acting independently through public appearances in the media and participation in round tables and conferences, HT, as an HT is a member of the Croatian Business Council for Sustainable operator of electronic communications services, also acts on the natioDevelopment (HR PSOR), a non-profit institution established in 1997 nal level through participation in the work of the Mobile Communications that caters primarily to the private sector, promotes sustainable deAssociation of Croatia and in the Telecommunications Association with velopment in the economy, and represents the economy in sustaithe Croatian Chamber of Commerce, publicly representing the joint intenable development. Its members – representatives of the Croatian rests of the member operators. Moreover, HT is a member of the Europeeconomy, public institutions, and non-governmental organizations – an Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association (ETNO) and of are pooling know-how, innovative capacity, and responsibility in the the GSM Association, which advocate the promotion of operators’ interesearch for development paths that will balance business success, sts within the electronic communications sector on the EU level. social well-being, and environmental protection. Since 2007, HT has been a member of the United Nations Global COMBIS is a member of the Information and Communication Business Compact initiative that connects the business sector with UN agenAssociation at the Croatian Employers’ Association (CEA), of the Associes, governments, and the civil society in supporting the basic sociation for Information and Communication Business at the Croatian cial values in the areas of human rights, workers’ rights, environmenChamber of Commerce, of the Croatian Association of Net Technology tal protection, and fight against corruption. Distributors (HUDNT), and of the Global Compact Network Croatia. Due to the excellent results achieved in the field of Citrix business HT is also a signatory to the operations and due to meeting a number of strict conditions, COMEnvironmental Protection Charter, the BIS has become a Citrix Platinum Partner – the first one in the region Sustainable Development Charter, and to hold the highest status a Citrix partner can achieve. the Corporate Responsibility Charter. Previous COMBIS’ experience with Citrix is really rich – COMBIS has been a Citrix partner for 15 years, and during that period COMBIS Hrvatski Telekom has been a member of the ABC Croatia organizahas achieved by far the largest market share of Citrix technology in tion for many years. Croatia, with a significant role in the regional market. ABC Croatia is a tripartite organization of publishers, event organizers, In 2015, COMBIS raised its expertise in Oracle technologies to the advertisers, and marketing agencies, whose goal is to use certified next level and achieved Oracle Platinum Partner status. To achieve data to enable publishers and event organizers to successfully sell this status, COMBIS’ experts had further improved their expertise in advertising or exhibition space and sponsor coverage. On the other the field of Oracle technologies. Combis now owns five specializahand, it aims to offer advertisers and agencies accurate and relevant tions: Oracle database specialization, Oracle Hyperion and Oracle data for efficient investment in advertising in print media and events, Java platform specialization, and the specialization for the public which is very helpful in the planning and distribution of funds earmarand the financial sector. 12 Activities focused on the customer Hrvatski Telekom is constantly focused on customer satisfaction services for the growing needs and innovative requirements of its and quality of its value added services related to broadband access. customers. COMBIS’ mission is to enable the users of its solutions We trust that by such approach, by further growth, increase of HT’s to improve their business results by concentrating on basic activities potential, by top infrastructure, and by keeping and developing our and efficient use of information technologies. services, we will justify and reinforce our leadership on the market in the years to come. COMBIS’ values are expertise, Today we are rightfully called one of the most powerful economic work, team spirit, customer care, entities in the country, and as such, we were and have remained one reliability, responsibility, open of the key drivers of the Croatian economic development, but also a and friendly communication, and respectable corporate citizen who, through its business and activiwinning spirit. ties, keeps contributing to the society as a whole. COMBIS builds integrated IT business solutions based on top-quaCOMBIS’ vision is to be a renowned regional IT company with marlity services and leading world technologies. In its 25 years of opeket-recognized ICT solutions based on top-quality services and learation, COMBIS has developed a broad portfolio of solutions and ding global technologies. 13 Activity areas of corporate social responsibility In 2015, HT Group adopted the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy was also adopted by all other members of the HT Group. Policy, which is designed as a basis to be used by the Group for definition, maintenance, monitoring, and further development of its The strategy of corporate social responsibility and sustainable responsibility with regard to corporate responsibility and related business operation of Hrvatski Telekom defines three main areas obligations, as well as of its work and coordination processes. The which the activities are focused on: Technology and Education and Environmental Communication Digitalization Protection Our business is predicated on enabling the best Our goal is to provide access to telecomOne of our key objectives possible connection in private and professional munications services to as many people in the area of corporate reslife. Our goal is to develop innovative and top quas possible and to integrate them into ponsibility is environmental ality telecommunications solutions and to offer a knowledge society. We wish to make protection, responsible use services that will improve everyday life through advanced technology available to everyone of resources, and reduction first-class communications and connectivity. and at any time. of greenhouse gas emissions. During 2015, COMBIS was focusing on the following activities: Development of high quality commuSupporting new generations of the nication with customers and detectiIT community and promoting the culon of their current and future needs. ture of internal startups. Improving the quality of work and Organizational changes required the workers’ creativity and rest by to build the company are fully adjuopening of a relaxation area sted to the market and to operational within COMBIS – the ComZen. needs in a fast evolving world. 14 Compliance Compliance with laws and other regulations, along with the obserHT’s Compliance Management System is fully integrated and covance of inter¬nal rules and the Code of Conduct are the basis of ordinated in terms of methodology with the requirements of the responsible cor¬porate governance or, respectively, an imperative Deutsche Telekom Group. The Compliance Management System’s prerequisite for business success and essential aspect of every buefficiency is tested on a regular basis by independent audit compasiness process. In order to prevent possible negative consequences nies. Successful certification of the compliance function in 2010 was and to ensure compliance of all business processes with relevant followed by certification of critical business processes in 2013. The regulations, we are actively promoting the principles of ethical busiresults of the tests conducted by the audit company Ernst & Young ness by means of a compliance framework. The Compliance Officer showed high efficiency of the anti-corruption control environment as function, the Business Compliance Department, and the Business integral part of HT’s business processes. Compliance Committee were formed by HT already in 2008. Furthermore, employees can ask questions pertaining to the interpretaTrainings on business compliance are conducted by Hrvatski Tetion of regulations, internal rules, and advice on how to proceed in lekom on a regular basis. In 2015, within this activity, the training specific business situations by means of Intranet and the “Ask Me!” conducted dealt with topics of anti-corruption and compliance with portal, while detected irregularities can be reported anonymously laws, regulations, and internal rules. The training covered more via the “Tell Me!” portal. Furthermore, HT’s Ethics Line represents than 200 employees and managers in all regions, as well as 45 ema significant tool for our customers and other interest subjects, proployees of external partners. In addition, the web site of the Business viding a channel for reporting detected irregularities and ensuring Compliance Department provides access to all important informatitransparent business operations. on and is available to all HT Group employees. 15 Anti-Corruption Policy The Anti-Corruption Policy, binding for also applied to the subsidiaries Iskon and COMBIS. Optima Telekom all employees and managerial staff of the d.d. has also adopted the above mentioned policies and rules, taking into account the special status of this company within the HT Group. HT Group, was adopted already in 2010. Combis adjusted and adopted the Policy on Prevention of Corruption As required, the existing policy was harmonized in 2012 within the entire and Other Conflicts of Interest – Anti-Corruption Policy harmonized at Deutsche Telekom Group and served as a basis for the adoption of dea DT Group level, the Policy on Accepting and Granting Benefits, and tailed internal rules, such as: Policy on Accepting and Granting Benefits, the Event Policy in 2013, as well the Antitrust Policy and the Policy on Policy on Avoiding Corruption Risks when Working with Consultants, Avoiding Corruption Risks when Working with Consultants in 2014. and Guideline for Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Such internal rules clearly define HT’s position towards all possible negative occurrences COMBIS is also a signatory of the Code of Business Ethics at the Croatian in business operations and lay down a clear framework for the behavior Chamber of Commerce, which includes written clauses on obligations to of all its employees and managerial staff, providing practical provisions respect human rights, and COMBIS is bound to observe such clauses. on permitted and prohibited conduct in business operation. The goal of such clearly defined and communicated anti-corruption rules is to guaFurthermore, in line with the initiatives aimed at raising awareness rantee a high level of ethical principles in our business dealings to our of corruption risks within the Deutsche Telekom Group, HT is obcustomers, business partners, and to the wider community. serving the International Anti-Corruption Day (9 December), during which various activities of providing information to employees are The Anti-Corruption Policy, as well as all other related internal acts, are conducted across the entire HT Group. HT Group’s Code of Conduct establishes clear guidelines and vaCode of Conduct lues that have to be observed by every employee of the Group. The Code was also adopted by COMBIS as a member of the HT Group. 16 Corporate Responsibility Policy platform based on the Unified Communications solution, and HT also has a HT Group Corporate COMBIS was involved in this project by designing and implementing Responsibility Policy. This Policy the new solution for Unified Communication (UC) functionalities and has been designed as a basis to be by implementing a high-level protection for the customers. used by the Group for definition, maintenance, monitoring, and further Being the best on the market involves special responsibility. This is why we are constantly revisiting our business orientation development of its responsibility with and discovering new ones. Namely, in 2015, a new strategic area regard to corporate responsibility and was created for integrated IT solutions and services. In terms of related obligations, as well as of its organization, this new strategic area of COMBIS consolidated work and coordination processes. several areas focused on provision of IT services with business counselling, aimed at the creation of a new platform integrating In 2015, the HT Group Corporate Responsibility Policy was adopted complex IT services and solutions. by COMBIS as well. In addition, in the course of 2015, COMBIS consolidated the field of There are many examples of quality work and connection within IT security and thus created differentiation of solutions and services the Group, such as the very well received employee performance and enabled the continued development of superior expertise. By awarding scheme “Thank You!”, which was applied in 2015 in consolidation of the security portfolio, Combis continues to develop COMBIS, too. Also, a good example is COMBIS’ participation in security solutions for customers, but also improves specific services for the project of development of new Hrvatski Telekom services – HT customers – integrated safety assessments for determining the level of IT BusinessConnect and HT WebConnect. The HT BusinessConnect security, incident management in the form of recovery and prevention of and HT WebConnect services are part of a unified communications damage, and there are also some new consulting services announced. 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Responsibility towards the society Responsibility towards employees Responsibility towards customers Responsibility towards suppliers Responsibility towards the environment Responsibility towards the society Philanthropy and Voluntary Work Hrvatski Telekom regularly collaborates with educational, cultural community through all aspects of the socially responsible corporate and scientific institutions, and non-governmental organizations cabehavior by putting the emphasis on the support to a human aspect ring for persons with special needs and the disadvantaged, as well of business. Therefore, we have strived for years to support the deas with organizations promoting civil society values. velopment of education, health, and culture. In the course of 2015, by means of donations and sponsorships, Most of the projects are long term, COMBIS provided support to various projects ranging from humaensuring their greater efficiency, nitarian aid, improvement and development of education, to supporand Company employees ting urban culture and exchange of knowled¬ge through Croatian personally participate in many of and regional ICT conferences. them; this way, the Company and In 2015, financial donations were made to support the Zagreb Assoits employees participate directly in ciation of Physically Disabled People “Expeditus”, we supported the humanitarian projects. “Peraja” Swimming Club in the organization of a swimming competition and helped to organize the Mobile Challenge Cup of the Zagreb In addition to financial support, they are also provided with services, Polytechnic, a mobile application creation contest. Furthermore, we expertise, and technical resources. In doing so, Hrvatski Telekom supported the “Professor Baltazar” Association by donating equipparticipates in numerous humanitarian projects; the Company also ment for the organization of the fourth Science Picnic, a project that makes available humanitarian telephone lines to the associations popularizes science and art. that organize campaigns, fully waiving its earnings from such calls. In 2015, COMBIS celebrated 25 years of existence, and considering Since 2001, HT has been supporting a large number of initiatives by mathe fact that the company’s establishment was based on the positive king available humanitarian hotlines, thus enabling the widest public to energy of its employees, the celebration of its anniversary was focused contribute and give its support. In 2015, we used this approach to help on them and on a community work action. On that occasion, more the “RTL Helps Children” Association, the Ana Rukavina Foundation, and than 200 employees of COMBIS cleaned beaches on several spots the Union of Societies Our children Croatia to make their goals come true. of the Jarun Lake. Jarun was chosen as one of the best-known Zagreb spots for recreation, fun, and relaxation, therefore we think, and there COMBIS always strives to spread its social responsibility towards the is no doubt about it, that we all together should and can improve it. 20 Relations with the Community Annual Donation Competition “Together We Are Stronger” By means of the “Together We Are Stronger” competition, Hrvatski Telekom is constantly turning its attention to local communities, supporting humanitarian and other valuable projects of local communities. Since the inception of the competition 10 years ago, HT has donated more than HRK 8 million in supporting the realization of almost 240 valuable projects. As in former years, the competition was open to non-profit associations seated in Croatia that were invited to submit projects in one of the three categories: Technology and Communication Education and Digitalization for projects using robotic or sensor systems and innovations in for projects using mLearning and eLearning, related to life-long media and communications learning, talents, children and youngsters, and equal opportunities for inclusion into the digital society Environment and Sustainable Development for projects that raise environmental standards and awareness of citizens by applying innovative information and communication solutions The submitted projects had to apply at least one telecommunications social community. The project’s total donation budget amounted technology and had to be of importance for the local and wider to HRK 720,000. 21 Knowledge Society Support to Expert Gatherings and Conferences Hrvatski Telekom is playing a key role in the development of a gathers top leaders and experts in communication and business knowledge society by supporting various gatherings of scientific industries. Weekend presents new “game changers”, gives new experts, such as WinDays, the MIPRO Conference, the COMBIS viewpoints on business, offers new creative solutions for real busineConference, the SEE Cloud Computing Forum, the Bug Future ss problems, introduces new trends, gathers necessary information Show, the Idea Knockout, and other events related to the ICT and tefrom neighboring countries, but all that while having lots of fun. Relecommunications sector and their communities. Thus, HT provided presentatives and experts of HT regularly participate in the specialist the infrastructure, technical support, and equipment to a wide range lectures. In line with the daily and incessant changes, this three-day of local and international forums and conferences. festival brings together new visionaries and forward thinkers. For many years in a row, Hrvatski Telekom has been supporting the Traditionally, COMBIS encourages and supports exchange of “Days of Communication” Conference designed as a central place knowledge at various ICT conferences, both in Croatia and abroad. for the gathering of marketing professionals and communicators. In In 2015, COMBIS sponsored Cisco Connect, Microsoft Windays, addition to the three-day education and entertainment program and Oracle Day, the OMGcommerce Conference, the Telco Cloud Foa series of professional competitions, participants can also exchange rum, and two IDC Conferences – in Ukraine and in Poland. experience and establish connections within the marketing industry. The key objectives of the Days of Communication are to further educaMoreover, high expectations were met by the 9th Combis Confe¬rence te, inspire, award creativity and efficiency, connect marketing professiheld this year under the main theme “Feel Digital. Live Digi¬tal” in Šibeonal, and persist in creating awareness of the importance of marketing nik, where it gathered 400 participants from Croatia and the region. The communication processes in a changing market environment. Combis Conference gathered a record number of sponsors and media sponsors, which is a significant indicator of the quality and value of this Hrvatski Telekom is a long-standing partner of the Weekend Media traditional gathering, as well as of the increasingly prominent need to Festival, the largest regional communications festival in Croatia that stimulate more positive economic development by means of ICT. 22 Collaboration with the Academic Community In our Company, trainees are always practical knowledge that will raise their personal competitiveness. welcome – we support young people We collaborate with student organizations by participation in comwho have a lot of positive energy and a petitions for preparation of business cases and participation in cathirst for knowledge, to let them gain reer fairs, but also by frequent appearances of our experts at faculinitial experience that will help them ties where students gain specific knowledge from practice. to find their way on the labor market. We frequently use workshops to prepare students for selection interHrvatski Telekom is responsibly accepting its role as a technology leviews and writing of CVs, letting them know how they can appear at ader in the society and one of the leading Croatian companies. Investheir best. We particularly point out the significance of their presentment in knowledge is our determinant: in 2015 once again, we awarded ce on the web and in social networks. scholarships amounting to HRK 3000 per month to excellent students of the Faculty of Electric Engineering and Computing. Furthermore, we In the segment of education improvement and development, by sponinclude scholarship recipients in the life of various companies already soring the eSTUDENT association, COMBIS supported the organizatiduring their studies, not only assisting them in the preparation of their on of the mobile application creation contest, the “App Start Contest”, diploma thesis, but also providing them with an opportunity to acquire as well as “Starter”, a project aimed at student employment. 23 sponsor, supported the 18th International Comic Festival “Crtani romani Culture šou” in 2015, organized by the “CRŠ” Association from Zagreb, as well as the “Žedno uho” project, which included sponsorship of the regional tour of Mark Lanegan and the “Žedno Uho” festival in Zagreb. For many years, Hrvatski Telekom has been supporting cultural events in Croatia. The focus was on big Croatian film festivals. The annual film-festival tour started with ZagrebDox – the International Sport Documentary Film Festival, followed by the Pula Film Festival, the Motovun Film Festival, the Vukovar Film Festival, MAXtv Filmomanija, and, finally, the Zagreb Film Festival. For more than 15 years, Hrvatski Telekom has been supporting Croatian football. Football is the most important side-line in the world; it has many fans and is able to convey the strongest human emotions. Hrvatski Telekom is a long-standing title sponsor of the Croatian NaT-HTnagrada@msu.hr tional League, from time to time also a sponsor of the Croatian National Team. By sponsoring Croatian football, HT is ensuring top-notch sports content for users of MAXtv services. The T-HTnagrada@msu.hr contest was held for the eighth year in a row. The T-HTnagrada@msu.hr is one of the most prestigious annual prizes in the field of contemporary art in Croatia. From 166 works submitted to 2015 contest, the expert jury selected 31 works, in adMusic dition to three invited artists, which makes a total of 34 works that were presented at the Museum of Contemporary Art. The majority of selected works used photographs as a medium, followed by film For several years in a row, Hrvatski Telekom has been supporting the and video, while a smaller part of works was realized on the medium Electronic Beats festival organized by Deutsche Telekom. The Electroof painting, drawing, and sculpture. nic Beats festival of modern electronic music brings together national and international performers of electronic music, for instance DJ Koze, Young Fathers, Talisco, Ten Fe, and many others. Roman@tportal.hr Award In 2015, HT supported Ultra Europe Music Festival for the first time – a spectacular music event with cult status – that took place from 7 to 15 July in Split. In cooperation with Samsung, HT prepared special offers For the eighth consecutive year, tportal ran a competition for the ro¬of its products and services for visitors of the Ultra Festival, paying speman@tportal.hr literary prize. The expert jury of the literary award rocial attention to foreign tourists and festival visitors. In addition to the man@tportal.hr selected the best Croatian novel published in the preproducts and services offer, HT and Samsung prepared a fun adrenavious calendar year by publishing houses registered in Croatia. The line corner in the joint festival zone of the Poljud Stadium, where visiwinner of HRK 50,000 was determined by a jury comprised of literary tors were waiting for good fun and refreshment every day. The festival professionals, including the winner of the roman@tportal.hr award of saw an attendance of over 140,000 visitors from all over the world, and 2014, Kristian Novak, the president of the jury, as well as the critics, visitors could enjoy the fun event on several locations in Split and on writers, and editors Miroslav Mićanović and Jadranka Pintarić. the islands of Hvar and Vis. The biggest spectacular electronic music event in the region took place in Spit, at the Poljud Stadium, while The jury of tportal’s literary award selected the novel “Roki Raketa” by at the locations of Hvar, Vis and other wonderful and attractive bays Zoran Malkoč as the best novel among 52 novels received for this year’s of the Croatian Adriatic coast, various parties were organized, such contest. as the Ultra Beach Party, the Closing Party, and several other music events for smaller visitor groups. This spectacular event was kicked off As a traditional sponsor of urban culture, COMBIS, in its capacity as a by the Opening Party at the Hemingway Club in Split. 24 Responsibility towards employees Employee Satisfaction Survey It is our wish to form the desired corporate culture on the basis of the survey, needed to be improved. proposals and suggestions offered by our employees. Therefore, the opinions of our employees, their satisfaction, and standpoints with A comprehensive follow-up was conducted: results were communiregard to all factors of corporate culture are extremely important to cated in teams, results were discussed in workshops, and improveus. So, in May 2015, a comprehensive employee satisfaction survey ment measures were defined, both at the company and team level. was conducted that saw a participation of 75 per cent of employees. In November 2015, a brief Pulse survey was conducted to measuIn addition, the survey was supplemented by focus groups in order re the effectiveness of actions taken and of improvements resulting to obtain quality data on all areas that, as indicated by the results of from such actions. Zdravko – Healthy Life Program Stress prevention and maintaining a educational articles on health, but also free cinema and game tickets are balance between the employees’ work just some of the activities covered by our “Healthy” program. and life – these are areas identified by Supporting the balance of professional and private life, we endeavor our Company as extremely important to enable our employees to enjoy their free time with their families. for the preservation of employees’ This is even more important if we consider the fact that in our still trahealth and well-being. ditional company, we have 43 per cent of female employees at managerial positions. Parents of first graders get one day of paid leave Based on research results that indicated exposure to stress at work, for the child’s first day at elementary school, so that they can spend which is typical for the dynamic telecom industry with frequent chanthat special day with their children. “Christmas for Kids” has already ges and the need to acquire new knowledge, we developed a probecome a standard get-together organized for our employees’ chilgram to prevent stress at work. dren. During the festive season, our employees are pleased to receive their Christmas bonus, as well as the Easter voucher. Although the Company is constantly working on stress prevention, measures additionally taken include the “Friday in Slippers” pilot The result of our activities aimed at maintenance of the work-life baproject, which allows work at home, Yoga and Pilates for our emlance is certainly the MAMFORCE Certificate awarded to us in 2015 ployees, flexible working hours, and one day of paid leave for free of – a recognized mark of quality, certifying employers’ competencies charge full medical check-ups for employees. Educational programs in the implementation of human potential management policies that and trainings enabling employees to master stress management observe family responsibility and gender equality. and time management and to acquire interpersonal skills prevent negative health impacts of stress. We are proud of our commitment to respect diversity and promote equal opportunities. A high proportion of female employees holding Our “Healthy” (“Zdravko”) Intranet portal intensively promotes employees’ managerial positions, which by far exceeds the Croatian average, health care and disease prevention. Physical exercises at the workplace, has been our tradition for many years. 26 HT World HT World is a program created on the basis of employees’ suggeIn order to really be promoters of our services and of our vision stions and expectations; it aims to provide employees with more of the digital society, we need to use the respective services ourmobility, more flexibility, and with numerous options in day to day selves. HT World offers the option of inclusion of our employees business and personal communication. in development of our services, so that we obtain feedback from them, which will help us to improve the customer experience. BeThe HT World program includes activation of our mobile tariff for all cause we are not only employees, but also users of the services employees, use of our services and products, testing and participatiof our Company. And who would be better suited than us to test on in the creation of new products, inclusion of family members into and evaluate HT services? this program, and better mobile phones for all employees. Leaving the Company The Company has demonstrated high levels of sensitivity and resCompetences Acquired by Volunteering. ponsibility towards all employees who have left the Company for business-related reasons. In addition to severance payments exHrvatski Telekom has recognized volunteering as a form of experienceeding the amounts prescribed by law, during the notice period, ce-based learning that lays the groundwork for development and improemployees can access contents and services from the Support Plus vement of competences that are required and useful for active participaProgram. Furthermore, in 2015, costs of re-qualification or outplation in the society, for personal and professional development, and for cement of departing employees were borne by the Company in social well-being. Recognition and valuation of competences acquired order to increase the employees’ competitive capacity on the labor by volunteering is an expression of the employer’s willingness to recomarket. Hrvatski Telekom is a Signatory to the Charter Recognizing gnize and valuate personal and social responsibility for a mutual benefit. 27 Employee Development Hrvatski Telekom is a knowledge company. Lifelong learning and conthrough the Technical, Marketing, and Sales HT Academy, inform our tinuous acquisition of new knowledge is a priority for each employee. employees about the latest trends and achievements in this segment. To enable employees to cope with the changes brought about by dynamic development, strategically planned human resources prepaBased on the set criteria, employees even have the opportunity to re employees for achievement of the set company goals. In addition to attend postgraduate studies and MBA or to receive education in a professional education, certification, and traditional forms of training, number of professional programs within the DT Group. Hrvatski Tewe have developed an overall network of internal transfer of knowledlekom is a digital company, and this is why the e-learning system is ge, as our competent experts, the T-trainers, have both the competenparticularly well developed, enabling education at times and from ces and the desire to transfer know-how to their colleagues. locations at the employee’s choice. The world of telecommunications, services, company processes, professional skills, and financial Assuming responsibility for one’s own knowledge are just some of the topics covered by e-learning. development has also been achieved by A specific form of employee development intensively practiced by Education of Your Own Choice, where HT is the very popular job rotation within the Deutsche Telekom Groemployees decide for themselves which up, which offers the opportunity to work, for a defined period of time, training courses they wish to attend. in one of the DT Group member companies. This way, employees gain intercultural experience, as well as the opportunity to learn aboDevelopment programs resulting from business requirements, realized ut the latest achievements in other companies. 28 Thank You for the Extra Mile Hrvatski Telekom continues to reward, on a quarterly basis, those This way we wish to give those employees credit for their excellent employees who have particularly excelled at their work, either by performance, which is reinforced by communicating about the reciresult, by working from the heart, by innovation, or by collaboration. pients of the reward on the Company’s IntraNet. Zen room In September 2015, COMBIS opened the doors of the newly reIn COMBIS, the employees are provided with the following benefits: hefurbished area for socializing and relaxation, the Zen Room, at an alth care, pension insurance, accident insurance, transportation allowaninvestment of HRK 100,000. This is a multifunctional room called ce, allowance for the use of a private vehicle for business purposes, mobiComZen, as proposed by the employees, offering, among other thinle subscription and costs approved in accordance with the job position, gs, table tennis, table football, darts, massaging and relaxing chairs, favorable crediting conditions provided by the company’s bank partners, and a pinball machine. By the end of the year, during the festive seavoluntary health insurance, one-time payment for the birth of a child, son, a PlayStation 4 was added to the ComZen. one-time payment for children’s gifts, bonus pay-out to all employees if the revenue/profit plan has been realized, and one-time allowance in the Opening of the Zen room is just the beginning of investments in case of the death of a close family member. All employees who have a this direction, as COMBIS’ management believe that, in addition company vehicle at their disposal are entitled to buy it after leasing expiry to interesting and innovative projects, an encouraging and positive at a preferential price. After 10 or more years of uninterrupted work with atmosphere in the business environment is set high on the priority COMBIS, employees are paid out a one-time jubilee bonus. list of young and satisfied employees. In the reporting period, COMBIS contracted one-year voluntary heCOMBIS pays a lot of attention to quality communication with emalth insurance for all its employees. Such insurance covers one deployees, which is continuous and aims to inform them about importailed medical check-up and other medical examinations depending tant events, initiatives, but also to engage employees for both buon the medical indication. siness and other initiatives, such as organizing help for colleagues in need. Communication is realized through the internal herald, by Each company should be the incubator of competent and capable announcements via e-mail, and via the internal social network. employees who are able to cope with their challenges in professional and private life. To achieve this, a whole lot of expertise and Two-way communication with employees personal skills are required, and this is what makes a big difference is also encouraged at all joint meetings of between experts. COMBIS supports education of its employees and individual sectors or at the All Employee provides them with financial assistance, while the HR Department at COMBIS is open to all questions of employees, as well as prepared Meeting, and the employees are not to offer advice to employees who plan to go into retirement. afraid to ask questions. A trade union branch office of the Croatian Union of TelecommuniAt the end of 2015, COMBIS had a total of 385 employees, of which cations is active in COMBIS. In 2015, 23 per cent of employees were 358 were employed in Croatia, 22 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and members of this branch office. 5 in Serbia. 29 Responsibility towards customers Customer Satisfaction Surveys HT monitors customer satisfaction by means of two key forms of surBy completing the poll, customers have the opportunity to rate the veys: TRI*M and ICCA. competence and kindness of the agent or sales representative with whom they had the last interaction, as well as the duration and quHT monitors customer loyalty using the TRI*M methodology. Cuality of realization of the interaction itself. The results are monitored stomers are asked specific questions about products, prices, touch and reported to all levels, from the Management Board level to the points, and processes. The results are monitored and reported to level of each individual agent or sales representative. Based on the all levels from the Management Board to each individual employee. supplied results, HT takes short-term and long-term measures to improve the quality of work of agents and sales representatives as well 2015 TRI*M results are positive, as processes. indicating that customers have 2015 ICCA results exceeded the realization of the set customer recognized HT’s efforts to provide satisfaction target at a total value of 188%. Customers consideexcellent customer experience. red the interaction with field technicians and T-Centers to be the best. The ICCA (International Customer Contact Analysis) is used to monitor customer satisfaction with all of HT’s touch points: call center, IVR HT continues to employ the same method in 2016 as well, as the raself-service, T-Centers, field technicians, door-to-door service, and tings and opinions of its customers are used as a basis for its propoofficial HT website. The survey is conducted by a poll individually sals regarding improvement of its operations aimed at achievement adjusted to the touch point, on a daily basis, upon completion of the of a higher level of customer satisfaction. last interaction with HT. 31 Communication with Customers Customer Service Customer care and customer satisfaction are in the focus of HT’s call page and more than 15,000 fans on Twitter bear witness to the extrecenter activities. mely positive customer response. The customer service unit answers customer calls, accepts complaAccording to a survey by Quadrans agency about the activities of the ints and fault reports, and resolves customer inquiries on a 24/7 ba100 largest Croatian companies on social networks, Hrvatski Telesis, either by telephone, via e-mail, telefax, or social networks. kom is at the very top of the list. In order to facilitate communication with HT and make it more acFurthermore, according to analyses conducted by Socialbakers cessible for its customers, in 2015 an on-line template for inquiries company on a global level, Hrvatski Telekom held a dominant posiand fault reports was created for the customers. Throughout 2016, tion in 2015 as the number one brand in the Republic of Croatia in HT continues to improve the services of the customer service unit terms of commitment on social networks. according to the customers’ needs. As to Facebook and on Twitter, HT’s average response time is 23 Social networks are among the most effective and most direct comminutes on Facebook and 14 minutes on Twitter. HT responds to munication channels. More than 230,000 fans on HT’s Facebook 99% of inquiries on Facebook and to 82% of mentions on Twitter. Customer Service: more than 230 000 fans 24/7 on Facebook. Average response time: 23 min 99% responds to inquirires more than 15 000 fans on Twitter. Average response time: 14 min 82% responds to mentions 32 Responsible Communication In marketing communication, company, focused on innovative projects, holding a prominent spot in the regional IT community, a company that adjusts to customers, market, advertising, sponsorship, and and trends any time. One of the goals is to get closer to the student popupromotion, HT applies Deutsche lation, but also to the demanding generation of Millennials – by relaxed Telekom brand guidelines and the communication, encouraging dialogue, and development of new ideas. HURA code of advertising. According to the last year’s customer satisfaction survey, 92 per cent COMBIS has well-developed relations with its customers; for comof respondents would recommend COMBIS. The reasons for such munication with them and with other interested parts of the local strongly expressed satisfaction are to be found in COMBIS’ reliabiliand regional community, COMBIS uses a Customer Newsletter to ty, quality, flexibility, promptness, and professional approach, as well publish information about the company’s most important events as in the competent and qualified employees. and initiatives. In addition, a direct communications channel has been opened to all Members of the Management Board, Vaš kuCOMBIS is an extremely flexible company, able to quickly react to martak, (“Your corner”) and, at last, profiles were opened on all relevant ket impulses, but also a company applying high international corporasocial networks. Furthermore, COMBIS is constantly improving its te criteria, which makes it an ideal partner to large companies as well. relations with the trade union, vendors, and the owner. COMBIS has eight service locations, in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek, COMBIS has been present on Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, and Zadar, Pula, Varaždin, and Dubrovnik. More so, COMBIS is active in YouTube for quite a while, where it has a large number of followers Bosnia and Herzegovina, with headquarters in Sarajevo and three in comparison to the rest of the IT community in Croatia; COMBIS more service units, in Banja Luka, Tuzla, and Mostar, as well as in stands out by its creative, continuous, and cooperative communicaSerbia, with headquarters in Belgrade. tion, for which the company has earned a lot of praise. According to a research conducted by IDC Adriatics[1], COMBIS The best business networking is created by the company’s employees is not only the leading provider of IT services in Croatia, it is also who, by their sharing, publication, and likes, spread relevant informatiamong the leading ICT companies in the Adriatic Region in the seon and participate in the building of the image of COMBIS as a modern gment of service provision. 33 Special Services and Customer Protection Cloud Backup is a professional backup data storage service enaOlivebox is an integrated solution for business management, mobling simple and automated storage of backup data (Backup as a nitoring, and analysis and for marketing intended for small and meService – the so-called BaaS) which are located on different devidium enterprises that wish to organize their business processes in ces. The service is intended for business customers who need data one place. The application enables a simple production of offers, backup on a continuous basis. invoices, order forms, approvals, dunning letters, cost management, fiscalized invoices, etc. All data are stored in HT’s Data Centre; theThe Maxi Fiscal Cash Register expands HT’s fiscalization solutions refore they are always secure and available. portfolio. The solution comprising everything on a touchscreen device is intended for smaller caterers, restaurants, and various mobile Cloud Disaster Recovery is a complete solution providing availabusinesses, as in addition to the traditional fiscalization function, it bility of key applications and data in the case of disaster, protecting also offers merchandise transactions. customers against potentially large losses. This service enables companies to replicate crucial servers, data, and applications in the ICT Network is a comprehensive service enabling the set-up of a local cloud, thus protecting them in the case of natural or human caused network at the customer’s location based on wired and wireless technodisasters. The solution potentially saves large amounts, enabling logies. It is intended for all business customers that are setting up a new companies to operate without interruption and loss of data. local network or need a redesign, optimization, or upgrade of their current local network. The ICT Network service can be realized by means ICT Video Surveillance is an integrated solution, easy to maintain of three different services: ICT LAN, ICT WiFi, and Cloud WiFi. All serviand use, therefore business customers need neither permanently ces include counselling, construction, and maintenance of the network. employed IT experts nor IT infrastructure. The solution is easily integrated into existing security systems and increases their efficacy. Pantheon ERP is an integrated online solution enabling small and ICT Video Surveillance is a scalable solution, which means that it will medium enterprises to link business processes and to fully control meet the requirements of locations of various sizes. them in a single system. The software covers all business processes, from procurement and invoicing, accounting and payroll maThe Cloud Fax service replaces the traditional telefax service and nagement, to production and business analytics. Along with the enables sending, receiving, storage, and archiving of fax messages Pantheon ERP Cloud application, the customer gets its own server and documents on the computer, smartphone, or tablet. The main space for data storage, so there is no need to invest in its own infraadvantages of this service in comparison to traditional faxing are sastructure. The application performs automatic upgrades to the latest vings, as there is no need to purchase a fax machine, paper, or toner, software version and makes updates with regard to changes in legiand fax messages can be sent or received from any location. slation; therefore, the customer can be sure that business operations will observe the latest rules and regulations of the Republic of CroaCloud Document Management is a solution enabling standarditia. The application is hosted on secure servers in HT’s Data Centre. zation of business processes related to the lifetime of all documents It is most suitable for small and medium enterprises and accounting received or created in the company, from receipt to processing and companies. Full use of the Pantheon ERP Cloud application requires dispatch. This intuitive solution provides efficient office operation with Internet access and a Pantheon license. no need for physical circulation of papers, thus increasing the degree 34 of organization and productivity in day to day business operation. The on making. Among other things, this service will substantially increase solution can be combined with data processing solutions (scanners, the efficiency and transparency of business processes, as it helps to OCR) and with the additional service of solution customization accorexternally monitor parts of expert decisions, so that citizens may particiding to specific needs of business operation. The partner company pate in the decision making process, monitor the course of administrawith regard to this service is IT Sistemi – Nove tehnologije d.o.o. tive processes, and initiate such processes themselves through Internet channels. Localis products are fully based on the “Geodatabase” The municipal waste disposal tracking service enables public utility geographic data base of the largest global producer of GIS software companies with a simple method to generate records on waste dispo– Esri. HT’s partner with regard to this service is GDi GISDATA. sal and to charge waste collection and disposal by volume and number of collections or weight of waste. At waste disposal, utilizing manual or Within the framework of support for startup companies, one of the truck-mounted readers, records are generated about the waste contaexamples certainly worth mentioning would be the support to the ininers. Data are then transferred to the application in real time and can novative uniGluko system that provides a solution for diabetes data be accessed at any time from any location. The service was realized in analysis. This is an integrated solution for safe, accurate, and timely cooperation with the partners EcoMobile and MikroGoran. transfer and reading of blood sugar level measurement data and support of diabetes management that substantially increases the paThe Localis service, based on spatial relations and characteristics tient’s quality of life, has an impact on the outcome of treatments, and that are an integral part of all 11 modules, assists the national, local, reduces costs in the healthcare system. In addition, uniGluko provides and regional administration units in improved management and decisisupport to both doctors and patients in the treatment of diabetes. Continuous Investment in the Future Hrvatski Telekom is among the first operators in Europe to have adoparchitecture, and the value of the projects in the past five years exted the 4G LTE standard in mobile telecommunications, and today, HT ceeds HRK 400 million. Making this step forward, HT has confirmed operates a 4G network that is available to a major part of the Croatian its leading position on the Croatian market and created prerequisipopulation. By the end of 2014, HT also invested in the purchase of adtes for the provision of better-quality services to the customers, deditional radio frequency spectrum at HAKOM’s public auction, which velopment of advanced future services, and a true convergence of allowed HT to double the mobile Internet access speed. fixed and mobile telep­hone and data services. In 2015, the value of investments was significantly increased. Total HT is one of the biggest investors of HRK 1.46 billion, i.e. 34,8 percent more than the year before, was in technology and therefore has a directed into three key areas in mobile and fixed infrastructu­re development, increase of capacities for broadband Internet access crucial role in the development of the and All-IP transfor­mation. HT is the third telco in the European Union Croatian economy and in the arrival of that has migra­ted all of its customers and services to All-IP network new investors. CROATIA ALL-IP NETWORK OF THE FUTURE 35 Responsibility towards suppliers Responsibility towards suppliers As one of the largest and most subjects of the supply chain by participating in the supply process, prominent companies in the Republic and we proactively inform them on how best to comply with all the instructions and good business practice. of Croatia, Hrvatski Telekom d.d. is constantly exposed to business To this effect, as a mandatory part of each contract, a contract clauand market risks. In its essential se was introduced in 2015, defining the supplier’s warranties with part, this applies to all processes of regard to anti-corruption regulations, as well as an excerpt from the procurement of goods and services, anti-corruption rules as obligatory attachment to the contract signed by Procurement with the supplier, so that the supplier confirms by as well as to relations with suppliers. signature that it will comply with the above mentioned provisions. For this reason, HT tends to establish long-term and transparent relations in order to minimize the risk of unprofessional conduct and The Company’s internal acts prescribe that the procurement process to establish relations based on trust, exchange of information, and shall be conducted in a fully transparent manner and shall not discrimiinsistence on the highest level of professionality and expertise. nate against or exercise preferential treatment of any bidder. The Procurement unit of Hrvatski Telekom operates ethically and fairly in all The Sustainable Procurement Program includes supply chain manabusiness relations with its suppliers and other legal entities with which gement for minimization of social and environmental risks, aimed at HT conducts business. The persons involved in procurement procegaining a long-term benefit for the Company, along with selection of sses on the Company side shall be unbiased and act in line with all suppliers according to clearly defined minimum standards. applicable internal acts and instructions of the Company, particularly in line with the Company’s Code of Conduct, the Social Charter, and The business unit in charge of procurement of Hrvatski Telekom manaall currently valid internal acts and decisions of the Company related, ges business relations with suppliers that have undertaken to uphold but not limited to anti-corruption activities, prevention of conflicts of the principles of social responsibility and environmental protection interest, granting or acceptance of benefits, and the like. and that are in compliance with the general Sustainable Procurement Strategy of the Deutsche Telekom Group, taking into account appliBy means of its internal documents, Hrvatski Telekom has strictly decable legislation (e.g. EU regulations, local acts of law). Procurement fined important ethical topics in business relations. After having intromust ensure that the principles of social responsibility and environduced and implemented the Business Sustainability Questionnaire mental protection of the Deutsche Telekom Group are made known for suppliers in 2014 dealing with the observation of ethical principles to the suppliers and are harmonized by contract through the general and environmental protection in business, the practice of mandatory terms and conditions of the contract, as well as other project-related completion of a questionnaire continued in 2015 as well. Failure to agreements. The above mentioned principles are described in detail complete the Questionnaire is an elimination criterion. Along with the in the Code of Conduct, the Social Charter, and the Corporate Social invitation to tender, the Questionnaire is sent to all bidders participaResponsibility Clause – the so called CSR Clause. ting in HT’s procurement process, regardless of whether they are Croatian or foreign companies. In the overall valuation of bids received, Prior to, during, and after the procurement process, Hrvatski Telethe Business Sustainability Questionnaire is weighted at ten per cent. kom reminds its suppliers to adhere to the above mentioned acts The completed Questionnaire is valid for one year after its completion; and instructions. Although these are internal acts, suppliers become upon expiry of this period of time, the Questionnaire must be renewed. 37 In addition to the observation of ethical principles, the Business Sugarding legality of business operations, such as regulations stainability Questionnaire for suppliers also deals with principles of on corruption, corporate crime, etc environmental management. As a holder of the international certificate for environmental management according to ISO 14001 stanBusiness operations contravene good business practices dard, Hrvatski Telekom is required to make the environmental protection principles known to every entity operating for and on behalf of Business operations contravene the principle of conscienHrvatski Telekom, including suppliers of goods and services. tiousness and fairness in business Therefore, while being involved in the procurement process on the Business operations contravene the business conduct and Hrvatski Telekom side, and particularly while they are working at morality locations in ownership or under jurisdiction of Hrvatski Telekom, suppliers are expected to: Business operations could result in dispute, substantial damage, and risk for the assets, reputation, and/or position of Proceed in line with applicable laws and other regulations Hrvatski Telekom. dealing with environmental protection The persons involved in the procurement process may be exclusiHandle waste produced during performance of work in the vely persons whose private investments and professional side-line manner as prescribed by law activities, if any, are not conflicting with the interests of the Company regarding the respective procurement process; they shall, in an Upon completion of maintenance work, dispose of replaced unbiased and objective manner, assess the bidders’ business offers. consumables, parts, and material themselves The Procurement Regulations define the guidelines and business comAlways proceed in line with the principles of best practice in envipliance framework for all procurement activities performed by Hrvatski ronmental protection, regardless of whether they have their own Telekom d.d. for the needs of its business operations on the market, as certified environmental protection certificate in place or not. well as the roles, duties, authorities, and responsibilities for all employees. HT reserves the right to check the supplier’s operation in terms of These Regulations are based on the Global Procurement Policies environmental protection and observance of the above mentioned of Deutsche Telekom Group, however, the Company, as any other requirements from time to time, in agreement with the supplier, by member of the Deutsche Telekom Group, shall independently creaan audit performed by a third party. te its processes in line with applicable Croatian regulations, its own internal acts, and its organization structure. The final part of the Questionnaire is a Statement whereby the supplier, under criminal and material liability, by its own signature and As for implementation of the above mentioned principles of coopestamp, confirms that it is familiar with all the above mentioned requiration with suppliers, it is important to point out that during business rements of ethical business operation and environmental protection operation of Hrvatski Telekom Procurement in 2015, no confirmed with regard to the activities performed for HT in the field of sustainacases of violation of statutory provisions or internal guidelines were ble business operation. By the same Statement, the supplier underfound; neither were any violations found regarding any aspect of hutakes to inform Hrvatski Telekom in writing if any changes should man rights whatsoever by the Company or our suppliers, be it with occur in the data presented in the respective Questionnaire. regard to child work, any form of forced labor, minority rights, or violation of regulations pertaining to environmental protection. Any conduct that contravenes the criteria of good business practices will be deemed unacceptable business conduct in the procurement proceCOMBIS has elaborated Supplier Selection Criteria that include press by the parties involved in the procurement process on the Hrvatski ferential treatment of suppliers that have a quality policy, a social poTelekom side, especially if such conduct leads to reasonable doubt that: licy, and an environmental management policy in place. The same criteria were included into the ISO documents and made available to Business operations contravene valid legal regulations reall employees of the Company. 38 Responsibility towards the environment Responsibility towards the environment The biggest contribution to reduction of CO2 emission and climaWe take a proactive approach to te protection comes from reduced fuel consumption. Key savings environmental, health, and safety initiatives in 2015 included modernization of telecommunications at work issues. We deem the equipment, efficient air conditioning and power supply systems, optimization of the real estate portfolio and refurbishment of facilities legal provisions to be minimum owned by HT in compliance with the principles of energy efficiency, requirements we strive to exceed or increased use of IT resources, and many other activities that contriimprove wherever we can. bute to a more economical energy consumption. the implementation of our EH&S Policy. Within the scope of HT’s Integrated Environmental, Health, and Safety at Work Management System, the Management Board of We strive to find solutions for our products and services that are Hrvatski Telekom adopted the Environmental, Health and Safety at energy efficient, save natural resources, and do not impair the health Work Policy in May 2014, which has been applied since then and of our employees and users of our services. which is in line with the DT and DT Group Policy. We actively involve our employees in our environmental protection, HT accepts social responsibility for protecting its employees and the health, and safety at work measures. They, and our contractors and environment, and our thoughts and actions are geared towards a suppliers, are obliged to comply with respective regulations and to sustainable business model in the interest of future generations. ensure they are implemented. We attach a high priority to environmental protection, health, and We inform the general public and interested parties of our engagesafety at work. The Management Board is directly responsible for ment in environmental protection, health, and safety at work, and so the establishment and implementation of the Company’s EH&S Polipromote a constructive dialogue. cy. We employ modern management systems to ensure efficiency in 40 Environment as a Valuable Resource In its day to day work, HT protects environment in various ways, from of in an environmentally friendly way. In addition to the collection of used continuously taking care of waste and its proper disposal, participating devices at T-Centers, 2015 saw the continuation of the program of buying in eco-campaigns and eco-events, to promoting and using alternative back used devices from customers called “Replace and Save”, where energy sources. Old mobile phones are disposed of not only on account customers can get a discount on purchase of a new device, while used of demonstrating our awareness of the importance of environmental proand properly working mobile devices are made available via online sales. tection, but as a response to customers’ demands. T-Mobile Hrvatska was the first company in Croatia that started organized collection and disposal So far, more than 131,000 used mobile devices, batteries, and other of old mobile devices, long before such obligations were provided for by accessories have been collected and disposed of in an environmenlaw, and so far more than 131,000 old mobile phones have been disposed tally friendly way. Collected and disposed more than 131 000 Education of the Youngest The necessity of preservation of nature is acquired from a very yoand other equipment and created works of art on the subject of disung age; for this reason, training and education has to start at the posal of mobile devices and preservation of the environment. HT earliest age. Therefore, HT supported the environmental and edumade the pupils aware of old mobile devices and accessories for recational project “Litter Less Campaign” of the Jure Kaštelan Primary cycling and environmental preservation. As a reward, HT presented School from Zagreb. Within the scope of this campaign, more than gifts to the pupils to mark the occasion, while all collected electronic 100 pupils collected approximately 300 mobile phones, chargers, waste was submitted to an authorized concessionaire. Through Education to Improvement of Environmental Indicators HT supports the raising of environmental awareness among its emintroduction to work. ployees in numerous ways, for instance by obligatory separated collection of useful waste (paper, batteries, small electronic waste, Application of such knowledge and environmental principles is evispent toner cartridges, etc.). Most of the employees have compledent from the high rating of DEKRA, an external certification comted a course on environmental protection, and new employees pany that conducted an audit of the Integrated Environmental, Healreceive training in environmental protection during the process of th, and Safety at Work Management System in October 2015. 41 A Step towards Smart and Energy Efficient Buildings The real estate portfolio includes buildings of diverse age, construction in practice and reducing the environmental impact. ction, and energy efficiency status. HT is refurbishing its buildings by applying green building and energy efficiency technologies and solutions. Interventions to improve energy efficiency also include In 2015, HT continued to conduct structural changes: improvement of the building’s thermal insulatienergy audits and energy on, facade renewal, installation of shading systems for sun protecticer¬tifications of its buildings to on, replacement of woodwork/ironwork by more efficient systems. assist with improving the energy effi¬ciency of its real estate portfolio. HT can boast smart buildings where the degree of energy parameter automation has been raised to the highest level. Wherever possible, remote control of a building’s energy performance is used; systems have In total, 54 technology and office buildings were certified, with an been installed that will automatically switch off air conditioning systems average energy class D, which is satisfactory with respect to the year when windows are opened; light sensors, smart heating systems, and and type of construction, pri¬marily due to the quality of regular maother solutions have been installed applying principles of green construintenance, as well as mate¬rials and equipment installed. Smart Solutions for Environmental Protection In Dubrovnik, Hrvatski Telekom has implemented the first smart liAny questions about HT and ghting solution as part of the smart city infrastructure. This is the first environmental protection can be demo lamp in Europe to feature an integrated multi-functional sensent to the e-mail address sor circuit. The lamp, which was switched on and tested in Dubrovnik, is different from all the lamps used in Europe because it includes zastita.okolisa@t.ht.hr. movement sensors, air pollution sensors, temperature sensors, and sound sensors. In addition, a video camera can be connected to the HT regularly and actively supports the global environmental movesensor circuit. The entire sensor circuit is managed from one place, ment to reduce the impact of climate changes, Earth Hour, by switcwhich provides for the opportunity to develop multiple smart city sohing lights off at locations all over Croatia and by switching off illumilutions without a need for re-installing sensors each time. nated advertising for the Company’s products and services. In Dubrovnik, Hrvatski Telekom has implemented the first smart lighting solution as part of the smart city infrastructure. 42 Optimizing Energy Consumption Within the scope of the Integrated Environmental, Health, and Safety ty for T-HT’s mobile network base stations in 2015. Moreover, it must at Work Management System in line with the ISO 14001 and OHSAS be stressed that HT’s car fleet is subject to constant renewal and mo18001 standards, energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissidernization; it also includes 74 vehicles that can run on LPG fuel, whions have been recognized as important aspects of HT’s environmench is considered to be the most environmentally friendly motor fuel. tal impact. With a view to efficiently managing these impacts, HT has established an Energy Management procedure, while the introduction HT has 14 installed renewable sources of electric power supply. With of general and individual objectives and related measures and proits products and services, HT often contributes to reducing electric grams has provided for constant improvements in the part relating to power consumption. Business and residential customers can save energy consumption and energy efficiency. In 2007, the Management energy and resources by using services such as audio and video Board of HT adopted an Energy Policy gearing HT’s activities towards conferences, Net Phone, and Office Fax and by enabling broadband the energy management and energy efficiency segment. Internet access. Cloud solutions reduce the necessary physical infrastructure in companies and their energy needs. Products and services In addition to the Energy Management procedure, individual business based on Cloud solutions allow customers to use highly efficient IT processes where the energy consumption aspect has been rated as infrastructure sharing, resulting in reduced energy consumption and very significant are also described in terms of relevant procedures of CO2 emissions without any concessions on high safety level. the Environmental Management System that refer to such processes: Hrvatski Telekom also participates in the ENHEMS-Building project – EnEnvironmental practice in offices hancement of Research, Development and Technology Transfer CapaProperty maintenance cities in Energy Management Systems for Buildings, co-financed by the Handling ozone-depleting substances European Union through the European Regional Development Fund. It Planning, preparing, and building of networks is implemented by the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing Managing customer terminal equipment (FER) in collaboration with the Meteorological and Hydrological ServiEnvironmental practice in the use of company vehicles ce (DHMZ) and the companies Elma Kurtalj d.o.o. (ELMA) and Hrvatski Relations with suppliers and external contractors Telekom d.d. (HT). The project demonstrates how savings in energy Maintaining the energy engineering infrastructure of technoconsumption can be achieved if the heating/cooling of a building is malogy facilities and premises. naged at a building zone level, using a building thermal model which is continuously monitored and identified during its operation, estimations Mid-2011, HT launched an energy efficiency project covering all enerand predictions of thermal distortions in the zone, as well as weather foregy efficiency-related activities and providing for better consumption cast for the location of the building, particularly solar irradiation. A highly results through the synergy of various activities. The project of proautomated procedure has been developed to synthesize such a system, moting energy efficiency at a corporate level continued in 2015. The which is demonstrated on the high-rise building of the Faculty of Electriabsolute amount of electric power consumption in 2015 showed a cal Engineering and Computing; such is offered as a Cloud computing decrease in comparison to 2014. The key savings initiatives in 2015 service and non-invasively added to the existing automation system in the included modernization of telecommunications equipment, efficient building by using open communications systems. The focus of further deair conditioning and power supply systems, optimization of the real velopment aimed at upgrading the service is on the hierarchical connectiestate portfolio and refurbishment of property owned by T-HT in line on of consumption management in the zone with the optimization of the with energy efficiency principles, more extensive use of IT resources, central heating/cooling system and the optimization of energy flows in and a range of other activities contributing to a more efficient energy the building’s micro-network with a view to achieving an economically opconsumption. Furthermore, 14 wind-solar systems produced electricitimal functioning of the building connected to an advanced energy grid. 14 installed renewable sources of electric power suppl 43 Greenhouse Gas Reduction Initiatives As part of the Integrated Environmental, the trend of air emissions was decreasing in the period under Health, and Safety at Work Management consideration. Boiler rooms are equipped with automated regulation of consumption parameters contributing to a more System, several procedures have been efficient use of resources and lower emissions in the environment. established to monitor greenhouse gas emissions as well. Regular maintenance of boiler rooms The Handling Ozone-Depleting Substances procedure establishes is the basis for reducing emissions in the monitoring and management of activities pertaining to the the environment. maintenance of various equipment that contains substances that could potentially affect the atmosphere. Operational objectives have been Furthermore, an upward trend in the use of audio and video condefined based on this procedure: replacement of air-conditioning ferencing as a replacement for physical meetings is an increasing devices that use HCFC (R-22), more efficient use of thermal technical trend in HT, resulting in a further reduction of the need for business systems, and replacement of heating systems in office buildings. trips, particularly over longer distances where airplanes are mainly used for transport. The audio conference has become a standard Air emissions from boiler rooms are regularly monitored, on method for holding regular meetings and consultations at a DT Growhich HT regularly prepares reports in compliance with the up level, especially when the presence of participants from several Croatian regulations. The weight of air emissions is either directly national companies is required, which has resulted in a consideradetermined from measurements or indirectly calculated from ble reduction in the number of trips in order to hold physical meefuel consumption. As a result of decreasing energy consumption, tings, and thus in greenhouse gas emissions caused by such trips. Responsible Water Consumption The Integrated Environmental, Health, and Safety at Work Management filters – thus providing for the separation of oils from liquids. System recognizes water consumption as an environmental aspect, and therefore it is described in detail in the Environmentally Friendly Practice Also after the relocation of a large number of employees of Hrvatski in Office Operations. HT uses water from the water supply network for Telekom to a considerably more efficient building in terms of energy drinking, sanitary purposes, air conditioning systems, and firefighting in 2014, in 2015 we managed to reduce water consumption by an systems. Where there is a risk of oil spills into the sewer, appropriate additional 4%, which is the result of a high level of the employees’ technical means are applied – the so called oil separators and grease awareness as well as of quick reactions to faults. Reduced water consumption in 2015: 4% 44 Proper Waste Disposal As part of the Integrated Environmental, Health, and Safety at Work saved. Within the objective to transform its operations through autoManagement System, a waste management procedure has been mation, digitalization, and simplification of business processes, the established with a view to reducing waste generation and disposing quantity of disposed and recycled paper waste in office operations of waste in a proper way. With the establishment of our Green Office, is decreasing, and in 2015 it was reduced by 30% in comparison to guidelines for day to day office operations have been introduced, 2014. Also, telephone directories are no longer published in printed resulting in an increase in the efficient use of resources and, at the form. At the Sales Department, we are continuously working on the same time, in positive impacts on our business operations. digitalization of sales documents and processes. In 2015, in T-Centers we additionally reduced the quantity of printed documents and Moreover, HT has been continuously taking care of the proper sorhave thus arrived at just 12% of transactions generating paper doting and collection of all types of waste, including paper, for the purcuments for archiving. Reduced paper consumption is also evident pose of its further processing and reuse. In doing so, we preserve fofrom the quantities of disposed and recycled paper waste and parests, reduce water and air pollution, and save the expensive landfill per and cardboard waste packaging which amounted to 114 tons in space. For each ton of collected paper, 20 tree saplings have been 2015, a drop by 11% in comparison to 2014. Reducing Waste Quantities Waste prevention by encouraging the reuse of unnecessary tangible place of its origin, collected in separate containers, and delivered for assets, reducing wastage to a minimum, separate collection of waste further disposal to authorized companies and concessionaires. The containing useful components to enable its recycling, and proper distotal weight of waste is determined by weighing. In 2015, a total of 595 posal are the backbone of waste management-related activities in HT. tons of various types of waste was collected and disposed, which was 35% less as compared to 2014. The amount of hazardous waste also For the purpose of reuse of unnecessary tangible assets, we use a shows a slight decline in comparison to 2014, while the amount of prescribed procedure to sell it to interested external customers and non-hazardous waste dropped by 44% as a result of putting copper to our employees. In doing so, we considerably reduce the amount cables out of operation and selling them as secondary raw material. of waste produced, we expand the lifespan of sold assets, and we make savings on raw materials required in the production of new In the product and service development process, we pay special equipment and devices. attention to packaging. We use fully recyclable packaging materials, paper bags, and linen bags, and our pre-paid vouchers are made of All waste generated in business processes is sorted according to the fully recyclable materials. less waste collected and disposed in 2015. 35% 45 Electromagnetic Emission in Mobile Networks Care about the Environment and Employees’ Health Owing to the development of mobile communications, in particular ctric field exposure level for general population is stricter by 60% and the introduction of 4G mobile networks based on LTE technology, rethe allowed level of radiated power by 84 % in relation to the limits laid sulting in an increase in the number of mobile services and their users down in the EU Directive and Commission’s Guidelines. All research in the whole Croatian territory, the need for a bigger number of base papers published up to now and the latest scientific findings show that stations and antennas has increased as well. A high number of mothe electromagnetic fields in the mobile communication systems have bile customers and base stations oblige HT to be committed to the no harmful effects on human health, which has been also confirmed optimum placement of stations, which will satisfy customers’ needs for by the World Health Organization itself. high-quality and available mobile communications services and at the same time minimize potential risks. To that end, HT applies in practice In the course of 2015, independent measurements of electromagnean Integrated Environmental, Health, and Safety at Work Management tic fields were conducted on more than 1300 base stations of HT’s System in compliance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. mobile networks, and the results were forwarded to the Ministry of Health. It must be pointed out that all base stations in HT’s mobile Furthermore, when it comes to electromagnetic emission, in its actinetworks have their approval for use issued by the Ministry of Health. vities HT fully complies with the valid Croatian regulations governing Measurements of electromagnetic fields have been conducted on a electromagnetic radiation that are up to 6.25 times stricter than the regular basis for many years already, and all results so far indicate ones set forth by the European Union. Protection of health against elethat the measured values are far lower than the permitted limits. ctromagnetic fields is regulated by the Ordinance on the Protection against Electromagnetic Fields pursuant to the general provisions of As the Ordinance sets considerably the Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection Act. For reasons of precaution, stricter limits compared to the EU i.e. for the purpose of applying the precaution principle, the respective Ordinance has introduced considerably stricter limits as compared to recommendation, it is evident that HT’s the Directive of the European Union and Guidelines of the Internatiobase stations do not engender any nal Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection, so that the elehealth risks for Croatian citizens. 46 HT 2015 Electric power consumption Motor fuels and vehicles Electric power consumption (MWh) 127.381,39 Total fuel consumption for vehicles (L) 1.429.553 Consumption of energy for heating Gasoline (l) 412.888 Consumption of natural gas for heating (m3) 765.759 Diesel (l) 948.731 Gas (l) 67.934 Consumption of energy for district central heating/ 5048 heating plants (MWh) Number of vehicles (pcs) 1034 Consumption of fuel oil for heating (liters) 505.617 Gasoline engine (pcs) 213 Water consumption Diesel engine (pcs) 747 Water consumption (m3) 74.819 LPG engine (pcs) 74 Waste disposal Passenger vehicles (pcs) 553 Commercial vehicles (pcs) 481 Total quantity of waste – household waste 595.170 excluded (t) Total mileage (km) 19.426.614 Total quantity of non-hazardous waste (t) 416.511 Gasoline engine (km) 4.135.645 Total quantity of hazardous waste (t) 178.659 Diesel engine (km) 14.090.655 Paper waste (t), non-hazardous 35.205 Gas engine (km) 1.200.314 Technical waste (t), non-hazardous 131.506 Paper consumption (kg) 2015 Other waste (t), non-hazardous 249.800 Hrvatski Telekom 75.070 47 Combis 2015 As the first company in Croatia, COMBIS presented a collection and cooling – gas, and the heating is automatically switched off after disposal program for Lexmark printer toner cartridges. 5 p.m. and at weekends in the company’s headquarters. The employees take care of unnecessary energy consumption and potential Even though there were no legal requirements, already in 2007 COMBIS savings at workplace. joined a program launched as part of the Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program in cooperation with Lexmark Croatia, and continued the practiCOMBIS is focused, to a significant extent, towards technologies ce of collecting empty toner cartridges in the reporting period as well. that protect the environment and increase the efficiency and mobility of other companies. COMBIS is primarily engaged in offering The Decision on the use of company vehicles clearly specifies the know-how, solutions, and services, and as such has now production obligations of vehicle users with regard to car servicing and their facilities of its own, but despite this fact, COMBIS sets no limits to optimal maintenance, which indirectly also affects environmental active participation in caring about the environment. In the perforprotection and reduction of harmful emissions from vehicles. mance of its business activities, COMBIS proactively thinks about and takes action to prevent production of hazardous substances of COMBIS uses the most favorable energy products for heating and any kind that could have undesirable environmental impacts. Electric power consumption Motor fuels and vehicles Electric power consumption (MWh) 588 Total fuel consumption for vehicles (L) 43.635 Consumption of energy for heating Gasoline (L) 0 Consumption of natural gas for heating (m3) 19.446 Diesel (L) 43.635 Consumption of energy for district central Gas (L) 0 93 heating/ heating plants (MWh) Number of vehicles (pcs) 30 Consumption of fuel oil for heating (liters) 0 Gasoline engine (pcs) 0 Water consumption Diesel engine (pcs) 30 Water consumption (m3) LPG engine (pcs) 0 Waste disposal Passenger vehicles (pcs) 27 Total quantity of waste – household waste excluded (t) Commercial vehicles (pcs) 3 Total quantity of hazardous waste (t) Total mileage (km) 635.012 Paper waste (t), non-hazardous Gasoline engine (km) 0 Technical waste (t), non-hazardous Diesel engine (km) 635.012 Other waste (t), non-hazardous Gas engine (km) 0 Motor fuels and vehicles Paper consumption (kg) 48 Implementation of global compact principles Principle Content Report Chapter/page Human Rights Businesses should support and respect Principle 1 the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Businesses should make sure that they are Principle 2 not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Rights Businesses should uphold the freedom of Principle 3 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Businesses should uphold the elimination Principle 4 of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Businesses should uphold the effective Principle 5 abolition of child labor Businesses should uphold the elimination Principle 6 of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Businesses should support a precautionary Principle 7 approach to environmental challenges Businesses should undertake initiatives Principle 8 to promote greater environmental responsibility Businesses should encourage Principle 9 the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in Principle 10 all its forms, including extortion and bribery 49
