KOÇ GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 www.koc.com.tr We remain deeply saddened by the untimely death of our Chairman Mustafa V. Koç. Mustafa V. Koç leaves behind a substantial, highly successful and proud legacy from his 32-year professional career, which included 13 years as Chairman of Koç Holding. During his tenure as Chairman, groundbreaking investments were undertaken with determination. The Holding’s position in the domestic market was reinforced through successful acquisitions. Koç corporate banner was planted in new countries and our international operations expanded.The Holding’s and nation’s overseas revenues significantly increased through large-scale export projects. Mustafa V. Koç’s global vision turned the Holding into one of the world’s leading corporations and Koç Holding achieved the honor of being the only Turkish firm on the Fortune 500 list. During his life, Mustafa V. Koç was committed to the motto of Holding founder Vehbi Koç,”I exist as long as my country exists and prospers.” He was not only a leader who took on ambitious business ventures, but also a pioneer in social responsibility projects, which he wholeheartedly embraced to contribute to the nation’s social advancement. Always a firm believer in Turkey’s bright future, Mustafa V. Koç leaves behind a permanent mark with his vision, philanthropy, leadership and most important of all, humanitarian values. He was truly a man of the people. A leader who energized and supported his employees, he was also a source of inspiration with his global perspective, determination, values and business ethics. Going forward, we shall transform Koç Holding from a company with international operations into a truly global company in line with his values, broad vision and dynamism… Mustafa V. Koç We will remember him with respect, affection and gratitude. (1960-2016) 3 ABOUT THE REPORT Much like last year, we prepared this year’s report in accorACCOUNTABLE, dance with the GRI G4 Reporting Guidelines “Core” option. TRANSPARENT We reviewed and updated our existing systems, a task that we AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT routinely carry out during every reporting period. We conformed to GRI G4 guidelines in setting the scope and boundary of the report, determining report content, calculating performance INSPIRING indicators, and fine-tuning the language of the report. TALENTS This report covers the operations of and projects conducted by Koç Holding in Turkey from January 1, 2015 until December INNOVATING FOR 31, 2015. The most significant part of the social, environmental THE ENVIRONMENT and economic impact generated by Koç Holding’s operations stem from the activities of the Group companies. Accordingly, KOÇ HOLDİNG the report also covers the operations and performance results INNOVATION AND of Arçelik, Aygaz, Ford Otosan, Koç Information Group , Opet, PRODUCT STRATEGY With the values and vision formed over the course of a Otokar, Otokoç Otomotiv, Tat Gıda, Tofaș, Tüpraș, TürkTrakdeep-rooted, 90-year history, Koç Group has always had a tör and Yapı Kredi, all of which are enterprises owned by Koç reputable standing in the eyes of its stakeholders. Leveraging Group. This information may be presented on a consolidated EMPOWERING this competitive advantage, Koç Group has maintained longbasis or broken down by sector. Unless otherwise noted, and THE VALUE CHAIN term sustainable growth to become Turkey’s largest industrial except for those sections that detail Koç Holding’s profile in enterprise. Our goal for the years ahead is to expand Koç addition to the policies, systems and practices implemented Group’s success story to the international arena. We are awathroughout the Group, statements made regarding sustainaEMBRACING re that we can only attain our goal with the support and trust bility indicators include those prior referenced companies or THE COMMUNITY of our stakeholders. We believe that we can only accomplish the consolidated information of the sector groups composed this objective through a sustainable business model coupled of the aforementioned enterprises. The scope we have estabG4-17 » G4-18 » G4-20 with transparent and accountable communication with staG4-21 » G4-23 » G4-28 lished within that framework incorporates 78% of our Group G4-29 » G4-30 » G4-32 keholders. As a result, we use the sustainability reports that employees and 87% of the combined revenues of the Group. we have published annually since 2008 as one of our core With regard to social investment areas included in the report, tools to share detailed and clear information on the developinformation is presented on activities carried out by VKV as well ments at Koç Group with stakeholders. as external stakeholders of Group companies such as dealers and suppliers in certain prioritized areas. ¹ Koç Information Group does not represent a legal entity, but a common name for KoçSistem, Bilkom, and Koç Information and Defense Technologies, all of which are Koç Group companies. Within this report, unless otherwise stated, all performance and practice related information disclosed regarding Koç Information Group consists of the shared data and practices of these three enterprises. MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Stakeholders, I am convinced that creativity and innovation are two indispensable qualities for the Koç Group’s ongoing success and capacity I would like to start by paying tribute to my dear brother Mustafa V. to solve development-related problems. With approximately 13% Koç whose vision, leadership and above all, human values leave beof Turkey’s private sector R&D spend in this reporting period, the hind such an indelible mark. God rest his soul. It is beholden upon Koç also ranks among the top R&D investors in the world. We will us to run even further with the baton he has handed over. continue to take bold steps in innovation and new technologies. As we reinforce the Koç Group’s leadership in Turkey, we will also I also believe that innovation and creativity, the two halves of the endeavour to become a global power; this necessitates an accurasingle greatest factor in progress, is fostered in a work environment te appraisal of the present state of the world, the philosophy, vision that encourages a diversity of voices. That is why diversity is an and business models to advance the appropriate response, idenindispensable quality of our workplace culture in the Koç Group. tify future expectations and demands in order to develop suitable This, in turn, is predicated on fair treatment of every employee, products and services. It is therefore vital for us to comprehend equal opportunities and embracing our differences as a value. All present and potential social, environmental and economic issues the same, gender inequality remains unsolved around the world, today before adopting innovative solutions and business models hence our support for the HeForShe initiative that the late Mustafa based on creating shared values throughout the Koç Group and all V. Koç had joined as a global leader. To this end, we endeavour to our business processes. That is the only way we can continue to create a working environment where women employees are better grow our successes in the future as we have done in the past, and able to express themselves, find better opportunities for training, create value for our stakeholders. Ömer M. Koç development and senior management levels. We are generating Chairman of the Board of Directors 2015 proved to be a turning point in global issues and internatioprojects to expand this goal throughout the Koç Group value chain nal efforts in search of solutions. The United Nations Sustainable and our wider impact area. Social development activities are a Development Goals identified seventeen distinct sustainability areas major part of our corporate culture. Our social work has been conBecoming a global power necessitates an accurate that the whole world needs to manage carefully. The single greatest ducted for many years within a corporate and strategic plan and a appraisal of the present state of the world, the outcome of this process for the world of business is the promotion of vision that targets shared benefits, well beyond the scope of any philosophy, vision and business models to the private sector into a recognisable actor on the path to developmere charitable activity. Our social investment activities especially advance the appropriate response, identify future ment goals. I believe that the private sector needs to assimilate fully its in health, education, culture and the arts and sports will continue expectations and demands in order to develop transformative role in sustainable development. Convinced of the cruwell into the future. cial role of the private sector in development, we, the Koç Group, have suitable products and services. On the occasion of addressing you as the Chairman of Koç Holalways been a driving force in Turkey’s economic and social progress ding for the first time, I would like to express my gratitude to all our with our investments and ventures into new areas, and will continue to shareholders, customers, dealers, suppliers, trades unions and do so. We have, to this end, integrated sustainability into our activities above all, our managers and employees for their support in our and are now delighted to offer an insight into our social and environsuccess, and their sympathy in our time of grief. mental performance with this sustainability report. Throughout this reporting period, as we followed the undertaking in the field of climate With my warmest regards, change on both local and global levels, we have also designated the problem of climate as a priority in our activities. Group companies have, in this reporting period, initiated several highly successful climate and environmentally friendly products and services encompassing G4-1 » G4-2 supply processes, production and distribution. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear Stakeholders, throughout our Group, reflect it upon our business models and As you know, 2016 started with an indescribable loss for our group: thereby develop a portfolio of products and services that answer the Mustafa V. Koç, architect of momentous Koç Group accomplisexpectations of the new generation and that add value to life. It is hments and a true leader at the vanguard of every field of social also important to prioritise a sustainable production philosophy that responsibility will always be remembered with great respect and is environmentand people-friendly throughout our value chain. Our admiration. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to his work on innovation that is rapidly developing and expanding into all memory once again. He is sorely missed; God rest his soul. I would our business sectors is central in this respect. I take great pride in also like to repeat our determination to ensure that his legacy of a stating that every Koç Group company leads it sector in R&D infrastglobal Koç Group remains in safe hands. ructure and capability: with 4,321 staff and TL1.3 billion in 2015, the Koç Group led the Turkish private industry in this particular field. Our world today is beset with geopolitical, economic and social problems, yet humankind also takes enormous strides in science We owe our accomplishments in sustainability to our employees; and technology. I sincerely wish peace, common sense, science they present unquestionably the real security for our future. We and prosperity as soon as possible for our country and the world are convinced that pioneering work and innovative ideas can only at large. originate in powerful teams that develop unremittingly. To this end, we support our employees’ professional development and underClimate change is a major item on the agenda for the sustainability take several other initiatives to foster diversity in our teams. We of global peace and prosperity. The long-suspected risks posed have signed up to the Women’s Empowerment Principles in this to our world, society and economy by climate change are now reporting period. We continue to develop initiatives aiming to raise even more observable than ever. The accord reached at the 2015 gender sensitivity in the work place throughout the Group. Our Levent Çakıroğlu COP21 Paris Summit for a global and practical solution coming at ‘For my Country’ social investment programme intends to reach CEO the end of many years of negotiations is a major development. A beyond the confines of the Koç Group and expand the scope of key outcome of this agreement is the capacity demonstrated by our work towards gender equality throughout society at large. so many countries to take a common stand in the face of a global Our aim at the Koç Group is to help Turkey with problem; this offers optimism for the solution of other social and That the entire Koç Group companies traded on the BIST50, along economic problems. with Koç Holding itself made it to the 2014-2015 BIST Sustainabithe pioneering steps we have taken in innovation, lity Index is yet another major achievement, a direct result of the technology and sustainability and renewable Koç Group companies have been quite successful with their climate resolute development we have maintained for a long time. and environment projects in this reporting period. Efficient energy models, and thereby transform our leader and Our aim at the Koç Group is to help Turkey with the pioneering use drives initiated through the year has resulted in energy savings exemplary position in the country to international totalling 1.26 million GJ, while greenhouse gas emissions fell to steps we have taken in innovation, technology and sustainability success stories. 91,170 tonnes of CO2. In the meanwhile, by recycling 96.86 million and renewable models, and thereby transform our leader and cu. m. of water, Koç Group companies have effectively derived exemplary position in the country to international success stories. 73.4% of their water consumption from recycling. An African proverb the late Mustafa V. Koç was so fond of repeaOur objective to become a leading player in global economy hinges ting says, ‘if you want to go fast, go alone; if you want to go far, go upon our ability to correctly identify the course of the economy, together.’ I would like to extend my gratitude to our shareholders, consumer expectation and requirements, lifestyles and the percepticustomers, suppliers, trades unions and employees who have made on of prosperity, and taking our place in the new industrial structure 89 years of success possible by supporting us on this journey as we that is being formed accordingly. It would not be too far fetched to set our sights on far distant horizons. foresee a radical transformation of the economy in the very near With my kindest regards, future as a consequence of products and services fostered by digital technology, given the massive strides already taken in the last G4-1 » G4-2 few years. We at Koç Holding aim to embrace this transformation KOÇ GROUP HAS SUCCESSFULLY MAINTAINED ITS POSITION AS TURKEY’S TOP INDUSTRIAL GROUP. ACCORDING TO THE TOP 500 INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES SURVEY 2015 BY ISTANBUL CHAMBER OF INDUSTRY, THE TOP 3 CORPORATIONS ARE ALL KOÇ GROUP COMPANIES. KOÇ GROUP IN 2015 World's 381 Largest Company According to Fortune Global 500 List st Koç Holding remained as the only Turkish company in Fortune Global 500 List during 2015. Koç Holding is the one and only Turkish company to place in the top ten of the “Holding” category in Boston Consulting Group’s “2015 Value Creators” list. The European Commission’s 2015 list for “The Holding as well as World’s Top 2,500 R&D Investors” based on R&D spending figures includes Koç three other Koç Group companies. 9% Koç Holding ranked first in “Turkey’s Most Admired Companies” survey carried out by Capital magazine. OF TURKEY'S TOTAL EXPORT In the “Turkey’s Best Employers according to Generation Y” survey, conducted by the global research company Universum Koç Holding ranked Koç Group has generated a first in the economics, administrative and social sciences categories, and fourth in engineering and information technologies. In combined financial revenue equivalent to addition, Koç Holding placed first in the holdings category 7% Koç Group was named “The Group with the Highest Number of Female Employees” at the “Women-Friendly Companies Survey”, held by Capital magazine. With the “HeForShe” campaign, Koç Holding was granted the “Felis,” one of the most prestigious awards of the communication world in the OF TURKEY'S NATIONAL INCOME category of Corporate Social Responsibility.. Energy Automotive Consumer Durables Finance Other Major Companies Major Companies Major Companies Major Companies Major Companies Tüpraş* Aygaz* Opet Entek Ford Otosan* Tofaş* Arçelik* Arçelik-LG Klima Yapı Kredi Bankası* Yapı Kredi Tat Gıda* Düzey Koçtaş Setur Aygaz Doğal Gaz Demir Export TürkTraktör* Otokar* Otokoç Leasing Yapı Kredi Koray* Yapı Setur Marinaları Mares* Divan Otomotiv International Alliances Kredi Faktoring Yapı Kredi Yatırım KoçSistem Bilkom RMK Marine LG Electronics Menkul Değerler Yapı Kredi Portföy International Alliances Yönetimi Koç Finansman International Alliances Ford Motor Co. Fiat Chrysler Kingfisher Kagome Sumitomo Automobiles Case New Holland International Alliances UniCredit G4-9 » G4-17 * Listed companies KOÇ GROUP IN 2015 In 23 countries 91,304 employees Values (Million TL) 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Change % Revenues 69,492 68,622 1 63 79 7,895 Operating Profit 6,677 3,222 107 Number of Number of Number of Employees Facilities Certified Facilities Certified Volunteering for Profit Before Tax 5,557 3,181 75 with OHSAS 18001 with ISO 14001 Social Projects Profit for the Year 5,829 4,214 38 Profit for the year attributed to equity 3,568 2,710 32 holders of the parent Total Assets 72,985 63,941 14 Total Equity 33,676 29,301 15 242 million TL 223 46,476 Equity attributed to equity holders 23,135 20,348 14 Environmetal Number of Number of of the parent Protection Donations, Saplings Planted Expenditures and Sponsorships and Social Projects for Reforestation Investments TOTAL R&D SPENDING OF KOÇ TOTAL R&D EMPLOYEES OF KOÇ GROUP COMPANIES GROUP COMPANIES (TL MILLION) CO2 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 1,304 4,321 73.4% 1.26 MILLION GJ 91.17 THOUSAND TONS 918 4,169 INCREASE IN NUMBER INCREASE IN OF R&D Percentage of Recycled Total Energy Saved Total GHG Emissions 706 R&D EXPENDITURE 3,693 EMPLOYEES Water in Total Water Usage Reduced 570 % 14 3,258 % 13 G4-9 » G4-17 SUSTAINABILITY VISION “Meeting our responsibilities toward the people of today as well as 9 future generations is yet another core principle that we pioneered.” Our Founder Vehbi Koç ACCOUNTABLE, KOÇ HOLDING TRANSPARENT SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT The pillars of Koç Holding’s sustainability INSPIRING initiatives are business ethics, corporate TALENTS governance and culture of corporate responsibility. These principles are supported by the UN Global Compact that Koç Holding became INNOVATING FOR a signatory to in 2006 along with the UN THE ENVIRONMENT Women’s Empowerment Principles and the HeForShe Initiative that we joined in 2015. INNOVATION AND Activities carried out as part of the 10 prinPRODUCT STRATEGY ciples of the UN Global Compact and our sustainability reporting efforts have proved EMPOWERING extremely successful within Koç Holding and THE VALUE CHAIN the Group companies. Additionally, these efforts have been a success within our sphere TÜPRAŞ of influence in general, in terms of managing EMBRACING social, environmental, economic and ethics of Group companies. Under the project, we improvement that will enable more effective THE COMMUNITY matters, reinforcing risk management percepdiscussed what we needed to do to ensure management of these matters and enhanced tion, and grasping the world of the future. As the existence and development of Koç Group performance. G4-16 our corporate capabilities and performance in the new socio-economic environment to have improved in these areas, the need for a come. At the same time, we identified the model that will further expand our horizons operations of Koç Holding and Group comemerged. To this end, we launched the Koç panies and the potential social, economic and Group Sustainability Management Project in environmental impacts of these operations, in 2014 with the encouragement of Koç Holding both the present day and the future. Subsenior management and the participation sequently, we identified governance areas of 10 KOÇ GROUP SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES Prioritization is a core component of the Koç ACCOUNTABLE, Group sustainability management approach. As Climate and Energy TRANSPARENT part of the systematic process carried out jointly Innovating Water Management AND RESPONSIBLE by Koç Holding and Group companies, susfor the Future Responsible Use of Resources MANAGEMENT tainability priorities are identified, performance Innovation and Product Strategy boosting strategies are devised in these areas, INSPIRING and actions are taken. KOÇ GROUP PRINCIPLES Inspiring Workplace Culture TALENTS Talents Occupational Health and Safety Under the Koç Group Sustainability Management Project, the first aspect we addressed was identifying Koç Group’s sustainability priorities. A INNOVATING FOR comprehensive study was conducted at this stage KOÇ GROUP CODE OF ETHICS Enhancing the Responsibility in Value Chain THE ENVIRONMENT with the participation of 230 persons consisting Value Chain Product and Service Responsibility of senior-level and specialized unit managers of Group companies. The objective was to set the INNOVATION AND priorities by analyzing aspects related to the laws, Embracing the Community Development Community Empowering the Local Economy PRODUCT STRATEGY rules and regulations governing the business of Koç Holding and Group companies, engagements, general and industry-specific sustainability EMPOWERING issues, best practices within the peer group, and Innovation Enhancing Inspiring Embracing THE VALUE CHAIN business goals and stakeholders expectations of for the Future the Value Chain Talents the Community Koç Holding and Group companies. Koç Group companies Koç Group companies Koç Group companies aim Koç Group companies EMBRACING We adopted the prioritization guideline within the mobilize innovative ideas regard human to be at the forefront of the identify their own developTHE COMMUNITY GRI G4 standard and the process recommendand technologies as a resources as their competition, putting forward ment with the developed for this guideline in our priority setting study. prerequisite of their future most important asset business strategies that foresee ment of the community success; develop efficient and talent that will the global environment, society, present in their operating Issues were prioritized based on potential impact G4-2 » G4-19 » G4-20 and environmentally-friendshape the future; consumers, sectors, markets geography. To this end, on the Group’s business success with a risk and and expectations arising out of ly business processes; they offer a safe they undertake efforts to opportunity-oriented approach while taking the prioritize people, commuworking environment these. They work together with strengthen local econoentire value chain into consideration. After the stakeholders to ensure that nity and the environment that prioritizes mies and help commuresponsible approaches and results were consolidated with the assessment in their investments; equality, fairness and nities to develop socially, conduct are adopted throughof Koç Holding’s related units, the findings were manage their environmenhuman dignity while environmentally, culturally out the value chain – from tal impact; and produce supporting individuals’ and economically while presented to Koç Holding senior management for procurement and production, environmentally-responsidevelopment. working in cooperation approval and the priority portfolio was determined. to logistics and the point where ble, value-added products products and services meet with civil society organizaTo this end, the Koç Holding sustainability priorto meet the expectations of tions for that purpose. customers – and that commerities portfolio consists of 10 core issues and four the future generations. cial success is reinforced. main courses of action related to these issues: 11 KOÇ GROUP SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT As part of Koç Group’s sustainability manageCore performance indicators are defined for administers annual training for users, updates ACCOUNTABLE, ment approach, the core policies and strategies each Group company’s priorities for upcoming system manuals, and provides advisory service TRANSPARENT related to sustainability priorities are formulated years. Efforts to expand the scope of target-setto users for the data collection process. SysAND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT with the participation of the relevant Koç Holding ting at the Group are ongoing. The Koç Group tem improvement initiatives continued in 2015. bodies and Group companies. Meanwhile, the Sustainability Performance Evaluation and ReIn line with the goal of integrating sustainability policies, strategic trends and goals pertaining to porting System was established in 2010 in order management with the core business processINSPIRING TALENTS the sector-specific aspects of these areas are to monitor the actual results with respect to the es of Koç Holding and Group companies, we set by the Group companies. Koç Holding and sustainability performance indicators. The sysundertook efforts to integrate the sustainability Group companies establish units responsible tem is structured in line with the performance performance indicators with the function-based INNOVATING FOR for executing sustainability priorities. Progress indicators set by the Global Reporting Initiative performance evaluation tools. To this end, THE ENVIRONMENT made toward achieving these goals is monitored (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting practices in during the reporting period, human resources through performance evaluation systems and addition to those indicators designed specially processes-related performance indicators were reported to senior management. The Group also to monitor the sustainability performance of fully integrated into the human resources perforINNOVATION AND began feeding the accomplishments in these the Koç Holding and Group companies. It is mance evaluation system. PRODUCT STRATEGY areas into the compensation system, including improved annually according to the needs idenPursuant to Koç Group’s sustainability manthe remuneration of senior management, via the tified and feedback received by Koç Holding. agement approach, the primary role of Koç EMPOWERING performance management systems. To ensure efficient use of the system, the Group THE VALUE CHAIN EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY G4-19 TÜRK TRAKTÖR 12 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Holding’s senior management, led by the Board Establishing continuous and constructive While all units of Koç Holding communicate with ACCOUNTABLE, of Directors, is to steer sustainability initiatives in communication with stakeholders and addresstheir respective stakeholders through various TRANSPARENT channels, the main unit responsible for the line with the Group’s overall strategy, while moning their expectations and needs is an integral AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT itoring and overseeing the performance results. element of Koç Holding’s business conduct. Company’s stakeholder communication activiInvestor Relations Reports and Sustainability ties is Corporate Communication and External Koç Group has a vast stakeholder audience Reports that are published annually, as well as Relations Department. As the overwhelming INSPIRING when our subsidiaries are also taken into function and subject-based analyses, briefings majority of Koç Holding’s assets are comprised TALENTS consideration. However, stakeholders of Koç and assessments that are conducted with of publicly listed companies, communication Holding and Group companies are different and varying frequency, serve to inform Koç Holding’s initiatives specific to financial stakeholders – distinct groups based on their operating strucsuch as investors, shareholders, credit rating INNOVATING FOR Board of Directors and senior management on tures. Thus, Koç Holding and Group companies THE ENVIRONMENT agencies, investment banks, and analysts – are the initiatives and performance related to susconduct analyses to identify their corporate necessary. The Investor Relations Department tainability priorities. Further, tasks performed stakeholder segments. Koç Holding’s primary is responsible for these efforts. In addition to by the committees and working groups formed stakeholders are shareholders, subsidiaries, emINNOVATION AND within the Holding’s corporate structure and the setting up meeting requests from investors, ployees, dealers and agencies, customers, civil PRODUCT STRATEGY findings from these tasks are provided to senior the Investor Relations Department proactively society organizations, and governmental entities. participates in road shows and conferences management via annual reports and presentaTools and frequency of stakeholder commuto meet with investors in various countries and tions. After assessing the information gathered EMPOWERING nication activities carried out by Koç Holding cities at least 10 times each year. In order to THE VALUE CHAIN through all these channels and the perspectives, depend on the nature, expectations and needs provide a transparent financial communications demands and expectations received through of the target audience. Stakeholder engageplatform, the Investor Relations Department various stakeholder interaction tools, Koç Holding ment practices include one-on-one interviews organizes quarterly webcasts; informs investors EMBRACING Board of Directors sets the strategic direction for for oneand two-way information provision and on a regular basis through the investor relations THE COMMUNITY the coming years while ensuring and overseeing feedback collection, reports, presentations in bulletin, website, and the iPad app; and adimplementation by senior management. addition to project-based partnerships. dresses all questions received from the investG4-19 » G4-24 » G4-25 G4-26 » G4-27 Koç Holding and Group companies registered ment community via e-mail or teleconference. Koç Holding selects corporate stakeholders various accomplishments during the reporting to develop collaborations based on the core Koç Holding stakeholders are able to convey period thanks to their sustainability management principles of integrity, respectability, ethics, and their expectations and opinions in a large numdevelopment efforts. Arçelik, Ford Otosan, Otocompliance with applicable laws and reguber of areas through communication channels. kar, Tofaș, Tüpraș and Yapı Kredi as well as Koç lations. Koç Holding also assesses potential The most basic expectation of stakeholders is Holding were included in the BIST Sustainability partnerships according to the potential to create transparent, egalitarian, regular and prompt inIndex BIST Sustainability Index 2015-2016. value, further innovation, and foster creativity. formation disclosure. These requests are evalu13 ated by related units and addressed via various an in-house monthly magazine, “News from Us,” Koç Holding believes that the best way to find lastACCOUNTABLE, tools. These tools include the website and the which is available for public view and aims to ing solutions to shared social problems is through TRANSPARENT iPad apps, which are updated in real time; the civil society organizations, provided that they are enhance communication with staff members. AND RESPONSIBLE annual report and sustainability report, which Further, community development projects such supported adequately. To this end, Koç Holding MANAGEMENT are published annually; financial performance as “For My Country” are carried out through the and Group companies support, through memberreports, which are released quarterly and annuvolunteer efforts of employees. ship, various professional associations and trade INSPIRING ally; periodic analyses and informational docubodies; initiatives that bring together the business TALENTS ments, road shows, and webcasts. In addition, Customers of Koç Group companies can share community; associations and foundations that their opinions, suggestions, complaints and operate in environmental, educational, health, the Company addresses the stakeholders’ need requests with Koç Holding through communicaand other similar areas. They also take part in the for information, as the need arises, through INNOVATING FOR tion forms on the website or by reaching the reworking groups whose charters coincide with press releases, material event disclosures, and THE ENVIRONMENT lated units via telephone and email. The primary the Group’s areas of operation and participate in ad hoc meetings. Aside from trade and commercial secrets, all questions are answered channels of communication for correspondence their projects. Similarly, Koç Holding and Group expeditiously by the most competent persons at related to products and services are the call companies contribute to innovation initiatives and INNOVATION AND the Company in charge of the related topic. centers, Human Resources and Corporate other forms of scientific advancement through PRODUCT STRATEGY Communication units of the Group companies. communication and joint projects with universities. Thanks to their pioneering role in community investments, Koç Holding and Group companies EMPOWERING receive a large number scholarship, donation, THE VALUE CHAIN financial and in-kind assistance requests. These requests are evaluated by the Corporate EMBRACING Communication and External Relations DepartTHE COMMUNITY ment and Vehbi Koç Foundation based on their areas and available resources; the appeals are G4-24 » G4-25 » G4-26 addressed in line with the future plans. G4-27 In addition to the efforts of the Group companies, Koç Holding undertakes a number of initiatives to foster regular communications with employees. For example, the Company posts major announcements, changes in management, and press releases on the intranet, which is accessible to all personnel. Koç Holding also publishes AYGAZ ACCOUNTABLE, TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT “Adhering to Superior Business Ethics and 15 Honest Business Principles is Our Doctrine” Our Founder Vehbi Koç ACCOUNTABLE, TRANSPARENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMMITTEES AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT Being Turkey’s largest company, Koç Holding the Company before they became legally The highest administrative body at Koç Holding INSPIRING is a pioneer in the Turkish business community required. Full compliance with laws, rules is the Board of Directors. Structured in a way TALENTS thanks to its accountable, transparent and and regulations, and the establishment of an that complies with the CMB’s Corporate Govresponsible management approach and its accountable, transparent and responsible ernance Principles, the Board of Directors conINNOVATING FOR leadership in embracing corporate governance management approach are indispensable sists of 15 members as of 2015. No members THE ENVIRONMENT principles. The Koç Group owes this leadership principles for Koç Holding and Group of the board take on an executive role at the position primarily to its values and code of companies. Company while five board members are recogethics. A business culture steeped in these nized as independent members in keeping with INNOVATION AND Koç Holding and Group companies have values and principles will continue to drive and the principles stipulated in the related commuPRODUCT STRATEGY adopted the Capital Markets Board (CMB)’s bolster the Group’s commercial success as niqués of the CMB. In addition to those board Corporate Governance Principles in their well as its leadership in business conduct and members that meet all CMB requirements for corporate governance models, and they sustainability credentials. independent membership, three of our board EMPOWERING constantly undertake improvement efforts in THE VALUE CHAIN The principles of integrity, respectability, ethical order to increase the level of compliance with members comply with all of the independence criteria except for that pertaining to residing in behavior, and compliance with applicable laws, these principles. Improvements in this area are Turkey and meeting the tenure required by the rules and regulations form the backbone of presented for the information and opinions of EMBRACING Income Tax Law. Further, the Chairman of the THE COMMUNITY the corporate governance approach adopted stakeholders in annual Corporate Governance Board of Directors and CEO functions are carby Koç Holding and Group companies. Principles Compliance Reports. Arçelik, ried out by different persons at Koç Holding. G4-34 Koç Holding’s commitment to improving its Aygaz, Otokar, Tofaș, TürkTraktör, Tüpraș and corporate governance is demonstrated in Yapı Kredi, Group companies listed on Borsa The current composition of Koç Holding Board of numerous ways. For example, contemporary Istanbul, commission corporate governance Directors can be accessed here. elements of good corporate governance, rating assessments. These enterprises are * The number of members on the Board of Directors was raised such as appointing independent members to included in BIST’s Corporate Governance to 18 in April 2016, while the number of independent members the Board of Directors and basing executive Index as a result of their corporate governance rose to six in accordance with CMB regulations. The number of pay on sustainable financial and operational rating scores. female members on the Board of Directors increased from one performance criteria, were adopted by as of end-2015 to four in April 2016. 16 RISK MANAGEMENT Koç Holding Board of Directors carries out its The highest body within Koç Holding responsiGroup companies carry out risk manageACCOUNTABLE, duties and responsibilities in line with the criteria ble for the risk management function is the Risk ment activities using a model identical to that TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE set forth in the Company’s Articles of AssociaManagement Committee, which performs this employed by Koç Holding. In addition, Group MANAGEMENT tion. The Audit Committee, Corporate Goverduty on behalf of the Board of Directors. Risk companies create their own risk identification, nance Committee, Nomination and Remuneraanalysis and management efforts are carried early warning and mitigation mechanisms, tion Committee, Risk Management Committee, out under the leadership of the Presidency of and set their tolerance limits. Risk elements INSPIRING TALENTS and Executive Committee were formed to Finance in coordination with all departments. identified by Group companies feed into Koç boost the productivity of the Board of Directors. The scope of this task includes conducting deHolding’s risk management processes; action Detailed current information on the composition, tailed evaluations on potential financial, strateplans devised as a result of this process are INNOVATING FOR operating principles and member lists of Koç gic, operational and legal risks, and undertaking duly implemented. THE ENVIRONMENT Holding Board of Directors and the committees initiatives to improve risk policies and control In addition to preventive measures taken against can be accessed here. mechanisms. risk elements, the Company also uses comINNOVATION AND The risk assessment process also entails evalumitments to principles set forth by national and PRODUCT STRATEGY international voluntary initiatives in sustainability ating social, environmental and economic risks and opportunities of existing as well as potential areas including human rights, the environment, and legal compliance as risk mitigation tools. EMPOWERING investments and operations. The Company These include the UN Global Compact, DecTHE VALUE CHAIN takes preventive measures to eliminate the laration on Equality at Work, and WEP, as well risks identified. All these matters are conveyed as management standards such as ISO 14001, periodically to the Risk Management Committee EMBRACING ISO 14064, and OHSAS 18001. and the Board of Directors through Koç HoldTHE COMMUNITY ing’s CFO via informational reports. Measures against risk elements, which are prioritized G4-14 » G4-15 » G4-34 based on probability and magnitude criteria, and risk tolerance limits are set by the Board of Directors and implemented by the responsible functions within the Holding and Group companies. Managers responsible specifically for the highest priority risks are assigned at Koç Holding or in each Group company. TOFAŞ R&D 17 BUSINESS ETHICS COMPETITIVE STRATEGIC PLANNING AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Koç Holding Board of Directors, first and foremost, tors is provided by the strategic planning operKoç Holding’s accountable, transparent and ACCOUNTABLE, oversees the long-term interests of the Company ations undertaken by the Koç Holding Strategic equitable management approach, which adTRANSPARENT by setting strategic goals using a rational and pruPlanning Organization, Sector Presidencies, and heres to ethical business values, and its busiAND RESPONSIBLE dent risk management approach. As part of this Group companies. ness conduct, which strives for full compliance MANAGEMENT effort, the Board of Directors also sets the required with applicable laws and regulations, supports The Koç Group Strategic Planning Process is human and financial resources and supervises the universal human rights principles, and embraccarried out for five-year periods. As part of this proINSPIRING management’s performance in these areas. cess, Group companies conduct comprehensive es corporate citizenship, have served as a role TALENTS Koç Holding Board of Directors convenes four assessments pertaining to future trends on market model for a large number of organizations. conditions, environmental and competitive analytimes each year. At these meetings, the Board ses, legal and regulatory developments, customer The business ethics approach adopted across INNOVATING FOR tracks the Group’s financial performance during expectations, advances in technology, attributes of Koç Group was documented in writing under THE ENVIRONMENT the period in relation to the budget, assesses products and services, and distribution channels. the title Koç Group Code of Ethics and Impledevelopments in relation to Company strategies, In addition, they set a vision for their respective mentation Principles. This document is posted and makes recommendations. The year-end companies and formulate strategies and goals on our website in Turkish and English. The INNOVATION AND performance evaluation process entails a review to that end. These assessments, supported by PRODUCT STRATEGY of financial and operational indicators along with Code of Ethics and Implementation Principles feasibility studies, are presented to the CEO and rethe implementation level of corporate strategies. is binding for all Koç Group operations and lated Presidents at Strategy Review meetings. The This evaluation provides input into performance financial projections approved by the companies employees as well as business partners such EMPOWERING and compensation. The most essential input for are consolidated on a Group basis and five-year as suppliers and dealers. The Ethical Conduct THE VALUE CHAIN the activities carried out by the Board of Direcresource balance scenarios are created. Boards, set up separately within Koç Holding EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY G4-14 » G4-15 OTOKAR 18 and Group companies, are responsible for Koç Holding and Group companies are comInternal audit efforts within Koç Group comACCOUNTABLE, overseeing compliance with the Koç Group mitted to creating utmost value for stakeholdpanies are carried out at two levels. Reporting TRANSPARENT directly to the Koç Holding Chairman, the Koç Code of Ethics and Implementation Principles. ers while remaining steadfast to their legal and AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT These rules and principles have been commuregulatory obligations. To this end, Koç Holding Holding Audit Group Presidency conducts the nicated to all Koç Group personnel, while they and Group companies fully comply with the central audit process of Koç Group companies; are conveyed to new staff members during laws and regulations of the countries they do meanwhile, Group companies also perform INSPIRING orientation training. Suppliers and dealers business in – in addition to Turkey where the this function through their own internal audit TALENTS are informed of these rules and norms when units. Koç Holding and Group companies’ operations are headquartered – and adhere the Group establishes business relations with to norms of international trade. Koç Holding internal audit departments conduct essential them. Group companies also issue compaand Group companies have a standardized, Risk Management Auditing, Process Auditing, INNOVATING FOR ny-specific ethical conduct norms documents effective and continuously-functioning control Financial Statements Auditing, Regulations and THE ENVIRONMENT that meet sector-specific expectations while procedure to ensure compliance with this reCompliance Auditing, and Anti-Bribery and complying with the Koç Group Code of Ethics sponsibility necessitated by the code of ethics. Anti-Corruption Auditing activities each year. and Implementation Principles. INNOVATION AND PRODUCT STRATEGY The Koç Group Code of Ethics and Implementation Principles document can be accessed here. EMPOWERING As also stipulated in the Koç Group Code of THE VALUE CHAIN Ethics and Implementation Principles, Koç Holding and Group companies do not champion any political thought or support any political EMBRACING entity or person financially, in-kind or in any THE COMMUNITY other way. Koç Holding and Group companies do not engage in communications with public authorities in the countries they have operations in except for the commercial relations established within the framework of the related laws, fair competition norms and transparency; responses to requests for information and input; and social responsibility projects. TÜPRAŞ 19 The adequacy and effectiveness of the internal In 2015, audits against bribery and corruption ing. The results of the bribery and corruption ACCOUNTABLE, control systems that are used while conducting risks were also part of the scope of audits conaudits and inspections are also shared with TRANSPARENT ducted at Koç Holding and Group companies. Koç Holding’s senior management. Koç Holdthese five core auditing tasks are assessed in AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT accordance with International Auditing StanWhen encountering behavior that is suspected ing Board of Directors is informed on the audit dards, and necessary improvements are impleto involve bribery or corruption, stakeholders and inspection activities through the Audit mented expeditiously. can file a report through the Group compaCommittee, which is composed of indepenINSPIRING nies’ channels of communication or reach Koç dent board members. In addition to the existing internal control TALENTS Holding Audit Team managers via their direct procedures and preventive approaches, Group We take heed of the following principles while companies conduct special-purpose auditing telephone numbers. These systems enable investigating suspicion of corruption: efforts to eliminate all types of bribery and employees and all other related parties to reINNOVATING FOR corruption risk, and undertake preventative •• Resolving the issue as expeditiously as possible port bribery and corruption allegations directly THE ENVIRONMENT initiatives. To this end, the following measures •• Maintaining confidentiality and without fear of retribution. Managers and are implemented across the Koç Group: personnel of Group companies also receive •• Following the proper legal processes •• Koç e-audit software carries out analytical training on anti-bribery and anti-corruption •• Notifying public authorities or stakeholders if INNOVATION AND inspections and monitors company results. policies and implementation processes. In PRODUCT STRATEGY necessary •• Programs such as the Audit Portal and Koç 2015, 150 executives and 9,687 staff memAudit are used to continuously enhance the bers of Group companies attended training on In order to boost the effectiveness of bribery know-how of our employees in the financial anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and and corruption auditing, an audit segment that EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN affairs fields of the Group companies on procedures. Further, an 84 man-hour portion requires unique specialization, Koç Holding laws, rules and regulations, best practices, of the Work Life Training that was conducted employs two auditors with a special certifiand Koç Group principles. within Koç Holding with the participation of 42 cation in fraud auditing (CFE-Certified Fraud EMBRACING •• Regular audits and reviews conducted by HR managers was reserved for anti-bribery Examiner). In addition, to raise the know-how THE COMMUNITY independent audit firms provide Group and anti-corruption topics. of our auditors to international standards, Koç companies with an external perspective on Holding encourages them to obtain Certified compliance with international auditing and According to Koç Group Procedures, the Internal Auditor (CIA) certification. As of 2015, risk management standards. moment the possibility of bribery or corruption seven auditors with CIA certification are em•• The Group companies together with global arises, the manager of the related department ployed at the Koç Holding Audit Group Presipartners benefit not only from the Group’s informs the company’s General Manager about dency. principles, but also the know-how of the the situation. Meanwhile, the General Manager, foreign partners in terms of codes of ethics. in turn, immediately informs the Audit Group Those ethical principles are implemented Presidency in addition to the Business Unit across all entire business processes and in Presidency he or she reports to at Koç Holdall relationships. INSPIRING TALENTS Our most important 21 asset is our people. Our Founder Vehbi Koç ACCOUNTABLE, TRANSPARENT WORKPLACE CULTURE AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT Viewing our employees as our most valuable capare being respected and no discrimination is made raise awareness among the staff. INSPIRING ital is a common understanding shared across the at any stage of worklife. TALENTS Efforts to ensure the continuity and sustainability entire Koç Group. We conduct our business activImproving and ensuring the efficiency of our of our workplace culture are guided by the Koç ities keenly aware that moving Koç Group forward human resources processes is the responsibility Group Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. Workplace Culture into the future depends upon recruiting well qualiof the human resources departments of Koç Employees are expected to abide by the Code of Talent Management fied professionals and generating value jointly with Holding and Group companies. All employees, Ethics and Business Conduct. The Code of Ethics them. To this end, Koç Group companies supports with the support of these departments, impleand Business Conduct serves as a major reference their personnel throughout their careers starting ment our human resources approach as well as guide that personnel can consult whenever they INNOVATING FOR at the recruitment phase via human resources the policies, strategies and processes developed need direction. THE ENVIRONMENT practices. We foster a fair and equal opportunity in accordance with this approach. Group compaDetail information on the Code of Ethics and Business working environment that is conducive to both nies publish human resources guidelines in order Conduct can be accessed here. INNOVATION AND personal and professional development. Diversities to ensure broad adoption of this approach and to PRODUCT STRATEGY EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY OTOKAR 22 Koç Holding administers various training programs practices across the Group. domestic and overseas Group companies are coto ensure that workplace culture enhancement vered under collective bargaining agreements. The Respect for fundamental human rights, an indisACCOUNTABLE, activities comply with the Group’s labor principles rate of unionization in the Group companies within TRANSPARENT pensable component of our corporate culture, is and policies, and to equip the managers undertathe scope of this report increased by four percent to AND RESPONSIBLE king these activities with the requisite knowledge supported with practices within the Group and 73% in 2015. The unionization rate is 98% among MANAGEMENT considered as a whole with employee rights. and skills. To this end, 672 employee-hours of shop floor employees and 43.5% among office Having adopted this approach, we conduct our Work Life Training was administered during the employees. operations in accordance with fundamental human INSPIRING reporting period to 42 human resources manarights and in compliance with applicable local There are 196 senior executives (11 foreign nationals, TALENTS gers who steer the human resources practices and international human rights rules. Reflecting 185 Turkish citizens) and 71,313 employees (64 foof Group companies. The content of the training this responsibility in our value chain as well, we reign nationals, 71,249 Turkish citizens) in the Turkey Workplace Culture includes Personnel Regulation, Code of Ethics and undertake initiatives not just for the benefit of our operations of the companies that are within the scoBusiness Conduct and Implementation Principles, Talent Management employees, but also for our stakeholders. The pe of this report. Our companies’ Boards of Directors anti-bribery and anti-corruption, labor law, social most important demonstration of this approach is comprise 147 members (15 women, 132 men). security law, occupational health and safety. stipulated in Article 3.8.2 of the Code of Ethics and Group staff members are allowed to be elected INNOVATING FOR Koç Holding carries out research studies on empBusiness Conduct: “To act in accordance with the to the local and central management bodies of THE ENVIRONMENT loyee expectations and prioritizes initiatives that principles specified by the United Nations Global employee or employer associations in addition address these expectations as part of its efforts to Compact and to be an exemplary corporate citizen to serving as members of their respective proenhance the workplace culture and increase staff with our employees, dealers, suppliers and authoINNOVATION AND fessional organizations. Some 1,175 Koç Group engagement across the Group. To this end, Koç PRODUCT STRATEGY rized service centers.” Our human rights principles employees assumed duties in trade unions and 10 Holding conducts an Employee Engagement Suralso comply with the agreements issued by the personnel took part in employer’s unions during vey in all Group companies to identify the impacts International Labor Organization (ILO). the reporting period. Besides these memberships of current initiatives and potential areas of improveEMPOWERING None of the Koç Group companies employ child and representations, a number of Koç Group THE VALUE CHAIN ment. The survey conducted during the reporting employees are engaged in Provincial Employment period solicited personnel feedback in a number of labor or engage in forced or compulsory labor Boards, Chambers of Industry and Commerce, areas with regard to satisfaction and engagement. practices. Our suppliers are also expected to and in various civil society organizations in order EMBRACING Employees were encouraged to participate in the operate with the same sensitivity in such matters. to contribute to job creation, the Turkish economy, THE COMMUNITY survey through various communication channels In order to ensure compliance with these requireand societal development. via the “Time to Proceed Together (BİZ)” commuments, we collect written commitments from our nication campaign. In 2015, 85% of staff members suppliers and monitor their practices. G4-11 » G4-14 » G4-15 of the companies that are within the scope of this Koç Group respects its employees’ rights to join report participated in the survey. The Best Practitrade unions and participate in collective bargaining. ces Guide was prepared in order to manage the As of year-end 2015, 51,973 employees (14,162 survey process effectively and shed light on model office employees, 37,811 shop floor employees) of 23 Employee Demographics in 2015 ACCOUNTABLE, Employee Breakdown Employee Breakdown by Employment Type New Hires TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE Male Male MANAGEMENT 53,692 144 Female Male 53,919 3,352 12,691 Female Female 21% 79% INSPIRING 17,394 17,034 443 TALENTS Full Time Part Time Workplace Culture Talent Management CBA Coverage Mid-Level and Senior Management Employees Left Male Male Female Male INNOVATING FOR 41,341 12,540 2,170 177 2,040 9,625 THE ENVIRONMENT Female Female 17% 83% 10,632 6,739 1,032 19 INNOVATION AND Covered Not Covered Mid-Level Senior-Level PRODUCT STRATEGY Employee Breakdown by Contract Type Employee Breakdown by Age Subcontractor Employees EMPOWERING Male 30 and (including 30) THE VALUE CHAIN 2,692 51,227 25,659 Female Male 2,438 6,805 Female Above 30 and Below 50 (excluding 30 and 50) 26% 74% EMBRACING 383 17,011 43,924 THE COMMUNITY Indefinite Term Contract Temporary Contract 50 and Above (including 50) G4-9 » G4-10 » G4-11 1,730 24 Gender Equality Koç Group adopted providing jobs that respect ACCOUNTABLE, human rights as a principle. Our Group is comTRANSPARENT mitted to providing equal rights to all employees AND RESPONSIBLE regardless of religion, language, ethnicity, race, MANAGEMENT beliefs, faith, disability or any other personal attribute protected by law. INSPIRING Creating a workplace culture sensitive to gender TALENTS is an important element of Koç Group’s human-centered employment policies. In line with Workplace Culture this perspective, Koç Group joined a number of local and international initiatives and made comTalent Management mitments to create workplace environments that are sensitive to gender equality issues. In 2013, INNOVATING FOR we became a signatory to the Declaration on THE ENVIRONMENT Equality at Work developed under the leadership of the Ministry of Family and Social Policies. In ARÇELİK January 2015, we signed the Women’s EmpowerINNOVATION AND ment Principles that are the result of collaboration PRODUCT STRATEGY between the United Nations Global Compact and One of the most important elements to ensure Key human resources indicators are analyzed the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the best implementation of core principles and and monitored by gender in order to track the rethe Empowerment of Women (UN Women). practices stipulated in the Equality Guidelines is sults of gender equality initiatives and to improve EMPOWERING In line with our commitments, we stepped up to increase the Group workforce’s knowledge the existing situation. THE VALUE CHAIN on gender equality. To this end, we developed a One of Koç Group’s gender equality goals is to efforts to integrate the “Equality at Work” concept in series of training programs with the support of the management approach and business processincrease the number of women in management. expert civil society organizations, international ores. As a result, we created a management model, Managing the issue in a broad perspective while EMBRACING ganizations, and universities for various needs of striving to achieve this goal, we also focus on starting from the human resources processes, in THE COMMUNITY a diverse set of target audiences. These training increasing the share of women in recruitment order to reinforce gender equality within Koç Group. programs span a broad spectrum, from training and participation in leadership training. We track As a first step toward establishing gender equality, that highlights gender norms to leadership developG4-15 » G4-16 our progress in these areas based on objective we adopted “Koç Group Equality Principles and Imment training for women. The gender equality-recriteria. plementation Principles” in our workplaces. Modeled lated training initiatives are being carried out as after the Koç Group Code of Ethics and Business part of the “Supporting Gender Equality for My Koç Group’s gender equality indicators are pubConduct and Implementation Principles, the Equality Country” project. Information on these efforts can lished annually in sustainability reports as well as Principles set forth the strategic background and be accessed in the Social Investments section of in the Parity Report that covers the activities and supporting practices regarding gender equality. the report. indicators of the Impact Champions of HeForShe. 25 Koç Group Equality Principles and Implementation Principles A committee comprised of more than 40 staff In keeping with its core values, Koç Group ACCOUNTABLE, from Group companies was formed as part of the provides equal opportunity to all personnel to TRANSPARENT process to draft the Koç Group’s Equality demonstrate and enhance their potential as part AND RESPONSIBLE Principles and Implementation Principles. of its training and development initiatives. MANAGEMENT Human resources manager of Group compaEquality in Career Opportunities: Koç Group nies who were on the committee led the efforts provides, and ensures the provision of, equal INSPIRING to create subgroups composed of personnel opportunity to all staff in career development. TALENTS from a wide variety of positions. The working To this end, Koç Group contributes to the elimisubgroups focused on each draft principle and nation of all discrimination in back-up planning, Workplace Culture shared their opinions on which issues should appointment and promotion processes and be included in the guideline. The principles and Talent Management encourages gender equality by empowering implementation indicators that came about women. from these efforts were shared with Group INNOVATING FOR employees. Equality Principles Implementation Equality in Pay and Benefits Management: THE ENVIRONMENT Boards were formed within the Group comKoç Group upholds and adopts the principle of panies in order to ensure that the Koç Group’s “equal pay for equal work” with objective and Equality Principles and Implementation Princitransparent management of same. The Group INNOVATION AND ples are implemented and to monitor activities closely monitors compensation levels through PRODUCT STRATEGY at the highest level. FORD OTOSAN local and international market research and updates its pay policy as needed. Koç Group imKoç Group Equality Principles and staff working environments and labor conditions. plements a fair pay and benefits policy without EMPOWERING Implementation Principles: Koç Group ensures safe work conditions free gender discrimination between its employees. THE VALUE CHAIN Equal Opportunity in Employment: Excludof harassment and pressure for everyone while Disseminating Equality Principles to Stakeing certain segments from employment opporrespecting the work-private life balance. Koç holders: Koç Group companies believe that tunities due to discrimination is one of the major Group pays attention to gender equality and EMBRACING hurdles inhibiting economic and social developdevelops practices to support female personnel in providing conditions that respect human dignity THE COMMUNITY ment. Koç Group believes that inclusive employtheir professional lives. Group companies design for their employees is among their most fundamental duties. The Group strives to disseminate ment policies are the first window of opportunity their work environments, products and services in its quality policy, which is reflected in products for realization of the potential of individuals. accordance with human-centered approaches. and services as well as all processes and Human-Centered Approaches in Working Equality in Career Development: Koç Group approaches, to its stakeholders. To this end, the Conditions: Koç Group takes heed of embelieves that diversified training opportunities are Group aims for the adoption of Equality Princiployee needs and expectations, and improves necessary for development of employees’ skills. ples by employees, dealers and suppliers. 26 Disseminating Best Practices We encourage broader adoption of every practice TALENT MANAGEMENT that will boost female employment and leadership and that was successfully used in our companies. To this end, we bring the Equality Principles ImKoç Group human resources practices and One of the efforts carried out to track the ACCOUNTABLE, plementation Boards together at least once every plans are developed on the basis of surveys Group’s key indicators and improve the various TRANSPARENT year and organize workshops on this topic. In adand assessments that are conducted periodiprocesses is company visits. Under this pracAND RESPONSIBLE dition, Koç Holding employees, which is responMANAGEMENT sible for the overall coordination of the project, cally. The needs and expectations of personnel tice, Koç Holding Human Resources Departassumed the task of more widespread adoption are identified, and human resources plans conment visits the selected Group companies of best practices among Group companies. sistent with the strategies and plans of Group each year in order to identify areas of improveINSPIRING companies are formulated as part of this effort. ment as well as successful practices for each Ford Otosan carries out significant efforts to TALENTS company. Successful practices that are identiraise the share of female employees. In line with The Indicator Tracking and Human Resources the Equality at Work practices implemented in fied as a result of this process are shared with Workplace Culture 2015, Ford Otosan aimed in office employee Process Improvement System forms the basis Group companies as part of the annual “Best recruitments for 1 in every 2 people, and in shop for Koç Group’s Human Resources strategies Talent Management Practices Day” event. floor employees 1 in 4 people to be a womand practices. Under the system, success an. The company also gives preference to the indicators are tracked, results are evaluated, Rotations among Group companies are one of INNOVATING FOR applications of female operators in hiring. Ford and comparisons are made. Key indicators the methods used in talent management. This THE ENVIRONMENT Otosan has reviewed its company procedures that are collected and analyzed via the E-Metpractice equips employees with alternative perthat aim to increase women’s active participation ric System are leveraged to identify areas of spectives and a diverse set of competencies, in the workforce; identified the tasks that can be improvement and implement the related stanprepares them for future roles, and increases INNOVATION AND performed by both men and women; and set new dardization and efficiency initiatives. synergy within the Group. The “KoçKariyerim standards. Subsequent to the implementation of PRODUCT STRATEGY these standards, women were provided with job opportunities in the workshop in such processes as quality control and dimensional control. EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN Forklift operation used to be defined as a task that can be performed by men only. To remedy this situation, women applying for these jobs EMBRACING were provided with heavy construction equipTHE COMMUNITY ment operation training, encouraged to obtain licenses to operate heavy machinery, and given the opportunity to work as forklift operators. Thanks to these and other efforts, the number of female workers employed in production jobs in our automotive group companies has more than doubled over the last two years. 27 Recruitment (My Koç Career)” portal, where open positions Koç Group seeks to recruit the most qualified Detailed information on Koç Group Competencies ACCOUNTABLE, in Group companies are announced to employprofessionals with the understanding that it can and the recruitment process can be accessed here. TRANSPARENT ees and applications received from within the achieve its strategic goals and increase its value AND RESPONSIBLE creation with a well-qualified and highly compeMANAGEMENT Group are managed, enables the staff to take control of their own careers and steer their own tent professional workforce. career development. More than 200 Group perPossession of Koç Group competencies, in addiKoçCareer INSPIRING sonnel transferred to new jobs in other Group tion to the knowledge and experience required for RECRUITMENT PLATFORM TALENTS companies using this system in 2015. the related position, by employee candidates is an Designed to attract young talent and essential element in the recruitment process. Koç new university graduates to work for Koç Workplace Culture Employees of the companies that fall within the Group in the future, Koç Career RecruitGroup does not engage in discrimination during scope of this report received 66,525 employment Platform offers various development the recruitment process; candidates are evaluated Talent Management ee-hours of leadership trainings in 2015. Some tools to young graduates. Some 3,130 indiby the related units on the basis of their compe24,099 employee-hours of this total were providuals who completed 10 remote learning tence, knowledge and experience. Employees vided to female staff. The “You are the Leadprograms on the Koç Career platform INNOVATING FOR are provided with equal access to opportunities in received certifications in 2015. er” talent management program is designed THE ENVIRONMENT every process throughout their careers. to identify the development needs of those employees with senior executive potential, and INNOVATION AND supports their preparation for potential future PRODUCT STRATEGY assignments from today. In addition to leadership development training programs, Group companies also make EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN use of other development methods, such as one-on-one coaching, mentoring, and project initiatives. The Corporate Coaching Program EMBRACING provided one-to-one coaching service to the THE COMMUNITY leadership candidates of the future within the Group and closely supported their development. Some 123 staff members (97 men, 26 women) received coaching services during the reporting period. In addition, 175 male and 55 female employees took part in the Group’s inhouse mentoring program. 28 Professional Development We develop professional development applicaimprove English language skills was added to ACCOUNTABLE, tions for all our staff and give them equal access KoçAkademi. In support of the video learning LEAD Leadership Development Program TRANSPARENT Koç Group’s Leader Development Programs AND RESPONSIBLE to these opportunities. Established in line with approach, 395 learning sets and 8,324 training were revised in order to bolster the leadership MANAGEMENT this approach, KoçAkademi Development Planvideos were rolled out for staff use. development of Group employees. These ning and Learning Platform serves as an open programs represent an important platform The development planning process for Group INSPIRING application for all Group employees to create in terms of creating a common Group-wide personnel consists of assessment, goals, leadership language and sharing of knowlTALENTS personal development plans. The training proidentification of areas to develop, and developedge and experience between personnel grams, articles, electronic training modules and ment plans stages. Development activities are from different companies. LEAD training Workplace Culture other resources are enriched and updated on realized subsequent to these stages. Developprograms strive to Talent Management a continual basis. The contents of the materials ment plans were created for 17,285 employees provide leadership were revamped in 2015 according to employwithin the Group and 94,710 development support to staff members in various stages ees’ expectations and companies’ needs; in activities were planned as part of the process INNOVATING FOR of their careers. LEAD addition, an exclusive development tool to during the reporting period. THE ENVIRONMENT consists of 16 distinct programs for all employees, from new INNOVATION AND recruits to senior executives. In addition, programs of leading Turkish and foreign PRODUCT STRATEGY universities are also made available to Koç Group staff. Long-term training and development programs, such as AkademİK-HuEMPOWERING man Resources Development Program THE VALUE CHAIN and KEEP-English Language Improvement Program, were unveiled across the Group in line with needs in 2015. EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY OTOKAR 29 Remuneration System Performance Management and Benefits Provided to Employees Performance management is an integrated ACCOUNTABLE, set of applications that aim to help achieve TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE the corporate goals set in accordance with MANAGEMENT Group and company strategies at all levels within the organization; manage employee performance objectively according to comINSPIRING mon principles; and maximize performance. TALENTS This process serves to measure and reward Workplace Culture employees’ accomplishments relative to their goals, identify their competencies, and plan Talent Management their personal development for the future. The goal of performance management is to INNOVATING FOR ensure and reward sustainable value creation TÜRKTRAKTÖR THE ENVIRONMENT rather than short-term return. All office employees are evaluated annually INNOVATION AND relative to their previously set goals as part of Koç Group adopts fair and competitive pay through local and international surveys across PRODUCT STRATEGY performance management. Staff members policies in its remuneration system and related the Group; a competitive and fair pay policy is to be promoted are identified as a result of practices, to reward and sustain success implemented as a result of market analyses. performance evaluations. through high performance standards. Pay levDifferent Group companies employ different EMPOWERING els are set through objective and transparent compensation policies based on their existing THE VALUE CHAIN management. Additionally, gender is prevented pay structures, market positions, and competiSome 4,483 employees (2,596 men and 1,887 tive and financial strength. from being a differentiating factor under the women) were promoted in 2015. EMBRACING equal pay for equal work approach. Salary levels of non-unionized employees are THE COMMUNITY Job grades form the basis of the compensaset using a globally-recognized system, while tion management system in Koç Group. Job also taking into consideration the difficulty level grades which define the contribution of each of the job, the level of know-how required to duty to corporate goals, are set according to perform the duties, and the assumed responan international system. Prevailing pay levels sibilities. Salaries and other monetary benein the labor market are monitored closely fits for unionized staff are determined by the 30 Collective Bargaining Agreements signed at prescribed standards and legal requirements. ACCOUNTABLE, the end of the collective bargaining conductOther parameters taken into consideration TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE ed with the respective trade unions they are during the remuneration determination proMANAGEMENT members of. cess include macroeconomic market data, prevailing wage policies in the market, the FLEXTRA, the Flexible Benefits Project, was A bonus amounting to four months’ salary in launched in Group companies in order to prosize and long-term objectives of the company, INSPIRING total is paid on a monthly basis on top of the vide a broader benefits portfolio to a diverse and the positions of individuals. As a result of TALENTS gross salary and a social benefit package is staff from different generations and with varythese evaluation processes, Koç Holding is provided to personnel throughout the Group. ing needs. The project was designed to supWorkplace Culture one of the few Turkish companies that link the plement current benefits alternatives on offer When taking the bonus and social benefit compensation of its executives to sustainable to personnel, in accordance with employTalent Management package into consideration, the standard entry financial and operational performance. ee-oriented, flexible and innovative human salary level across the Group is about 45% resources approaches. Based on surveys over the legal monthly gross minimum wage. conducted as part of the FLEXTRA project, INNOVATING FOR new benefits choices were offered in line with THE ENVIRONMENT Benefits packages provided to all our personthe differentiated expectations of employees. nel in line with their job grades are reviewed More than 7,000 staff members opted into the annually to meet the expectations of our Flexible Benefits program – FLEXTRA, which INNOVATION AND rolled out in pilot companies in 2015. FLEXemployees and to maintain our competitivePRODUCT STRATEGY TRA will be expanded and offered to a larger ness. The benefits, which are part of the total number of employees in 2016. compensation packages, aim to maximize staff EMPOWERING loyalty. THE VALUE CHAIN Detailed information on the benefits provided to the Koç My Family PROGRAM Koç Group employees can be accessed here. Koç My Family Program is a benefits platform providing EMBRACING Koç Group staff and their relatives, retirees, and dealers Compensation of Koç Holding’s senior execas well as Koç University students with the opportunity THE COMMUNITY utive staff is set in line with the principles of to benefit from goods and services offered by Group the “Remuneration Policy for Members of the companies and other providers, as well as extra advanBoard of Directors and Senior Executives.” tages through periodic campaigns. The Program has more than 102.00 members. Assessments are made in accordance with the 31 Suggestion System Most Successful Koç Employees in 2015 Employee opinions and ideas play an important The Most Successful Koç Employees award ACCOUNTABLE, role for Koç Group in achieving its goals and system was designed to recognize, spotlight, Koç Holding TRANSPARENT rolling out differentiated practices. To this end, Pension and Assistance Foundation AND RESPONSIBLE share and reward successful personnel as the most effective approach is to solicit feedback Koç Holding Pension and Assistance FoundaMANAGEMENT well as best practices. In 2015, a total of 10 from the staff on the operations and processes. tion was set up in 1967 to provide additional projects were selected from among nearGroup companies use suggestion systems to social security and support to Koç Group ly 900 submissions for recognition in five INSPIRING systematically solicit opinions and ideas from personnel, who are also covered by the Social categories: ‘‘Making a Difference,’’ ‘‘Creating Security Institution. The Foundation provides TALENTS personnel. Creators of projects that are impleCustomer Satisfaction,’’ “Adding Value to members with lump-sum payments, retiremented as part of this system are rewarded, Society and the Environment,’’ ‘‘Developing ment pensions, health insurance and financial Workplace Culture which enhances operational efficiency while Cooperation” and ‘‘Creative Innovations.” The assistance services to ensure a comfortable giving employees a say in company processes. and secure retirement. As of end-2015, Koç Talent Management 84 Group staff members who were engaged Some 168,187 suggestions were submitted by Holding Pension and Assistance Foundation in these projects received awards as the Most had 58,760 active members and 374 retired the staff of Group companies that are within the INNOVATING FOR Successful Koç Employees. members. scope of this report in 2015. Of these, 94,534 THE ENVIRONMENT suggestions were implemented. INNOVATION AND MOST SUCCESSFUL KOÇ EMPLOYEES IN 2015 PRODUCT STRATEGY Making a YAPI VE KREDİ BANKASI FORD OTOSAN Difference Intelligent Management System (IMS) New Design Sliding Door Device Project Creating AYGAZ OTOKAR EMPOWERING Customer Development of LPG Wash Method in Trunk Lid Customer Satisfaction THE VALUE CHAIN Satisfaction Opening Autogas Station Process Adding Value to KOÇ UNIVERSITY TOFAŞ Society and the Koç University Support Center for Children Dreams Know No Barriers EMBRACING Environment with Disabilities and their Families THE COMMUNITY OPET PETROLCÜLÜK A.Ş. – KOÇ TÜPRAŞ Developing UNIVERSITY – İNVENTRAM A.Ş. Support of Refinery Search and Cooperation Technology and Product Development Rescue Team for Maintenance Cooperation Project Operations Creative ARÇELİK ARÇELİK-LG Innovations VUX/Virtual User eXperience “Kokoreç” Counter 32 Work-Life Balance Employee Volunteering Koç Group supports the efforts of its personPartnering with employees to help address culture internalized by the staff and business ACCOUNTABLE, nel to establish a healthy balance between social problems is a core component of the partners. Some 8,444 volunteers, 7,895 of TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE their work and private lives. Group companies Group’s business culture. Our staff members whom were Group employees, participated in MANAGEMENT offer a wide range of social activity alternavolunteer for these activities organized by Koç these activities in 2015. tives and encourage employees to attend Holding and Group companies in order to Aygaz Search and Rescue Team was estabthese events. In addition, Group companies create value for society. Participation in these INSPIRING lished concurrently with Basic Disaster Training meticulously comply with working hours and efforts also aids our employees in improving TALENTS in 2012 to address the need for informed inpaid-leave laws and regulations. During 2015, their personal knowledge and social skills. In tervention into disasters that take place across Workplace Culture some 991 female staff went on maternity addition to the personnel of Group compathe country. Aiming to form a volunteer-based leave and 890 of them returned to work. In nies, business partners, such as dealers and Talent Management assistance network from both within and outthe reporting period, 2,864 female employees suppliers, are also encouraged to volunteer for side the company, Aygaz Search and Rescue utilized childcare services or related financial these initiatives. This approach increases the Team reinforced its technical gear assets in INNOVATING FOR benefits. value generated while forming a shared Group 2015 and became equipped with more modTHE ENVIRONMENT ern tools and apparatuses. The nine major projects carried out by the INNOVATION AND Yapı Kredi Volunteering Platform in 2015 were PRODUCT STRATEGY staffed by 2,661 Yapı Kredi employee volunteers. The platform established libraries in and EMPOWERING provided technology supplies to many of the THE VALUE CHAIN country’s schools while trying to address the wishes of children through wish tree campaigns as part of its efforts during the year. EMBRACING The initiative to read books out loud for the THE COMMUNITY vision-impaired, which launched in previous years, also continued. 33 Koç Employees and Sports Occupational Health and Safety We provide our staff with sports opportunities Fostering a work environment where employees are covered by OHSAS 18001 “Occupational ACCOUNTABLE, and activities to help them strike a healthy and related stakeholders can do their work under Health and Safety Management System” certiTRANSPARENT healthy and safe conditions, while eliminating private life-work life balance while promoting fication. Our facility certification ratio stands at AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT a healthy lifestyle. In addition to these opporrisks that may prevent the establishment of this 77% as of year-end 2015. tunities offered by our companies, employees environment, is an indispensable, core priority for Koç Holding and Group companies. To this Koç Holding Occupational Health and Safety of Group companies take part in the annual INSPIRING end, occupational health and safety is managed Coordination Board is responsible for impleKoç Group Sports Fest in large numbers. More TALENTS proactively and systematically across the Group. menting the particular importance we place on than 3,700 Group personnel participated in the occupational health and safety. The functions of Occupational health and safety specialists, workWorkplace Culture 26th Koç Sports Fest in 13 categories in 2015. this board include: place physicians, other health officials, and service providers in this area that are employed by •• Reviewing Group-wide practices regularly on Talent Management Sports events, branch schools and trainings Group companies monitor related developments an issue-by-issue basis, are held for employees and their families as •• Developing recommendations for closely and implement needed improvements in part of the Koç Group Sports Club Associaimprovement and broader adoption, INNOVATING FOR line with globally-accepted standards. tion, which aims to expand the sports and so•• Ensuring that best practices are adopted by THE ENVIRONMENT cial facilities provided for Group staff members. Of the 82 facilities owned by Group compaGroup companies, nies that are within the scope of this report, 63 INNOVATION AND PRODUCT STRATEGY EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY G4-9 » G4-14 » G4-15 KOÇ TOPLULUĞU SPOR KULÜBÜ 34 •• Tracking occupational accident statistics ists, and additional health personnel as needed ACCOUNTABLE, regularly and providing recommendations for Of the 82 facilities owned by Group compaat the Group facilities provide the requisite TRANSPARENT nies that are within the scope of this report, health services for the staff. Health and occuimprovement and development to achieve the AND RESPONSIBLE 63 are covered by OHSAS 18001 “OccupaMANAGEMENT zero-accident goal, pational safety-related provisions of collective tional Health and Safety Management Sys•• Managing the processes to ensure complete tem” certification. Our facility certification bargaining agreements are adhered to fully and compliance with applicable laws, rules and ratio stands at 77% as of year-end 2015. completely. In addition to various workplace INSPIRING regulations. practices, training activities and projects are TALENTS also conducted for personnel and their families. In addition to the Occupational Health and process. Employees are asked to provide health Workplace Culture Safety Coordination Board, which is charged information as well as medical reports stating Group companies organize training activities with coordinating at the Holding level, the octhat they are fit and healthy for the job as part in order to raise and bolster occupational Talent Management of the hiring process. In addition, regular health health and safety awareness. As a result, cupational health and safety issue is managed by Occupational Health and Safety Committees screenings as well as medical examinations measures implemented against identified risks are expanded in scale and scope. To this end, INNOVATING FOR at Group companies. Occupational Health and and health screenings for special tasks are processes and practices were implemented THE ENVIRONMENT Safety is implemented in Group companies performed across the Group. Workplace physicians, occupational health and safety specialthroughout the year to eliminate occupational via practices that begin with the recruitment health and safety risks that were identified as a INNOVATION AND result of risk assessment activities; training was Number of Active Number of Assigned Representative Total Number of Active PRODUCT STRATEGY OHS Committees Employees on OHS Committees OHS Committee Members administered to employees of Group companies ARÇELİK 14 31 207 and contractor firms as needed. AYGAZ 12 26 105 EMPOWERING FORD OTOSAN 5 6 62 During 2015, 506,764 employee-hours of THE VALUE CHAIN KOÇ BİLGİ GRUBU 3 16 44 training was provided to 68,933 personnel OPET 5 21 74 of Group companies, and 67,143.25 employOTOKAR 1 3 14 ee-hours of training was provided to 28,927 EMBRACING contractor firm staff members. OTOKOÇ 25 61 326 THE COMMUNITY TAT 6 14 72 TOFAŞ 9 11 98 2015 Occupational Health and Safety Data G4-9 » G4-14 » G4-15 TÜPRAŞ 5 21 35 Injury Rate 0.82 TÜRKTRAKTÖR 14 25 144 Occupational Illness Rate 0.02 YAPIKREDİ 17 28 85 TOPLAM 116 263 1.266 Lost Working Days Rate 24.23 INNOVATING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT “Being the best at all 36 times is our central goal.” ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Our Founder Vehbi Koç The expectations of society and the technologies lems of today’s world, in addition to developing Improvement of environmental performance is ACCOUNTABLE, that meet those expectations most effectively products and services that meet the needs of fua core business goal across Koç Group. ConTRANSPARENT have served as the driving force behind industry ture generations while minimizing environmental sequently, the Group executes environmental AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT since the start of the industrial revolution. The risks in both production and consumption. The management with a top-down organizational apneeds of people multiplied and diversified as the most successful business leaders of tomorrow proach, extending from Koç Holding’s executive world’s population expanded. Innovative prodwill be those who can develop business models leadership down to the operational units of Koç INSPIRING that effectively resolve this challenge. ucts and production technologies capable of TALENTS Group companies. As a Group-wide practice, addressing these diverse needs emerged while the overarching strategies and policies set by In lock step with the rest of the world, the leaders production levels rose to meet the demand. at Koç Group companies aim to ensure the prothe platforms formed by Koç Holding’s executive INNOVATING FOR However, this new scenario also brought about tection of people, communities, and biodiversity; team are converted to industry-specific strateTHE ENVIRONMENT risks for society and the business community, to develop environmentally-friendly, efficient, and gies and policies by the Group companies. Koç including scarcity of resources, environmental creative business models; and to meet future geGroup companies boost their performance by Climate and Energy pollution, and climate change. Solutions to these nerations’ expectations via environmentally-friendimplementing the operational goals that are set in problems, which grow more apparent by the day, ly and value-added products. We are striving to Water Management line with these strategies and policies. will also arise from innovation and technology. transform Group companies into organizations To this end, the highest priority for the business that use state-of-the art technology, generate The results of initiatives undertaken are reviewed Responsible Use of Resources community is to generate solutions that meet the knowledge through innovative ideas, and that by the senior management of Group companies, needs of modern society and address the probgrasp and guide trends in industrial development. Koç Holding’s executive management, and other related high-level administrative bodies. In turn, INNOVATION AND these results are used to devise the strategic PRODUCT STRATEGY approaches for the upcoming periods. Compliance with environmental laws and regEMPOWERING ulations of the countries the Group operates in THE VALUE CHAIN constitutes the minimum level of implementation of Koç Group’s environmental management system. Group companies monitor environmental laws EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY and regulations continuously and execute proactive compliance efforts. The level of compliance is G4-14 » G4-15 monitored by individual Group companies as well as by Koç Holding. FORD OTOSAN 37 In addition to fully complying with legal and reguEstablished within Koç Holding with the parACCOUNTABLE, latory requirements, the Group adheres to other ticipation of Group companies' environmental, TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE guiding principles as set forth in Koç Group Operenergy and sustainability specialists, the Koç MANAGEMENT ating Principles and the environmental policy docGroup Environmental Council is the highest-level uments published by individual Group companies, coordinating body for environmental managepursuant to related international standards and iniment issues at Koç Holding. The Council is INSPIRING TALENTS tiatives led by the UN Global Compact. In addition, responsible for identifying long-term environKoç Group Environmental Vision and Mission, mental management strategies in addition to Koç Group Environmental Policy, and Koç Group action plans for implementing these strategies, INNOVATING FOR Climate Change Strategy are other policy docusharing examples of best practices among THE ENVIRONMENT ments laying down the common principles that Group companies, carrying out efforts to ensure shape the policies of Group companies. compliance in keeping with changes in environClimate and Energy mental regulations, organizing environmental The details of Koç Holding’s environmental Water Management training activities, and developing environmental management approach can be accessed here. management systems across the Group. Various Responsible Use Koç Holding and Group companies focus on working groups are formed under the Koç Group of Resources three core areas as part of their environmental Environmental Council to expand activities and management efforts. All Group companies: improve performance in certain focus areas. • Seek to limit the environmental impact of their INNOVATION AND Staffed with participants chosen from among the operations, energy and water consumption in PRODUCT STRATEGY particular as well as emissions and waste generEnvironmental Council membership, these workation; increase recycling and protect biodiversity; ing groups aim to determine and ensure GroupEMPOWERING and carry out improvement activities in light of wide adoption of existing best practices; execute THE VALUE CHAIN FORD OTOSAN joint initiatives to increase synergy; and formulate “existing best practices” to achieve these goals; plans geared toward improvement. During the • Monitor the environmental impacts of their • Implement environmental protection-related reporting period, the Environmental Council EMBRACING products and services throughout their lifecycles, educational activities to raise awareness among formed working groups to focus on the key THE COMMUNITY from the design and planning stages to the end and increase the knowledge base of broad segissues of Energy Efficiency, Water, Soil, Integratof their economic lives; develop environmenments of society, led by its employees, customed Environmental Permits, Waste Management, tally-friendly products; and reduce the potential ers, dealers, suppliers, subcontractors, and other Coordination Board for Improving the Investment detrimental impacts; and operational stakeholders. 38 Annual performance evaluation reports are draftACCOUNTABLE, ed in line with the key performance indicators TRANSPARENT determined by the Group Environmental Council; AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT these reports are presented to Koç Holding’s senior management. Further, the Audit Group conducts policyand performance-based periINSPIRING odic audits and reports the results to the related TALENTS company senior management team. In addition to the audits conducted by the Audit Group with the contribution of the Environmental Council, INNOVATING FOR the environmental policies and performance of THE ENVIRONMENT Group companies are also subject to intra-company and independent auditing processes. Climate and Energy Improvement efforts are carried out to address Water Management the target areas of improvement identified via these audits. Shortcomings identified after the Responsible Use Environmental Audit are tracked via quarterly of Resources interim reports; registered in the target cards of FORD OTOSAN the companies for that year; and improvements are implemented. INNOVATION AND Climate, Greenhouse Gases, and Biodiversity. term strategic plan to be effective until 2020. PRODUCT STRATEGY The working group structure is updated on an as Under this strategic plan, Koç Group companies The environmental management systems of Koç needed basis. are expected to certify their facility environmenGroup companies are based on the ISO 14001 tal management systems in accordance with Environmental Management System Standard The long-term strategic plans devised by the EMPOWERING international standards such as ISO 14001 and and other internationally-accepted standards. THE VALUE CHAIN Koç Group Environmental Council are conISO 50001; implement best practices in energy These systems are certified through periodic verted into actionable goals by the companies. and water efficiency; initiate efforts to achieve external audits in order to ensure the integrity of Group companies ensure organization-wide zero-waste operations; adopt green procureimplementation. Seventy-nine of the 82 facilities EMBRACING adoption of these goals starting from their sement processes and environmentally-friendly owned by Group companies that fall within the THE COMMUNITY nior management teams. Efforts of related units product practices; undertake anti-climate scope of this report are ISO 14001 certified. The are evaluated by way of numerical performance change related initiatives; and execute efforts share of certified facilities increased to 96% in indicators. During the reporting period, the Koç to create environmental awareness among the 2015, up from 89% in 2014. In addition to ISO Group Environmental Council created a longentire society. 14001, other methods widely used by Group ¹ Yapı Kredi operation facilities are excluded from this calculation. 39 companies include the ISO 50001 Energy Koç Holding. This information is also shared with Number Number Number ACCOUNTABLE, Management System Standard; ISO 14064-1 for the related stakeholders via sustainability reports of Training of Training Sessions of Training TRANSPARENT Quantification and Auditing of the Greenhouse and other various tools. Sessions Administered Sessions Administered Administered AND RESPONSIBLE Gas Emissions System Standard; OHSAS 18001 to Group to Contractor to Society MANAGEMENT Occupational Health and Safety System StanKoç Group companies approach environmental Employees Firm Employees at Large risks with a holistic approach, from procuredard; ISO 9001 Quality Management System Number of ment and logistics to sales and consumption Participants 26,353 23,699 646,144 INSPIRING Standard; ISO 10002 Customer Satisfaction of products and services. The aim is to mitigate TALENTS Management System Standard; ISO 27001 InforTraining the impacts across the value chain. To this end, Hours mation Security Management System Standard; (person55,748 19,633 3,184.533 Group companies expect their suppliers to adopt ISO 17025 Laboratory Management System hour) environmental policies and a governance apINNOVATING FOR Standard; EFQM; Six Sigma; and Total Producproach that is identical to theirs; include environTHE ENVIRONMENT tive Maintenance (TPM). Group companies also mental management criteria in supplier auditing use Supply Chain Management System stanmethodologies; and execute capability enhancerelated efforts. More than TL 200 million of these Climate and Energy dards such as ISO 28001 and CIPS; ISO 20000 ment initiatives. Some 13% of active suppliers outlays and investments were realized by Tüpraş. Information Technology Service Management Water Management of Group companies were audited based on An overwhelming share of the TL 1.3 billion R&D System Standard; ISO 22301 Business Contienvironmental management criteria during the spend by Group companies in 2015 was for nuity Management System Standard; and social Responsible Use reporting period. In addition, environmental activities designed to reduce the environmental responsibility systems such as BSCI and SEDEX. of Resources training administered to the personnel of supplier footprint of products and production processes. Additionally, Group companies conform to firms totaled 41,564 employee-hours. In an effort to raise awareness on the environment sector-specific or generally-accepted local and and the problems it faces, a major element of INNOVATION AND international product and process quality stanAs part of their environmental management the Group’s environmental strategy, we began PRODUCT STRATEGY dards, norms, product information and labeling activities, Group companies also conduct to organize World Environment Day under the practices. For example, REACH, RoHS, EuP, environmental awareness training initiatives for auspices of Koç Holding’s CEO in 2014. Focusing and WEEE are regulations governing the contheir employees, business partners, and society EMPOWERING on a different environmental issue each year, the sumer durables sector that set the environmental at large. Within this scope, Group companies THE VALUE CHAIN administered more than 3.2 million person-hours event’s 2015 theme was “Climate Change.” The attributes of products. Group companies comply day’s activities included presentations, attended with the European Union’s REACH Regulation of environmental training attended by nearly by a large number of experts to mark the occawhile also expecting their suppliers to adhere to 700,000 persons during 2015. EMBRACING sion. The presentations discussed major issues this regulatory framework. THE COMMUNITY During 2015, Group companies channeled more such as the climate change negotiation process Group companies bring their environmental manthan TL 65 million to environmental management and Turkey’s position within this process; the agement efforts and accomplishments to the and training activities, and TL 177 million to envidynamic structure of the climate change regime; attention of their respective senior management ronmental performance improvement initiatives, the opportunities and threats presented by the teams as well as to the executive management of for a total of over TL 242 million for environment process of finding solutions to climate change. 40 CLIMATE & ENERGY ACCOUNTABLE, TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT INSPIRING TALENTS INNOVATING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Climate and Energy Water Management OTOKAR Responsible Use of Resources There is consensus among the science commuing from Koç Holding down to Group compaplans based on the specific requirements of nity, international organizations and leading decinies. The Group’s climate change initiatives are their respective industries. These action plans sion-makers that climate change figures among coordinated by the Koç Group Environmental encompass improvement targets for supply, INNOVATION AND PRODUCT STRATEGY the most significant problems of the present day. Council. The Koç Group Climate Change production, product design and development The Global Risk Report of the World Economic Strategy, which was formulated based on processes. The results in relation to these tarForum has identified climate change among the SWOT analyses conducted with the particgets are tracked by way of numerical, time-seEMPOWERING top three risks threatening the global economy ipation of the Group companies, serves as ries performance indicators. Assessments THE VALUE CHAIN for the past three years. To this end, climate the foundation for the climate change manare also influential in the compensation of change has rapidly started to become part of the agement-related activities within Koç Group. responsible managers as part of corporate and strategic business plans and operational process individual performance evaluation systems. EMBRACING The Strategy is revised periodically in light of of the world’s corporations. THE COMMUNITY contemporary developments, as evidenced by Performance assessment results are reviewed Koç Group responds to climate change with the revisions made during the reporting period. by the Group Environmental Council; used to G4-14 » G4-15 a strategic approach that assesses risks and Group companies integrate this strategy into create future scenarios in light of expected opportunities in a top-down structure, extendtheir business processes and develop action developments; and reported to Koç Hold41 Generating effective solutions to the problem ACCOUNTABLE, of climate change requires coordinated efforts TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE of all related actors. Armed with this awareMANAGEMENT ness, Koç Group assumes pioneering roles on various platforms in order to attract public INSPIRING attention to the subject and to produce soluTALENTS tions in conjunction with interested parties, in addition to the Group’s internal efforts. Koç Group has been represented on local and INNOVATING FOR international climate change platforms since THE ENVIRONMENT 2011. In the international arena, the Group follows the United Nations Framework ConvenClimate and Energy tion on Climate Change (UNFCCC) processWater Management es and participates in the Climate Change Conference of the Parties. Locally, the Group Responsible Use KOÇ HOLDİNG supports the contribution efforts carried out of Resources within the scope of UNFCCC as well as the ing senior management for use in setting both for impact mitigation and for compliance climate change initiatives of NGOs. INNOVATION AND strategic guidelines. In addition, compliance as a result of the effects of climate change. PRODUCT STRATEGY Group companies execute emissions rewith related policies, efforts carried out, and The provision of financial tools, products and duction initiatives under the Climate Change results obtained are also subjected to audits services to support these needs presents Strategy, which consists of four main headconducted by the company’s internal audit opportunities for the business community. EMPOWERING ings: products, technology, partnerships, THE VALUE CHAIN function and Koç Holding Audit Group. Companies that agree to be part of the soluand stakeholder relations. All companies that tion through their business models, next-genKoç Group sees climate change as a major are within the scope of this report perform eration products and forward-looking services EMBRACING risk that has the potential to impose devasemission measurements according to IPCC will continue to exist and prosper in the future. THE COMMUNITY tating impacts on the living environment in Guidelines. The ISO 14064-1 certification To this end, Koç Group considers the fight addition to social and economic welfare. The initiative that launched in 2011 is ongoing with against climate change as a major business G4-14 » G4-15 need for new products, services and business an expanding scope. The Koç Group Climate and investment opportunity. models to address this threat has emerged Change Strategy can be accessed here. 42 Energy Efficiency and Emission Reduction Initiatives A significant portion of the activities carried ACCOUNTABLE, out by Koç Group companies related to enviTRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE ronmental policies, long-term environmental MANAGEMENT strategy and climate change strategies consists of projects that focus on energy intensity and greenhouse gas emission reduction. While INSPIRING TALENTS lowering the impact on the environment and climate, these efforts also help the Group companies achieve operational efficiency, which in turn INNOVATING FOR has a positive effect on costs. THE ENVIRONMENT The overall energy intensity of the Group comClimate and Energy panies that are within the scope of this report was 859.50 GJ/TL million of net income while Water Management greenhouse gas emission intensity was 58.23 Responsible Use tons CO2e/TL million of net income in 2015. of Resources In the energy sector, which has higher energy intensity due to the nature of the industry, these figures stand at 1,472.73 GJ/TL million and INNOVATION AND PRODUCT STRATEGY Energy Conservation and Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Year EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN Energy Reduction in Greenhouse Year Conservation Gas Emissions (million GJ) (thousand tons CO2e) EMBRACING 2011 3.37 348.6 THE COMMUNITY 2012 5.44 369.8 2013 3.06 208.2 2014 2.00 149.9 2015 1.26 91.17 OPET 43 99.78 tons CO2e/TL million. The Group compaACCOUNTABLE, Tofaş Uses Solar Energy Energy Efficiency at Tüpraş nies operating in non-energy industries have an TRANSPARENT in Production Tüpraş strives to implement energy effiaverage energy intensity of 164.73 GJ/TL million AND RESPONSIBLE Tofaş implemented a project during the reciency projects that minimize its energy MANAGEMENT and an average greenhouse gas emission intenport period where air heated by solar enerconsumption, by eliminating current sity of 11.15 tons CO2e/TL million. gy is used in manufacturing processes. As energy losses and boosting efficiency, INSPIRING a result of this innovation, Tofaş generated without sacrificing quality or performance, Thanks to the energy efficiency initiatives TALENTS 2,181 GJ of solar-powered energy annually in order to rank among Europe’s low-emisexecuted by Group companies in accordance while reducing greenhouse gas emissions sion refineries by 2017. with the Long-Term Environmental Strategy, the by 122 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. Efforts to achieve these goals continued at INNOVATING FOR Group’s consolidated energy efficiency developa rapid pace in 2015. The amount of crude THE ENVIRONMENT oil processed by Tüpraş rose 37% over the ment and greenhouse gas emission reduction previous year during the reporting period performance is rising noticeably. To this end, while sales revenue declined 7% comthe energy efficiency projects implemented in Climate and Energy pared to 2014. Despite the increases in 2015 conserved 1.3 million GJ of energy and Water Management unit sales and the TL/USD exchange rate, reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 91,000 the 47% drop in oil prices compared to a Responsible Use tons CO2e. The Group’s energy sector operayear earlier led to a decline in sales reveof Resources nue. Thanks to higher operational efficientions, more specifically the initiatives at Tüpraş cy, energy consumption per unit of crude refineries, account for the lion’s share of this oil processed by Tüpraş went down from performance. INNOVATION AND 3.34 GJ to 3.29 GJ while the normalized PRODUCT STRATEGY Energy Intensity Index Value was 99.25 for Energy efficiency and emission reduction inithe year. tiatives are also the most important focal point With this effort, Tüpraş conserved 1 milof Group companies operating outside of the EMPOWERING lion GJ of energy and reduced greenhouse energy industry. To this end, the Group’s non-enTHE VALUE CHAIN gas emissions by 71,744 tons CO2e as a ergy companies recorded 228,000 GJ of energy result of 21 efficiency projects and operaconservation and nearly 20,000 tons CO2e of tional enhancement initiatives in 2015. EMBRACING greenhouse gas emission reduction during 2015. THE COMMUNITY In 2015, Arçelik conserved 13,716 GJ of energy and reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 1,881 tons CO2e as a result of replacing air TOFAŞ 44 guns with electric guns in assembly lines, Ford Otosan’s Otokar Milk Run Optimization optimizing operation times at the polyurethane Intermodal Logistics Application Forty percent of all local suppliers’ mateACCOUNTABLE, facility, and investing in absorption refrigeration Ford Otosan works to have the leanest, most rials shipments at Otokar were effected TRANSPARENT flexible, fastest, most cost-competitive, and systems. Ford Otosan achieved 68,382 GJ of through Milk Run vehicles in 2015. Carried AND RESPONSIBLE energy conservation and 3,536 tons CO2e of most environmentally-friendly supply chain out by 116 suppliers on five routes during MANAGEMENT greenhouse gas emission reduction thanks to organization. Ford Otosan executes shipthe reporting year, this shipment mode ment, equipment and route optimization, declined from 25-30 vehicles per day to the Heat Recovery and Heating of Wash Lines INSPIRING purchasing planning, logistics hub location an average of seven vehicles daily. To this from Paint Shop and Furnace Waste Gases TALENTS preferences, haulage design, and mode of end, the vehicle load factor rose from 71% Project implemented at the Gölcük Plant. transportation selection applications as part in 2014 to 78% in 2015 while using next-geof its supply chain flow design, tracking, and Tat Gıda’s Mustafakemalpaşa Sek Süt Plant neration, environmentally-friendly vehicles improvement efforts. The carbon footprint of conserved 3,600 GJ of energy and reduced INNOVATING FOR reduced emission levels. Otokar aims to the logistics operations was reduced by 70% increase the vehicle load factor above 80% greenhouse gas emissions by 462 tons CO2e THE ENVIRONMENT as a result of initiatives that the company in the year ahead. through improvements in the yogurt process has undertaken for 15 years. Among these automation. KoçSistem saved 4,000 GJ of Climate and Energy efforts, the intermodal logistics application has come to the forefront in recent years. energy by switching from physical servers to Water Management Opet Personnel Transportation Optimization virtual servers. Intermodal freight transport involves the transportation of freight using multiple Subsequent to the relocation of the Opet Responsible Use Logistics operations, which are performed in modes of conveyance without any handling Headquarters to its new facility, Opet of Resources large part by service provider firms, are signifiof the freight itself when changing transport implemented route optimization and occumodes. Adopting intermodal transport chanpancy rate improvements in its personnel cant for Group companies in terms of ensuring ged Ford Otosan’s transportation model transportation services. The employee business continuity as well as for being an indiINNOVATION AND significantly. Ford Otosan reduced the share transportation bus fleet declined from 19 to PRODUCT STRATEGY of land transport in its logistics operations rect source of energy consumption and emis16 vehicles despite an increase in the numto 41% due to this application; the overall sions. Group companies reduce the impacts ber of personnel being transported. This average share of land transport is 75% in from logistics processes and create cost adresulted in a decrease in total daily distanEMPOWERING 28 EU countries and 95% in Turkey. The vantages through route optimization, intermodal ce traveled from 1,307 kilometers to 1,051 THE VALUE CHAIN share of sea and rail transportation in Ford logistic planning applications, and fleet choices. kilometers, conserving 0.3 GJ of energy. Otosan’s logistics operations stands at 44% and 15%, respectively. This resulted in 4,800 EMBRACING tons CO2e reduction in the carbon footprint THE COMMUNITY of logistics operations in 2015 while total greenhouse gas emission reductions from logistics optimization initiatives amounted to 6,000 tons CO2e. 45 WATER MANAGEMENT Water is the source of all life as we know it. total freshwater withdrawal went down from undergoes chemical and biological treatment ACCOUNTABLE, Clean water sources, critical to sustain human 89.6% five years ago to 76% in 2015. Over processes in units appropriate for their pollutiTRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE life, are also a basic input for industry. Ensuring the same period, total water withdrawal was on load. The wastewater that has reached the MANAGEMENT access to freshwater resources has becoreduced by 29% despite production growth quality norms stipulated by the discharging me increasingly important in recent years for during the year and higher water use due to licenses is discharged either into the receiving various reasons, population growth and climate new plant investments. This reduction is due environments specified by the same licenses, INSPIRING TALENTS change in particular. To this end, a priority area to the efficiency in consumption processes as or into municipal sewage systems. Wastewater for Group companies, as part of the Group’s well as increased levels of recovery. quality parameters are monitored continuously environmental strategy, is to reduce freshwato ensure that the wastewater does not exert INNOVATING FOR More than 96.86 million m3 of water was reverter withdrawals by boosting water efficiency in any negative impact on the biodiversity of naTHE ENVIRONMENT ted back to production through recycling and production, recycling and recovery; to lower tural receiving environments or on the species reuse. As a result, the share of water use that is the stress on resources through resource living in that environment; wastewater is only Climate and Energy recovered in production stands at 73.4%. This diversification; to cut the amount of generated discharged once it has reached a quality level same ratio was 92.5% in the consumer durables Water Management wastewater; and to further improve the quality of higher than the stipulated norms. Some 18.3 sector and 96% in the automotive industry. wastewater. All of these parameters are evalumillion m3 of wastewater from Group comResponsible Use ated within the scope of the risk management Wastewater from the Group companies’ manupanies’ operations were discharged after it of Resources systems, and performance results are evaluated facturing operations that cannot be recovered reached sufficient quality standards in 2015. periodically, at least on an annual basis. INNOVATION AND Group companies consumed 35.1 million m3 PRODUCT STRATEGY of freshwater in 2015, corresponding to water Total Water Withdrawal by Source (m³-%) Water Consumption Trend (million m³) consumption intensity of 302.14 m3/TL million EMPOWERING of net income. Some 420.21 m3 of water was 60 5,672,512 THE VALUE CHAIN consumed in the energy industry for each 16% 50 49.3 19,007,510 TL 1 million of net income; the correspon2,822,684 54% 8% 40 ding consumption levels were 226.78 m3 in 29.95 35.1 29.1 26.7 EMBRACING the consumer durables sector, 131.66 m3 in 7,601,011 30 22% THE COMMUNITY the automotive industry, and 40.86 m3 in the 4,360 0.01% 20 10 finance sector. The share of surface water and Surface Water Other Sources Municipal Water underground water resources in the Group’s 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Ground Water Rainwater 46 ACCOUNTABLE, Efficient Water Use at Tat Gıda Tüpraş Water Preparation Unit TRANSPARENT Water consumption reduction projects Tüpraş built a new Water Preparation Unit at its İzmit Refinery in order to reduce the consumpAND RESPONSIBLE implemented at Tat Gıda facilities resulted tion of natural resources and use water resources more efficiently in line with its global climate MANAGEMENT in 1.9 million m3 of water conservation in change-driven risk approach. 2015. The Karacabey plant conserved 1 Tüpraş is an intensive user of water by the nature of its operations, from fighting fires in emerINSPIRING million m3 of water from the project to recogency conditions to processing water in various phases of its production activities. This project TALENTS ver water that evaporated from the cooling supplies the entire process water need of Tüpraş while recovering the urban wastewater of towers and 480,000 m3 of water from an inineighboring municipalities. Ensuring sustainable use of resources and protecting biodiversity, tiative to reuse the water that was initially this effort is also important in terms of protection of the ecosystem. used in tomato holding tanks to pump the INNOVATING FOR Adopting a pioneering approach, Tüpraş conducted research and feasibility studies for the tomatoes down to the next process. THE ENVIRONMENT recovery of urban wastewater to be used in the refinery; subsequently, it developed and deploThe Torbalı plant conserved 217,920 m3 yed this technology. In addition, Tüpraş broke new ground for local administrations and Turkey’s of water by using water from the cooling refining industry by integrating technology into its applications. Climate and Energy process and the aseptic tank as a carrier Tüpraş achieves a reduction per hour of 1,250 m3 in withdrawal from raw water resources thanks Water Management in tomato channels; and then reusing this to the large number of projects it executes in order to utilize resources more effectively and efwater and the water coming from the tomaficiently while reducing its raw water consumption via improvements in operational conditions. Responsible Use to sorting conveyor for pumping in tomato This amount corresponds to the hourly water consumption of a city with a population of 130,000 of Resources holding tanks. The Mustafakemalpaşa people. plant conserved 200,000 m3 of water by repairing the leaks in pumping and washing The Water Preparation Unit, which was built based on “Pre-Treatment and Reverse Osmosis Membrane” technology for the reuse of treated wastewater, has an investment value of about TL INNOVATION AND tanks, reducing the number of manifolds in washing tanks, preventing water main 55 million. The Project to Recover Gulf Facility Urban Wastewater for Use as Process Water in PRODUCT STRATEGY leaks, and installing new tanks. Industry, developed in conjunction with Kocaeli Metropolitan Municipality’s İSU General Directorate, commenced operation at the İzmit Refinery in two phases, in November 2014 and in May 2015. EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY 47 RESPONSIBLE USE OF RESOURCES As part of their environmental management set aside as production waste, between 3% ACCOUNTABLE, practices, Koç Group companies also focus and 7%, in the manufacture of EPS packaging. Yapı Kredi Recycling Movement TRANSPARENT The Cooking Appliances Plant began to reuse The Recycling Movement launched by Yapı on using raw material resources efficiently, AND RESPONSIBLE Kredi in 2011 in order to improve the sustaipaint and enamel waste thanks to various MANAGEMENT preserving and improving biodiversity, reducing nable utilization of resources and to raise staff waste at the source, and engaging in waste R&D projects developed by the company. The awareness on this issue continued during the Washer Plant reuses the plastic mallets from recycling. report period. Employee education activities INSPIRING plastics manufacturing operations as well as TALENTS are having positive effects on performance. The basic practices adopted by Group compademolished boilers that are production waste Some 1,033 tons of paper were sent for recycnies in the area of efficient use of raw materials as raw materials. Further, production waste ling and 37,173 tons CO2e of greenhouse gas are recovering waste and using it in producprocess bearing ends of discs used in drum INNOVATING FOR emission were prevented; in addition, 17,554 tion, and improving reusability, particularly in front and back cover production are used in trees were saved and 26,847 m3 of water were THE ENVIRONMENT packaging materials. drum seal sheet and shaft cover production in conserved in 2015. Further, 9.5 tons of plastic the Drier Plant. In addition, use of chemicals were sent for recycling, conserving 41.4 tons Climate and Energy Arçelik Electronics Plant reuses the material was reduced by 34% as a result of efforts at of crude oil and 477 GJ of energy. While 730 Water Management generated by reprocessing the plastic produthe wastewater treatment facility of the Washer kg of glass were sent for recycling, which ction waste, between 15% and 25%, in the Plant, which entailed use of alternative mateconserved 7 GJ of energy, 141 kg of metal Responsible Use manufacture of plastic back covers of televisirials and efficient operations. Sixty percent of were also sent for recycling, conserving 2.3 of Resources ons. In addition, the facility reuses the material cardboard packages used at Arçelik during the tons of water and reducing greenhouse gas generated by reprocessing the EPS packaging emissions by 282 tons CO2e. year contain recycled cardboard. INNOVATION AND PRODUCT STRATEGY Recycled Packaging Waste (Tons) 4,052 EMPOWERING 3,542 3,601 THE VALUE CHAIN 2,188 1,966 1,600 EMBRACING 806 863 844 806 699 715 THE COMMUNITY 501 294 339 634 217 32 52 106 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Paper Plastic Metal Glass 48 During the reporting year, Aygaz recovered 454 rations during the year. The waste recovery ratio loyees to enjoy. Additionally, a 104.5 km2 area ACCOUNTABLE, tons of materials by crushing and reusing the jumped from 78.6% in 2014 to 95% in 2015. was reforested and taken under protection at the TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE welding slag from the submerged arc welding Arçelik Cooking Appliances Plant. Launched in 2010 with the participation of Group MANAGEMENT process within gas tank production, and reusing employees for the recycling of residential paper, Guidelines to preserve biodiversity are among in production the gates from the plastic injecglass, plastic and metal wastes, the Koç Group the principles set out by the Koç Group Envition process in valve manufacturing. The Ford INSPIRING Recycling Project was officially completed in ronmental Council regarding the assessment of TALENTS Otosan İnönü Plant lowered the per-vehicle use 2013. However, the project is being extended as potential environmental impacts of new investof corrugated paper by 0.15 m2 and of wooan employee driven initiative. Under this effort, ments. The negative impact of chemical materiden mallet by 750 cm3 with the front bumper 3,601 tons of paper, 844 tons of plastic, 715 als supplied by Group companies on the environINNOVATING FOR bracket special transportation table as part of THE ENVIRONMENT tons of metal and 634 tons of paper waste were ment and biodiversity is managed in accordance packaging optimization efforts in 2015. Exhacollected and recycled. with the REACH Regulation. ust emission levels declined by 32% with the Climate and Energy redesign of the front casting bracket table due Koç Group companies ensure that no negative In addition to preserving biodiversity, Koç Group Water Management to transportation efficiency. The clutch housing impact is imposed on natural environments, companies also carry out initiatives to boost the special separator reduced corrugated paper forests or wetland areas located on or near environmental quality of the land we inhabit, led Responsible Use use by 1.6 m2 per vehicle. Various efforts to extheir operation sites, or on the living organisms by the Group companies’ corporate forestatiof Resources pand the use of recyclable packaging materials inhabiting these sites. None of the operation sites on activities. Group companies planted some for all parts shipped to the factory resulted in of Group companies are located on protected 46,476 trees as part of their forestation efforts INNOVATION AND 30% improvement shipments made in cardbonatural or historic sites, special environmental during 2015. PRODUCT STRATEGY ard boxes. preserves, or RAMSAR sites, as required by law or international agreements. There are no land or Number of Trees Planted by Year All Group companies aim to reduce waste at water resources that have suffered a significant 2011 89,140 EMPOWERING the source; sort the waste and recover it to the impact in terms of biodiversity value or species 2012 50,043 THE VALUE CHAIN maximum extent possible; and minimize the population due to the Group companies’ opera2013 55,944 amount of waste removed. The total amount tions. The 22,000 m2 of wetlands, located on the 2014 30,545 of waste generated by Group companies was site of Ford Otosan’s Kocaeli Factories, is being 2015 46,476 EMBRACING reduced by 19% in 2015 compared to the THE COMMUNITY previous year. Some 32,000 tons of hazardous protected by the company due to the area being on a bird migration route. Similarly, a 34,780 m2 and 282,700 tons of non-hazardous waste was area that settled as a result of an earthquake was generated as a result of Group companies’ opereforested and converted into parkland for emp49 ACCOUNTABLE, TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT INSPIRING TALENTS INNOVATING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Climate and Energy Water Management The pioneering and innovative environmental management practices of Koç Group companies were deemed worthy of awards by a number of Responsible Use organizations in 2015. of Resources •• Koç Group companies Arçelik and Tofaş were included in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Turkey Leadership Index as part of the CDP. •• Arçelik was recognized with an award in the Waste Management category at the 2015 Sustainable Business Awards. Arçelik was also presented with the “E-Waste Hero Award” at the Istanbul Electrical & Electronics Waste Summit for its two recycling facilities established in Eskişehir and INNOVATION AND Bolu to fulfill its duties as per the WEEE regulation and for its WEEE Management System. The Arçelik Compressor Plant won first place in the PRODUCT STRATEGY product/service category with its Eco Compressor Project at the European Business Awards for the Environment 2015, Turkish National Competition. In the same competition, Arçelik Dishwasher Plant was runner-up in the Process category with the Elimination of Phosphate Residue through Nanotechnology Surface Application Project. At the ESO Technology Awards, distributed by the Eskişehir Chamber of Industry, Arçelik CompresEMPOWERING sor Plant garnered the 2015 ESO Technology Development Award for its Eco Compressor – The Most Efficient Refrigerator Compressor Project. THE VALUE CHAIN •• Aygaz Aliağa Filling Facility was recognized with an Environmental Facility Award at the Environmental Facility Awards 2015, organized by the Turkish Healthy Cities Association. •• Tofaş was the recipient of the “Green Business” award in the Carbon and Energy Management category at the Sustainable Business Awards 2015, EMBRACING which was organized as part of the Green Business Summit. THE COMMUNITY •• At the SENVER Industrial Energy Efficiency Competition held by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, Tüpraş garnered the most awards with a total of 16 projects implemented at its İzmit, İzmir, Kırıkkale and Batman Refineries. In the SENVER-2 category, Kırıkkale Refinery was presented with first prize, İzmit Refinery received second prize, Izmir Refinery placed third; meanwhile, Batman Refinery won the Special Jury Prize in the SENVER-3 category. INNOVATION AND PRODUCT STRATEGY “Our Goal is to Generate Resources for 51 INNOVATION AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Continuous Development.” RIGHTS MANAGEMENT Our Founder Vehbi Koç Business strategy at Koç Group, the Turkey’s Innovation initiatives carried out across Koç Koç Innovation Program, which strives to ACCOUNTABLE, R&D leader, is primarily devoted to innovaGroup are centered on five core strategic goals: innovate with a start-up spirit but manufacture TRANSPARENT with the power of well-established industry, is AND RESPONSIBLE tion initiatives that focus on developing new 1. Building a culture of innovation and creating MANAGEMENT value-added business models, creating new driven by intrapreneurs. These intrapreneurs are the right working environment to enhance markets, and introducing environmentalsupported through various training programs, our capacity to innovate, a mentoring scheme, new project managely-friendly and energy efficient products for INSPIRING 2. Cultivating an “intrapreneurship” approach ment models, and remuneration systems. The TALENTS the benefit of future generations. In addition to across the Group, and supporting the staff’s Group focuses on business model innovation the efforts of Group companies that pioneer entrepreneurial disposition and efforts, and boosting its open innovation capability. technology and innovation in their respective 3.Extending innovative endeavors not only Launched with the voluntary participation of INNOVATING FOR industries, Koç Holding practices that foster a across product and service development Group companies in order to spread the culture THE ENVIRONMENT culture of innovation, set the strategic direction, activities but also towards all business units of innovation within Koç Group companies and and ensure systemic development also play foster the emergence of innovative business and operations, a major role in the success of R&D initiatives models, the Koç Innovation Program reached INNOVATION AND 4. Stepping up partnerships with external across the Group. five participants in its third year of operation. PRODUCT STRATEGY stakeholders, an important source of innovation, and managing such Koç Group Innovation Index, developed alongcollaborations in a more efficient manner, side the Koç Innovation Program, tracks and EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN 5. Managing innovative operations within defined processes to ensure their BeGlobal – Silicon Valley Program sustainability. Launched in 2015 to enhance the innovation EMBRACING perspective, the BeGlobal – Silicon Valley THE COMMUNITY Launched in 2013 to implement the Koç Group Program was attended by executives from Innovation Strategy, the Koç Innovation Provarious Koç Group companies. Program gram seeks to establish and develop an innoparticipants studied the world’s most innovation management infrastructure in the Group vative practices, went on various company companies. These respective infrastructures visits, and attended events with speakers who are subject matter experts in their respective are built in keeping with the Innovation Manfields. The program, which strives to present agement Model that was developed exclusively applied knowledge as well as theory to the for Koç Group. participants on location, aims to bolster the innovation perspective across the Group. OTOKAR 52 improves the innovation capabilities of Group infrastructure and resource investments that ACCOUNTABLE, companies over the years. have taken place for many years. In 2015, the Ford Otosan TRANSPARENT Group’s R&D capability and capacity exSancaktepe R&D Center AND RESPONSIBLE Koç Group Technology and Innovation Council, panded significantly. Group companies’ R&D Commencing operations in 2015 after a TL MANAGEMENT responsible for the coordination of R&D initiaoutlays jumped 14% to TL 1.3 billion while R&D 68 million capital investment, Ford Otosan tives carried out within the Group, fosters a suitstaff size increased 13% to 4,321 in 2015. Sancaktepe R&D Center is Turkey’s largest able environment to set the long-term R&D and INSPIRING R&D facility in one location. Officially certified TALENTS innovation strategies, goals and action plans Thanks to the experience and know-how built as a research and development center by the with the participation of executives of Group up over many years, Koç Group boasts Turkey’s Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, companies responsible for their R&D activities. largest intellectual property rights portfolio: more this Center employs 1,378 personnel. INNOVATING FOR Accounting for about 13% of Turkey’s total than 7,000 brands, over 3,600 patent families The Center is equipped with a number of THE ENVIRONMENT private sector R&D spending , Koç Group and 8,400 patents, more than 800 industrial destate-of-the-art technology research capabilsigns, and over 4,800 Internet domain names. ities, including a Virtual Reality Lab (CAVE), was represented in the 2015 “EU Industrial In addition, Koç Group companies applied for Embedded Systems and Software DevelopR&D Investment Scoreboard.” This European INNOVATION AND Commission report ranks the world’s top 2,500 660 patents and utility models in 2015. ment Lab, and Design Studio. PRODUCT STRATEGY companies by their investments in research Effective management of intellectual property and development, and included Koç Holding rights is critical in terms of translating these and three Koç Group companies. This success successful innovation initiatives into economic EMPOWERING is a result of the steadily growing workforce, THE VALUE CHAIN value and safeguarding it. To this end, Koç EMBRACING R&D Investments Koç Group R&D Staff by Year Patent Applications by Koç Group by Year THE COMMUNITY by Koç Group by Year (TL million) 1,304 4,169 4,321 3,693 660 3,258 563 918 2,744 400 310 706 273 570 503 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ² Turkish Statistical Institute 2014 R&D Activity Statistics 53 PRODUCT STRATEGY IN EMERGING MARKETS Group is the first Turkish entity to devise an Working to ensure market diversification and intensifying their investments in that direction. ACCOUNTABLE, intellectual property rights strategy and share it competitiveness of Group companies is a Arçelik’s manufacturing plant investments TRANSPARENT with its stakeholders. significant component of Koç Group’s busiin Africa and Thailand during the previous AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT The Koç Group Intellectual Property Rights ness strategy. To this end, our innovation reporting period are a good example of this Strategy consists of five core elements: strategy targets the development of products approach. In addition to its manufacturing and services in line with customer expectacapacity investments, Arçelik’s strategy to INSPIRING 1. Maximizing the use of the intellectual TALENTS tions in emerging markets in order to boost develop products centered on internet and property rights system to obtain a sustainable competitive advantage and the Group’s presence in these markets. These mobile communication technology is also achieve the best business results, efforts are carried out by Group compagaining prominence for increasing penetration INNOVATING FOR nies individually but are monitored closely in emerging markets. 2. Protecting difference-making innovations and THE ENVIRONMENT by Koç Holding. Koç Holding supports the strong brands in its markets of operation, The initiatives of the Group’s automotive 3.Creating value by managing its intellectual Group companies by means of the innovation companies also stand out in their product INNOVATION AND property portfolio in alignment with business management system, expertise in intellectual development efforts for emerging markets. PRODUCT STRATEGY objectives, property rights, opportunities for collaboration For example, Otokar and Tofaș engage in im4. Commercializing intellectual property through under the Koç Technology and Innovation portant product development initiatives in line acquisition, sale or licensing and being open Council, and the Performance Management with diverse geographic characteristics, climate EMPOWERING to partnerships in this field, System. conditions and local needs in various product THE VALUE CHAIN 5. Respecting the intellectual property rights of platforms. During the previous reporting Economic growth is projected to accelerate third parties. period, Ford Otosan launched cross-licensing in the world’s developing countries – led by EMBRACING A significant share of the Group companies’ China, India, Southeast and East Asia – while initiatives launched for China market. This THE COMMUNITY innovation projects is carried out jointly with unieffort, which was part of the Ford Otosan’s the share of this bloc in the global economy versities and research institutions. Most of these business strategy that encompasses product, rises. This scenario will likely improve the projects are supported by innovation incentive engineering and technology exports, allows general welfare and raise living standards in programs of major organizations, such as the the company to actively take advantage of these markets. A presence in these markets European Union and TÜBİTAK (Scientific and opportunities in these markets and their surTechnological Research Council of Turkey). presents major opportunities for many Koç rounding regions. Holding companies. As a result, led by the Detailed information on the innovation partnerships durable consumer goods and automotive and projects undertaken by the Group can be found subsidiaries, Group companies are devising in the Koç Holding 2015 Annual Report. product strategies for emerging markets and 54 ECO-INNOVATIVE AND VALUE ADDED PRODUCTS which cover 85% of product portfolio. Through ACCOUNTABLE, speed engines, annual water consumption of 60 TRANSPARENT cm and 45 cm wide dishwashers were reduced AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT by 840 and 560 liters respectively. As part of the Lotus Project carried out during the year, the company developed a dishwasher model that INSPIRING consumes merely 5.5 liters of water. In addition, TALENTS the energy efficiency of the models that consume six liters of water was raised to A++. Innovative features were designed and deployed in North INNOVATING FOR America and Australia markets, included Bad THE ENVIRONMENT Odor Prevention System, Zonal Washing System and Tablet Detergent Auto-Detection System. Auto-Dosing Liquid Detergent System is also INNOVATION AND completed and introduced in the products. PRODUCT STRATEGY Homewiz, another project undertaken in 2015, enables consumers to connect to their dishTOFAŞ EMPOWERING washers through internet and tablets. THE VALUE CHAIN Another initiative conducted during the year Reducing energy consumption and other enviArçelik’s R&D spend to improve the environrelated to efficient gas stove burner design. ronmental impacts of the product and service mental performance of its products totaled TL The burner developed as a result of this project EMBRACING portfolio is an important focal point of the Group 47 million in 2015. The stand-by power conreached 65% efficiency, compared to existTHE COMMUNITY companies’ innovation efforts. Thanks to this sumption of television sets was lowered from ing burners in the marketplace which are 58% work, Group companies not only reduce the 0.3 W to the 0.12 W – 0.29 W range during the efficient. The company began rolling out these environmental footprint of a major component year, equivalent to overall energy savings of new design burners in products gradually during of the value chain, but also address growing 38.6% during stand-by. As a result, the stand2015. The 90 cm T and wall-type range hoods consumer demands for environmentally-friendby power consumption of the entire product that were developed by Arçelik during the year ly, energy-efficient products and services. By portfolio fell below 0.3 W. successfully passed the testing procedures of preferring these value-added products that offer Water consumption in one washing cycle was the Germany-based independent product testing reduced environmental impact alternatives, the reduced and 560 liters of water was saved organization SLG to become the first product in consumers of Group companies conserved 1.14 annually in 60 cm wide “good” level dishwashers the category to be certified as noise quality rating. million GJ of energy during 2015. 55 Improvements to Arçelik washing machines during sions such as CO2, CO, NOx, and HC. As part of customer level. Two patent and one utility model the year lowered energy consumption by 2% while the Sulfur-Free Odorant project, a TÜBİTAK-supapplications were submitted for the project, which the noise level of washing machines manufactured ported R&D effort, a sulfur-free and environmenwill break new ground in the global LPG sector. ACCOUNTABLE, in 2015 was reduced by 78% compared to the tally-friendly odorant chemical was developed for Some 1 million cylinders were barcoded as part TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE previous period. The company also undertook LPG and the patent application was submitted. of the project; the company plans to monitor the MANAGEMENT initiatives to increase the market penetration of the Registered under the GreenOdor brand in Turkey results of the pilot initiative in 2016 and expand the 54 cm deep tumble dryers with energy efficiency and internationally, this odorant will significantly rescope of the project gradually in coming years. ratings of A+ and A++ were developed during duce sulfur emissions in autogas and cylinder gas INSPIRING previous years. A+++ and beyond energy efficient consumption. Efforts to deploy the new odorant The basic requirement to achieve sustainable TALENTS competitiveness is the possession of technologiproducts were also spread. Efforts to reduce coolwill continue in 2016. cal competency and knowhow by the company. ing fluid levels of tumble dryers resulted in 12% Aygaz took first step for the “Cylinder Tracking To that end, the most important goal of Tüpraş’s improvement in A+ products and 31% improveINNOVATING FOR Project” in 2015, which aims to boost efficiency by R&D strategy can be summarized as “Product Difment in A++ products. Further, wood packaging THE ENVIRONMENT enabling the tracking of the cylinders filled and disferentiation, Self-Sufficiency in Process.” The core materials used in tumble dryers were lowered by tributed by the company at the facility, dealer, and objective of every project implemented by Tüpraş 3.9% despite rising production levels while 20 tons INNOVATION AND of paper was conserved through better design of PRODUCT STRATEGY user manuals. As part of the Diesel-LPG Dual Fuel Project unveiled by Aygaz, a conversion kit was develEMPOWERING oped that enables heavy vehicles, such as buses THE VALUE CHAIN and trucks, to run on both diesel and LPG as an alternative to exclusive use of diesel. Deployment EMBRACING of this kit reduces the diesel consumption of the THE COMMUNITY engine and replaces it with LPG use. CO2 and other emissions, particulate emissions in particular, are reduced and fuel economy is improved as a result of this application. Aygaz completed the Diesel-LPG conversion of 11 tankers and one training bus in its fleet. Aygaz and Tüpraş are undertaking the Olefin Project as a joint venture where they are developing processes to reduce the olefin content of LPG. Reduction of the olefin content of LPG will in turn reduce vehicle emisAYGAZ 56 is to attain the goals in strategic business lines. Project; Boron and Nanoboron Doped Hydromechanical problems and changes in road ACCOUNTABLE, As such, the company has developed projects processing Catalysts Development Project; New conditions as well as immediate intervention in the TRANSPARENT event of accidents. This technology, rolled out as a in the areas of mathematical modeling of existModified Polymer Bitumen Development Project AND RESPONSIBLE partnership of Ford Otosan with Vodafone Turkey MANAGEMENT ing processes, process simulation, and process from Waste Polymer Additives; Light and Middle controls in accordance with the goal of innovating Distillate Production with Olefin Oligomerization. and Filotürk, provides fuel economy of up to 20% production technologies and gaining new proin Ford Trucks vehicles. With the same level of commitment, the Company INSPIRING cess development capabilities. In addition, Tüpraş TALENTS continues to execute development and perforFeaturing the enhanced versions of the frontundertakes efforts to develop products in line with mance evaluation initiatives for specialty asphalt, wheel drive 2.2 liter Duratorq TDCi diesel engine compliance with prospective regulations and maralternative fuels, fuel additives, biofuels, base oil, engineered by Ford Otosan, Transit Custom and INNOVATING FOR ket expectations within the scope of high profile nanotechnology applications, and catalysis. Tourneo Custom models deliver the highest fuel THE ENVIRONMENT projects such as Development of New Self-Healeconomy values in their class (6.5 l/100 km ) ing Asphalt Agglomerate for more Durability and Ford Otosan implemented the “Filobil” project thanks to the automated Start/Stop system. Low Maintenance of Surface Roads; Developwhich uses machine to machine communication INNOVATION AND ment of Alternative Fuel Additives with Glycerol technology via modules installed in Ford Trucks Deployed in the Transit/Tourneo Courier model PRODUCT STRATEGY engineered by Ford Otosan, Ford’s efficient and Etherification and Fuel Compatibility Determination vehicles. This service enables identification of EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY 57 powerful 1.0 liter EcoBoost gasoline engine proan invaluable testing capability for other R&D ACCOUNTABLE, vides the best fuel economy in its class among activities to be carried out down the road. TRANSPARENT the gasoline engines available in the European Under the project undertaken by TürkTraktör AND RESPONSIBLE market. Vehicle integration of this engine was MANAGEMENT in 2015, three-cylinder engines compliant with also performed by Ford Otosan. The revolutionTier-IV emission standards were developed ary 1.0 liter three-cylinder EcoBoost gasoline to be deployed in TT model tractors; producengine delivers the performance of a traditional INSPIRING tion commenced for deployment in two tracTALENTS 1.6 engine while providing fuel savings of 24% tor models. Projected R&D spending for the and cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 25%. engines, for which field and emission tests are Engineered 100% by Ford Otosan, the Next ongoing, is TL 1.2 million. In addition, within the INNOVATING FOR Generation Ecotorq EU6 Engine Family and Exreporting period, the TD4F model developed for THE ENVIRONMENT haust Gas Filtration System aims to be a leader European market was commercialized under in its product category. As part of this project, the brand CESAIH JXB in Turkey. The style dethe Smart Engine Management System, which sign of the CASEIH JXB branded garden tractor INNOVATION AND operates by interacting with the infrastructure was completed and introduced to the local PRODUCT STRATEGY and the driver, is the first of its kind within Ford market. In line with the engine emission legislaGlobal. Ford Otosan developed its own original tion, another project carried out by TürkTraktör EMPOWERING electronic modules and software in this project. is the design of the F5C engine TD5/FARMALL THE VALUE CHAIN Prototype tests reveal that the Next Generation A model tractor which has a level of STAGEIIIB Ecotorq EU6 Engine Family and Exhaust Gas Emission level. Its mass production towards the Filtration System offers the most advanced fuel European market is also completed. In addition, EMBRACING economy and emissions levels in its class. The the company also carried out a project for the THE COMMUNITY EU6 Exhaust Gas Filtration System, developed Tier IV engine application in Utility Light modby Ford Otosan with an R&D outlay of EUR 7 milel tractors during the reporting period. R&D lion, stands out as one of the select few technoloutlays for the project that entails improvements ogies developed with internal resources, not just in the Utility Light model tractors and the new for Ford Otosan but in the automotive industry engine applications. worldwide. As part of the project, the company also launched the EUR 1.5 million Exhaust Emission Systems Testing Center. Set up within the Ford Otosan Gölcük R&D Center, the facility is Ford Global’s first in the region, and it will provide EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN 59 “Customers are our benefactors.” PRODUCT AND SERVICE RESPONSIBILITY Product Quality and Safety Our Founder Vehbi Koç We owe Koç Group’s success as much to the In addition to production operations, Koç The primary goal of Koç Group companies is ACCOUNTABLE, supply chain and dealer network that enable the Group’s approach to creating a sustainable to deliver products and services that address TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE operations of the Group companies as to activibusiness model entails assessing consumer consumer expectations and needs, conform to MANAGEMENT ties of our enterprises. Shaping its sustainability expectations correctly and offering value-added international quality standards, and create cusapproach with a view that goes beyond Group products that meet the future expectations of tomer satisfaction. However, ensuring consumcompanies’ operations and encompasses the customers while improving their quality of life. er health and safety during the consumption of INSPIRING TALENTS entire value chain, Koç Group also assesses its However, Group companies prioritize providing our products and services is just as important sustainability performance within this scope. products and services to consumers responsifor Group companies – a critical issue they can Consequently, Koç Group strives to enhance bly as much as meeting their expectations. never waver on. INNOVATING FOR its commercial success in all processes, from The scope of our product and service responIt is a core responsibility for Koç Group comTHE ENVIRONMENT procurement to product and service delivery to sibility includes focusing on consumer safety panies to comply with all applicable laws, the customer as well as adoption and broad acduring the product and service development regulations, product and service standards ceptance of responsible conduct and behavior. INNOVATION AND processes, attaining the norms of superior in the countries they conduct operations. To To this end, Group companies act together with PRODUCT STRATEGY quality, informing consumers accurately and this end, Group enterprises have in place their respective stakeholders led by their busitransparently, protecting consumer data, and control processes to ensure full compliance ness partners, such as suppliers and dealers. increasing consumer satisfaction. with laws, regulations and mandatory quality EMPOWERING The Group Companies expect their suppliers standards during the design, production and THE VALUE CHAIN and dealers, the strategic components of their market offering processes of their products value chains, to embrace the same operating and services. Compliance criteria vary by Product and Service principles that Group companies adopt in industry based on the unique characteristics of Responsibility social, environmental, economic and ethics each sector. This allows Koç Group companies matters. Supporting the capacity enhanceto sell their products to customers in tens of Responsibility ment needed to also implement these principles countries across the world and ensure their in the Value Chain in the operations of the business partners is satisfaction. an essential task for Koç Group Companies. EMBRACING Koç Group companies offer products and Additionally, Group Companies see providing THE COMMUNITY services for sale only on the condition that their products and services responsibly and they comply with consumer health and safety increasing customer satisfaction as means to standards. All Group companies oversee full improve the sustainability of the value chain. compliance with effective laws and regulations as well as compliance with health and safety 60 Automotive Group: Vehicle Safety standards, in keeping with generally-accepted Responsible Advertising and Marketing Koç Automotive Group companies undertake norms across all phases of the life cycle of a product design and R&D efforts to fully comply product or service from the design process with the laws and regulations that govern the to the delivery of the product or service to the vehicle safety standards of the markets that Koç Group companies conduct their adverthey manufacture vehicles for and to equip their ACCOUNTABLE, consumer. All products and services rendered tising and marketing communication efforts vehicles with the state-of-the-art safety techTRANSPARENT by Koç Group enterprises are reviewed for nologies. As a result, vehicles manufactured in line with the four core values of the Koç AND RESPONSIBLE compliance with consumer health and safety by Koç Automotive Group enterprises render MANAGEMENT brand – Leadership, Optimism, Solidarity and standards; the Group did not have any instance a safer driving experience for consumers. The Value Generation. These activities are also of violation of these standards in 2015. passive and active safety technologies that vehicles are equipped with conform to the highest carried out in accordance with the InternationINSPIRING norms in their respective categories as conal Chamber of Commerce’s Advertising and TALENTS firmed by testing by international organizations Marketing Communication Practice and the Consumer Durables: such as NCAP. guidelines of the Turkish Advertising Self-RegEnhanced Product Durability at Arçelik Advances in intelligent urban and infrastructure INNOVATING FOR ulatory Board. The messages and means used In the consumer durables industry, product technologies elevate the meaning of traffic safeTHE ENVIRONMENT ty to a whole new level. To this end, intelligent as part of these efforts are ethical, honest, durability is not only governed by law. It is driving systems, where vehicles communicate accurate, responsible to society, in conformialso an influential factor in product selection, with each other and with the infrastructure, are ty with applicable laws and regulations, and an element of product quality that creates INNOVATION AND gaining prominence in the present day. The consumer satisfaction. Further, durability respectful of personal rights. Descriptions, PRODUCT STRATEGY CoMoSef initiative, which also includes Otokar boosts the economic value of products by and KoçSistem as project partners, is a Euroclaims and visuals used in advertising and increasing their useful life cycle while reducpean Union effort participated by 23 project marketing communications are verifiable and ing product-based environmental impacts. A partners from nine countries that aims to develEMPOWERING documentable without being misleading, while global player in consumer durables, Arçelik op the intelligent traffic systems of the future. THE VALUE CHAIN designs its products to guarantee their use KoçSistem’s role in the initiative is to develop avoiding detraction, imitation, and abuse of at the same quality level for 10 years. All technologies that will enable communication of commercial reputation. Conditions of digital Arçelik products are subjected to expected vehicles with other vehicles on the roads and media use were also added to the Koç brand Product and Service life cycle testing through simulations under roadside units. Information provided by this corporate identity guidelines as the use of Responsibility communication will enhance the driving expe10-year overloading conditions. Only models this emerging media became commonplace rience in addition to safety and support traffic that pass these testing procedures successResponsibility management. As part of this project, Otokar is across the Group. fully are approved for commercial sale and in the Value Chain working on various systems, such as warnings offered to the market. for intersection collision, traffic rule violation, danger zone, and vehicle right of way. EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY 61 Product Information Customer Data Security Group companies go beyond legal and regulaGroup enterprises are in possession of a large ACCOUNTABLE, Yapı Kredi: amount of customer data, either as a consequence tory mandates in their product descriptions in TRANSPARENT Easy and Transparent Product Information terms of scope and detail, providing the most of products and services rendered or in an effort to AND RESPONSIBLE Yapı Kredi posts detailed information on all get to know the customer better. It is our responsiMANAGEMENT accurate, current and reliable information on its products and campaigns, in addition to its their products and services. Product labels and credit card product agreements, on the corpobility to use these data in compliance with applicable informational documents, depending on the inrate website. The company provides various laws and regulations, with the permission of custominstruments, such as sample loan repayment INSPIRING dustry and type of product or service, inform the ers, and within their authorization limits; to safeguard tables, for consumers to benefit from more TALENTS consumers. Product information materials also detailed and easy to understand information, the security of customer data; and to prevent access to customer data by third parties when customers provide product ingredients, conditions of safe especially regarding loan products. Information on deposit products is designed to enable withhold their consent for it. Group companies use, and environmental impacts. Product inforINNOVATING FOR consumers to compare products and interest ensure the confidentiality of these data via systems mation, in most instances, is provided to conrates and to avoid confusion. Potential gains designed in keeping with internationally-accepted THE ENVIRONMENT sumers on or alongside the product; meanwhile, and losses from the products are shared standards. The standard generally applicable to many informational tools are also available on the with consumers in a transparent and easily these systems is the ISO 27001 Information Security understood fashion. When a consumer conwebsite of the respective companies. There have System Standard. Meanwhile, companies in certain INNOVATION AND tacts a call center for information, call center been no violations of laws or regulations with rerepresentatives convey all information that the industries also conform to other confidentiality stanPRODUCT STRATEGY gard to consumer information or product labeling consumer is legally entitled to with regard to dards. For example, Koç Bilgi ve Savunma Sistemleri in Group enterprises during the reporting period. the product or service in question pursuant complies with the military level information security to the agreement. This practice supports Yapı protocols while Otokar conforms to the AQAP 2110 EMPOWERING Kredi customers to make informed decisions NATO Standard. THE VALUE CHAIN on financial products and services. Yapı Kredi, which is responsible for maintaining a large amount of personal consumer information Product and Service pursuant to governing laws and regulations, defined Responsibility the confidentiality of Banking Secrets and Customer Data as part of its Code of Ethics. Every employResponsibility ee is obligated to abide by these rules and report in the Value Chain any suspicion of violation immediately to the related bodies. Further, customers who suspect a violation also have access to a quick and easy reporting EMBRACING mechanism. In order to prevent harm to customers, THE COMMUNITY all reported information is evaluated meticulously and investigated by the Ethics Unit. Some 314 notifications were received within this scope in 2015; all cases were investigated and concluded. FORD OTOSAN 62 Customer Satisfaction RESPONSIBILITY IN THE VALUE CHAIN Creating customer satisfaction is a common 82.5% satisfaction in the light commercial Koç Group believes that it will have attained ACCOUNTABLE, strategic goal of all Koç Group companies vehicle segment, and 80.7% satisfaction in true success when its sustainability initiatives TRANSPARENT are adopted across the Group’s value chain. To AND RESPONSIBLE irrespective of the industry. Group enterprises the heavy commercial vehicle segment. In MANAGEMENT engage in creative and competitive practices the surveys conducted during 2015, Otokoç this end, Group companies aim to expand their to gain the appreciation of customers and passenger vehicle customers expressed 92% sustainability approaches to their respective value bolster their competitive edge. Koç Holding chains and achieve sustainable growth within satisfaction with sales processes and 81% INSPIRING their economic spheres of influence. TALENTS and Group companies conduct customer satisfaction with service processes. Meansatisfaction surveys each year to track their while, Otokoç commercial vehicle customers Group enterprises strive to instill their operating performance in this area. In addition to the inconveyed 91% satisfaction with sales pronorms – from ethical operating principles to workINNOVATING FOR house surveys of Group enterprises, surveys cesses and 80% satisfaction with service ing norms dictated by the international initiatives THE ENVIRONMENT by independent organizations also reveal processes. they are committed to, led by the UN Global Comsuccessful results for Group companies. pact – in their business partners, such as suppliTofaş improved its customer satisfaction ers, contractors, dealers and distributors. AgreeINNOVATION AND According to the results of customer satisfacscore to 78% in 2015 as a result of the serments that establish business partnerships also PRODUCT STRATEGY tion and loyalty surveys conducted in 2015, vices it combined via after-sales business encompass business ethics, quality, environmenAygaz A.Ş. brands maintained their leadership development initiatives. tal, human rights, and operating principles norms with scores of 77 points in the cylinder gas in keeping with UN Global Compact principles. EMPOWERING Just like all other Koç Group companies, Group companies also support their business sector and 84 points in the autogas sector.In THE VALUE CHAIN Tüpraş is committed to rendering the highest partners to help them boost their performance in the surveys conducted during 2015 measurquality products and services to its customthese areas. The most important example of this ing customer satisfaction in sales processes, Product and Service ers, constantly improving its products and effort is the training sessions administered to supFord Otosan customers expressed 89.4% Responsibility services, and treating all its customers equally pliers. Koç Group companies conducted 1,328 satisfaction in the automobile segment, 89.6% and fairly. As a result, despite its superior personXhours of business ethics training, 41,564 satisfaction in the light commercial vehicle Responsibility performance, Tüpraş carries out a number of personXhours of environmental training, 9,173 persegment, and 77.4% satisfaction in the heavy in the Value Chain initiatives to raise the level of customer satissonXhours of training in social matters, and 1,073 commercial vehicle segment. faction. Surveys conducted in 2015 reveal that personXhours of training in economic matters for Based on the outcomes of the surveys meaTüpraş customers’ satisfaction level from the their suppliers in 2015. EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY suring satisfaction from authorized service products and services rendered to them by Implementation and performance control efforts, locations, Ford Otosan customers conveyed the company stands at 88.8%. in addition to training and support initiatives, also G4-27 79.8% satisfaction in the automobile segment, play a major role in expanding the capacity to establish sustainable business models across 63 the supply chain. To this end, supplier auditing In an effort to ensure a more active communicaACCOUNTABLE, efforts of Group companies, which encompass tion for its expectations from suppliers regarding Support for Business Transparency Project TRANSPARENT sustainability issues, Arçelik A.Ş. has a business from Arçelik such areas as quality, the environment, busiAND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT ness ethics, employee rights and human rights, conduct e-learning program. Following the pilot Global Reporting Initiative has carried out the also serve to manage sustainability risks in the practice launched in 2014, 30 suppliers in total program “Business Transparency Project” sin(15 from Turkey and 15 from international opce 2009 in order to improve transparency and supply chain. Group companies use risk-based INSPIRING erations) were audited in line with SEDEX audit accountability by increasing the penetration of selection criteria to determine the scope of their TALENTS standards for codes of conduct and occupationsustainability reporting within the supply chaaudit plans that cover an increasing number of ins. The program also encourages the compaal safety. suppliers each year. To this end, more than 1,500 nies that adopt these practices by giving them INNOVATING FOR suppliers were audited for social, environmental A large multiplier effect emerges when success increased visibility on international platforms. Business Transparency Project aims to raise THE ENVIRONMENT and ethics compliance in 2015; meanwhile, 1,183 is attained across the entire value chain. Armed the corporate sustainability performance of suppliers were audited in terms of human rights with this understanding, Koç Group companies small businesses that are part of the supply criteria. Some 10% of suppliers across the Group undertake efforts to make suppliers and dealers chains of large corporations; to expand their INNOVATION AND are subjected to human rights audits. The scope in their respective value chains more successful. capacity to meet the expectations of main PRODUCT STRATEGY of the human rights audits is the largest in the These efforts may relate directly to commercial producers in this area; to help acquire the caconsumer durables industry, with 33% of suppliactivities, governance approach or capacity enpability to undertake sustainability reporting; ers undergoing these audits. hancements, such as sustainability management. and to promote successful firms as examples EMPOWERING of good applications internationally. This ProTHE VALUE CHAIN ject is funded by the European Commission and the Swiss government. Arçelik supports the project’s 2015 implementation by the partiProduct and Service cipation of 13 of its suppliers and the provision Responsibility of the infrastructure for training activities. Arçelik aims to improve the sustainability Responsibility management and reporting-related knowledge in the Value Chain and skills of Arçelik suppliers that participate in this project for a period of one year. The goal is the issue of reports by suppliers in the GRI EMBRACING G4 standard at the conclusion of the project. THE COMMUNITY As part of this effort, Arçelik sets an example for many companies in Turkey in terms of the visibility of its supply chain. ARÇELİK EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY 65 SOCIAL INVESTMENTS Social responsibility is not merely a focal point Koç Group is the driver behind the establish*Koç Group’s 2015 Sustainability Report ACCOUNTABLE, for Koç Group, but rather a business culture ment of many organizations that play a major covers social investment projects that are TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE we inherited from our founder Vehbi Koç that is role in a number of areas – from education and implemented by Koç Holding and extended to MANAGEMENT now part of our organization’s DNA. health to the environment – including TEMA Koç Group Companies. Other projects that are (The Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil carried out by Koç Group Companies can be Koç Group’s social responsibility approach accesses through company website or comINSPIRING goes beyond simply being charitable. Instead, Erosion, for Reforestation and the Protection of TALENTS pany sustainability reports. the approach adopted by the Group includes Natural Habitats), Turkish Educational Founbeing part of the effort to guide the community dation, Educational Volunteers Foundation of Koç Group companies undertook 71 social in a positive direction. Institutionalizing these Turkey, and Turkish Family Health and Planning responsibility projects and 152 donation and INNOVATING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT efforts, the Group pioneered Turkish industry Foundation. sponsorship initiatives within their business geas well as the country’s civil society landscape. ography during the reporting period to support In addition to launching a large number of civil Koç Group focuses its social investments on higher standards of living for the population. INNOVATION AND society organizations in Turkey, Koç Group high value-added initiatives. We design and Group companies invested more than TL 102 PRODUCT STRATEGY also established the country’s first private seccarry out all our projects in line with the princimillion in these various efforts. tor supported foundation, Vehbi Koç Foundaples of sustainability, volunteerism, innovation, tion, setting an example for the entire nation. and creativity. EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN EMBRACING Breakdown Breakdown of Donations and THE COMMUNITY of Social Responsibility Projects by Area Sponsorships by Area 7.10% 8.11% 24.16% 15.10% Social Investments 8.5% Contributıon to 12.17% 10.7% Local Economy 17.24% 95.62% 27.38% Education Environment Sports Culture & Art Health Education Sports Culture & Art Health Environment 66 For My Country One of the finest examples of the corporate ACCOUNTABLE, social responsibility initiatives carried out by Koç 2006 Independent themed, we addressed a variety of needs in the field via 387 local TRANSPARENT Group with its personnel and dealers is the “For 2007 projects in 81 provinces. AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT My Country” project. Launched in 2006, the project aims to raise social responsibility awareness among individuals and create solutions to sociIn collaboration with TEMA (The Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for INSPIRING ety’s problems with the participation of players 2008 Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats) and Ministry of Environment and TALENTS in our value chain. The theme of For My Country 2009 Forestry, we planted 1,084,000 trees and seven forests in seven regions, and instilled a love of trees in 18,000 students as part of the “For My Country Forests” initiative. changes every two or three years, as the project addresses a different social issue each period. INNOVATING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT The No Barriers For My Country project, 2010 We carried out the National Regular Blood Donors Acquisition Campaign under launched in 2012, concluded in the first half the “Donating Blood For My Country” initiative, collecting 83,579 units of blood 2011 donations and creating awareness among some 104,000 persons. of 2015. Subsequently, the new theme of For INNOVATION AND My Country is decided as gender equality. The PRODUCT STRATEGY project, Supporting Gender Equality For My Under the “No Barriers For My Country” initiative: Country is expected to be in place between We conducted 2,433 Accommodating Disabilities Training sessions at our companies that 2015-2017. EMPOWERING reached 103,482 employees. THE VALUE CHAIN We reached out to 22,500 persons, mostly children, in 36 provinces through our dealers. For My Number of 2012 We improved schools’ physical structures at 1,361 locations. Country Participating 2015 Volunteers Companies We retrofitted 20 school buildings to accommodate students and teachers with disabilities. EMBRACING We developed disability-friendly products and services at our companies. 2006 81 43 We carried out 20 social responsibility projects. THE COMMUNITY 2007 81 30 We enhanced Human Resources and Dealer procedures with disability-friendly practices. 2008 81 22 Social Investments 2009 81 2010 121 49 2015 Launched the Supporting Gender Equality For My Country project. Contributıon to 2011 135 46 Local Economy 2012 116 34 2013 125 34 2014 125 34 2015 125 34 ¹ Companies were not included in the 2009 project. 67 Gender Equality Initiatives A deep gender inequality hinders access to In 2013, Koç Holding signed the Declaration ACCOUNTABLE, education, health services and economic on Equality at Work developed by the Ministry TRANSPARENT opportunities. Present in every country across of Family and Social Policies and in January AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT the world, this inequality ranks among the chief 2015, became a signatory of UN Women and obstacles to economic and social developUN Global Compact’s Women Empowerment. Koç Group’s social development initiatiment Principles. Koç Holding also initiated a INSPIRING ves in 2015 focused on social gender inequacooperation agreement with UN Women to TALENTS lity, one of the most widespread human rights support empowering women in social and violations that the civilized world faces today. economic life in Turkey. INNOVATING FOR To this end, Koç Group carried out a series THE ENVIRONMENT of projects and initiatives that encompassed a broad range of issues, from creating social awareness to combating violence against woINNOVATION AND men and domestic violence. PRODUCT STRATEGY EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY Social Investments Contributıon to Local Economy G4-15 68 HeForShe In 2014, Koç Holding signed a cooperation Holding and Group companies played in the ACCOUNTABLE, agreement with the United Nations Entity for communication phase of the initiative, the late What is HeForShe? TRANSPARENT Gender Equality and Empowerment of Women Mustafa V. Koç, former Chairman of the Board Developed by UN Women, HeForShe is a AND RESPONSIBLE (UN Women). Under the agreement, Koç Holding of Directors of Koç Holding, supported the effort solidarity movement that invites every segMANAGEMENT became the implementation partner in Turkey for personally and served as one of the ambassament of society to become a supporter and UN Women’s worldwide HeForShe campaign. dors of the campaign. envoy of change for social gender equality INSPIRING The Company played an active part in devising, and women’s rights. TALENTS Targeting social gender equality by 2030, HeForimplementing and spreading the campaign’s The HeForShe campaign aims to highlight She launched the IMPACT 10x10x10 initiative in the great pressure social gender inequality communication strategy in Turkey. In keeping with order to accelerate this goal. Under this initiative, places on the entire spectrum of society our belief that the first step in sparking change in INNOVATING FOR a social problem area is raising awareness on the 10 political leaders, 10 university leaders and and to invite everyone – men and women THE ENVIRONMENT subject, Koç Holding supported the HeForShe 10 corporate leaders who will spearhead the – to support equality. In an environment global change movement made three ambitious where social gender equality is achieved, campaign to generate broader society awareness the campaign pays attention that the society commitments each and were selected as Impact on this topic. In addition to the proactive role Koç will get the best of it. INNOVATION AND Champions. Mustafa V. Koç, Chairman of the BoPRODUCT STRATEGY ard of Directors of Koç Holding, was also selected as an Impact Champion. EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN Koç Holding’s efforts in relation to the IMPACT 10x10x10 Initiative UN Women launched the IMPACT 10x10x10 initiative in 2015 in order to expand the HeForShe campaign’s EMBRACING area of influence and to share the steps companies need to take toward gender equality with the entire world. THE COMMUNITY UN Women invited 10 leaders each from politics, business and academia from across the globe to champion this cause. Each leader made three ambitious commitments that will spark change within their respective spheres of influence. Mustafa V. Koç, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Koç Holding, was selected as one Social Investments of the 10 corporate leaders worldwide as part of the HeForShe IMPACT 10x10x10 initiative. The other impact champions selected for the program were the chairmen of McKinsey & Company, Vodafone, Twitter, Unilever, Contributıon to Barclays, Schneider Electric, PricewaterhouseCoopers, AccorHotels, and Tupperware Brands. Local Economy Koç Holding has made the following impact commitments to the HeForShe program: 1. Fund implementation of the HeForShe campaign in Turkey & mobilize 4M supporters by 2017. 2. Empower HeForShe mobilizers at Koç to shift gender norms across Turkey, reaching 100,000 people G4-15 » G4-16 with gender sensitization training by 2020. 3. Strengthen gender sensitive work environment to drive towards parity. 69 Supporting Gender Equality For My Country The For My Country initiative focused on the •• Ensuring that organizations owned by Koç sensitivity can be found in the Inspiring Talent ACCOUNTABLE, theme of gender equality in 2015, in a way Group companies adopt gender equalitysection of the report. TRANSPARENT sensitive communication approaches (job AND RESPONSIBLE that supports Koç Holding’s efforts to estabWe adopted a three-pronged approach with MANAGEMENT lish gender equality across society. postings, ads and commercials, media regard to the dealer network leg of the Supinitiatives, and the like); The project’s aims include creating awareporting Gender Equality For My Country •• Supporting the project by way of social Project. The first prong leverages the volunteer INSPIRING ness about the causes and consequences of responsibility initiatives. TALENTS gender inequality in all segments of society; dealers who are also “For My Country Envoys” In line with these goals, we trained 350 volunto reach all Koç Group dealers, administers all developing a more egalitarian approach in business culture and in social life with a holisteer trainers from among employees of Group INNOVATING FOR companies to give “Gender Equality” seminars to tic perspective; and serving as a role model. Aygaz Supports Gender Equality THE ENVIRONMENT Koç Group managers and staff; these volunteer An informational video on gender equality Similar to every other prior “For My Country” trainers began conducting seminars at the comwas added to the content of the training project, Koç Holding leverages the Group panies. As of September 2015, 6,648 personnel sessions administered regularly to the INNOVATION AND companies and its dealer network in this attended awareness seminars that were orgamembers of the “Aygaz Conversion Club” by PRODUCT STRATEGY initiative. Aygaz Otogaz. As a result, 180 persons were nized at 33 Koç Group companies. reached with this key message in Adana, Koç Group’s goals with regard to Group comThe details of our initiatives regarding Antalya, and Ankara. A video highlightEMPOWERING panies with this project include: ing gender equality was also added to the strengthening workplace culture on gender THE VALUE CHAIN professional training curriculum of Tüplügaz •• Carrying out the Koç Group Equality Guidelines and Implementation Principles; customer service agents and to the safe cylinder use awareness training for customEMBRACING •• Increasing the scope and frequency of ers by Aygaz. The training trucks that travel THE COMMUNITY “Gender Equality” seminars for Koç Group across Turkey reached 550 Customer Seremployees; vice Agents and 750 customers, for a total Social Investments •• Expanding the scope and frequency of of 1,300 persons. For My Country Talks are “Gender Equality” seminars for the supplier organized as part of dealers’ region visits. Contributıon to and dealer network; Interviews and news on gender equality Local Economy were included in “Aygaz World” magazine, •• Developing creative corporate responsibility an Aygaz publication. This will help the suggestions and initiatives on gender company reach out to an audience of 6,500 equality that will enhance the effectiveness of comprised of employees, dealers and Conthe project; version Club members. 70 A Training Program for Law Enforcement Personnel Who Work with Victims of Domestic Violence, in Conjunction with Koç Holding project seminars and conveys project goals to Violence against women is a leading social ill 19 instructors were trained. An additional 224 ACCOUNTABLE, the entire dealer network. in Turkey that urgently needs to be addressed. personnel attended remote training. Under the TRANSPARENT Working diligently to eliminate this problem, initiative, Istanbul Police Department aims to AND RESPONSIBLE The second prong capitalizes on the Koç Group MANAGEMENT Koç Holding partnered with the Üsküdar Police implement this program in the entire province dealer network to reach the entire public and Department, the Humanist Bureau to provide with its trained instructors. conduct seminars for local communities to raise training for law enforcement officers who work The distance learning module, one of the “Social Gender Equality” awareness. The semINSPIRING with the victims of violence against women and inars to be administered to the target groups program’s most significant outputs, can be acTALENTS domestic violence. listed below, which dealer volunteers will choose cessed at the www.kadinguvende.org website. from among, are given by the instructors of the Designed in 2013 for Üsküdar Police DepartA trainer’s guide was compiled for the instrucINNOVATING FOR Turkish Family Health and Planning Foundation ment personnel, the program was administors. A brochure for the victims of violence THE ENVIRONMENT (TAPV) and the Mother-Child Education Fountered for 84 law enforcement staff who work against women as well as an informational dation (AÇEV). Seminar content covers the in domestic violence units within all districts of document for police officers who work with concept of gender equality and fundamentals of Istanbul during 2015. As part of the program, them were also prepared. INNOVATION AND gender equality. PRODUCT STRATEGY 1. Middle School and High School Students and Teachers EMPOWERING 2. University Students THE VALUE CHAIN 3. Employees of Governmental Entities and Municipalities 4. Trade Associations and Workplaces EMBRACING 5. Public at Large THE COMMUNITY 6. Local Governments Social Investments The third prong foresees our dealer volunteers, who have completed basic training on Contributıon to gender equality, to generate solutions to adLocal Economy dress local problems and advocate increased stakeholder participation for this cause. Our dealers are trained and supported by TAPV instructors on advocacy and project development initiatives. 71 Women’s Health Education Program Yapı Kredi from Aygaz Mortgage Provides Hope for Women Aygaz has partnered with the Turkish Family Yapı Kredi Mortgage donated to the AÇEV ACCOUNTABLE, Health and Planning Foundation for many years Basic and Advanced Literacy and Women’s TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE to educate pregnant women and mothers in Support Training project, which was launched MANAGEMENT both maternal health care and infant health to benefit girls and adult women who were issues. The goal of these initiatives is to raise the unable to go to school, for each mortgage loan standard of living of mothers and their babies taken out by a female customer in March 2015. INSPIRING TALENTS while also reducing mortality rates of these two The campaign supported the education of groups. Some 1,076 women received a certifimore than 500 girls and adult women. cation of attendance from training sessions adINNOVATING FOR ministered by Women’s Health Training Program THE ENVIRONMENT (KSEP) instructors in 20 provinces in 2015. The project has reached out to 7,000 women since its launch. INNOVATION AND PRODUCT STRATEGY EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY Social Investments Contributıon to Local Economy 72 Istanbul Biennial Koç Holding assumed the sponsorship for the Our sponsorship of the Istanbul Biennial aims to September 5 and November 1, 2015. As part ACCOUNTABLE, ten-year period 2007 to 2016 of the Internaboost interest in contemporary art among young of the 14th Istanbul Biennial curated by Carolyn TRANSPARENT tional Istanbul Biennial, organized by the Istanpeople and to draw the interest of those who Christov-Bakargiev, works of more than 80 AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT bul Foundation for Culture and Arts (İKSV) as have yet to come to know contemporary arts by artists and arts groups from across the globe a contemporary arts event focused directly on setting their curiosity in motion. The Biennial is were exhibited at 36 locations on the European social issues. In 2015, Koç Holding resolved to a platform where diversity and different opinand Asian sides of Istanbul. INSPIRING TALENTS extend its support for this mega organization ions can be exhibited side by side. We see the until 2026, which coincides with its own 100th Biennial not just as an artistic production, but anniversary. Embracing sustainable partneralso as an event that provides the opportunity to INNOVATING FOR ships and believing that art is a major indicator internalize democracy and to become open to THE ENVIRONMENT of social development, Koç Holding sees its opposing viewpoints, for societies that dare to support for the Istanbul Biennial – today one approach life without prejudice. of the top four biennials worldwide – among its INNOVATION AND A number of diverse projects are executed at priorities. Arçelik, Koçtaş, Tüpraş, Aygaz, Opet, PRODUCT STRATEGY each Biennial in order to broaden the base of Yapı Kredi Publications and Ford Otosan, all museum and exhibition goers and to expand Koç Group companies, also support various the number of visitors within each age cateEMPOWERING projects within the Istanbul Biennial. gory. Thousands have benefited from guided THE VALUE CHAIN tours at the exhibition sites while training programs conducted for children and young EMBRACING Number of Visitors by Year people with the support of Koç Holding have THE COMMUNITY reached hundreds of youth. 545,000 The Istanbul Biennial has become the most inSocial Investments ternationally followed and renowned arts event 350,000 in Turkey. Sponsorship of the Biennial is synonContributıon to Local Economy ymous with supporting the Istanbul brand. 110,000 91,000 101,000 Organized under the title “SALTWATER: 51,000 A Theory of Thought Forms,” the 14th Istanbul 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 Biennial met with arts enthusiasts between 14th Istanbul Biennial, Adrian Villar Rojas, The Most Beautiful of All Mothers, Büyükada, 2015 Photo Credit: Sahir Uğur Eren 73 Koç Fest Koç Holding started Koç Fest in 2006 with the ACCOUNTABLE, 2015 Koç Fest Provinces aim of bringing music and entertainment to TRANSPARENT Muğla/Sıtkı Koçman University AND RESPONSIBLE universities across Turkey, creating a special Balıkesir/Balıkesir University MANAGEMENT festival for students, and starting an annual Karabük/Karabük University tradition. Today, Koç Fest has visited university Sivas/Cumhuriyet University students on their own campuses for 10 years. Gaziantep/Gaziantep University INSPIRING TALENTS Antalya/Akdeniz University As a company, Koç Holding believes that Isparta/Süleyman Demirel University sports enhance the quality of life and make for a healthier society, both physically and INNOVATING FOR More than 22,000 athletes from 185 universiTHE ENVIRONMENT mentally. Under the umbrella of Koç Fest, Koç Holding has assumed the main sponsorship ties compete in the Turkish Koç Fest University of the Turkish University Sports Federation Games each year. Some of the athletes and INNOVATION AND since 2009. As a result, the most prestigious teams that are successful in the competitions PRODUCT STRATEGY sporting event among Turkish universities and go on to represent Turkey at international the most broadly participated sports organizaevents with the support of Koç Holding. tion in the country has come to be known as Koç Fest aims to boost the number of univerEMPOWERING the “Turkish Koç Fest University Games” and THE VALUE CHAIN sity athletes while fostering the culture of being became an integral component of the festival. a true sports fan. All Koç Fest activities are deThis initiative made Koç Fest the biggest youth signed to advance amateur sports and expand EMBRACING festival in Turkey. the fan base of each sport activity. THE COMMUNITY Social Investments Contributıon to Local Economy 38,500 40,000 Fans 275,000 16,500 13 million 22,000 Students Students Persons 46 Sports Attending in the Indoor Concert Attending Talks Reached on Athletes Sports Facility Attendees the Event and Shows Social Media 74 Turkish National Olympic Committee Sponsorship In an effort to raise ethical, mentally and ACCOUNTABLE, psychologically healthy young people who are TRANSPARENT Raising the bar ever higher in its support for tion with academics and pediatric psycholoAND RESPONSIBLE team players, talks in various areas are held sports and athletes, Koç Holding became the gists, a diverse range of topics – including the MANAGEMENT as part of Koç Fest each year. Major figures in sports meet with university students at these main sponsor of the National Olympic Comculture of sports, Olympic Games and philostalks. mittee of Turkey (TMOK) in order to contribute ophy, fair play, healthy nutrition, and environINSPIRING to Turkey’s efforts during its Olympics journey. mental awareness – are taught in an interactive TALENTS Supported by the 15 largest companies in the The first national main sponsor of the National manner via videos, cartoons, mini contests Koç Group, Koç Fest also holds the distincOlympic Committee of Turkey, Koç Holding and colorful visuals. This initiative reaches out tion of being the largest project carried out aims to contribute to the Olympic spirit in Turto thousands of children. INNOVATING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT jointly by Koç Group. Activities at the event key and initiatives on the global stage via this sponsored by Arçelik, Grundig, Beko, Tüpraş, sponsorship. Opet, Aygaz, Setur, Yapı Kredi, Koçtaş, Tanı, INNOVATION AND Bilkom, Ford Trucks, Avis, Ford and Fiat Committed to developing Turkey into a country PRODUCT STRATEGY brands also promote various digital technolowith accomplishments across a diverse range gies to young people. of sports disciplines in the international arena, Koç Holding has also become the sponsor of EMPOWERING Some 400 suppliers and a team of 250 are Turkey’s candidacy to host the 2020 Olympics THE VALUE CHAIN employed in the preparation and field work of and Paralympics. The Holding engages in Koç Fest each year. The economy created by efforts to promote an active lifestyle among the Koç Fest, when combined with the impact of country’s population and to ensure that sports EMBRACING the arrival of thousands of athletes in the event are practiced more broadly. THE COMMUNITY cities, also boosts local economies. We create a mini Olympics atmosphere in the finals city Organized in collaboration with National Social Investments Olympic Committee of Turkey, the “Olympic selected each year with the participation of 5,000 athletes and hundreds of administrators. Action Days” project was initiated to encourage Contributıon to Local Economy elementary school students in particular to embrace the culture of sports and Olympic values. Later on, the initiative aims to generate that same awareness across the entire society. As part of the project carried out in coopera75 KidZania – VEHBİ KOÇ FOUNDATION Earthquake Simulation Center Koç Group has always prioritized support for ACCOUNTABLE, projects that have a positive effect on chilTRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE dren’s development, turn education into enMANAGEMENT tertainment, and help raise more enlightened generations. KidZania Children’s Republics, which have 16 offices in 13 countries across INSPIRING TALENTS the globe, opened an office in Istanbul in 2014 to the great satisfaction of Koç Holding and Koç Group companies. INNOVATING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT This project allows youth ages 4 to 14 the chance to experience 90 professions, and Koç Holding supports the effort with an INNOVATION AND earthquake simulation center. In the activVehbi Koç Foundation (VKV) has worked to VKV American Hospital (1995) PRODUCT STRATEGY ity area, young visitors are informed about exemplify the best in education, healthcare Koç University School of Nursing (1999) proper procedures prior to, during and after and culture since the day it was established Koç University School of Medicine (2010) an earthquake. Carried out with support from through its centers of excellence and various EMPOWERING Health Sciences Campus Boğaziçi University’s Kandilli Observatory, the programs. Vehbi Koç Foundation continued to THE VALUE CHAIN Culture project features a theoretical lesson followed make a difference in the community through by an applied program about earthquakes the operations directed from its headquarters Sadberk Hanım Museum (1980) as well as via its subsidiary institutions in 2015. Vehbi Koç and Ankara Research Center EMBRACING and their aftermath. THE COMMUNITY VKV INSTITUTIONS (VEKAM, 1994) Education Suna-İnan Kıraç Research Institute for MediterPrivate Koç Elementary & Middle School and ranean Civilizations (AKMED, 1996) Social Investments High School (High School 1988, Elementary & Antalya Kaleiçi Museum (2000) Contributıon to Middle School 1998) Koç University Research Center for Anatolian Local Economy Koç University (1993) Civilizations (ANAMED, 2005) Model School Project ARTER (2010) Healthcare Detailed information on VKV institutions and Semahat Arsel Nursing, Education and Re2015 activities can be accessed at Vehbi Koç search Center (SANERC, 1992) Foundation’s website, www.vkv.org.tr. 76 International Nasreddin Hodja Vehbi Koç Award Caricature Competition and Symposium Vehbi Koç Foundation, established 46 yenon-profit enterprise that has become a model Aiming to support the social development of ACCOUNTABLE, ars ago as Turkey’s first private foundation, worldwide, Mathematics Village offers the vovarious branches of art and the successful TRANSPARENT presents the Vehbi Koç Award each year in lunteer support of globally-renowned academirepresentation of our country in different areas AND RESPONSIBLE the areas of culture, education and healthcacs from Turkey and across the world to more MANAGEMENT abroad, Koç Holding has served as the main re. The recipient of the 14th Vehbi Koç Award than 1,000 students each year. sponsor of the International Nasreddin Hodwas Professor Ali Nesin and his Mathematics Professor Ali Nesin makes invaluable contrija Caricature Competition organized by the INSPIRING Village Project for his contributions to eduTALENTS butions to mathematics with his Mathematics Cartoonists Association since 2008. Held since cation. Professor Nesin accepted the USD Village initiatives in addition to academic and 1974 in a format open to all caricaturists world100,000 monetary prize on behalf of the general-interest articles and books. Profeswide, the competition has awarded the grand Nesin Foundation. INNOVATING FOR sor Nesin has changed many young people’s prize to Turkish caricaturists many times. THE ENVIRONMENT Professor Nesin founded Mathematics Village approach to math while making the discipline in 2007 in the Şirince village of Izmir’s Selçuk more accessible and popular with his efforts district with the help of Sevan Nişanyan. A over the last 20 years. INNOVATION AND PRODUCT STRATEGY EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY Social Investments Contributıon to Local Economy VEHBİ KOÇ ANMA VE ÖDÜL TÖRENİ 77 CONTRIBUTION TO LOCAL ECONOMY Sharing Economic Value One of the biggest industrial conglomerates Koç Group, which consists of leading companies in billion in economic value through various channels, ACCOUNTABLE, in the world, Koç Group is also the largest Turkey’s economy, continued to increase the ecoincluding operating expenditures, procurement, TRANSPARENT nomic value it generated for its stakeholders during employee compensation, dividends, tax payments, AND RESPONSIBLE corporate group in Turkey in terms of ecothis reporting period. In addition to the economic donations, sponsorships, and social investments. MANAGEMENT nomic value generation, share in total exports, contribution to tax revenues, employment value represented by the Group companies themThe share of the automotive industry in total ecocreation, and weighting in Borsa Istanbul. selves, the ecosystem they have created to execute nomic value generated by Group enterprises rose INSPIRING their operations also makes up a significant part of from 23% in 2014 to 29% in 2015. Meanwhile, the TALENTS The significance of Koç Group for local ecothe Turkish economy. Therefore, our calculation of finance industry’s share increased from 7% to 8% nomic development includes the ecosystem the total economic value generated by the Group as that of the energy industry declined from 57% to comprised of direct economic value generatincludes the economic value distributed through 50%. The share of other industries in total ecoINNOVATING FOR ed by Group companies as well as the develvarious stakeholders in addition to the economic nomic value generated by Group companies went THE ENVIRONMENT opment of high-quality products and services, value created directly within the Group. To this end, unchanged from 2014 to 2015. The automotive R&D investments, employment potential, and the Koç Group companies that fall within the scope industry’s share in total economic value distributed of this report generated nearly TL 125 billion in by Group companies climbed from 23% in 2014 to INNOVATION AND the supply chain. economic value from product and service sales in 30% in 2015, while the shares of consumer duraPRODUCT STRATEGY 2015. The Group also distributed more than TL 115 bles, finance, and other industries each increased Since some of the companies within Koç Holding's consolidation scope are not included into the scope of this EMPOWERING report (for the scope of the report see p. 1) the financial data disclosed in this section might differ from those THE VALUE CHAIN information disclosed to public via financial reports in Public Disclosure Platform. EMBRACING Economic Value Generated Economic Value Distributed THE COMMUNITY by Industry (%) by Industry (%) 2% 8% 2% 7% Social Investments 11% Contributıon to 11% Local Economy 50% 50% 30% 29% Energy Automotive Consumer Durables Finance Other Energy Automotive Consumer Durables Finance Other TAT GIDA 78 Accessible and Affordable Products by one percentage point. The share of the energy Koç Group companies establish a presence ACCOUNTABLE, industry in total economic value distributed by in their respective markets of operation with Arçelik TRANSPARENT Group companies was down 10 percentage points innovative, value-added products in line with their and Standard of Living in Emerging Markets AND RESPONSIBLE The share of emerging markets in the world between 2014 and 2015. business strategies. It is essential that the portfoMANAGEMENT economy is expected to rise rapidly over the An effective and strong supply chain is essential to lio of products and services these enterprises put long term. Economic growth on the Asian ensure continuity of production. For this reason, the together address the needs and expectations continent, led by India, China and ASEAN INSPIRING and fit the purchasing power parameters of the selection of suppliers they will do business with is a countries, will shift the economic balance TALENTS target consumer segments, while adhering to critical task for Group companies. To this end, Group of power toward the east. This shift is also enterprises devise supplier selection procedures product strategies. In addition, Group companies projected to create a new middle class that based on number objective criteria. Selecting a local ensure that their sales and service locations offer demands higher standards of living. The INNOVATING FOR supplier is one of the high priority criteria within this easy access to consumers. As part of this effort, ranks of the middle class are expected to THE ENVIRONMENT swell to more than 50% of the world’s popprocess. This creates an advantage in terms of cost Koç Group enterprises take advantage of various and operational efficiency while ensuring continuity tools in their product and service development ulation within the next 10 years due to the of production. Selecting local suppliers also gives a processes, including market trend studies, growth and increasing purchasing power in INNOVATION AND emerging markets. In response, Arçelik aims significant boost to the local economy. To this end, consumer expectations surveys, focus group PRODUCT STRATEGY to expand its presence in emerging markets Koç Group companies that fall within the scope of initiatives, consumer feedback, and consumer with products and services that will meet the this report made more than 61% of their purchases, purchasing power analyses. Similar monitoring needs and expectations of this new demoEMPOWERING in terms of amount, from local suppliers in 2015. tasks are also conducted by Koç Holding staff. graphic segment, fit their lifestyles, and raise THE VALUE CHAIN their quality of life. The production facility investments realized in previous years, first in Africa and subsequently in Thailand, EMBRACING represent major strides of the Company’s THE COMMUNITY strategy within this effort. Arçelik plans to reach the new consumer segment through innovations in product and service technoloSocial Investments gies that will address the soaring penetration rates of internet and mobile devices. Contributıon to Local Economy TOFAŞ 79 Increasing Need for Employment and Support for Professional Development One of the most important advantages of to have a qualified workforce that meets the In addition to its direct and indirect contribuACCOUNTABLE, Turkey, Koç Group’s main operating region, modern day needs of business and industry. tion to employment, Koç Group also supports TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE in terms of development is its young and sustainable development through education Koç Group, Turkey’s largest private sector MANAGEMENT dynamic population. On the other hand, one and training initiatives that boost the employemployer, directly employs about 82,000 perof the foremost indicators of a developed soability of young generations. In 2015, a total sons in the country. However, the workforce ciety is the creation of high-quality jobs for the of 50,080 persons attended training initiatives INSPIRING employed as a result of Koç Group compaTALENTS younger generations. As the need for jobs exaimed at enhancing professional knowledge nies’ operations reaches into the hundreds pands in Turkey with each passing day in line and skills conducted or supported by Group of thousands when we take into account the with the young, growing population, so does companies within this effort. Further, some economic hinterland of the Group’s value INNOVATING FOR the personnel needs of industrial and services 3,685 college and 2,715 high school students THE ENVIRONMENT chain, which also includes suppliers, dealers sector companies as a result of economic completed internships at Koç Group enterand distributors. growth. The critical aspect of this balance is prises during the reporting period. INNOVATION AND PRODUCT STRATEGY EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY Social Investments Contributıon to Local Economy TURKTRAKTÖR 80 ACCOUNTABLE, Yapı Kredi Chair of Finance ect, Fiat Laboratories aims to train a technical TRANSPARENT workforce for the Turkish automotive industry Yapı Kredi established the Yapı Kredi Chair of AND RESPONSIBLE – in particular one that is conversant in modMANAGEMENT Finance at Koç University in 2011 to support ern technologies – and deploy these qualified academic studies in finance. The Yapı Kredi people in the industry. Chair of Finance is expected to serve as a INSPIRING bridge between the banking industry and acaFiat Laboratories have been established TALENTS demia. The curriculum of the Yapı Kredi Chair at vocational high schools in 11 provinces of Finance, supported through analyses, case across the country. As of 2015, some 1,300 studies, and theoretical sources, and contribstudents and instructors have taken part in 2014-2015 academic year, provides education INNOVATING FOR uted to by internationally-renowned sciento 384 students. Tofaş Science High School Fiat Laboratories nationwide. In 2015, the labs THE ENVIRONMENT tists, instructs students to use financial tools graduated 268 students. Of this total, 40 (five graduated its first class in 2015. In addition, to create real business strategies. of them girls) were given jobs at Fiat authothe student body of Tofaş Science High School rized service locations while another 10 were Yapı Kredi Banking and Insurance Associate recorded a significant accomplishment in hired by the TOFAŞ plant. INNOVATION AND Degree Program becoming the most successful school in Bursa PRODUCT STRATEGY province in terms of the pass rate in the national MEGEP Project for Strengthening Vocational Yapı Kredi launched the Yapı Kredi Banking university placement exam. Education and Training System and Insurance Associate Degree Program in collaboration with MEF University in 2015. EMPOWERING Signed with the Ministry of National Education Yapı Kredi offers internship opportunities for THE VALUE CHAIN as part of the Tüpraş Technical Education students and job opportunities for graduates Program, the agreement covers collaboraas part of the two-year program which aims tion for training staff in refinery and process to train the bankers and finance professionbranches. Fifty-six students attended training EMBRACING als of the future. at Tüpraş refineries under the project in 2015. THE COMMUNITY Tofaş Science High School Tofaş believes that support for education, Social Investments particularly in science and math, raises the Contributıon to quality of education in our country. The Local Economy construction work begun by Demirtaş Organized Industrial Zone (DOSAB) at end2012, Fiat Laboratories and realized with contributions from Tofaş, was completed in 2014. Tofaş Science High Administered in conjunction with the Vocational School, which opened its doors during the Education: A Crucial Matter for the Nation proj81 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX Indicators ACCOUNTABLE, Descriptions Omissions UNGC WEP GRI G4 TRANSPARENT Indicators General Standard Disclosures Indicators Indicators AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT G4-1 Message From the Chairman (p.4); Message From the CEO (p.5) G4-2 Message From the Chairman (p.4); Message From the CEO (p.5); Koç Group Sustainability Priorities (p.10) G4-3 Contacts (Inside Back Cover) INSPIRING www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/sectors TALENTS G4-4 www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/list-of-brands G4-5 Contacts (Inside Back Cover) G4-6 www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/international-network-of-koc-group INNOVATING FOR G4-7 www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/corporate-overview-and-governance/shareholder-structure THE ENVIRONMENT G4-8 Koç Holding 2015 Annual Report (Inside Front Cover Our Strategy) G4-9 Koç Group in 2015 (p.6-7); Employee Demographics in 2015 (p.23); Occupational Health and Safety (p.33-34) UNGC 6 G4-10 Employee Demographics in 2015 (p.23) INNOVATION AND UNGC 3 G4-11 Employee Demographics in 2015 (p.23); Workplace Culture (p.22) PRODUCT STRATEGY G4-12 Sharing Economic Value (p.77) G4-13 www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/material-disclosures EMPOWERING G4-14 Risk Management (p.16); Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption (p.17); Workplace Culture (p.22); Occupational Health and Safety THE VALUE CHAIN (p.33-34); Environmental Management (p.36); Climate & Energy (p.40-41) Risk Management (p.16); Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption (p.17); Workplace Culture (p.22); Gender Equality (p.24); G4-15 Occupational Health and Safety (p.33-34); Environmental Management (p.36); Climate & Energy (p.40-41); Gender Equality Initiatives (p.67); HeForShe (p.68) EMBRACING G4-16 Koç Holding Sustainability Strategy (p.9); Gender Equality (p.24); HeForShe (p.68) THE COMMUNITY G4-17 About the Report (p.3); Koç Group in 2015 (p.6-7) G4-18 About the Report (p.3) G4-19 Koç Group Sustainability Priorities (p.10); Koç Group Sustainability Management (p.11-12) G4-20 About the Report (p.3); Koç Group Sustainability Priorities (p.10) G4-21 About the Report (p.3) G4-22 No such restatement made in this report G4-23 About the Report (p.3) G4-24 Our Stakeholders (p.12-13) G4-25 Our Stakeholders (p.12-13) G4-26 Our Stakeholders (p.12-13) G4-27 Our Stakeholders (p.12-13); Customer Satisfaction (p.62) 82 Indicators UNGC WEP GRI G4 Descriptions Omissions Indicators Indicators Indicators General Standard Disclosures G4-28 About the Report (p.3) G4-29 About the Report (p.3) G4-30 About the Report (p.3) ACCOUNTABLE, TRANSPARENT G4-31 Contacts (Inside Back Cover) AND RESPONSIBLE G4-32 About the Report (p.3); GRI G4 Content Index (p.81-85); Legal Disclaimer (Inside Back Cover) MANAGEMENT G4-33 Legal Disclaimer (Inside Back Cover) G4-34 Board of Directors and Committees (p.15-16) WEPs 1 G4-38 Board of Directors and Committees (p.15-16) INSPIRING TALENTS WEPs 1 G4-40 Board of Directors and Committees (p.15-16) Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption (p.17-19); UNGC 10 G4-56 www.koc.com.tr/tr-tr/hakkinda/Documents/Koc%20Group%20Code%20of%20Ethics%20and%20Business%20Conduct.pdf INNOVATING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Indicators UNGC WEP GRI G4 Descriptions Omissions INNOVATION AND Indicators Indicators Indicators Spesific Standard Disclosures PRODUCT STRATEGY Material Issue: Economic Performance G4-DMA Koç Group in 2015 (p.6-7); Sharing Economic Value (p.77) G4-EC1 Sharing Economic Value (p.77) EMPOWERING G4-EC3 Koç Holding Pension and Assistance Foundation (p.31) THE VALUE CHAIN G4-EC4 Koç Holding 2015 Annual Report (p.204) Material Issue: Market Presence G4-DMA Not Material EMBRACING G4-EC6 Workplace Culture (p.22) THE COMMUNITY Material Issue: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Innovation and Product Strategy (p.51-57); Social Investments (p.65); For My Country (p.66); Gender Equality Initiatives (p.67) Innovation and Intellectual Property Rights Management (p.51-53); Social Investments (p.65); For My Country (p.66); G4-EC7 Gender Equality Initiatives (p.67); HeForShe (p.68); Supporting Gender Equality For My Country (p.69-71); Istanbul Bienal (p.72); Vehbi Koç Foundation (p.75) Innovation and Product Strategy (p.51-57); Innovation and Intellectual Property Rights Management (p.51-53); Product G4-EC8 Strategy in Emerging Markets (p.53); Eco-Innovative and Value Added Products (p.54-57); Enhanced Product Durability at Arçelik (p.60); Contributing to Local Economy (p.77-80) Material Issue: Procurement Practices G4-DMA Sharing Economic Value (p.78) G4-EC9 Sharing Economic Value (p.78) Material Issue: Energy Indicators 83 UNGC WEP GRI G4 Descriptions Omissions Indicators Indicators Indicators Spesific Standard Disclosures G4-DMA Environmental Management (p.36-39); Climate & Energy (p.40-41); Energy Effiiency and Emission Reduction Initiatives (p.42-44) UNGC 8 G4-EN5 Energy Effiiency and Emission Reduction Initiatives (p.42-44) UNGC 8 ACCOUNTABLE, UNGC 9 G4-EN6 Energy Effiiency and Emission Reduction Initiatives (p.42-44) TRANSPARENT UNGC 8 AND RESPONSIBLE UNGC 9 G4-EN7 Eco-Innovative and Value Added Products (p.54-57) MANAGEMENT Material Issue: Water G4-DMA Environmental Management (p.36-39); Water Management (p.31-33) INSPIRING UNGC 7 G4-EN8 Water Management (p.45-46) TALENTS UNGC 8 UNGC 8 G4-EN10 Water Management (p.45-46) Material Issue: Biodiversity INNOVATING FOR G4-DMA Environmental Management (p.36-39); Responsible Use of Resources (p.47-48) THE ENVIRONMENT UNGC 8 G4-EN11 Responsible Use of Resources (p.48) UNGC 8 G4-EN13 Responsible Use of Resources (p.48) Material Issue: Emissions INNOVATION AND G4-DMA Environmental Management (p.36-39); Climate & Energy (p.40-41); Energy Effiiency and Emission Reduction Initiatives (p.42-44) PRODUCT STRATEGY UNGC 8 G4-EN18 Energy Effiiency and Emission Reduction Initiatives (p.42-43) UNGC 8 G4-EN19 Energy Effiiency and Emission Reduction Initiatives (p.42-44) UNGC 9 EMPOWERING Material Issue: Effluents and Wastes THE VALUE CHAIN G4-DMA Environmental Management (p.36-39); Water Management (p.45-46); Responsible Use of Resources (p.47-48) UNGC 8 G4-EN22 Water Management (p.45-46) UNGC 8 G4-EN23 Responsible Use of Resources (p.47-48) EMBRACING UNGC 8 G4-EN26 Responsible Use of Resources (p.47-48) THE COMMUNITY Material Issue: Products & Services G4-DMA Eco-Innovative and Value Added Products (p.54-57) UNGC 7 UNGC 8 G4-EN27 Eco-Innovative and Value Added Products (p.54-57) UNGC 9 Material Issue: General G4-DMA Not Material UNGC 7 UNGC 8 G4-EN31 Environmental Management (p.39); UNGC 9 Material Issue: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Environmental Management (p.36,37,39); Responsibility in the Value Chain (p.62-63) Indicators 84 UNGC WEP GRI G4 Descriptions Omissions Indicators Indicators Indicators Spesific Standard Disclosures UNGC 8 G4-EN32 Responsibility in the Value Chain (p.62-63) Material Issue: Employment G4-DMA Workplace Culture (p.21-22); Employee Demographics in 2015 (p.23); Work Life Balance (p.32) ACCOUNTABLE, UNGC 6 WEPs 2 G4-LA1 Employee Demographics in 2015 (p.23) TRANSPARENT AND RESPONSIBLE UNGC 6 WEPs 2 G4-LA3 Work Life Balance (p.32) MANAGEMENT Material Issue: Labour Management Issues G4-DMA Not Material One of our basic UNGCs is to inform our employees reasonably in advance in cases of new assignments, downsizing or INSPIRING workplace shutdowns within the outlines prescribed by law in order to avoid negative impacts of such changes, if any, as UNGC 3 G4-LA4 TALENTS much as possible. The minimum notice periods in that respect are not shorter than the periods stated by the related laws and collective bargaining agreements. Material Issue: Occupational Health and Safety INNOVATING FOR G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety (p.33-34) THE ENVIRONMENT G4-LA5 Occupational Health and Safety (p.33-34) WEPs 3 G4-LA6 Occupational Health and Safety (p.33-34) Material Issue: Training INNOVATION AND Workplace Culture (p.21-22); Talent Management (p.26-27); Professional Development (p.28); LEAD Leader Development G4-DMA PRODUCT STRATEGY Program (p.28); Performance Management (p.29) UNGC 6 WEPs 4 G4-LA9 Professional Development (p.28); G4-LA10 Professional Development (p.28); LEAD Leader Development Program (p.28) EMPOWERING UNGC 6 WEPs 4 G4-LA11 Performance Management(p.29) THE VALUE CHAIN Material Issue: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Workplace Culture (p.21-22); Employee Demographics in 2015 (p.23); Gender Equality (p.24-26) UNGC 6 WEPs 2 G4-LA12 Employee Demographics in 2015 (p.23) EMBRACING Material Issue: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men THE COMMUNITY Workplace Culture (p.21-22); Employee Demographics in 2015 (p.23); Gender Equality (p.24-26); Remuneration System and G4-DMA Benefits Provided to Employees (p.29-30) Workplace Culture (p.21-22); Employee Demographics in 2015 (p.23); Gender Equality (p.24-26); Remuneration System and UNGC 6 WEPs 2 G4-LA13 Benefits Provided to Employees (p.29-30) Material Issue: Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices G4-DMA Responsibility in the Value Chain (p.62-63) G4-LA14 Responsibility in the Value Chain (p.62-63) Material Issue: Non-Discrimination G4-DMA Workplace Culture (p.21-22); Employee Demographics in 2015 (p.23); Gender Equality (p.24-26) UNGC 6 WEPs 3 G4-HR3 No discrimination case has been occured during the reporting period. Material Issue: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Indicators 85 UNGC WEP GRI G4 Descriptions Omissions Indicators Indicators Indicators Spesific Standard Disclosures G4-DMA Workplace Culture (p.21-22); Employee Demographics in 2015 (p.23) No case indicating that freedom of association and collective bargaining was under risk has been occured during the reporting G4-HR4 period. Same UNGC applies to supplier audits and no risk aspect witnessed. ACCOUNTABLE, Material Issue: Child Labour TRANSPARENT G4-DMA Workplace Culture (p.21-22) AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT UNGC 5 G4-HR5 No case indicating child labour risk has been occured during the reporting period. Same UNGC applies to supplier audits and no risk aspect witnessed. Material Issue: Forced or Compulsory Labour INSPIRING G4-DMA Workplace Culture (p.21-22) TALENTS No case indicating forced or compulsory labour risk has been occured during the reporting period. Same UNGC applies to UNGC 4 G4-HR6 supplier audits and no risk aspect witnessed. Material Issue: Indigenous Rights INNOVATING FOR G4-DMA Not Material THE ENVIRONMENT UNGC 1 G4-HR8 No such case occured during the reporting period Material Issue: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Responsibility in the Value Chain (p.62-63) INNOVATION AND UNGC 2 G4-HR10 Responsibility in the Value Chain (p.62-63) PRODUCT STRATEGY Material Issue: Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption (p.17-19) UNGC 10 G4-SO3 Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption (p.17-19) EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN UNGC 10 G4-SO4 Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption (p.19) Material Issue: Public Policy G4-DMA Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption (p.17-19) EMBRACING UNGC 10 G4-SO6 Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption (p.17-19) THE COMMUNITY Material Issue: Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Product and Service Responsibility (p.59); Product Quality and Safety (p.59-60) G4-PR1 Product Quality and Safety (p.59-60) Material Issue: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Product Information (p.61); Yapı Kredi: Easy and Transparent Product Information (p.61) G4-PR3 Product Information (p.61); Yapı Kredi: Easy and Transparent Product Information (p.61) G4-PR4 Product Information (p.61) G4-PR5 Customer Satisfaction (p.62) Material Issue: Innovation and Product Strategy DMA Innovation and Product Strategy (p.51-57) 86 Legal Disclaimer This Report has been prepared by Koç Holding A.Ș. (“Koç” or “Koç Holding” or “Koç Group”) in the context of COP for United Nations Global Compact ACCOUNTABLE, (UNGC) and Women Empowerment Principles (WEP) Initiatives. TRANSPARENT All information and opinions contained in this Report which does not purport to be comprehensive, have been provided to by Koç Group and have not AND RESPONSIBLE been independently verified for this purposes. MANAGEMENT This Report is prepared for information purposes only and it is not intended to form the basis of any investment decision. It does not constitute or form part of an offer to sell or issue, or a solicitation of an offer to purchase or subscribe for, any securities or other interests in the Koç Group and no legal relations INSPIRING shall be created by its issue. TALENTS All information contained in this Report and associated documents were believed to be accurate for the time period it covers, expressed in good faith and based on sources believed to be reliable. However, this does not constitute a representation, guarantee, warranty or undertaking of any nature on Koç INNOVATING FOR Group. Accordingly, none of Koç Group or their respective advisors, directors or employees shall be liable for any direct, indirect or consequential loss or THE ENVIRONMENT damage suffered by any person as a result of relying on any statement in or omission from this Report or in any other information or communications in connection with the Report. INNOVATION AND Contacts PRODUCT STRATEGY Koç Holding Communications Oya Ünlü Kızıl Director of Koç Holding Corporate Communications and External Affairs EMPOWERING THE VALUE CHAIN Koç Holding A.Ș. Nakkaștepe Azizbey Sok. No:1 Kuzguncuk 34674 İstanbul T: +90 (216) 531 02 87 F: +90 (216) 343 15 37 iletisim@koc.com.tr EMBRACING THE COMMUNITY Reporting Consultant & Design Kıymet-i Harbiye G4-3 » G4-5 » G4-31 G4-32 » G4-33 info@kiymetiharbiye.com www.koc.com.tr
