E ditorial Policy This report is intended to provide a faithful account of the CSR activities of Dentsu Inc. and Dentsu Group companies worldwide, and every effort has been made to present the material in a manner that is readable and easy to understand. Overall planning and editing were handled in-house. Staff in each of the relevant group companies wrote the original drafts, in which they were asked to review their activities and share the thinking behind each of their programs. It is our hope that this will help readers to better understand the efforts that Dentsu is making toward the realization of a sustainable society. This report has not been produced merely to disclose information. Rather, we view it as an important tool to help us improve our CSR activities. We look forward to hearing the views and opinions of our readers. GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.1 Reference guidelines (G3.1) ’, UN Global Compact, ISO 26000 Centered on activities during fiscal 2014 (April 1, 2014 through March 31, 2015) , Period covered by the report but also describes some activities from preceding or more recent periods. Organizations covered Dentsu Inc. and Dentsu Group companies Publication date August 2015 (Next edition scheduled for publication in June 2016) CSR Department, Legal Division, Dentsu Inc. For fiscal 2014, we again held meetings Contact info TEL: +81-3-6216-8718 FAX: +81-3-6217-5709 with the Musashino University Faculty of Environmental Science e-mail: dentsucsr@dentsu.co.jp to exchange opinions. PDCA cycle to edit the Dentsu Sustainability Report Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 1 Contents Editorial Policy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 IV. Environmental Protection. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39. Structures for Environmental Activities Contents. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Raising Environmental Awareness Top Commitment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Reducing CO2 Emissions Corporate Data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 V. Fair Business Practices. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43. Today's Dentsu at a Glance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Promotion of Compliance Third-Party Evaluation and Share Price Changes. . . . 11 Dentsu’s CSR Procurement Activities Respect for Laws and Regulations and Progress of Medium-term Management Plan Various Rights in Business Activities Dentsu 2017 and Beyond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Development of an Information Message from Chair of CSR Committee. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Security Management System Dentsu Group CSR.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 VI. Addressing Consumer Issues.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 Lab Activity I. Corporate Governance.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Cooperation with the Government Dentsu’s Corporate Governance Implementation Structure VII. Contributing to the Community. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53. Dentsu Group Internal Control System Efforts to Assist Earthquake Reconstruction Risk Management Dentsu’s Social Contribution Activities Communication with Shareholders and Investors Introduction to CSR at Dentsu Aegis Network. . . . . . . 61 II. Respect for Human Rights.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Data Summary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75 Human Rights Awareness Activities through Training Programs Subsidiaries and Affiliates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79 Human Rights Slogans and Posters Independent Practitioner's Assurance. . . . . . . . . . . 81 Human Rights Art Project Anti-harassment Activities III. Ensuring a Safe and Civilized Working Environment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33. Promotion of Work / Life Balance Employee Health Care Systems Employees Encouraged to Related Publication Take Vacation Entitlements Dentsu Annual Report A Workplace Environment that This information disclosure document is prepared Fully Utilizes Employee Talent mainly for the benefit of overseas shareholders, Promotion of Employees’ Capabilities investors, and client companies. The Annual Report presents Dentsu’s management philosophy, business Confirmation of Employee Safety in activities, consolidated financial statements, and Emergency Situations other pertinent information. http://www.dentsu.com/ir/data/annual.html 2 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Top Commitment W e aim to create new social value on a global level We aim to become a partner that supports stakeholders and contributes to their sustainable growth Turning changes in the business environment into opportunities for new contribution In March 2013, the Dentsu Group completed the acquisition of Aegis Group plc of the UK and newly established Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN), expanding the Dentsu Group’s current sphere of activities to over 120 countries and regions. With this, the ratio of overseas business in the Dentsu Group’s consolidated gross profit has expanded to over 50%, and the total group workforce now exceeds 40,000. Under such circumstances there have been tremendous changes in the business environment surrounding the Dentsu Group, extending into every field of business. Our clients and business partners are also placed in a fiercely competitive environment in which constant innovation is demanded, such as new technology-based business development through digitalization, changes in business structure, and innovative business models. Against this backdrop, we believe that expectations will grow for the new role that the Dentsu Group should play. Under the medium-term management plan Dentsu 2017 and Beyond, launched in FY2013, we are aiming to become a group that continues to contribute to the business success of our clients the world over and to help maximize their corporate value in ways that surpass the existing boundaries of conventional business through enhanced competitive powerin the digital domain and other initiatives. Establishing strong trust with society through the growth of each and every employee Dentsu is expected to accurately grasp changes in society and focus on maintaining and enhancing the business foundation and competitive power the group has established to date, and to be ahead of the times and maximize the opportunities spread out in front of us. That same mettle is necessary to resolve social issues on a global scale because our mission is to create new social values by identifying social issues and offering ways to solve them. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 3 Tadashi Ishii President & CEO Dentsu Inc. To this end we have adopted ISO 26000, which indicates the social responsibilities that organizations worldwide should follow, as guidelines. We also have in place the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct to provide a common code of conduct and CSR philosophy to which every individual group employee should adhere in order to fulfill their respective responsibilities to society in each region. Emphasizing our engagement with stakeholders, we joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2009, and while supporting the ten principles of the compact, we are also focused on identifying and solving social issues on a global scale along with Global Compact Network Japan member companies in other industries. DAN is advancing community-based activities for environmental preservation, community support and other initiatives at offices worldwide based on its medium-term CSR strategy Future Proof, launched in 2010. Going forward, we aim to further deepen our relationship with DAN to create opportunities for collaboration with various stakeholders and promote activities that will improve our synergy. Through such activities and the growth of each and every employee, we aim to establish strong trust with society and become a partner that continues to support the innovation of our stakeholders and contribute to their sustainable growth. Inspired by our corporate philosophy of ‘Good Innovation,’ we at the Dentsu Group are committed to undertaking CSR activities along with our stakeholders as a corporate group that offers new changes and social value to people and society. We appreciate your understanding and cooperation as we undertake these endeavors. 4 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 C orporate Data Company Name : Dentsu Inc. Establishment : July 1, 1901 Corporate Representative : Tadashi Ishii President & CEO Head Office : 1-8-1, Higashi-shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7001, Japan TEL : +81-3-6216-5111 URL : Japanese http://www.dentsu.co.jp/ English http://www.dentsu.com/ Capital : ¥74,609.81 million (Number of shares issued: 288,410,000) Number of Employees : 7,348 (non-consolidated) 43,583 (consolidated) Number of consolidated subsidiaries 706 (As of March 31, 2015) The Dentsu Group’s Management Structure：The Japan business is spearheaded by Dentsu while the international business is led by Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN), which includes Aegis and Dentsu’s legacy international businesses. D entsu Group Corporate Philosophy Statement Ideas that reach beyond the imaginable. Technology that crosses the bounds of possibilities. Entrepreneurship that surpasses the expected. Three sources of strength, driving our innovation, bringing positive change to people and society. Slogan The three elements of innovation Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship + Ideas Ideas Technology + Technology By ‘Innovation’ we are talking about much more than just technological innovation. We mean generating new value for people and society through a wide variety of changes. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 5 B usiness Domains In order to determine the essence of clients’ issues and design, propose, and implement integrated communications that realize true solutions, the Dentsu Group has identified its business domains and strengths. Integrated Communication Design The Dentsu Group, with the communications domain at its core, is engaged in a wide range of business activities. From management and operating solutions to the implementation of marketing and communications strategies for advertisers as well as media and content companies, the Group offers the best integrated solutions not only in Japan, but also in the global market. B usiness Lineup ‘Good Innovation.’, the Dentsu Group’ s corporate philosophy, encapsulates the Groupwide drive to create new value and lead the way toward transformation, while also emphasizing its commitment to supporting innovation within business enterprises and other organizations. Commensurate with its position as a solutions partner responding to the challenges faced by its clients in such areas as corporate management, business operations, and marketing, the Dentsu Group provides a diverse range of services. To meet the changing needs of society, the environment and consumer lifestyles, the Dentsu Group’ s service sphere is expanding to cover an array of societal issues. Marketing Design Social Communication Solutions Design Media Creative Content Sphere Data Solutions Promotions Digital Social Media 6 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Today’s 124 Dentsu at a Glance About the Dentsu Group countries and territories No.1 brand agency globally＊2 380 3rd agency group largest media ＊3 offices Gross profit 11,000+ overseas ratio clients globally, served by more than 43,000 51% professionals who continue to hone Gross profit digital intelligence and domain ratio creativity 30% Digital domain ratio in the international business is 43%. No. 1 Brand Agency Globally 3rd Largest Media Agency Group 2014 Ranking by Revenue＊4 2014 Ranking by Billings＊6 About the Dentsu billion dollars 106 100 Group Worldwide BBDO DDB 80 79.4 Worldwide 60 55.5 55.3 40 37.1 20 19.6 0 No. 5 Ad Agency Group Dentsu’s Share of the 2014 Ranking by Revenue＊5 Japanese Advertising Market＊1 billion dollars 18.9 2014 15 15.3 Dentsu.............. 25% 10 9.6 7.5 6.0 5 2.4 2.0 HDY..................13.8% 0 EPS ADK.................... 5.0% ＊1 Source: Advertising Age, May 4, 2015 edition ＊2 Media billings of WPP, Publicis, Omnicom, Interpublic Group and Havas are based on overall activity billings in RECMA Overall Activity Rankings 2014. The Dentsu Group’s media billings are a simple sum of Dentsu Aegis Network’s media billings and Dentsu’s non-consolidated media billings. Dentsu Aegis Network’s media billings are based on overall activity billings in RECMA Overall Activity Rankings 2014. Dentsu’s U.S. dollar-denominated non-consolidated media billings are converted from yen to U.S. dollars using the average exchange rate for 2014 (calendar year). ＊3 (1) HDY is the total of net sales by Hakuhodo, Daiko Advertising and Yomiuri Advertising. (2) Under JGAAP, net sales are calculated in calendar 2014. Sources: Advertising and Economy, Current Situation of Japanese Advertising Agencies and 2014 Advertising Expenditures in Japan (Dentsu) Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 7 Human Human Resource Percentage by Major Region in FY2014 Resource Percentage by Major Region Japan 38% EMEA ＊1 Americas＊2 23% 16% APAC ＊3 (excluding Japan) 23% ＊ 1 Europe, Africa and Middle East ＊ 2 North, Central and South America ＊ 3 Asia Pacific FY2014 (Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2015) Results Overview of 676.9 Medium-term Management billion + Gross profit 10.1% Plan Operating profit 132.3 billion + 23.3% Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 79.8 billion + 20.1% Underlying operating profit＊4 131.9 billion + 5.1 % Operating margin＊5 19.5 % －0.9 points Underlying net profit＊6 (attributable to owners of the parent) 92.8 billion +10.0% ＊4 Underlying operating profit: KPI to measure recurring business performance which is calculated as operating profit added with amortization of M&A-related intangible assets, impairment loss, gain/ loss on sales of non-current assets, acquisition costs and other one-off items. ＊5 Operating margin = Underlying operating profit ÷ Gross profit × 100 ＊6 Underlying net profit (attributable to owners of the parent): KPI to measure recurring net profit attributable to owners of the parent which is calculated as net profit (attributable to owners of the parent) added with adjustment items related to operating profit, revaluation of earn out liabilities/M&A-related put-option liabilities, tax-related, NCI profit-related and other one-off items. 8 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Carat Dentsu Aegis U.K.-based Carat is the world’s largest media communications company, with Network a presence in more than 100 countries. The company creates better business value for clients by maximizing media value. Global Network Brands Dentsu Advertising companies overseas with Dentsu in the name are Dentsu-branded agencies. Companies that specialize in a particular domain, such as digital, creative, PR or consulting, are specialized-domain agencies. Dentsu Media As Dentsu’s overseas media agency network, Dentsu Media provides high-quality services to clients around the world through three networks—Media Palette, Media Cubic and Media Matrix—and digital agency brands, including &c. iProspect U.K.-based iProspect is a digital performance marketing agency with a presence in 40 countries. The company supports clients in maximizing online marketing ROI. Isobar U.K.-based Isobar is a digital agency with a presence in more than 30 countries. The company established the world’s largest global digital network by bringing together digital technologies from all over the world. Clients enjoy full support through Isobar’s outstanding digital marketing capabilities. Dentsu McGarr y Bowen Never confined to existing methodologies or preconceptions, agency Dentsu McGarry Bowen always delivers unique insights and smart solutions. Boasting an excellent reputation for creative capabilities, the agency also puts effort into building new communication platforms. Po s te r s c o p e U.K.-based Posterscope is a media agency specializing in out-of-home (OOH) communications and has a presence in about 30 countries. The company’s OOH development expertise is based on an insightful grasp of the Procurement behavior of consumers outside their homes. Vizeum U.K.-based Vizeum is a media agency with excellence in communication planning, particularly involving digital media, and is active in more than 40 countries. The company works with other companies within the Dentsu Aegis Network to bring about innovative change in the ad communications of its clients. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 9 360i Championing the fusion of search marketing and social marketing, 360i has Specialist/ earned top marks in the industry as a next-generation digital agency. Multimarket Brands Amnet With a presence in 24 countries, Amnet— the Dentsu Aegis Network trading desk— organically links all kinds of data to ensure more timely, perfectly targeted online advertising. Amplifi This media investment company raises value across all media—from television to print, digital and radio—on a global basis, seeking to reinvent the supply side of media through investments, partnerships and real-time bidding. D a t a 2D e c i s i o n s This consulting company draws on all types of marketing data and analyzes what has worked and what has not to maximize clients’ ROI. Mitchell Communications Group An award-winning strategic communications and PR company, Mitchell Communications Group boasts a diverse client portfolio that includes some of the world’s top-tier corporations and high-profile brands. Covering a wide range of specialized fields, from consumer communications to corporate public relations, this company is known for delivering innovative ideas. psLIVE psLIVE is a communications agency with strengths in services that create engaging experiences for consumers by organically connecting the digital world to events in the physical world. The company seeks to redefine and invigorate brands. Unique Operating Model One P&L Leveraging the structural advantage of “One P&L” per market in a unique, scalable operating model The Dentsu Group has established a “One P&L” per market operating model, which is unique and collaborative. Group companies are incentivized to collaborate across agencies and countries. This model enables Dentsu to provide integrated and specialist services for clients across markets and regions. In an age of marketing convergence*, advertisers are looking for integrated and specialist services from their agency partners. Our operating model offers a source of differentiation that gives the Dentsu Group an edge over the peer group, and has been a key driving force in our strong performance in recent years. * New marketing paradigm reflecting spread of digital media and social media in recent years as well HOLISTIC + SPECIALIST + INTEGRATED as changing consumer behavior patterns and progress in all kinds of technologies 10 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 T hird-Party Evaluation and Share Price Changes The Dentsu Group actively engages in environmental preservation and other corporate sustainability activities. Receiving high recognition for such activities, Dentsu received a score of 93B from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2014. Moreover, in recent years, socially responsible investment1, which takes into account not only financial aspects such as corporate revenue and growth prospects, but also ethics, legal compliance, efforts to tackle environmental and other issues, has been gaining attention in investment trust management. Dentsu's CSR efforts received high recognition from SRI rating agencies as well, being included in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index 2 (MS-SRI) from January 2015 and the MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes3 in June 2015. 1 Socially responsible investment is an investment method that aims for stable revenue by evaluating and selecting companies based on social, ethical, and environmental aspects, such as legal compliance, employment relations, human rights issues, consumer protection, and contribution to society and community, in addition to conventional investment criteria based on financial analysis. 2 The Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) is the first socially responsible investment index in Japan. Morningstar Japan K.K. selects 150 companies in Japan by assessing their social responsibility, and converts their stock prices into the index. https://www.morningstar.co.jp/sri/index.htm （Japanese only） 3 An index developed by Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) in the United States which selects companies that are particularly outstanding in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) assessments. As of June 30, 2015, 1,999 companies (of which 148 are Japanese companies) are included. Changes in Dentsu Share Price ( Tokyo Stock Exchange) Weekly Trading Volume 2 Dentsu TOPIX 20000000 1.5 15000000 10000000 1 5000000 0 Jun. Dec. Jun. Dec. Jun. 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 Note: The Dentsu and TOPIX figures use 1 as the closing price data for June 1, 2013. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 11 P rogress of Medium-term Management Plan Dentsu 2017 and Beyond With the completion of the acquisition of Aegis in March 2013, the Dentsu Group has evolved into a truly global network. Under this opportunity, Dentsu formulated the medium-term management plan Dentsu 2017 and Beyond” which started from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. In recent years, various advancements in technology have been made, and as consumer behavior changes, it has become difficult for many companies to achieve satisfactory results from marketing activities in the absence of coordination between initiatives. As such marketing convergence advances, the Group strives to evolve into the world's leading global network to contribute to raising corporate value for every type of client. Under this policy, the current medium-term management plan has defined the following four points as its framework. ①Diversifying on a global basis the portfolio Targets for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017 ②Evolvingdigital domain and expanding in the ● Organic gross profit growth of ③Re-engineering and improving profitability business processes 3-5% （5 year CAGR） ● Ratio of gross profit from international ④Further reinforcing the business (non-Japanese) business of platform in the core Japanese market 55% or higher ● Ratio of gross profit from the digital domain of From the fiscal year under review, the Group has applied lFRS in addition to 35% or higher Japanese GAAP. In line with this change, operating margin is now calculated utilizing ● Underlying operating margin of underlying operating profit” instead of adjusted operating income . Additionally, the fiscal year-end of the Company and subsidiaries that do not have a fiscal year-end of December 31 are scheduled to be changed to December 31. 20% or higher As a result, for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015, the fiscal year will be the (Note) Underlying operating margin = nine-month period from Apri1 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 for the Company and Underlying operating profit / gross profit subsidiaries that do not have a fiscal year-end of December 31, and for subsidiaries with a fiscal year-end of December 31, the twelve-month period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. 12 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 ① Diversifying the portfolio on a global basis The gross profit organic growth rate in the group's international business for the fiscal year under review was 10.3%, achieving a rate higher than competitors in consecutive years. As a result, the composition ratio of international business gross profit increased by 4.0 points year-on-year, to 50.7%. The Group believes reasons for such strong growth to include ●Through the Group's unique One P&L business model for international business, each group company sets shared business targets, realizes seamless cooperation, and provides superior comprehensive client services. ●Based on the above, each group company provides one-stop solutions to meet client needs by cooperating and coordinating, leveraging their unique strength, creating expanded business from existing clients, in addition to solid The Composition Ratio of Business by Major Region in FY2014 ＊ 1 acquisition of new accounts. Japan Moving forward, utilizing the client bases that the 49% Company and the former Aegis group have built EMEA＊2 Americas＊3 20% 17% up to this point, the Group will work to globally APAC ＊4 expand its strength in the digital sector and the （excluding Japan） 14 % sports content-business, while making use of M&A to establish and expand a globally competitive ＊1 Based on gross profit ＊ 2 Europe, Africa and Middle East ＊ 3 North, Central and South America ＊ 4 Asia Pacific global network. ② Evolving and expanding in the digital domain M&As Gross profit of the Japanese digital sector for the fiscal year under review was 12% year-on-year, conducted continuing to achieve double-digit growth. in the digital sector Overseas, the Group implemented M&A in various digital sectors in the fiscal year under review in FY2014 11 as well. Of the M&As conducted over the course of the year, 11 were in the digital sector, which is approximately half of the activity. In recent years, programmatic trading is accelerating growth in the digital sector. Programmatic trading is a transaction method that automatically purchases advertising space in various media based on a variety of data, in order to meet client needs and match degrees of interest from users. Within the Group, AMNET is responsible for business in Gross this domain overseas, and its turnover in the fiscal year under review has doubled compared to profit digital domain ratio the previous fiscal year. Due to growth via M&A and internal growth, the composition of digital 30％ in international business grew by 2 points year-on-year, to 43%. As a result, the share of digital across the entire Group was up by 3 points to 30% for the （In international business, digital domain ratio is fiscal year under review, making progress toward the goal of 35% for the fiscal year ending 43%.） December 31, 2017. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 13 In the digital sector, the Group will continue to utilize aggressive M&A and work to improve its capabilities and quality of service. ③ Re-engineering business processes and improving profitability Plans for underlying operating margin for the fiscal year under review called for lower results than during the previous fiscal year. This was in order to conduct forward investment in the international business to strengthen infrastructure and implement shared services to improve services in the IT and finance sectors. These investments in the international Underlying business to strengthen infrastructure did not significantly exceeded budgeted amounts, and operating margin in the Japan business made steady progress in line with initial schedules. was 23.9％ Additionally, in the Japan business, steady progress was made for measures to reduce costs, and aided by the effects of continued cost controls, the underlying operating margin in the Japan business was 23.9%, an improvement of 0.3 points year-on-year. While aiming for growth in the top line in both the Japan and international businesses, the Group will continue to improve operational efficiency and cost controls to increase profitability across the entire group, toward achieving the goal of “underlying operating margin of 20% or higher” as set forth as one of the objectives of the medium-term management plan. ④ Further reinforcing the business platform in the core Japanese market The Group's greatest strength is the strong business platform in Japan, and this has not changed. In the Japan business for the fiscal year under review, despite concerns about a pullback in demand after the consumption tax increase following the rush in demand before the consumption tax increase, positive growth was secured, despite the strong growth demonstrated during the previous year. In Japan as well, the speed of marketing convergence is advancing. In light of such changes to the environment, the Group has already begun to strengthen capabilities in domains such as CRM, business intelligence, and e-commerce. By expanding business in such domains, further improving service quality in the promotion and creative domains, and adding an additional layer of strength to competitiveness in the mass media business, the Company will work to increase its problem-solving abilities and capability to create profits in a greater number of domains in its efforts to evolve into a “partner” to support the success of clients from a variety of angles. Additiona11y, the Company was designated as the exclusive marketing agency for The Tokyo Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games. As a result, the Company will provide support for creating marketing plans and sponsor sales. Concerning sponsor sales, nine gold sponsors were finalized during the fiscal year under review, and progress has been steady. The Company will continue to fulfill its role to serve the above committee as a marketing partner. 14 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Message from Chair of CSR Committee Aiming to Realize a Better Society with Our Stakeholders Kunihiro Matsushima Chair of CSR Committee Senior Vice President In 2014 the Japanese economy entered into a gradual recovery and 2015 is the year that we should work to cement that recovery. The Corporate Governance Code which went into effect in June this year encourages innovation that aims to achieve midto long-term corporate growth through constructive dialogue with stakeholders. Corporations are public institutions of society and without fruitful collaboration with various stakeholders, sustainable growth is impossible. The Dentsu Group also believes that we must realize our midto long-term growth strategies along with our stakeholders as we face major global and digital changes in the business environment. The foundation of the Dentsu Group is “business with people.” This includes providing solution services for our clients, enabling them to establish better relationships with their stakeholders through business activities in marketing and communication domains. It also means engaging in effective CSR activities in cooperation with everyone in the supply chain, who are our business partners in providing these solutions. Furthermore, it also entails developing Dentsu Group employees to become professionals with high aspirations and the ability to take action while maintaining a good work-life balance. It is based on such concepts that Dentsu engages in various efforts to improve its corporate value. In March 2013, Dentsu completed the acquisition of Aegis Group plc of the UK and currently, with Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN) as part of our group, we are expanding our business in the global market. With regard to CSR activities as well, Dentsu is advancing more global and multifaceted efforts in collaboration with DAN’s Future Proof strategy. Dentsu, along with DAN, participates every year in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), keeping the enhancement of our environmental value from a global viewpoint in mind, and obtains a high score on a par with competitor groups overseas. Dentsu also focuses attention on community and cultural support activities, including earthquake reconstruction in order to improve our social value. We believe that external recognition of such steady efforts resulted in Dentsu’s inclusion in socially responsible investment indexes, the MS-SRI and MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes, in 2015. Currently Dentsu is formulating a mid-term CSR plan for the Dentsu Group for 2020 when the Olympic and Paralympic Games will be held in Tokyo. Going forward, Dentsu will continue with our commitment to CSR activities in domains deeply rooted in society, aiming not only to expand the Dentsu Group’s corporate value, but also to realize a better society. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 15 D entsu Group CSR Dentsu’s Basic CSR Structure In Dentsu’s basic CSR structure, we have updated the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct under the Dentsu Group’s corporate philosophy. We have also set out seven key areas for Dentsu Group's CSR activities on which our specific activities are based. We took the occasion of the acquisition of the former Aegis Group plc of the UK to formulate an updated Dentsu Group Code of Conduct in April 2013 based on ISO 26000, the international standard for CSR. This was done in order to indicate the role of corporate governance in each country in which the Group operates, our efforts for human rights and the environment, and our policies for those as the Dentsu Group further expands globally. As the new basic philosophy for the Dentsu Group’s CSR program, we have laid out actions that Dentsu Group managers and employees worldwide must undertake to fulfill their respective responsibilities to society and have committed ourselves to their adherence. Dentsu Group Corporate Philosophy Dentsu Group Code of Conduct Seven Core Subjects for Dentsu Group's CSR Activities Respect for Environmental Addressing Human Protection Consumer Rights Ensuring Issues a Safe Contributing Corporate and Civilized Fair Business Governance to the Working Practices Community Environment 16 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 D entsu Group CSR CSR Philosophy 'Dentsu Group Code of Conduct' The Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, which is the Group’s CSR philosophy, is structured around Dentsu’s seven key areas for CSR activities. These activities are, namely, corporate governance, respect for human rights, ensuring a safe and civilized working environment, environmental protection, fair business practices, addressing consumer issues, and contributing to the community. The Code of Conduct articulates what all Dentsu Group managers and employees must undertake in order to fulfill their respective responsibilities to society. It serves as a common set of principles for the Dentsu Group worldwide in conducting business. Dentsu Group Code of Conduct ◎ The Dentsu Group of companies, its officers and employees ( ‘ we ’ or ‘ us’ ) are committed to protecting the interests of our stakeholders by conducting business to the highest ethical standards. To achieve this commitment, we have established the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct (‘Code of Conduct’) to serve as our basic principles for conducting business in a socially responsible manner. ◎ We will comply with the Code of Conduct in all respects. Outside of the Dentsu Group, we will encourage compliance with the Code of Conduct by our business partners. ◎ We will comply with all national, local and international laws and regulations in all markets in which we conduct business. ◎ We will respect diversity and will not discriminate on any basis. We will also respect the diverse social and cultural standards of each region in which we conduct business. We respect the interests of our stakeholders and will refrain from engaging in inappropriate activities or taking Corporate 1. inappropriate risks that might harm these interests. Our officers will take responsibility for developing and maintaining governance appropriate corporate governance systems. Respect for We comply with internationally-recognized principles of human rights. We respect the human rights of all people 2. human rights connected with our business activities and will not discriminate on any basis. We will ensure that our work places are safe and create a 3. Ensuring a safe and civilized working environment civilized working environment. We aim to minimize the impact of our business on the environment and 4. Environmental protection contribute to making society sustainable. In carrying out our business we will compete fairly in all markets in which we operate. 5. Fair business We will avoid or appropriately manage any conflicting interests. practices We will not knowingly take part in any form of corrupt business practice, including bribery and money laundering. Addressing We will strive to address consumer issues in all markets in which we operate, including by providing appropriate 6. consumer issues information to consumers and giving due attention to safety and security in all of our activities. Contributing to the We are committed to contributing to the development of all local and global communities in which we operate and 7. community to the resolution of social issues in each community. To download a PDF file of the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, please visit the following link: http://www.dentsu.co.jp/csr/pdf/code-of-conduct.pdf Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 17 Dentsu’s Major Stakeholders Dentsu pursues CSR activities while maintaining close communication with its stakeholders. To achieve ‘Good Innovation.’ and address social issues, Dentsu undertakes a variety of activities aimed at fulfilling its responsibilities not only to Group employees, consumers, clients, shareholders and investors, but also to society as a whole and the Earth’s environment. Clients Employees Dentsu understands client needs Dentsu actively supports human resources and provides high-quality solutions. and career development for its employees, Through our efforts linked to issues working to bring out their individuality, Consumers with a strong social aspect, we also abilities, and work motivation. We also strive Dentsu gives appropriate consideration contribute to the realization of a to create a work environment that fosters the to the safety of consumers, and sustainable society. mental and physical health of employees. provides high-quality solutions. We also conduct a wide range of consumer surveys and other analyses in an effort to identify consumer issues. The Environment Society Regional Communities Dentsu respects the cultures and customs of Clients Employees the countries and regions in which it operates, works to build mutual understanding and trust, and contributes to development. We Media Consumers also strive to understand and find solutions to social issues through our business activities. Business Regional Partners Communities NPOs / NGOs Dentsu, through cooperation with Shareholders / NPOs / external organizations and persons Investors NGOs with social value and expertise, proactively contributes to society, and furthers the realization of a sustainable society. Media / Business Partners Shareholders / Investors Dentsu supports proper business activities through Dentsu, through proper investor relations and its General fair competition and business dealings. When placing Meeting of Shareholders, actively pursues communication an order, we clarify the decision-making process, with with shareholders, and provides accurate information due consideration to not just economic factors, but disclosure. When disclosing information we take care to compliance and environmental issues as well, in an ensure that our communications are easy to understand, effort to be socially and environmentally conscious. impartial, and appropriate for the circumstances. 18 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 D entsu Group CSR Dentsu Group CSR Promotion System Dentsu has established three principal committees under its ‘Executive Management Committee’ and ‘Business Supervision Committee’, which are responsible for all major management decisions. One of the committees established under the Executive Management Committee is the ‘CSR Committee’, comprising five Executive Officers and chaired by a Senior Vice President. The committee makes decisions on all major CSR-related measures in accordance with the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, which is the Group’s CSR philosophy. Under the CSR Committee, Dentsu has established subcommittees for human rights education and charitable donations as well as various specialist working groups to deliberate on issues in various fields. We have also designated ‘CSR promotion committee members’ in all Company departments to promote awareness and disseminate information on specific CSR measures so that CSR efforts can be done on a company-wide basis. On the key theme of the environment, the CSR Committee works closely with the ‘Environmental Strategy Council,' Dentsu’s in-house body tasked with promoting environment-related programs to promote greater Company-wide awareness concerning the environment. Each Dentsu Group company in Japan has one board member in charge of CSR. At Group companies outside of Japan, which have increased greatly with the acquisition of Aegis Group plc, we have appointed ‘CSR Champions’ who promote CSR activities. Through such efforts, we are advancing CSR activities on a Group-wide level. Dentsu aims to ensure that its CSR measures are consistent across the Group, while at the same time ensuring that all group companies remain able to fully express its characteristics. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 19 Board of Directors Executive Management Committee CSR Committee ▪Evaluates and determines CSR policies and measures ▪Receives and confirms activity reports on each measure DAN Board of Directors Environmental Specialist Strategy Council Subcommittees working groups CSR Steering Group ▪Human rights ▪Internal control education ▪Various task forces ▪Charitable donations CSR Team Group Companies Group Companies Dentsu in Japan outside of japan Directors in charge of CSR Employees assigned to promote CSR Champions are CSR promote awareness and assigned in each Group implement CSR measures disseminate information on base to develop CSR at the Group company level specific CSR measures measures in each country to employees 20 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 D entsu Group CSR Striving for CSR that Conforms with Global Standards Promoting CSR Activities Based onAwareness of ISO 26000 IIn November 2010, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) released ISO 26000, an international standard providing social responsibility guidelines that are recommended for adoption by a wide range of organizations worldwide. By carrying out CSR activities based on an awareness of the seven core themes for social responsibility included in ISO 26000, as is demonstrated by the ‘Dentsu Group Code of Conduct’, Dentsu aims to contribute to sustainable development. Participation in the United Nations Global Compact Dentsu joined the United Nations Global Compact in December 2009 and upholds its 10 principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. What is the ‘United Nations Global Compact’（https://www. unglobalcompact.org/） Along with the ‘Dentsu Group Code of Conduct’, Dentsu observes and practices the Global Compact principles as guidelines for its CSR activities. Dentsu also submits a ‘CSR report’ every year to the UN Global Compact and gives an annual activities report (Communication on Progress: COP) aimed at the realization of the 10 principles. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 21 Principal Measures in Fiscal 2013 vis-à-vis ISO 26000 and the UN Global Compact Dentsu’s principal measures in fiscal 2013 with regard to the seven core themes of ISO 26000, and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, are summarized below. Global Compact ISO 26000 seven core subjects Principal Measures Pages 10 Principles and issues Compliance with the ‘Dentsu Group Code of Conduct’ P17 Dentsu’s corporate governance structure P24 Organizational Proper operation of internal control systems P26 — (compliance with Financial Instruments and Exchange Law / Companies Act) Governance Implementation of robust risk management systems (review risk assessments P27 → develop and implement response plans → monitoring) Appropriate and close communication with shareholders and investors P28 [Human rights education activities] Implementation of human rights awareness activities for employees (training programs by job requirements / occupational field, P30-32 Human Rights Human Rights College, etc.), various human rights-related communication activities Human Rights (human rights slogan competition, human rights poster production, etc.) (Principles 1, 2) Introduction of harassment counseling contacts, the Harassment Counseling P32 Section, creation of a guidebook, holding employee education/training programs A workplace environment that fully utilizes employee talent (respect for diversity, systems to help employees balance child-rearing and work,Post-retirement P34-35 Labor Reemployment, and others) Labor Standards A workplace environment that fully utilizes employee talent (respect for diversity, Practices P36 (Principles 3-6) systems to help employees balance child-rearing and work, etc.) Global workplace campaigns and programmes (Wellbeing,Route to Good, and others) P71-72 Establishment of an environment policy, implementation of the ‘Dentsu Group Eco Environment Program’, measures to fulfill our Eco-First Commitment, environmental awarenessP40-42 Environment raising activities, (Group Eco Awards, environmental slogans / environmental poster 63-64 (Principles 7-9) production, Greenwash Guide, etc.), ‘30 Days of Green’ environmental campaign overseas by DAN, and others [Promotion of compliance systems at Dentsu and Dentsu Group companies] Fostering employee awareness of compliance issues through a ‘compliance website’, P44,74 conducting compliance workshops, introducing and implementing an internal reporting and proposal system, ‘Compliance Line’ Anti-corruption Fair Business Revision of the CSR Basic Procurement Policy and Procurement Guidelines in (Principle 10) Practices accordance with the formulation of the ‘Dentsu Group Code of Conduct’ continued P45-46 operation of the partnership hotline Respect for Laws and Regulations and Various Rights in Business Activities P47 Development of an Information Security Management System P48 ''Sustainability Marketing'activities (Dentsu Diversity Lab) P50 Consumer [Joint efforts with administrative agencies] — Promotion of the ‘Smart Life Project’, involvement in the ‘Food Action P51 Issues Nippon’ campaign Global programs for 'Consumer Issues' (Media for Good, and others) P69-70 [Support for recovery efforts related to the Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami] Community Tsunami evacuation program ‘Kakeagare! Japan', Administrative support for the P54-56 involvement ‘Tohoku Rokkon (Six-Soul) Festival', various support programmes for reconstruction — and in Fukushima Prefecture, and others development (social [Various social contribution activities] Advertising Elementary School Program, P57-60 contribution) China Advertising HR Development Project, various activities by DAN overseas 65-68 (Volunteer Challenge, GlobalGivingTIME,1000Cranes and others) 22 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅰ. Corporate Governance Ⅰ. Corporate Governance We consider key issues of Dentsu’s corporate governance to be development of a management structure that can respond swiftly to changes in the economic environment, a management control structure that covers our globally expanding scope of operations, and control and management functions that can employ those structures appropriately. Therefore, we strive to enhance our corporate governance in order to respond to the expectations of our stakeholders by improving corporate value. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 23 Ⅰ. Corporate Governance D entsu’s Corporate Governance Implementation Structure Dentsu’s ultimate decision-making body is the General Meeting of Shareholders, which appoints the Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board. Effectively directed and controlled through its system of corporate governance, the company has in place a system of checks that enables it to reach rapid business-related decisions. Dentsu appoints two of its twelve Directors and three of its five Audit & Supervisory Board Members from outside the company. Dentsu has introduced a Director and Executive Officer System to clarify roles and responsibilities and to reinforce the effectiveness of its management and operations systems. The Audit & Supervisory Board in principle meets once a month to determine policy, assign work, and check how the Directors have carried out their duties based on an audit plan. General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment / Appointment / Appointment / Dismissal Dismissal Conducting Dismissal Audit & Supervisory Board Members / of audits Independent Auditors Audit & Supervisory Board Directors / Board of Directors Appointment / Conducting Supervision Audit & Supervisory Appointment / of audits Representative Board Office Conducting Supervision Director of audits Delegate Business Execution Function Executive Management Committee Conducting of internal audits Internal Audit Office Executive Officers Delegate Conducting of Business Supervision Dentsu Aegis Network internal audits Respective Divisions / Committee Board of Directors Respective Departments ( Business in Japan) (International Business) Delegate Delegate ●Investment Committee ●Nomination Committee For details regarding External Directors and External ●Corporate Organization & ●Audit Committee Audit & Supervisory Board Members, please refer to Personnel Committee (Principal Committees) ●M&A Committee the business report in the following link : ●Others ●Others http://www.dentsu.co.jp/csr/pdf/governance_2014. pdf (Japanese only) CSR Committee (Principal Committee) & Others 24 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅰ. Corporate Governance The Executive Management Committee is positioned under the Board of Directors, and serves to deliberate and make decisions on important matters relating to management. Two key committees have been set up, authorized by the Executive Management Committee to discuss and decide important operational matters not subject to Board of Directors resolution. These are the Business Supervision Committee, responsible for business in Japan and the Dentsu Aegis Network Board of Directors, responsible for the group's international business. In addition, two principal committees (Investment Committee and Corporate Organization & Personnel Committee) were established under the Business Supervision Committee, and various committees (Nomination Committee, Audit Committee, and others) were set up under the Dentsu Aegis Network Board of Directors. The CSR Committee has been positioned as a principal committee comprising Directors and Executive Officers to deliberate on CSR related matters for the entire Company under the authorization of the Executive Management Committee. E xecutive Remuneration Concerning remuneration for Directors, a performance-linked framework is in place which takes into account encouragement of achieving goals set in the medium-term management plan. The performance-linked bonus portion for model business results accounts for 40% of overall remuneration, the index for performance evaluation of business results is consolidated operating profit, and the total amount of bonus remuneration will vary according to the level of achievement. The total of monthly remuneration which is a fixed Total Amount of Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Directors Board Members All Officers (Outside Directors in (Outside Audit & (Outside Officers in parentheses) Supervisory Board parentheses) Members in parentheses) 394 million yen: 100 million yen: 495 million yen: Monthly 14 persons 6 persons 20 persons Remuneration (13 million yen) (28 million yen) (42 million yen) (3 persons) (3 persons) (6 persons) 317 million yen: yen: 317 million yen: Bonuses 10 persons persons 10 persons ( yen) ( yen) ( yen) ( persons) ( persons) ( persons) 711 million yen: 100 million yen: 812 million yen: Total 14 persons 6 persons 20 persons (13 million yen) (28 million yen) (42 million yen) (3 persons) (3 persons) (6 persons) Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 25 Ⅰ. Corporate Governance remuneration and performance-linked bonuses shall be within the limit for remuneration approved at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. Remuneration to Outside Directors, however, will consist solely of fixed monthly remuneration in exchange for the execution of their duties. Specific amounts for each Director, including Outside Directors, will be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors. Remuneration to Audit & Supervisory Board Members will consist solely of fixed monthly remuneration in exchange for the execution of their duties. The gross amount of this monthly remuneration will be determined within the limits of the remuneration approved at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. Remuneration to individual Audit & Supervisory Board Members will be determined after deliberation by Audit & Supervisory Board Members. D entsu Group Internal Control System We believe that the Dentsu Group Internal Control System encourages compliance among Directors, Executive Officers, and employees, while supporting continuous corporate development as Dentsu meets its social responsibilities. The Company has established the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct to ensure that operations conform to laws and regulations and that business is conducted appropriately. The code also forms the basis of the internal control system. Based on the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, the Company familiarizes all employees with the relevant business procedures through regulations, manuals, and training. Check items relating to risk management and compliance have been created, and inspections are carried out from various perspectives, discovering problems and working on improvements. In addition, a similar internal control structure is being deployed in Group companies in order to maintain and improve the corporate value of the entire Dentsu Group. For details regarding Dentsu’s internal control policy, please refer to the business report in the following link : http://www.dentsu.co.jp/csr/pdf/governance_2015.pdf 26 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅰ. Corporate Governance R isk Management On the hypothesis that the Company faces diverse risks, Dentsu has created a structure to prevent the spread of damage and minimize impact in the event a risk is actualized. The CSR Committee has oversight over the structure. The risks faced by a business change according to the prevailing economic and social conditions. Each year, Dentsu reviews its hypothesis, specifies major risks with the potential for serious impact, and implements focused measures to counter these risks. Continued Response to Large-Scale Disasters Dentsu continues to develop measures in order to respond to large-scale disasters with a focus on earthquakes. This fiscal year Dentsu conducted a review of all disaster response manuals aiming to improve its response effectiveness. Specifically, Dentsu integrated and streamlined its existing manuals into a major earthquake response business continuity plan outline, as well as newly creating a procedure manual that makes it easy to understand at a glance what actions to take in the first 12 hours after an earthquake in order to minimize damage Communication Shareholders and Investors with Dentsu strives to conduct proactive IR activities for investors and swiftly deliver accurate information regarding its management situation and policies. In addition to holding earnings presentations twice a year, we aim for wide-ranging two-way communication with shareholders and investors through individual briefings for institutional investors and analysts in Japan and overseas. Capital Policy and Shareholder Return Dentsu employs a capital policy aimed at improving its intrinsic corporate value. To that end, it pursues sustainable profit growth with aggressive M&A into growth areas in and outside Japan as a top priority for capital allocation. Furthermore, through a combination of continued dividend stability and agile treasury stock acquisition, Dentsu aims to consistently improve shareholder returns, raise capital efficiency, and improve ROE in the medium-term. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 27 Ⅰ. Corporate Governance General Meeting of Shareholders At Dentsu’s General Meeting of Shareholders, we make efforts to ensure that shareholders’ voting rights are exercised smoothly. This is done through the prompt delivery of notices of General Meetings of Shareholders, introduction of voting through the Internet, and other measures. At the 165th General Meeting of Shareholders, held on June 27, 2014, 569 shareholders attended to hold deliberations. Earnings Presentation Dentsu places importance on its relationship with analysts and investors. We hold earnings presentations twice a year to explain our financial situation, general overview, and management policies. Additionally, the documents used at earnings presentations are The General Meeting of posted on the Dentsu website and made widely available to general investors. Shareholders and a notice featuring business cards For earnings presentation materials please visit : http://www.dentsu.com/ir/data/setsumeikai/index.html Composition of Shareholders The total number of Dentsu shareholders is 33,688 as of the end of March 2015, and the percentage of total shares issued by type of shareholder is as follows. Japanese Japanese financial individuals and institutions 28.51% others 14.10% (Of which 24.44% are domestic institutional investors) Treasury stock 0.02% Japanese securities firms 1.90% Foreign institutional investors Other Japanese 28.67％ corporations 26.80% For composition of shareholders please visit: http://www.dentsu.com/ir/shares/index.html 28 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅱ. Respect for Human Rights Ⅱ. Respect for Human Rights The Dentsu Group aspires to enrich its advertising and business communications activities from a human rights perspective. It regularly conducts Group-wide employee training programs designed to provide employees with a sound understanding of human rights that they can then apply to their work. We at Dentsu also consider that the thorough prevention of harassment and protection of employees’ human rights are important themes to address to ensure employees can fully exercise their capabilities. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 29 Ⅱ. Respect for Human Rights H uman Rights Awareness Activities through Training Programs, etc. The Dentsu Group’s human rights awareness training programs are run in a systematic manner based on both the employees’ hierarchy and occupational fields. Additionally, the Dentsu Group human rights education conference is held twice a year for those responsible for human rights education at Dentsu and human rights education managers at Group companies. There are also various opportunities other than training programs to raise awareness of human rights. Original Training Program Contents (Examples) textbooks with information on human rights and an explanation on their relationship to advertising expression Advertising Work and Human RightsFor Better Communication are distributed to employees when then join the Company. I. The Dentsu Group’s Human Rights Awareness Activities Why is a human rights perspective needed in advertising? The Human Rights College, a site that collects past examples The Dentsu Group’s Basic Policy on human rights of advertising expressions related to human rights, is posted awareness on the Company’s intranet. A human rights newsletter The Dentsu Group Code of Conduct based on ISO 26000 containing timely human rights-related topics is distributed Social media and human rights within the Group twice a month. The Group also established a permanent consulting contact related to advertising II. To Not Infringe on Human Rights in Advertising Work expression and human rights in order to maintain the Discrimination based on ancestral background The context of gender equality appropriateness of expressions communicated to the world Are you considerate of those with disabilities? and respond to inquiries from within the Group. Are you considerate of foreign citizens living in Japan? Are race and nationality being expressed appropriately? Points to remember when using religious motifs or words of religious origins in advertising expressions The role expected of media communications Human Rights Newsletter Titles (Examples) Bringing in 250 multilingual volunteers to help at the Tokyo Marathon Corporate awareness of sexual minorities is increasing, as is consideration in the workplace The Nobel Peace Prize focuses attention on child labor and the improvement of children’s education Various activities to provide correct understanding of Islam 30 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅱ. Respect for Human Rights H uman Rights Slogans and Posters Since 1988, the Dentsu Group has been holding an annual competition for human rights slogans for Group employees and their families. The term “slogan” is used, but the entries are usually freestyle short messages such as ad copy rather than mottoes. It is an in-house initiative that is unique to Dentsu. In fiscal 2014, there were a total of 8,584 entries (7,765 entries in the employee category and 819 entries in the family category). The best slogans are incorporated into human rights posters produced by Dentsu art directors and a total of 117 posters have been produced as of fiscal 2014. Although the competition started as an in-house initiative, now local government bodies and corporations make requests to use the slogans and the posters are used for human rights events across Japan. Dentsu Human Rights Posters Produced in 2014 (The 27th Program) Eliminating Towards the establishment Protecting children's rights discrimination against of a gender equal society Buraku communities Meaning Meaning This poster was inspired by Meaning We often read in today's the feeling that childhood This poster was newspapers about “making seems to have been relegated inspired by the feeling use of women in the to nothing but a “period for that discrimination is workforce.” The aim of this preparing for the future.” not “someone else's slogan is to raise objections The slogan is a message that, problem,” and that to this condescending view for children, childhood is victims of discrimination of women as “something to not preparation; real things are all around us. be used.” happen; it counts. It's not that we don't exist. Correct your prevailing perceptions about the Childhood is more than preparation for It's just that we can't tell you who we are. “use of women” adulthood. It's real. It counts. Comments What was your impression of the Human Rights Art Project? I aimed for a visual that had a message that both children and adults would understand and would make them happy. The two months I spent producing this piece while receiving advice from Dentsu employees were enriching and very enjoyable. One piece of advice I received was that even if I created a visual that I thought fit the slogan, depending on who saw it, it might be taken in completely different ways. I truly felt the difficulty of creating a design that would convey the proper meaning to the people who see the poster. The breadth of vision of Dentsu employees and the clarity Ms. Ogoto Mikami of their advice was very refreshing. College of Art and I hadn’t thought about the words “children” and “human rights” together before and I Design, Musashino Art University think that participating in this project made me aware of the issue. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 31 Ⅱ. Respect for Human Rights H uman Rights Art Project The Human Rights Art Project has transformed the Dentsu Group’s previous human rights poster production activities into a more open activity involving a broader sphere of society. Students at art universities collaborate in the production of posters by providing designs to accompany the human rights slogans. The collaboration started in fiscal 2007 and currently we are collaborating with Joshibi University of Art and Design, Musashino Art University, Tokyo University of the Arts, and Kyoto University of Art and Design. Students work with Dentsu creative staff from the initial idea stage to produce the posters. In fiscal 2014, 79 students participated and to date, some 750 students have participated in the project. It is an initiative that enables Dentsu to contribute to the social issue of human rights awareness using the communications skills honed through advertising work. Human Rights Art Project Posters produced in fiscal 2014 Anti-harassment Activities At Dentsu, separate from the internal reporting and proposal system Compliance Line put in place in fiscal 2012 in order to prevent in-house actions that violate laws and other regulations, the contacts for harassment-related issues were centralized at the Harassment Counseling Section. The Harassment Counseling Section has contact points at Dentsu branches as well as outside the Company, and it provides consultation to achieve and maintain employees’ respect for human rights as well as a safe and civilized working environment. Consultation is given for various harassment issues, in-house human relationships, breaches of manners, troublesome behavior, and more. Additionally, the Harassment Counseling Section coordinates with harassment contacts at each Dentsu Group company to prevent harassment throughout the entire Group. Moreover, holding a harassment prevention caravan at Dentsu Head Office and branch offices, implementing employee awareness activities to prevent power harassment and sexual harassment, issuing the STOP! HARASSMENT educational guidebook, holding training sessions for those requiring them, posting on Company bulletin boards, and utilizing employees to promote awareness of CSR at each Company department serve to call attention to issues and thus help prevent them from occurring. In fiscal 2014, there were 53 consultations at the Harassment Counseling Section (FY 2013: 50 consultations, FY 2012: 47 consultations, FY 2011: 43 consultations), which were individually handled to make improvements to the working environment. 32 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅲ. Ensuring a Safe and Civilized Working Environment Ensuring a Safe and Civilized Ⅲ. Working Environment Maximizing all of our employees’ capabilities and putting them into action is essential to realizing a sustainable society. At Dentsu, where we consider people to be our greatest asset, we believe that the development of an environment where employees can maintain high morale and motivation and can take on their work enthusiastically is an extremely important agenda. To this end, Dentsu implements detailed measures from the perspective of developing capabilities, work/life balance, and a structure for managing health and safety. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 33 Ⅲ. Ensuring a Safe and Civilized Working Environment P romotion of Work/Life Balance The Company believes that a fulfilling personal life improves the quality of one’s working life and that satisfying work increases one’s level of self-fulfillment in life. The object of Dentsu’s work/life balance (WLB) program therefore is to generate synergy between the two. The most important factor in creating a work friendly environment is health management, particulary it is the starting point to restructure the work style for achieving results efficiently and improving productivity. Dentsu has established a special in-house Human Relations Management Department, which is developing and implementing programs to reduce overtime working hours and to make it easier for employees to take holidays. In July 2015, Dentsu received new Kurumin mark under the third Next Generation Education and Support Promotion Act. The Company continues to encourage employees to take holidays and is strengthening its work/life balance support system. In fiscal 2013, we launched the Female Employees Promotion Project to create a working environment where women can continue to be active without interrupting their careers. In addition to enhancing the system, we give them opportunities to think about their careers at an early stage, such as lunch meetings with senior female employees so that they can hear about a variety of experiences, and career seminars held by lecturers invited from outside the Company. Employee Health Care Systems Dentsu strives to provide employees with advanced healthcare management, from preventive measures to return-to-work support, so that staff members can enjoy good mental and physical health. Dentsu also conducts periodic health screenings of all employees and actively urges those who have not participated in health screenings. In addition to the regular health screenings, the Company also provides examinations for lifestyle-related disease, including cancer testing for employees who are over 30 years of age. Moreover, helical CT scans are provided for employees 45 years of age and older. In recent years, the Company has been enhancing measures for mental health, which is an essential health management agenda, and it has held mandatory training on that subject for managers since fiscal 2009. In cooperation with industry-specialized physicians, public health nurses and other medical staff members, Dentsu also provides support for employees returning to work following long periods of convalescence. The return-to-work support system is designed to ensure that excessive pressure is not placed on returning employees and that their illness will not recur. 34 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅲ. Ensuring a Safe and Civilized Working Environment E mployees Encouraged to Take Vacation Entitlements It is crucial that employees are able to refresh themselves through vacation. Doing so helps fuel their ability to approach each new task with vigor, apply their strengths to achieve outstanding results, and generate new ideas. Dentsu provides various vacation and leave systems for employees, who are encouraged to take their full vacation entitlements. In addition to regular annual paid vacation, the Company each year grants employees two consecutive days off that can be used to take vacations of five or more days by combining them with Saturdays, Sundays, national holidays, annual paid vacation, and compensatory days off. In April 2010, Dentsu introduced a system to take annual paid vacation in hour increments, enabling a flexible way of working. The Company has also created a system whereby “culture leave” is granted separately to employees who are invited to compete in skiing, American football, and other sports events at national or international levels. To create a workplace environment in which it is easy to take vacations, a ‘WLB planning chart’ is posted each quarter at all workplaces so that information on vacation schedules can be shared among employees. Holiday System Summary Type of Vacation Number of Days Three or more years of service: 20 days Annual paid vacation days More than one but less than three years of service: 15 days Less than one year of service: 11 days Special consecutive vacation days 2 days each fiscal year Up to 120 days can be accumulated of unused annual paid vacation days that cannot be carried over. They can be taken under the following circumstances. Accumulated vacation days 1) Non-work related accidents and sick leave (when taken for 7 or more consecutive days) 2) Family nursing care leave After family nursing care leave is taken (up to 15 days per year) 3) Community service leave (up to 5 days per year) Marriage leave 7 consecutive days, including non-work days Maternity leave Within 6 weeks before due date, and 8 weeks after birth Paternity leave for birth In principle, day of birth and the next day Paid 1) Death of spouse, parent or child: 7 days Mourning leave 2) Death of sibling or spouse’s parent: 5 days 3) Death of grandparent or grandchild: 3 days Culture leave Number of days approved Disaster leave Number of days approved 1) Appointment to job at different location: up to 7 days Relocation leave 2) To bring family after transfer: number of days for round trip + 2 days Long-service leave 10 days within 2 years after receipt of 20-year service award Menstrual leave Necessary number of days (but with a maximum of 2 days paid holidays) Family nursing care leave 5 days Jury-duty leave Necessary number of days Union leave Number of days specified by labor-management agreement Preschool child nursing care leave 10 days Unpaid Family care leave 10 days Maternal care leave Necessary number of days Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 35 Ⅲ. Ensuring a Safe and Civilized Working Environment A Workplace Environment that Fully Utilizes Employee Talent For Dentsu—a company whose sales-point is its ideas in the field of communication— human resources are recognized as the Group’s greatest asset. Hence, Dentsu is introducing a personnel system to enable the creation of a workplace environment in which the diverse potential of its employees can flourish. Respecting Diversity At Dentsu, there is a diverse range of jobs. There are many workplaces in which the perspectives and characteristics of female employees can be used to the best advantage, allowing them to engage in their work vigorously. In fiscal 2013, a project to promote women’s active participation was also launched. As part of its efforts to promote the employment of people with disabilities, the Company established Dentsu Solari, a wholly owned Group company in April 2013, which was designated as a special-purpose subsidiary in November. The rate of employment of people with disabilities at three Group-certified companies (Dentsu, Dentsu Works, and Dentsu Solari) is 2.01% (as of June 2015). At Dentsu as well, there are many employees who are active in account management, creative, and other departments. Along with Dentsu Solari, we are making active efforts to further expand employment opportunities for people with disabilities and have a higher percentage of employees with disabilities than the legally mandated level. Work/Life Balance Support System Dentsu has established childcare leave, modified working hours for employees raising young children, and other systems in compliance with the revised Childcare and Nursing Care Act (the Act on the Welfare of Workers Who Take Care of Children or Other Family Members, Including Child Care and Family Care Leave). It has also established a consultation office to support work/life balance. Post-retirement Reemployment Employees who have reached mandatory retirement age but wish to continue working and meet the recruitment standards may be reemployed as ‘senior employees,’ until they are 65 years old. They can use their experience in a supportive role as well as to help train younger staff members. 36 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅲ. Ensuring a Safe and Civilized Working Environment P romotion of Employees’ Capabilities Dentsu’s human resources development and training system can be broadly divided into the following three stages. 1. Training to acquire the basic knowledge necessary for working at Dentsu and to foster solution (problem-solving) capabilities for the new employees 2. Training to foster solution capabilities and expertise so that employees can play central roles in their business units after their several years at Dentsu 3. Training to foster leadership and facilitate the acquisition of managerial knowledge in more senior employees Based on these training objectives, Dentsu conducts a variety of human resource development programs such as for digital skills and global skills (foreign language ability, cross-cultural communication, and others). New School is a high-level director personnel development program launched in 2011. Through a repeated cycle of assignments and feedback, the program, which is taught by top-level lecturers within Dentsu, a “model” of direction is passed down. Additionally because accurate and sophisticated direction capabilities are needed in new areas other than advertising as well, sessions taught by external lecturers active in various fields such as art, technology, and curation are incorporated. Comments What do you think of the DMI program? I participated in the Dentsu Management Institute (DMI) as a member of the fifth generation of students. Before starting, I underestimated the program thinking it was only one weekend a month and that it would not be a big deal. In reality, every month was a struggle with many assignments and I became painfully aware of my shortsightedness. However, each of the lectures given by guest lecturers from in and outside the Group were full of pearls of wisdom, and I fully relished the importance and joy of learning. The highlight of my experience was the DMI global session held over five days in October, welcoming 30 DAN Group employees from all over the world. It was an extremely precious experience which I spent in concentrated study, while struggling with the linguistic barrier day and night, and gained friends from across Ryutaro Nagasawa borders. I firmly believe that this experience will be a major driving force in accelerating the Dentsu Group’s DAN Division Dentsu Inc. business globally in the future. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 37 Ⅲ. Ensuring a Safe and Civilized Working Environment C onfirmation of Employee Safety in Emergency Situations From the standpoint of our obligation to ensure safety, and based on our business continuity plan (BCP), Dentsu has a rapidly deployable system in place for emergency situations. The system allows groupwide confirmation of employee survival, degree of injury, and ability to establish contact. Emergency situations in this context are those that affect Dentsu Group locations worldwide. They include disasters such as earthquakes, storm damage, and fires, as well as various other conceivable situations such as air and rail accidents, outbreak of infectious disease, and terrorist incidents. Our system to confirm employee safety utilizes a departmentally organized contact list together with a dedicated system for the instantaneous company-wide broadcast of confirmed information. Contact points (email addresses and telephone numbers) in Japan are registered in this dedicated system in advance, allowing rapid response, and it also collects information from responses about safety status. Confirmed results are immediately reported to management through the department in charge, response desks are established for the continuation of operations, and appropriate activities are commenced with respect to the emergency situation at hand. 38 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅳ. Environmental Protection Ⅳ. Environmental Protection Dentsu considers environmental issues a key CSR issue and established the Environmental Strategy Council, chaired by the President & CEO. The environmental management system Dentsu Eco Program sets out an environmental policy and environmental targets to advance company-wide efforts for environmental protection. These efforts have been recognized and Dentsu was certified as an Eco-First Company by the Ministry of the Environment. Dentsu will continue to advance environmental protection activities not only through internal activities, but also through efforts in cooperation with our stakeholders and the implementation of environmental communications, in order to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 39 Ⅳ. Environmental Protection S tructures for Environmental Activities Company-wide Efforts Dentsu strengthened its arrangement for implementing environment-related measures with the establishment in July 2008 of the Environmental Strategy Council, chaired by the President & CEO, to promote environmental strategy as a corporate group. Additionally, the CSR Committee, one of the Company’s principal committees, designated environmental managers to advance Group-wide efforts for the environment. CSR promotion committee members and eco committee members advance Environmental Policy environmental activities at respective Dentsu divisions The Dentsu Group shall correctly assess and recognize the impact its business activities (offices). At each Group company, board members in have on the environment and promote activities for reducing its environmental burden. It will also develop communication services with consideration to the environment charge of the Eco Program, environmental managers, and work to propose those while contributing to environmental improvement through supervisors, and promotion committee members are various activities. <Environmental Management Activities> appointed to advance environmental activities. 1. Build an environmental management system, make efforts to prevent pollution, and constantly work to make improvements. Adoption of the Dentsu Group Eco 2. Adhere to environmental laws and regulations and other relevant matters. 3. Set environmental objectives and promotion targets, and review as appropriate. Program <Environmental Communication Activities> In January 2005, we adopted the Dentsu Group Eco 4. Promote activities to employees, business partners, and consumers to raise recognition of environmental issues. Program(ongoing), and in May 2005 we acquired ISO <Environmental Improvement Activities> 14001 certification. Integrated Group certification 5. Promote energy conservation activities to prevent global warming. 6. Promote resource conservation while furthering recycling and the like to reduce waste. that included subsidiaries in Japan was acquired in Environmental Objectives June 2006. Dentsu and 16 Group companies held 1. Promotion of activities to employees, business partners, and consumers to raise this certification as of March 31, 2015. recognition of environmental issues. 2. Promotion of energy conservation activities to prevent global warming. 3. Promotion of resource conservation while furthering of recycling and the like to reduce waste. Eco-First Commitment (Revised) Dentsu presented a revised Eco-First Commitment to the Minister of the Environment in March 2012, citing the following three points as focus areas. 1. We will actively promote environmental communications, thereby spreading the environmental message to the public. 2. We will support next-generation environmental communications and the environmental efforts of our employees. 3. We will promote further advancements in ‘green’ office buildings. The revised Eco-First Commitment promises that Dentsu will reduce CO2 emissions at the Dentsu Head Office Building by 21% of the fiscal 2003–2004 average and improve the waste recycling rate to 90% by fiscal 2015. The Company achieved a CO2 emissions reduction of 27.2% in fiscal 2014 and a recycling rate of 74.8%, reaching our targets before the deadline. 40 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅳ. Environmental Protection R aising Environmental Awareness Dentsu Group Eco Prize Dentsu established the Dentsu Group Eco Prize in 2009 as one of its programs to improve environmental communications, and it is awarded every year. By recognizing excellence in the area of environmental activities, the prize is intended to bolster environmental communications across the Dentsu Group and enhance the sharing and accumulation of expertise and knowledge. There are two types of prize: Category A for educational and awareness activities within the Group and Category B for activities that target activities in operations. In 2014, Dentsu received 16 applications in Category A and 16 The awards ceremony applications in Category B. The Eco Prize winners were selected from both categories. Awareness-Raising Using Handbooks Dentsu creates handbooks as part of its awareness-raising activities for employee and uses them for new employee training, etc. The term ‘greenwash’ is used in reference to labels and advertising that use unsubstantiated information or partial data to give the impression that products or corporate activities are more environment friendly than they actually are. This practice is under scrutiny by corporations and NPOs. Dentsu uses the Greenwash Guide in order to eliminate the risk of greenwashing in advertising communications and enhance employee knowledge. Dentsu defines a ‘green event’ as an event that is an environment friendly one, and the Green Event Guide is used for organizing such events. The guide describes how to organize such events from the viewpoint of a PDCA cycle, in line with the flow of event management, from the planning stage to implementation Greenwash Guide Green Event Guide and post-event evaluation. It also includes case studies that are useful in putting these instructions into practice. Helping Employees Acquire Eco TestCertification Dentsu actively encourages its employees to take the Certification Test for Environmental Specialists (Eco Test), sponsored by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and has done so since the test was the first offered in 2006. The goal is to nurture, with a broad range of environmental knowledge, those employees who will play a leading role in addressing environmental issues. Employees who acquire the certification are appointed as eco officers to promote Dentsu’s environmental activities, and they also carry out such roles as inspectors for internal environmental audits and judges for environmental slogans. A total of 770 employees had acquired the certification as of the end of March 2015. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 41 Ⅳ. Environmental Protection Environment-related Slogans and Posters To fully utilize its communication resources, in 2005 Dentsu began inviting Dentsu and Dentsu Group employees and their families in Japan to submit environmental slogans. In 2014, there were a total of 8,082 entries in both the employee and family categories. The winning entries are used in posters designed by Dentsu art directors, thereby helping to raise environmental awareness among employees. Dentsu Environmental Posters Produced in fiscal 2014 Don't print out things unnecessarily Don't just regret What does the take a screenshot that color with your it's the last of light blue mean smartphone the species. to you? instead. R educing CO2 Emissions Energy-saving at Office Buildings The Dentsu Head Office Building in Tokyo’s Shiodome district is replete with cutting-edge equipment chosen to fit the concepts ‘built to last a century,’ ‘harmony with the global environment,’ and ‘energy efficiency.’ The building incorporates more than 30 energy efficiency-related systems. [Principal Facilities] Wind turbines and solar-power panels / LED lighting / air-flow windows / cogeneration system / water recycling system / green space development / improved air conditioning control system program / insulating jackets for cold water plate heat exchangers / waste water recycling systems Raising Recycling Rates through Trash Separation In an effort to raise recycling rates through more careful separation of trash, Dentsu has placed garbage collection centers, called ‘eco counters,’ on each floor of its office building, and it is working to raise awareness by posting rules regarding trash separation and a recycling chart. Trash generated in the office is placed in bins separately colored for recyclables, nonrecyclables, and hazardous materials (batteries, box cutter blades and others). Detailed rules are posted regarding disposal methods. As a result of these measures, the recycling rate for fiscal 2014 was 74.8%. 42 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅴ. Fair Business Practices Ⅴ. Fair Business Practices The Dentsu Group Code of Conduct sets out fair business practices as one of the key areas for Dentsu’s CSR activities. Dentsu considers fair, equitable, and ethical actions and legal compliance to be the foundation for social responsibilities that corporations must fulfill. Dentsu and Dentsu Group companies strive to be companies trusted by society through fair business practices. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 43 Ⅴ. Fair Business Practices P romotion of Compliance Dentsu aims to promote thorough awareness of compliance issues in employees. That is achieved through the development of regulations and manuals by departments responsible for compliance, the implementation of various training programs, and other measures. The Compliance Line was established as the designated contact point to receive reports on legal violations within the Company. The Compliance Line has an in-house contact point as well as an external contact point where calls are handled by a law office. Operational and information management structures are in place to ensure that those seeking consultation or reporting violations are not penalized in any way. In fiscal 2014, a total of 10 reports and proposals (fiscal 2013: 13 cases, fiscal 2012: 21 cases, fiscal 2011: 27 cases) were made by Dentsu and Dentsu Group company employees and dealt with by the Company. In order to prevent illicit behavior, the Dentsu Head Office held a Compliance Caravan and newly produced and showed an educational video to raise employees’ awareness. Additionally, we set up a compliance website on the Company intranet and distributed the Compliance Digest booklet to all Group companies to promote understanding of the importance of compliance issues. The Company also holds compliance training Compliance Digest booklet every year for new and mid-career hires at Dentsu and Dentsu Group companies to foster compliance awareness. * In fiscal 2012, Dentsu centralized contact points for harassment-related issues at the Harassment Counseling Section. For information on the Harassment Counseling Section, please refer to Page 32. Basic Policy on the Rejection of Antisocial Forces Dentsu and all Dentsu Group companies established the ‘Basic Policy on the Rejection of Organized Crime Groups and Other Antisocial Forces’ articulating the determination of Dentsu and Dentsu Group companies to take a firm stand against antisocial forces. The Company also calls on business partners to take the same action. Basic Policy on the Rejection of Organized Crime Groups and Other Antisocial Forces Dentsu and all Dentsu Group companies see it as the social responsibility of corporations to take a firm stand to sever relationships with and reject organized crime groups and other antisocial forces that threaten social order and safety. To this end, Dentsu has formulated and complies with the following ‘Basic Policy on the Rejection of Organized Crime Groups and Other Antisocial Forces’. 1, We will sever any relationship with organized crime groups and other antisocial forces. 2, We will resolutely oppose unwarranted demands from organized crime groups and other antisocial forces. 3, We will not conduct transactions such as the provision of funds or favors to organized crime groups and other antisocial forces. 4, We will take systematic and appropriate response to organized crime groups and other antisocial forces through the establishment of internal structures as well as through cooperation with police, the National Center for the Elimination of Organized Crime Groups, attorneys and others. 44 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅴ. Fair Business Practices D entsu’s CSR Procurement Activities For Dentsu, social responsibility includes ensuring that ample consideration is given in dealings with its business partners (contractors) in regard to human rights, legal and regulatory compliance, environmental protection, and respect for intellectual property rights throughout the production and provision of services. Dentsu partially revised the ‘Dentsu Basic Procurement Policy’ and ‘Dentsu Procurement Guidelines’ in March 2014. In addition to changes to the contents in accordance with the establishment of the ‘Dentsu Group Code of Conduct’ in 2013, with new content committing to compliance with international anti-corruption regulations (US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act) and regulation on conflict minerals (Section 1502 of the US Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act), we aim for the realization of CSR Procurement activities that give due consideration to ethics and human rights in our operations. We also request that business partners comply with the above revisions by concluding a ‘Basic Agreement for Outsourcing’. Dentsu also set up a Partner Hotline to enable business partners to report any legal violations by Dentsu directors or employees that had come to light in the course of business so as to identify and deal with legal and regulatory compliance violations. (No report was received during fiscal 2014.) Dentsu Basic Procurement Policy In line with the ‘Dentsu Group Code of Conduct’ and desire for fair business dealings with its suppliers and business partners, the Company established the ‘Dentsu Basic Procurement Policy’. 1. Fair business dealings We shall conduct fair business dealings. (1) Our business dealings shall comply with laws and regulations. (2) When selecting suppliers and business partners, we shall not only take into account economic factors, but also give due consideration to compliance and environmental issues. 2. Cooperation with Dentsu’s management system When our suppliers and business partners collaborate with us, we request understanding of, and cooperation with, Dentsu’s management system, including the ‘Dentsu Group Code of Conduct’, the ‘Dentsu Procurement Guidelines’ and other Dentsu Group rules. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 45 Ⅴ. Fair Business Practices Dentsu Procurement Guidelines In line with the ‘Dentsu Basic Procurement Policy’, the Company has established the ‘Dentsu Procurement Guidelines’, and requests that our direct and indirect suppliers adhere to the following. 1. When hiring and dealing with employees, efforts should be made to respect human rights, labor regulations, and diversity, and ensure legal and regulatory compliance. Additionally, we request that discriminatory expressions not be used in advertising production work and other processes. We request that internationally declared human rights protection be accorded respect and transactions such as direct or indirect funding to those who violate human rights not be conducted. 2. In business dealings with Dentsu and other parties, an effort should be made to ensure legal and regulatory compliance. In particular, we request that dealings with antisocial individuals and organizations and the giving and receiving of monetary or non-monetary benefits to any stakeholder for the purpose of obtaining or maintaining improper profits or preferential treatment be banned. 3. Please make every effort to realize a workplace that gives due consideration to health and safety to prevent work-related accidents and injuries. 4. Please make active efforts to reduce the environmental impact of your business activities and to realize a sustainable society. 5. When presenting plans and proposals, we request that intellectual property rights be accorded respect, and that third-party rights and interests not be infringed. 6. We request the establishment of information security management systems that cover organizational, individual, technical and physical aspects of information security, to ensure that confidential information and personal information obtained or learned during the course of business dealings are not disclosed, leaked, or used fraudulently. 7. We request that appropriate operational processes be used to ensure that highquality products and services are delivered within the predetermined schedule at a market-competitive cost. 8. We request that appropriate information-sharing to consumers takes place and consideration paid to safety through business activities and that efforts be made to resolve consumers’ issues. 9. We request that efforts be made through business activities to contribute to the resolution of issues of high societal demand and the development of local society and communities. 46 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅴ. Fair Business Practices R espect for Laws and Regulations and Various Rights in Business Activities In order to maintain fair business practices in communications activities, compliance with various laws and regulations is expected and Dentsu aims to take the lead to be the cornerstone of legal norms in order to maintain its stakeholders’ and society’s trust. To this end, efforts are taken to ensure compliance with various laws such as the Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations for the appropriate offering of premiums and advertising, Act on the Protection of Personal Information for the adequate protection of personal information of consumers who participate in campaigns and questionnaires, the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors to conduct fair and appropriate dealings with subcontractors, and the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act to conduct appropriate stock trading. As part of such efforts, for intellectual property rights in the realm of creative expression for advertising works, such as trademarks, design rights, copyrights, and publicity rights, Dentsu works to (1) improve the knowledge and awareness of employees through continuous educational and training programs, (2) disseminate information through easyto-understand legal handbooks and manuals and the Company intranet, and (3) establish a designated department for consulting on legal and creative affairs. Going forward, Dentsu will continue to protect intellectual property rights and develop an environment for legal compliance in order to be a cornerstone for legal norms. H a n d b o o k s f o r L aw s a n d R e g u l a t i o n s What’s a Trademark? What’s a Copyright? What are Publicity Rights? Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 47 Ⅴ. Fair Business Practices D evelopment of an Information Security Management System Dentsu established the ‘Dentsu Group Basic Policy for Information Security’ and established a very strict information security management system to protect important data held by the Dentsu Group as well as personal and other information received from clients. The Dentsu Head Office in Tokyo received BS 7799-Part 2:2002 certification for information management security, the predecessor of ISO/IEC 27001:2005, in March 2003. This was expanded to the entire Company when the Kansai and Chubu offices received the same certification in April 2005. In 2015, Dentsu went on to implement ISO/IEC27001:2013 and JIS Q 27001:2014, the international standards for information security management system (ISMS). As of March 31, 2015, Dentsu Inc. and 50 Dentsu Group companies in Japan have this certification. Dentsu strives to implement stringent information security management through such measures for the entire Dentsu Group to flexibly respond to the ever-changing and increasingly sophisticated environment of information and communication technology. Dentsu Group Basic Policy for Information Security All of the companies in the Dentsu Group will address information security management as a unified group. In all of our business areas, the Dentsu Group will address information security management in order to protect important information held by our group. 1. Compliance with Laws Based on requests from our stakeholders, including clients and other business partners, we will properly address information security management to ensure compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. In particular, personal information will be managed in a strict manner. 2. Strict Information Management We will manage information strictly to prevent any leakage, loss, damage or misuse of information such as confidential client information and personal information. We will share such business information only among employees and group companies with the appropriate clearances. In selecting our subcontractors, we will fully consider how they are addressing information security. 3. Maintaining & Improving Achievement Level We will maintain the current security level which we have already achieved and improve it through our PDCA cycle activities. We will also enlighten and educate all of our employees, from executives downward, about information security so that they can acquire the appropriate knowledge and judgment. 4. Adaptation to Environmental Changes We will flexibly adapt to the environmental changes in our group’s business areas, information assets handled by our group, and the information and communication technology (ICT) field, and will update our information security management system and rules accordingly. 48 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅵ. Addressing Consumer Issues Ⅵ. Addressing Consumer Issues Dentsu engages in various projects in cooperation with government organizations that cover topics such as improvement of people’s diet and food self-sufficiency rate. The Company also makes proactive efforts for the promotion of diversity such as for LGBT (sexual minority) communities and the resolution of social issues associated with the declining birth rate and aging population. Those efforts are made through ‘Lab activities,’ which are voluntary initiatives by employees. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 49 Ⅵ. Addressing Consumer Issues D entsu Diversity Lab ( DDL ) Dentsu Diversity Lab (DDL) is a cross-sectoral organization within the Dentsu Group which values the differences between people as expressions of individuality rather in comparative terms, and which undertakes various activities to promote diversity. In fiscal 2014, DDL engaged in efforts to promote and spread commercials with subtitles for the hard of hearing, in cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications and Japan Advertising Agencies Association. It also created a checklist for senior citizenfriendly sales floors and actively promoted the resolution of issues relating to senior citizens' consumption behavior. In July 2014, DDL had the opportunity to present the results of its activities to date at the CSR forum hosted by the Tokyo Foundation. CSR forum hosted by the Tokyo Foundation Comments What do you think about DDL activities? Since its establishment in June 2011, DDL has undertaken activities in the four categories of disabilities, generation, gender, and multicultural coexistence. Today we hear a great deal about diversity, but the definition and scope of the term have not been set. DDL considers diversity issues broadly, not limited to these four categories, as issues that affect everyone and explores opportunities for Yoshihiro Ito the resolution of social issues and innovation from a Business Creation Center (DDL Representative) wide perspective. Dentsu Inc. 50 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅵ. Addressing Consumer Issues P romotion of the ‘Smart Life Project’ Under the slogan ‘healthy life expectancy,’ the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare is promoting the Smart Life Project, a national campaign aiming to ensure that people can maintain energetic, healthy, and enjoyable lives. Dentsu is responsible for the implementation and operation as the project’s secretariat, and promotes healthy living by providing information to some 2,500 participating companies and organizations and handling publicity for the Healthy Life Expectancy Awards, which commend pioneering efforts in the area of healthy living. Celebrities from various fields are appointed as “Ikiiki Health Ambassadors” aiming to further improve and promote awareness on project themes such as exercise, diet, non-smoking, and receiving physical check-ups and medical examinations. Through this project the ambassadors and a support team participate in various events nationwide, including giving presentations. I nvolvement in the Food Action Nippon Campaign Since October 2008, Dentsu has been responsible for the strategic administration (secretariat) of the Food Action Nippon campaign, a national campaign aimed at boosting Japan’s food self-sufficiency rate. In fiscal 2014, Dentsu engaged in various publicity activities to introduce the current situation about food self-sufficiency and related activities. Dentsu also organized the Food Action Nippon Award as an incentivizing campaign, and also operated and conducted publicity for Kokubo, a system which grants points for domestic food products to encourage procurement and increase consumption. We developed activities in collaboration with numerous food and beverage companies, distribution-related companies and organizations, as well as various groups such as local roadside stations. Additionally, against the backdrop of an aging society, we promoted a collaborative project in the fields of medical care-welfare-food-agriculture, themed on nursing care foods and health foods, which are attracting increasing interest. We held symposiums across Japan to introduce best practices by companies and organizations using domestic food products in the healthcare and nursing sectors. The Dentsu Group will continue to engage in a variety of specific projects to improve the value of domestic food products in a diverse market and encourage increased consumption for the improvement of Japan’s food self-sufficiency rate. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 51 Ⅵ. Addressing Consumer Issues 52 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅶ. Contributing to the Community Ⅶ. Contributing to the Community Dentsu considers regional communities to be important stakeholders. The Company contributes to resolving issues and promoting development of regional communities through its business operations and continuously deploys various social contribution activities. We believe that it is our role as a leading company in the sphere of communications to build relationships of trust with regional communities. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 53 Ⅶ. Contributing to the Community E fforts to Assist Earthquake Reconstruction Tsunami Evacuation Program Kakeagare! Japan Responding to heightened social awareness on disaster prevention after the Great East Japan Earthquake, since 2012 Dentsu has been developing the tsunami evacuation program Kakeagare! Japan, jointly with the Tohoku University International Research Institute of Disaster Science, Kahoku Shimpo Publishing, and Dentsu East Japan. The project practices and tests evacuation models suited to the characteristics of each community in cooperation with respective local governments and communities. It was selected as a leading model project for a ‘New Tohoku’ by the Reconstruction Agency. In its third year, fiscal 2014, tsunami evacuation drills and workshops were held as part of tsunami disaster prevention actions stemming from disaster-stricken Tohoku, not only in the three Tohoku prefectures of Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima, but also in Hokkaido and Phuket, Thailand. Over 500 people participated in seven communities. For more details please visit: http://kakeagare.jp We also assisted with the hosting and operation of the public forum at the 3rd UN World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction held in Sendai from March 14 to 18, 2015. A total of more than 150,000 people participated from across the globe and it was one of the largest UN conferences held in Japan. Related site: (http://www.bosai-sendai.jp/article/?c=100416) Support for the ‘Tohoku Rokkon (Six-Soul) Festival’ As part of its efforts to support areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Dentsu Group has provided administrative support for the Tohoku Rokkon Festival since 2011. The fourth ‘Tohoku Rokkon Festival 2014 Yamagata’ held on May 24 and 25 in Yamagata City, Yamagata Prefecture featured a six-festival parade, traditional local performing arts, local foods, and other attractions from the Tohoku region. The festival highlighted the region’s zeal toward recovery to 260,000 visitors. The economic ripple effect of the festival this time was announced to be 2.45 billion yen* and in addition to contributing to revitalizing the economy of the Tohoku region by attracting many tourists from both in and outside the prefectures, the event contributed greatly to improving the sales promotions and corporate brands of participating companies. Dentsu will continue to assist the revitalization of the Tohoku region through the Tohoku Rokkon Festival. According to the FIDEA Research Institute Corporation (Yamagata City) 54 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅶ. Contributing to the Community E fforts to Assist Earthquake Reconstruction Various Support Projects for the Reconstruction of Fukushima Prefecture Dentsu Group companies led by Dentsu and Dentsu East Japan are advancing projects to support various prefectural government divisions in Fukushima Prefecture to dispel damaging rumors about Fukushima associated with the nuclear plant accident. In fiscal 2014, transport ads were developed themed on 11 agricultural, forestry, and fishery products representatives of Fukushima Prefecture, the Fukushima Eleven. We held regular seminars with local media outlets and experts as well as on-site tours for buyers and business meetings with local producers in order to lead to increased consumption. We also support efforts for the reconstruction of Fukushima Prefecture by engaging in the production of television commercials themed on monitoring inspections and the inspection of all bags of rice produced, as well as publicity activities for local agricultural, forestry, and fishery products. Michinoku Shiokaze Trail The Ministry of the Environment compiled the Vision for Green Reconstruction Centered around the Establishment of a Sanriku Fukko (Reconstruction) National Park in May 2012. The vision proposes to pass on to future generations the natural environment and community life nurtured by the connections between forests, satoyama (managed woodlands), rivers, and sea. It also proposes learning opportunities about the benefits and dangers of nature, and using that knowledge for reconstruction. It sets seven initiatives to this end, one of which is the Trail to Deepen Exchange Between North and South (Michinoku Shiokaze Trail). It is a long distance nature path that will bring together the natural environment and life in the area, traces of the earthquake, trail users, and local people, stretching from Hachinohe in Aomori to Soma in Fukushima. Dentsu has been involved with developing the message of this initiative and created visuals that would make local residents realize the power their hometowns hold and make them want to communicate their value to visitors. Dentsu aims to make this initiative useful to the recovery of confidence in these communities. Campaign poster produced by Dentsu Please visit the Michinoku Shiokaze Trail site. http://www.env.go.jp/jishin/park-sanriku/trail/ Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 55 Ⅶ. Contributing to the Community Information Reporting for the Reconstruction of Disaster-Affected Areas Dentsu supports regular and ongoing reporting of information on disaster support measures in accordance with needs in disaster-affected areas and various reconstruction study cases through local media outlets and the Internet. These efforts are carried out in collaboration with the Cabinet Office, Reconstruction Agency, local government bodies, the media, and NPOs. We gather messages of support from well-known public figures from all areas of society and deliver them through the media to encourage people in the disaster-affected areas. Dentsu also supports efforts to communicate across Japan the situation in the disasteraffected areas, by producing programs in cooperation with a BS television station that are aimed at preventing memories of the earthquake from being forgotten, countering damaging rumors, and attracting tourists to the affected regions. Administering the ‘Housing Eco-point Program Supporting Reconstruction’ Following on from the ‘Housing Eco-point Program’ that was launched in March 2010 to provide incentives to build more environment-friendly houses, Dentsu is leading the consortium of corporations that is engaged in the ‘Housing Eco-point Program Supporting Reconstruction,’ which was revived in January 2012. This program issues points when new environment-friendly houses are built or environment-friendly renovations are made to existing houses, and these points can be exchanged for local products from disaster-affected areas or environment-friendly products. The program has the added objective of supporting reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthquake, in addition to the original objectives of the ‘Housing Ecopoint Program.’ Dentsu manages and promotes all processes in this program from receiving and screening applications to distributing public funds to the various operators who participate in the point exchange scheme. In fiscal 2014, there were about 8,740 applications. 56 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅶ. Contributing to the Community D entsu’s Social Contribution Activities Under the basic policy of ‘using the power of communication to benefit society,’ Dentsu’s social contribution activities have supported activities to foster human resources and tackle social issues mainly in the area of communications. In recent years, the provision of solutions within a wider scope not limited to the area of communications has been demanded of Dentsu in its main business. Leveraging the experience and professional skills its employees have acquired in its main business for social contribution activities, Dentsu engages in efforts that help people and activities that tackle social issues. Focusing on two themes, ‘supporting human resources development through improved communication skills’ and ‘supporting activities to tackle international social issues,’ Dentsu collaborates with NPOs and other partner organizations to engage in activities to resolve social issues and to contribute to the development of communities on all scales, from local to global communities. Supporting Human Resources Development through Improved Communication Skills Fostering Improving the next citizens’ ● Advertising Elementary School generation capabilities ● NPO support program: Keys to Communicating ● Dentsu-China Advertising HR Development Project Support International for disaster● Participation in Michinoku Fukkou Jigyou Partners exchange affected (consortium of major companies for recovery) areas S u p p o r t i n g A c t i v i t i e s t o Ta c k l e I n t e r n a t i o n a l S o c i a l I s s u e s Global education issues ● Supporting UNESCO’s World Terakoya Movement ● Supporting various NGOs involved in World Food Day World food problem Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 57 Ⅶ. Contributing to the Community A dvertising Elementary School The ‘Advertising Elementary School’ was started in 2006 as a project to foster children’s communication skills. Dentsu developed program materials together with Tokyo Gakugei University over three years. In these classes, children express a theme in 15-second commercial skits. Through this process, the children learn skills such as creative thinking, decision-making, how to express ideas, and group problem-solving techniques while having fun. With the recognition of the importance of communication skills development becoming widespread in the education field, use of the program in classes taught by school teachers Presentation at Minamisoma City is increasing, and over 25,000 students at 219 schools across Japan have taken part in this activity as of March 31, 2015. In places other than schools, Dentsu undertakes activities that contribute to the revitalization of communities, such as assisting a special class for children at a weekend open school run by Solar Reconstruction Fukushima in Minamisoma, Fukushima, to create a commercial skit on aspects of Minamisoma we want to save for future generations. For details please visit the Advertising Elementary School website http://www.dentsu.co.jp/komainu/ P rogram to Strengthen and Support NPO Organizations: Keys to Communicating For NPOs, communications skills are fundamental and essential skills to lead an organization, increase the number of supporters and collaborators, and engage in activities. Since 2004,in cooperation with JAPAN NPO Center, Dentsu has been advancing the ‘Keys to Communicating’ program in a manner that utilizes each organization’s respective specialties, to provide support for the improvement of communications skills of NPOs. Dentsu employees and members of NPOs serve as presenters at seminars held throughout Japan. As of March 31, 2015, the number of seminars has exceeded 110, with a cumulative total of around 4,600 participants. In fiscal 2014, seminars were also held in the four Tohoku areas of Seminar held in Sendai Kamaishi, Iwaki, Sendai, and Fukushima. Based on local requests, the seminars handled more practical themes such as presentations and crowd funding. For details please visit the Keys to Communicating website http://www.dentsu.co.jp/komainu/ 58 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Ⅶ. Contributing to the Community S upport for Chinese Advertising Human Resources Development and Contribution to Japan-China Private Sector Exchanges Since 1996, Dentsu has continuously undertaken activities to support advertising education and human resources development in China. Dentsu holds various programs to respond to needs in the Chinese advertising education field, such as selecting young educators from Chinese universities to train at the Dentsu Head Office and holding the Advertising Education Forum to introduce the latest trends in the world’s advertising industry to advertising educators, and Dentsu Student Advertising Seminars for students studying advertising. In January 2015, Dentsu was presented with the Most Valuable Partner Award from the Chinese Ministry of Education as a global company that has made a particular contribution to Chinese advertising human resources education and Japan-China private sector exchanges. The Most Valuable Partner Award trophy presented by the Chinese This is the third time for Dentsu to receive an award, following an “Education Support Ministry of Education Special Contribution Award” presented in 2006 and a certification of appreciation presented in 2009. P articipation in ‘Michinoku Fukkou Jigyou Partners’ Since June 2012, Dentsu has been participating in Michinoku Fukkou Jigyou Partners, a platform to support next generation leaders engaged in the reconstruction of disasteraffected areas. We work jointly with the NPO ETIC.* and six companies (Ajinomoto, Isuzu Motors, Kao, Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance, Toshiba, and Benesse Holdings). The consortium engages in initiatives for reconstruction using corporate resources, such as holding the third ‘Michinoku Emergence Camp’ in July 2014 as a training program for organizations in the Tohoku region and hosting a seminar for manufacturing groups in collaboration with fashion experts in September. We also work to spread information about business models that are emerging from the Tohoku region, holding the third ‘Michinoku Recovery Project Symposium’ in March 2015. The Michinoku Emergence Camp NPO ETIC.: Established in 1993 as an organization to train young next generation entrepreneurial leaders. ETIC. has produced many operational NPOs that will lead future generations. www.etic.or.jp For further details, please refer to the Michinoku Fukkou Jigyou Partners website: http://www.michinokupartners.jp/ F Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 59 Ⅶ. Contributing to the Community S upporting Activities to Tackle International Educational Issues Supporting UNESCO’s World Terakoya Movement ‘Kakisonji-Hagaki Project’ UNESCO’s World Terakoya Movement, an effort to increase venues (terakoya) to acquire literacy, is sponsored by the National Federation of UNESCO Associations in Japan and has been going on for more than 25 years. In order to encourage people to relate more to kakisonji-hagaki (unusable prepaid postcards) and have fun gathering them, Dentsu has been using its ideas and communication skills to raise awareness for the activity. In addition to creating the activity’s support character Kakisonjiro, which made its debut last year, Dentsu created the characters Harisonjiro for unused stamps and Tsukaisonjiro for unused prepaid cards. The three characters made their debut as Tansu Isan Sankyodai (three legacy brothers from the drawers) representing the “legacies” forgotten in household drawers. Poster depicting a drawer legacy as a playing card As a result of an online dance video depicting What! Our drawer legacies can send children all over the the three characters, donations of items other world to school!? 2015 campaign characters Tansu Isan Sankyodai Tansu Isan Sankyodai dance video distributed than postcards increased 54 times compared http://www.unesco.or.jp/terakoya/kakisonji/ to the previous year. Supporting Japanese NPOs and NGOs that Tackle the Global Food Issue Supporting Activities of 11 NPOs and NGOs during the Month of World Food Day 2014 Dentsu collaborated on producing the web video series Nokori Monogatari, where leftover foods talk to each other. October, the month of World Food Day, is a month for more people to learn about, think about, and act on food issues. For this month, Dentsu released the videos on a special website for World Food Day month to publicize efforts, shared them on social media, created links for donations, and contributed to raising awareness among children who did not know about such activities and also among a broad sector of the general public(321% increase in sessions and 231% increase in page views compared to the previous year). There were a total of 18 videos in which leftover foods charmingly talked about the world’s food-related issues. By conveying the World Food Day month 2014 poster facts in an easy-to-understand manner, Announcement in collaboration with 11 NPOs and NGOs we aimed for the videos to become the first step in thinking about food issues. 60 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 I ntroduction to CSR at Dentsu Aegis Network Dentsu Aegis Network recognizes that it has economic, social and environmental impacts beyond its core business. In 2010, we launched the Future Proof programme – our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy – to tackle these impacts, their associated risks and opportunities, and engage all the stakeholders involved. Future Proof reflects the company’s material impacts, responds to the challenges facing its people and wider industry, and addresses the issues it is concerned about. More detail on governance can be found in the comprehensive Future Proof Plan, available online. CSR Steering Group The CSR strategy is set by the CSR Steering Group, composed of the leaders of our global functional departments and brand representatives. It is also responsible for setting the CSR targets, as well as ensuring it is aligned to the corporate strategy. The CSR Steering Group, chaired by Nigel Morris, CEO The five areas of action of ‘Future Proof’ and targets for 2015 Dentsu Aegis Network Americas & EMEA, also oversees the implementation of Future Proof by the global CSR team and monitors its progress. Nigel Morris is the Dentsu Aegis Network board champion for CSR. Environment Reduce the carbon footprint of our products CSR Team and services by 20%. The global CSR team is responsible for the implementation of Future Proof. The team, consisting currently of three full time employees, coordinates Community the measurement, reporting and management of all CSR campaigns and Increase our community investment to the programmes – including the compliance with the global CSR, Community equivalent of 1% of our people’s time. and Environmental Policies. The global CSR team manages all internal and external communication and engagement with both CSR champions and Market Place stakeholders, and assess on a regular basis the risks and opportunities related Enable 90% of our people to understand what to CSR. These are reported to the company-wide Risk Committee. ‘Future Proof’ means in their day -to-day job CSR Champions Work Place The CSR team engages on a regular basis with a network of over 300 CSR Involve 90% of our people in creating the best champions to help execute Future Proof campaigns and programmes in place to work in the industry every office around the world. These champions are volunteers and come from a variety of background, both client and functional side. The CSR Corporate Governance champions are provided with free campaigns and programmes by the global Achieve a GRI A+on our annual CSR reporting CSR team to implement, but are also encouraged to pursue specific issues and partnerships that are relevant to the offices, brands and culture locally. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 61 Delivery model As part of Future Proof, Dentsu Aegis Network also developed an innovative delivery model for CSR: ●Global awareness campaigns that use social media to raise awareness of CSR issues amongst a digital and young audience ●Global action programmes that leverage the power of digital technology to enable sustainable behavior in the global network ●Integration of CSR considerations into global functional departments such as Technology, Human Resources, Finance, Legal and Corporate Communications to future proof day-to-day operations ●Engagement of CSR champions to unlock locally meaningful action on the Future Proof agenda Comments from a CSR Champion Why is it important that we ‘give back’ and engage around corporate social responsibility (CSR) as a leading global agency? Any of us who have a degree of affluence and who enjoy good health are fortunate. It is perhaps easy working in the advertising industry, constantly trying to sell things to consumers with disposable income, to forget that an awful lot of people are much less fortunate than ourselves. Of course everyone must make their own decisions on an individual basis whether they wish to give anything back. But all our businesses operate in a local community and a national and global market place. Just as the communities support us – with staff, customers, resources to do our jobs – we must support our communities. Working together as a team, with focused and co-ordinated efforts on selected Nick Waters programmes, we can have a positive impact on the communities around us. Winner, Move the Dial We have an extraordinary range of talent and capabilities. If we can direct just a fraction of that capability, even Management 2014 DAN Asia & Pacific, CEO for a small % of time, at helping address some of the challenges in society, then we can have a positive impact. We value “responsibility” in our group, and this is just one way in which we can live up to our values. By doing so will enhance our company’s reputation and help build a virtuous circle by attracting new customers and staff that value the same things we do. What do you want people to know about your involvement with Future Proof CSR? There is nothing specific, but if my involvement helps our teams around the world recognize the importance of this to our company, and encourages everyone to get more involved, and give a little bit more time and effort, then that would be very positive. What are you proud of in 2015? Everyone in the Asia Pacific business made such a great effort in 2014, and showed such a desire and commitment to support CSR initiatives that we have something to really build on in 2015. Our ambition is to turn our efforts into more continuous and sustainable activities rather than a series of one-offs. We will only be able to judge at the end of the year whether we have been able to achieve our aims, and whether our efforts have contributed a bit more. 62 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Environment Environment Dentsu Aegis Network ran a global environment campaign in 2014 to further reduce our environmental impacts. The global “30 Days of Green” campaign focused on raising the awareness of environmental protection and inspiring positive action. In addition to the global campaign, there were many local activities as part of 30 Days of Green, making a contribution to encouraging more sustainable behaviours. Global awareness campaign: 30 Days of Green In 2014, Dentsu Aegis Network ran its 4th annual “30 Days of Green” global campaign to raise awareness of environmental issues around the network, coinciding with the Earth Hour and Earth Day global events. In 2014, 62 local activities were organised across 17 countries. Together these activities resulted in 3,182 green pledges made via the NEON intranet, Facebook and Twitter, originating from internal and external stakeholders such as clients and partners. 30 Days of Green Case Study 1 Anniversary Tree Planting – Beijing Dentsu Advertising Since 2012, staff from Beijing Dentsu have planted trees each year to demonstrate their commitment to the environment. In 2014, Beijing Dentsu launched a series of activities to celebrate their contribution to the Chinese advertising industry over the past 20 years. The Anniversary Tree Planting event was a particularly meaningful part of this campaign, as it celebrated Beijing Dentsu’s 20th anniversary at the same time as benefitting the environment. 120 employees assembled at the HuaiBei tree planting base, where they were given speeches by Yukiyasu Nagasaki, President of Beijing Dentsu and Xisha Li, Senior Vice-President of Beijing Dentsu. Overall, 200 trees were planted to serve as a metaphor for Beijing Dentsu growing into a fondant forest in the fertile soil of the Chinese advertising industry. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 63 Environment 30 Days of Green Case Study 2 Bird Houses – Dentsu Aegis Network Russia Dentsu Aegis Network Russia came up with a brilliant gift idea around sharing the 30 Days of Green campaign with their clients. The team focused on the native starling bird’s habitat and how they could help increase the low bird population. Starlings like to live in gardens and forests in and around Moscow and are known for bringing the first signs of spring. To address this issue, the team decided to give 600 starling birdhouses to clients as gifts. Each client will then be helping to sustain the starling bird population locally and thereby contribute to the cause. This initiative also enhances Dentsu Aegis Network’s corporate reputation and brand by engaging outside companies and clients to join the green movement. Comments from a CSR Champion Why is it important that we ‘give back’ and engage around corporate social responsibility as a leading global agency? A company with a global reach like Dentsu Aegis Network has the ability to make a positive impact on the community, environment and its staff. By ‘giving back’ we demonstrate we care as individuals and also as a company. There are also opportunities to demonstrate leadership & create innovative solutions that inspire our clients and staff in the area of CSR. What do you want people to know about your involvement with Future Proof CSR? I have seen first-hand the impact that Future Proof CSR has had on people inside and also outside, the organization and how it is a team effort. I am part of a team, which extends past Future Proof champions Patrick O’Reilly Winner, Move the Dial into senior management, operations and vendor organizations that have assisted in making some great CSR Champion 2014 CSR initiatives possible. What are you proud of in 2015? I am proud to know people across the Dentsu Aegis Network businesses that really care about CSR and feel that it is important. I get to be involved in shaping the CSR Strategy and working in a company that can embed sustainability into its culture and truly innovate the way brands are built. I am excited by the transformative business opportunity that this presents. 64 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Community Community Dentsu Aegis Network ran a global community campaign and programme to increase the awareness of volunteering in the local community. The global “Volunteer Challenge” campaign focused on raising the awareness of “giving back” to the local community and the major impact this has on both the volunteers and the beneficiaries. The global “GlobalGivingTIME” action programme is the company’s digital volunteering community where Dentsu Aegis Network volunteers directly help smalland medium-sized charities. In addition to the global campaign and programme, there were many local charity partnerships to tackle specific issues and concerns in 2014 . Global awareness campaign: Volunteer Challenge The Volunteer Challenge campaign takes place and raises awareness of the valuable contribution that volunteering can make to people and communities. Between June and August 2014, the campaign engaged over 10,000 participants in 92 offices globally, with a total of 36,792 hours volunteered in two months on 106 locally led initiatives including, the launch of Asia Pacific’s “One Day for Change” volunteer service day. THE Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 65 Community Global action programme: GlobalGivingTIME GlobalGivingTIME is Dentsu Aegis Network’s exclusive online volunteering community, where staff can volunteer to respond to media and marketing challenges from grassroots charities around the world. It has unlocked positive action with GlobalGivingTIME engaging over 700 volunteers on a monthly basis. By end of 2014, it had facilitated a total of $26,000 pro-bono donations and 1,623 answers have been posted. More than 396 charities have so far benefited from support on GlobalGivingTIME with 43% reporting that they have improved their communications capability. Volunteer Challenge Case Study 1 One Day for Change In July, Dentsu Aegis Network Asia Pacific launched their One Day for Change initiative that encouraged all staff to give up a day of their time, on the same day, to support a cause or a charity. Agencies from across the region came together in support of each other as they in turn, supported local communities. Collaboration across the many different agencies that participated helped to maximise client and supplier support, creating a full circle of positive impacts on communities. The initiative gave 9,000 staff across Asia Pacific the opportunity to volunteer together in support of local or national causes of which 7,221 people gave 29,583 hours of their time to volunteer in their communities. Volunteer Challenge Case Study 2 Carathon – Carat Ireland The Carathon is Carat Ireland’s annual charity softball tournament. Industry and media owners are invited to join the competition and donations are collected at the event. Since 2011, Carathon has helped to fundraise €55,000 for many different charities, including €15,000 for Carat’s partnership with the Crumlin Children’s Hospital. In 2014, Carathon featured 16 media owner teams and 4 Carat teams totaling over 200 people participating. After a fierce competition, Carat claimed the winning title first time in Carathon history. Not only was the event a great opportunity to raise much needed funds for charity, but it was also a chance for the industry to come together and build camaraderie amongst media professionals. 66 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Community Global awareness campaign: Care & Share In December 2014, the Care & Share campaign inspired good deeds during the holiday season through local activities supporting vulnerable groups in the lead-up to the New Year. This annual campaign links into many local activities that give back at the end of each year. In 2014, over 4,600 participants volunteered locally, helping to provide food, clothing and gift drives in over 17 countries and regions. Global action programme: #1000Cranes For the first time in 2014, Dentsu Inc. and Dentsu Aegis Network partnered to launch the #1000Cranes initiative. The initiative was designed to bring colleagues from across the global network together, while raising awareness in support of global disaster relief efforts. The campaign kicked off in December and centered on a number of workshops, which involved over 2,500 colleagues across 16 global markets. The workshops featured a video tutorial filmed and produced by Dentsu Inc., in which Dentsu staff and President and CEO Tadashi Ishii himself, demonstrated how to fold an origami crane. Over 3,000 origami cranes were created and uploaded to the #1000Cranes website using a hashtag. Participants were asked to donate £1 to participate in workshops, with £3,500 raised for the charities. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 67 Community Comments from a CSR Champion Why is it important that we ‘give back’ and engage around corporate social responsibility as a leading global agency? People are becoming more interested in the social and environmental effects of corporations and they, as important and influential members of society, are responsible to help maintain and improve the society's overall welfare. Priorities must change. Corporations are not in business to make maximum profit any more. They’re in business to serve society. Profit is the reward for doing it well. What do you want people to know about your involvement with Future Proof CSR? Employees benefit from a socially responsible corporate culture. Innovation, teamwork, cooperation, trust and involvement in ‘saving the world’ make us proud of where we work. I’m happy I could help ‘move the dial’. Muriel Zografou Move the Dial What are you proud of in 2015? Highly Commended Champion 2014 I’m proud of getting the Move the Dial, Highly Commended Award for my work in CSR and helping those in need. I’m a little super hero! Comments from a CSR Champion Why is it important that we ‘give back’ and engage around corporate social responsibility as a leading global agency? The main word here that explains everything is “responsibility”. The bigger our business is the bigger is our responsibility to all our stakeholders – employees, clients, suppliers etc. Companies, especially networks such as ours (working on so many business fields with prime focus on media to deliver value to our clients) must take the lead in bringing business and society back together and open up our clients for the opportunities to serve new needs, gain efficiency, create differentiation, and even expand markets throughout their social engagement. We can reset the boundaries of social responsibility by transforming it into creating a shared value strategies for our clients benefitting both their core business and their customers all at once. The most efficient tool to give a voice to any sustainable business and deliver on its brand promise is in our hands – the media. Maria Grachnova Move the Dial, Highly Commended What do you want people to know about your involvement with Future Proof CSR? Management 2014 One thing for sure – corporate responsibility should not be an end in itself, but a thoroughly developed future proof strategy integral to company’s profitability and competitive position. Successful collaboration surely is core business driven, but not part of the business periphery, clearly linked to defined outcomes, well connected to the goals of all stakeholders, and tracked with clear metrics. It leverages the unique resources and expertise of the company to create economic value by creating social value. This is the only way we can progress in doing good – utilizing our skills, resources, and management capability to lead social progress in ways that even the best-intentioned governmental and social sector organizations can rarely match. What are you proud of in 2015? My team – committed and dedicated 100% to what they are doing! 68 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Market Place M arket Place Dentsu Aegis Network ran a global market place campaign and programme in 2014 to increase the awareness of the place of CSR in day-to-day client work. The global “Media for Good” campaign focused on raising the awareness of the potential of advertising and media to do good when used to support charitable organisations. The global “Comms Lab” action programme educates people on how brands are using CSR as part of their communications, consumer engagement and growth strategies. In addition to the global campaign and programme, there were many local pro bono partnerships with charitable organisations as part of Media for Good. Global awareness campaign: Media for Good Between September and November 2014, Dentsu Aegis Network helped charities around the world to get their message across through the Media for Good campaign. This annual campaign highlights the power of advertising in doing good when it comes to helping small and medium sized charities get their message out to a wider audience. Our people donated their media knowledge and expertise to the tune of 6,887 pro bono hours on 13 campaigns, helping charities garner over $10 million US in media value. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 69 Market Place Global action programme: The Comms Lab Launched in October 2014, the Comms Lab is an internal hub on the NEON intranet that engages and educates people on how brands are integrating CSR as part of their communications, consumer engagement and growth strategies. The Comms Lab showcases how advertising and marketing can transform the world by delivering social and environmentally positive outcomes, benefitting our business, our clients and the markets in which we operate. Media for Good Case Study 1 Movember – Dentsu Aegis Network Global Since 2012, Dentsu Aegis Network has globally supported charity Movember to raise funds and awareness for men’s health. Movember is a worldwide charity that aims to “change the face of men’s health” and help fund programmes, which work to improve the lives of men affected by prostate cancer, testicular cancer and mental health issues. In 2014, Dentsu Aegis Network secured over $4.9 million in advertising space in over 300 media networks, in 17 countries around the world and advertising space was unlocked in the Belgium and Singapore markets for the first time ever. In 2014, the global team helped to innovate the campaign with new and exciting ambient branding such as taxi wraps and putting a moustache on the Auckland ferry, all of which generated much press coverage. Movember’s social media campaign was also evaluated and the team helped increase the charity’s digital advertising presence during the campaign. In addition to the media pro bono work, 327 employees across all offices helped raise a sum of $66,000 for the cause. Media for Good Case Study 2 Le Chaînon – Carat Canada Carat Canada has worked closely with charity Le Chaînon for the past 3 years. In 2014, they brought together other Dentsu Aegis Network brands to help promote the charity, whose mission is to support more than 10,000 women in difficulty each year. Since 2013, the team has helped secure over $2.1 million in media value on TV, radio, print, digital media and out-of-home advertising as well as leading strategic initiatives in native advertising, content and experiential marketing to amplify the charity’s call to action. In addition, Carat Canada’s CEO, Ody Giroux, has played an integral role in raising awareness for Le Chaînon by authoring articles for business publications and appearing on television broadcasts to discuss the importance of providing support to women in need. 70 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Work Place Workplace Dentsu Aegis Network ran a global workplace campaign and programme in 2014 to further improve our company as the best place to work in our industry. The global “Wellbeing” campaign focused on raising the awareness on maintaining a healthy work/life balance. The global “Please Cycle” programme encouraged people to cycle, run and walk to work using an innovative mobile app. In addition to the global activities, there were many local activities as part of the campaign. As part of global functional integration, CSR partnered with the Human Resources department to deliver a tailored CSR programme for the company’s high potential development programme Route 500 . The aims were twofold: for the volunteers to develop their leadership skills and for the charities to gain access to strategic consultancy assistance over a longer period. Global awareness campaign: Wellbeing In May 2014, the first global Wellbeing campaign was launched to enhance and support awareness of a healthy “work/life balance”. In just one month, 65 local fitness activities were available to our people with over 600 participants. Activities included running and training for marathons, hosting yoga, meditation and fitness classes, signing up for Dentsu Aegis Network sports league teams and more. As a result, the campaign helped to seed and establish many local, long-term and on-going initiatives and increase awareness around wellbeing. Global action programme: Please Cycle Please Cycle is Dentsu Aegis Network’s award-winning mobile app that promotes a greener and healthier commute by encouraging people to cycle, run or walk to work. Logging their journeys unlocks small rewards for free coffees or discounts. In 2014, we launched Please Cycle across 9 countries encouraging 10% of our colleagues to take up cycling to work. The programme made a significant impact on the company’s carbon footprint with 602 colleagues covering 30,000 miles in over 7,700 journeys, thereby saving 10 tonnes CO2 emissions as a result of their green commutes. They also burnt over 1 million calories in the process. Please Cycle has helped raise the awareness of the longer term environmental impacts of commuting to work and helped permanently create more cyclists and runners at Dentsu Aegis Network, with 30% of users reporting that they now cycle more than before. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 71 Work Place Wellbeing Case Study 1 Work Hard, Play Heart – iProspect Montreal To encourage physical activity instead of screen time among youth in Canada, iProspect Montreal partnered with the Heart and Stroke Foundation to initiate the Work Hard, Play Heart challenge. In total, 77 staff accepted the ‘challenge’ by taking part in over 130 training exercise sessions that not only helped them get physically active, but also helped to raise funds for the cause and prepare them for a special sailing competition. The iProspect team developed a website platform (pro bono) in order to raise awareness and funds while following the progress of participants. The six-month challenge ended with a sailing trip, where teams sailed 1630 km from Quebec to Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon aboard one of the fastest sailboats in the world to test their physical wellbeing and mettle. Over $17,000 was raised to benefit the cause during the Work Hard, Play Heart challenge. Wellbeing Case Study 2 Energize! – Dentsu Aegis Network Germany Dentsu Aegis Network Germany established a health management and well-being program called Energize! across all of their offices in 2014. Energize! consists of established sports programs that can be tailored to each office. Staff can choose between four different sports classes (TRX, Zumba, Yoga and a Power Workout) which each take place once a week. Classes are led by professionals and staff has the opportunity to participate in 16 classes on offer each month. Energize! helps to motivate people to get out from behind their desk and increase their health and overall satisfaction, and is also a way for colleagues to get to know each other better – leading to better collaboration and a positive impact on Dentsu Aegis Network. Route to Good As part of Route 500 – Dentsu Aegis Network’s high potential global learning and development programme – CSR and HR launched “Route to Good” in March 2014. Route to Good helps Route 500 members to grow their leadership skills and behaviour through an 18-month team mentoring relationship with small and medium-sized charities, with the aim of helping those charities improve their marketing and communications. In 2014, there were 65 Route to Good participants working in 19 countries across 16 Dentsu Aegis Network brands, helping charities on everything from communication strategies and marketing plans, digital and social media, media planning, fundraising and more. 72 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 Corporate Governance C orporate Governance Dentsu Aegis Network places great importance on corporate governance and considers effective risk management and business continuity management core components of the internal control process. A comprehensive Business Continuity Management System (BCMS) is in place, which is aligned to the requirements of the International Standards Organisation – ISO 22301 Standard and is sponsored at an executive level within Dentsu Aegis Network. The programme comprises of the following core elements; Business Continuity Disaster Recovery Crisis Management Planning Business Continuity Plans have been designed to address four key threats: Workforce not available Facility not available Technology not available Key supplier not available as well as staff welfare, roles and responsibilities, recovery actions and priorities, and communication with key stakeholders. Individual plans are designed to reflect the services delivered at each Dentsu Aegis Network location, with a hierarchical structure used to elevate the criticality of an event from the response at a local site operational level through to a globally impacting event, with assigned ownership for tactical and strategic response and recovery. This level of response would be managed as part of Crisis Management, which within Dentsu Aegis Network is a framework of communication, command and control procedures to prepare, manage and respond to a crises. Exercising of plans is a critical component of the BCMS, ensuring the continued effective response to a given event. Disaster recovery is an integral part to the design of all Dentsu Aegis Network IT environments, all IT infrastructure is delivered with an appropriate level of resilience. Programme activities are continually reviewed as part of the management system, ensuring that plan creation, review, development and testing activities are undertaken aligned to current and emerging threats and structural changes. Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 73 Corporate Governance Speak Up! Policy The risk of fraud and other wrongdoing is a threat to the Group’s profitability and reputation and must be the concern and responsibility of all levels of staff across the Dentsu Aegis Network business. Senior management have a specific responsibility to set a standard of transparent and ethical behaviour. Appropriate legal and/or disciplinary action will be taken against the perpetrators of fraud or other wrongdoing, with appropriate disciplinary action also taken against directors, managers and supervisors. Dentsu Aegis Network believes it is important to have a culture and working environment in which employees feel able to raise, in confidence, genuine concerns about suspected wrongdoings at work. 'Speak Up!' is our programme for reporting any incident of concern or suspicion of wrongdoing where any workplace concerns can be reported. Examples could include: ●Bullying or harassment ●Theft or fraud ●Bribery and corruption ●Information security breaches (e.g. loss or theft of personal/ sensitive data) ●Abuse or inflation of expenses ●Non-compliance with contractual obligations ●Accounting and tax malpractice Employees can make a report to Line Managers, HR contacts, Senior Managers or follow internal grievance procedures. Dentsu Aegis Network also employs Safecall Limited, an independent specialist which employees can contact on an anonymous basis, 24 hours a day, 365 days of the year in a number of different languages via phone, email and website. Action will not be taken against anyone who raises a genuine concern in good faith and concerning a matter which he or she reasonably believes to be true. If managers receive a report that is of a serious nature they have a responsibility to report this to the Dentsu Aegis Network Director of Risk & Audit or the Dentsu Aegis Network General Counsel. 74 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 D a t a S umm a r y Benchmarks CDP FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Dentsu 74C 83B 86B 93B DAN 79C 81C 90C E m p l o y m e n t D a t a (Basically Non-consolidated) Number of Employees FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Consolidated 19,535 21,649 37,450 39,427 43,583 Non-consolidated 6,903 7,494 7,515 7,425 7,348 Employee Composition (Mar. 31, 2015) Male Female Total Executive officers, others 35 0 35 Management staff 1,654 144 1,798 Non-management staff 2,898 1,072 3,970 Contract employees 293 275 568 Clerical staff 3 483 486 Partners / Senior staff 81 32 113 Part-timers, others 20 11 31 Seconded from other entities 275 72 347 Total 5,259 2,089 7,348 Note 1: Executive officers, others: includes senior corporate advisors, special advisors, and executive officers Note 2: Part-timers, others: includes permanent part-timers,non-permanent part-timers, and trainees from overseas Employees by Age and Gender (Each year-end) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Under 30 yrs. 1,592 1,593 1,535 1,403 30-39 2,764 2,727 2,682 2,618 40-49 1,845 1,803 1,773 1,798 50-59 1,144 1,252 1,290 1,380 60 and over 149 140 145 149 Total 7,494 7,515 7,425 7,348 Average age 38.6 38.9 39.6 39.5 Male 39.8 40.1 40.9 40.8 Female 35.7 36.0 36.1 36.4 Average length of ser vice (yrs.) 12.8 13.1 13.9 13.9 Male 14.4 14.7 15.5 15.4 Female 8.9 9.3 9.8 10.2 New Graduates Hired FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Total 192 136 135 132 Male 132 93 91 92 Female 60 43 44 40 Female component 31.3% 31.6% 32.6% 30.3% Average Number of Paid Vacation Days Taken FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Total 10.5 10.6 10.3 10.8 Male 9.6 9.7 9.2 9.0 Female 13.1 12.9 13.1 13.8 Leave Taken 52.5% 53.0% 51.5% 54.0% Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 75 D a t a S umm a r y Annual Paid Vacation in Hour Increments Taken (Part of paid vacation days) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Total Hours Taken 36,094 42,994 45,005 49,712 Total Number of People Taking Leave 13,632 16,161 17,111 14,568 Number of hours Taken at one time 2.6 2.7 2.6 3.4 Employees’ Health Check-up Rate FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Total 99.0% 99.1％ 99.2％ 99.0% Employees Taking Childcare Leave, Reinstatement Ratio FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Total 44 44 51 60 Male 7 8 11 10 Female 37 36 40 50 Reinstatement ratio 95.2% 95.5% 96.1% 100% Recalculated past numbers and reinstatement ratio in FY 2014. Post-retirement Employees FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Total 41 28 32 55 Male 34 21 22 45 Female 7 7 10 10 Employment Rate of People with Disabilities June 2013 June 2014 June 2015 Total 1.62% 1.79% 2.01% Environmental Data Dentsu’s Environmental Performance Trends Dentsu Group (Excluding Waste) Calculation of Environmental Performance Data Calculation commenced in 2014. The period for calculation is from January 1 to December 31, 2014. Basic Unit and Excluding some of Dentsu group companies.Intensity per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee was Individual Criteria calculated based on a figure of 40,233 persons for CO2 and 33,457 for water. For CO2 emissions, Categories 1, 5, 6, and 7 were calculated for Scope 3. *Based on the calculation standards of WRI ( World Resources Institute) GHG Protocol CO2 emissions（FY 2014）＊1 Amount of waste (FY 2014） Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Water consumption (m 3) 438,520 CO2 emissions (tons) 4,799 58,444 46,958 110,201 Water consumption per FTE 13.11 CO2 emissions per FTE 0.119 1.453 1.167 2.739 Dentsu Inc. Calculation of Environmental Performance Data CO2 emission intensity per floor space unit 253,193.97㎡ Waste and water per floor space unit 252,512.90㎡ Basic Unit Changes from the Previous Year Floor space changed due to switching the basis for calculation for the Dentsu Head Office from the stipulations of (FY 2014) a Tokyo Metropolitan Government Ordinance to the basis for calculation stipulated in the Energy Saving Act. The floor space of the Kyoto Account Management Division was excluded from the calculation of the amount of waste generated and water used. Intensity per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee was calculated based on a figure of 7,348 persons. Individual Calculation Period One year from January 1 to December 31 for each year. Criteria CO2 emissions The coefficient specified under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (EnergySaving Act) is applied. Waste The volume of waste generated (in kg) is the sum of general waste and industrial waste (including waste oil, waste plastic). Water resource usage The volume of water resources used is the sum of municipal water and gray water at the Tokyo Head Office, and the municipal water used at the Kansai Branch Office and Chubu Branch Office. 76 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 D a t a S umm a r y CO2 emissions FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 (Forecast) CO2 emissions (tons) 22,738 20,684 22,656 23,916 23,520 23,285 CO2 emissions per m2 of floor space 0.089 0.081 0.089 0.094 0.093 0.092 CO2 emissions per FTE 3.294 2.760 3.015 3.221 3.201 3.169 Amount of waste FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 (Forecast) Amount of waste (kg) 1,885,192 1,818,629 1,878,365 1,862,891 2,195,858 2,173,899 Amount of waste per m2 of floor space 7.396 7.135 7.370 7.377 8.696 8.609 Amount of waste per FTE 273.097 242.678 249.949 250.894 298.837 295.849 Water Consumption FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 (Forecast) Water consumption(m3) 163,450 156,210 168,236 160,046 153,852 152,313 Water consumption per m2 of floor space 0.641 0.613 0.660 0.634 0.609 0.603 Water consumption per FTE 23.678 20.845 22.387 21.555 20.938 20.729 Employees with Eco Test Certification FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Total 90 90 100 50 Environmental Slogan Entries (Dentsu and Dentsu Group Companies in Japan) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Tot a l 7,917 6,909 8,230 8,082 Employee category 6,561 5,740 7,134 7,296 Family category 1,356 1,169 1,096 786 ＊1 Lloyd‘s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA) was engaged by Dentsu to conduct limited verification of the Dentsu Group's scope 1, 2 and certain scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Human Rights Activities Human Rights Slogan Entries FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Total 9,398 8,430 9,866 8,584 Employee category 8,219 7,310 8,723 7,765 Family category 1,179 1,120 1,143 819 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 77 D a t a S umm a r y Students Participating in the Human Rights Art Project FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 121 103 74 79 Social Contributions Activities Advertising Elementary School FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Participating schools 61 86 90 92 Participants 4,449 6,051 7,382 6,203 Keys to Communicating FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Implementation 16 20 14 11 Participants 678 676 557 414 Michinoku Fukkou Jigyou Partners FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Participating organizations 20 18 15 UNESCO’s World Terakoya Movement FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Participating organizations 500 500 500 500 Participants 925 593 1,277 1,690 World Food Day FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Participating organizations 1 1 1 12 Participants 9,365 19,510 17,422 13,995 Chinese Researchers Invited FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Invited universities 6 6 6 6 Participating Researchers 6 6 6 6 Advertising Education Forum FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Participating universities 30 31 34 36 Participants 58 64 66 63 Advertising Seminars for Chinese Students FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Participating universities 22 19 25 Participating Students 1,100 1,200 500 78 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 D a t a S umm a r y Subsidiaries and Affiliates (As of March 31, 2015) Dentsu conducts its business together with its subsidiaries and affiliates. As of March 31, 2015, the Dentsu Group includes 706 consolidated subsidiaries and 59 affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method. Consolidated Subsidiaries Dentsu East Japan Inc. Cyber Communications Inc. Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Description of Business: Advertising in the Kanto Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% and Tohoku regions as well as Shizuoka and Description of Business: Internet-based Niigata prefectures advertising media rep Dentsu West Japan Inc. DA search & link Inc. Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 55.0% Description of Business: Advertising in the Equity Held Indirectly: 55.0% Chugoku region and Shikoku as well as Hyogo, Description of Business: Internet advertising Ishikawa, Fukui and Toyama prefectures Dentsu Tec Inc. Dentsu Kyushu Inc. Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Description of Business: Planning and Description of Business: Advertising in Kyushu production for sales promotions, events, commercials, print, etc. Dentsu Hokkaido Inc. Geographic Area: Japan Dentsu Casting and Entertainment Inc. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Description of Business: Advertising in Hokkaido Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Description of Business: Casting services related Dentsu Meitetsu Communications Inc.1 to advertising Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 50.0% Information Services International-Dentsu, Ltd. Description of Business: Total advertising Geographic Area: Japan services, specializing in promotion and OOH Equity Held by Dentsu: 61.9% Equity Held Indirectly: 0.0% Dentsu Ad-Gear Inc. Description of Business: Information systems Geographic Area: Japan building; software sales and support for various Equity Held by Dentsu: 66.7% business areas Description of Business: Advertising firm specializing in out-of-home media and store Dentsu Works Inc. promotions Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu Young & Rubicam Inc. Description of Business: Environment-related Geographic Area: Japan consulting, building management, real estate Equity Held by Dentsu: 51.0% services and business consulting services Description of Business: Advertising company established by Dentsu and Young & Rubicam Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. Geographic Area: United Kingdom Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Description of Business: Headquarters of the Dentsu Group’s global business, which oversees operations outside of Japan Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 79 S ubs idia r ie s a nd A f f ilia te s Consolidated Subsidiaries Dentsu Aegis UK Ltd. 360i LLC Geographic Area: United Kingdom Geographic Area: U.S.A. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% 360i advocates the fusion of search engine Dentsu Aegis Network France SAS marketing (SEM) and social marketing. It is Geographic Area: France highly regarded within the industry as a next Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% generation digital agency. Dentsu McGarry Bowen, LLC Beijing Dentsu Advertising Co., Ltd. Geographic Area: U.S.A. Geographic Area: China Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 70.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Description of Business: With more than 15 years Description of Business: Agency built around of history and experience in China, where the serving its clients and developing “Big, market is dynamically changing amidst rapid Organizing Ideas” that drive results for icon economic development, it holds a top position brands. Awarded 2009 and 2011 Agency of the in the Chinese advertising industry Year Mitchell Communication Group Ltd. Carat USA, Inc. Geographic Area: Australia Geographic Area: U.S.A. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% and 685 other companies 1. Although Dentsu’s ownership is 50% or less, the company is considered a subsidiary because Dentsu exerts effective control. Affiliated Companies Accounted for by the Equity Method Video Research Ltd. Kakaku.com, Inc. 2 Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 34.2% Equity Held by Dentsu: 15.6% Description of Business: TV audience rating Description of Business: An Internet media surveys, radio audience rating surveys and other company that operates the customer research procurement support site Kakaku.com, wordof-mouth restaurant and gourmet guide site D2C Inc. Tabelog, and other sites Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 46.0% and 56 other companies Equity Held Indirectly: 10.0% Description of Business: Advertising for i-mode 2. Although Dentsu's equity is less than 20%, because Dentsu can have significant impact on its business policy decisions, it is and other mobile platforms considered to be an affiliated company. 80 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 I ndependent Practitioner's Assurance Regarding the Independent Practitioner's Assurance Dentsu places importance on the third-party assurance process to improve the accuracy and objectivity of its Sustainability Report. To this end, the information provided in the Japanese version of this report has received the independent practitioner's assurance by Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC which is a memberfirm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. For further details about Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd., please refer to the following website: http://www.deloitte.com/jp/en/pages/about-deloitte/articles/teco/deloitte-teco.html Overview of the Independent Practitioner's Assurance Procedures Step1 Formulate plan Decide scope of assurance, items, procedures, dates, etc. Step2 Implement Implement procedures at Head Office and other offices (on-site inspection, analytic procedures, review of evidence, inspection of documents, questioning, etc.). Step3 Report Confirm results and findings. Step4 Check the final version of this report Follow up on findings from Step 3. Step5 Receive assurance report Receive an independent practitioner's assurance report Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 81 82 Dentsu Sustainability Report 2015 H ead O f f i ce: 1 8 1 , H ig a s h i s h i m b as h i , M i n ato k u, To k yo 1057001, J ap an
