UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 About the Danish Agro group Danish Agro is an international agricultural Danish Agro was founded in 1901, and is group, with 4,500 employees in 15 countries, now one of the biggest and most important mainly in Scandinavia and the Baltic Region. agribusiness groups in Northern Europe. We are an independent, cooperative company, The group mainly operates within the sale of owned by approx. 10,500 Danish farmers. feed mixes, ingredients and vitamin mixes, fertiliser, crop protection, seeds and energy, The group is a member of industry trade plus the purchase of crops from farmers. organisations DAKOFO, the Danish Grain and Feed Trade Association, and the Danish The group is also distributor of a number of Agriculture and Food Council. strong farm machinery brands, and runs an extensive chain of hobby and leisure retail This CSR report is legally required account of outlets. Danish Agro groups corporate social responsibility. 2 Caring for the environment, community and economy go hand in hand Danish Agro strongly believes that caring for With regard to the environment, we focus the environment and community should go on making as little impact as possible. A hand-in-hand with financial responsibility, number of energy-efficiency projects have and that social responsibility and caring for also been started, designed to benefit the the environment are therefore integrated environment and reduce the group’s overelements of the company’s business. Sustaiheads. These include implementing a numnable development of society is dependent ber of measures in our production units and on productive, competitive and efficient our transport fleet. business. We have also focused on ethical egg producThis report is the Danish Agro group’s second tion, and consequently entered in an agree‘Communication on Progress’ report. During ment with Dyrenes Beskyttelse, Denmark’s the past year, we have focused on activities animal protection society, concerning several that are directly relevant to our business and of our organic egg and meat products. the environment we are part of. Our CSR activities focus on those areas in which we have When it comes to our own business praexpertise and know-how. ctices, we oppose any form of corruption, including blackmail and bribery. We conduct We take a proactive approach to social and our commercial activities in accordance with environmental responsibility throughout the international, national and local laws and value chain based on the UN Global Comregulations relevant to our business. pact’s 10 principles. Our trading on the world market is on the Within social responsibility, we focus on a basis of free competition and in accordance personnel policy with the emphasis on safety with competition laws. Trade restrictions at work, training and a healthy working applied by the UN are always respected. environment. We want to engage in constructive and innovative dialogue with our We look forward to working further with the suppliers based on the principles of human Global Compact principles in the years to and labour rights. come. This includes focus on health and the working environment, and we do not tolerate forced or child labour. We started a trainee programme in 2015, via which we take direct responsibility for the youngsters on the programme, sharing our knowledge and giving them a good start in Christian Junker the agribusiness industry. CEO, Danish Agro 3 HUMAN RIGHTS ’Good Corporate Governance’ is a universal The UN principles about social term for a number of actions and initiatives responsibility and sustainability that form part of good management for large companies. The business should Danish Agro’s Supervisory Board works pro1. Support and respect the protection of actively to identify and upgrade its existing internationally-proclaimed human rights, competences. and Besides this, Danish Agro group has worked 2. Make sure that it is not complicit in with goals and policies regarding the genhuman rights abuses. der representation in management and the reporting of this. Danish Agro is in a male dominated field of business and is a relatively male dominated company. In real life, it is challenging Activities and results to attract women to seats in our board and management team. The group’s support and respect for international conventions on human rights are refleIn the current board of directors in Danish cted internally, including by our HR policies, Agro 9 members have been elected on regioand externally by the collaborative trading nal meetings and all of these are male. and activities we engage in internationally. Danish Agro supports diversity in our board, Danish Agro group subsidiary DAVA Foods, including the representation of gender. the market leader in the Nordic Region Diversity needs to be prioritized but should within fresh eggs, is the active co-sponsor of not prioritized at the expense of competena school project in Tanzania. cies. The project is designed to give underprivileIn 2013, the board of director’s in Danish ged children the chance to attend preschool, Agro has therefore decided that it will be an where they are provided with a daily meal, ambitious and realistic goal to increase the have a place to go and prepare them for representation of women to 15 % ( 1 woman) school. no later than 2018. The project is based in a very poor area with In regards of the field of business and the significant social problems, and will help current starting point, the board of directors children get into the positive and healthy see the goal as ambitious and realistic. routine of attending school, whilst physical and mental problems can be detected at an Our goal means that we need to attract a early stage. higher percentage of women to our board than the representation of female farmers in Danish Agro’s Supervisory Board worked Denmark. on applying the recommendations of the Committee for Good Corporate Governance, dated 6 May 2013, in 2015. 4 The Board of Directors will actively ensure Above mentioned ammendments grants the that more female candidates are identified possibility of electing women not only on the for the board while they also actively support regional meetings but also on the general the work in Landbrug & Fødevarer. After the assembly. This shows that diversity is a prigeneral assembly in 2018, new goals will be oritized issue among the owners of Danish identified. Agro. The goal of 15% women in the board only We have also worked proactively towards goes for members elected members – not our goal of appointing more women to the employees represented in the board. Supervisory Board and management. A policy to this end is already in place for the SuperviThe gender composition of the boards in the sory Board and a policy for the management Danish Agro group subsidiaries will happen team has also been finalised. so they support the overall policy and goals in the best possible way. Therefore the subsiThe aim of the policy is to increase the reprediary boards often consist of members from sentation of the underrepresented gender the group executive management in Danish in the management team of Danish Agro Agro a.m.b.a. along with representatives group, according to the Danish company law from the ultimate owners. § 139a, stk. 1, nr. 2. Danish Agro groups current representation of women in the manageThe diversity goal in Danish Agros board has ment team is like this: not yet been reached. At the general assembly in 2015 the below amendsments were 1. Group Executive Management 0% though decided. The amendments are adop2. Group Executive Management, ted to ensure that the right compositions of incl. support functions 0% skills are represented in the board. 3. Management in subsidiaries 22% Danish Agro is in a male dominated field of Following a recommendation from the business and the group, as of now, reflects board up to 2 board members can be electhis. It can be difficult to attract women ted directly on the general assembly – not to the board and management positions. via regional meetings. Danish Agro supports diversity also within gender representation. The two elected board members have to be members of Danish Agro, but it is not a requirement that the elected members Continues... represent a certain region. A nomination committee has been established consisting of 3-4 board members, where the chairman of the board is chairman. Based on discussions with interested board candidates, the nomination committee will put forward a recommendation to the board regarding the qualifications of the proposed candidate. Based on this, the suggested candidates by the nomination committee should be part of the invitations to the regional meetings. 5 Diversity needs to be prioritized, but should As an example it can be mentioned that at not be prioritized at the expense of compeleast one female candidate was selected tencies. for the final interview for a job in the group executive management. Below mentioned activities has been initialized in order to increase the representation of The share of female managers in Danish the underrepresented gender in our manaAgro group has increased from 20% in 2013 gement team: to 22% in 2015, which equals an increase of 10%. Ensuring that the HR policy of Danish Agro group promotes women and men’s equal career opportunities, including the procedures within hiring and recruiting. Policies To the extend it is possible, ensuring that Danish Agro supports and respects internatiboth male and female candidates are seleonally-recognised human rights throughout cted for both internal and external recruitits organisation. ment processes. That means that we support and respect Ensuring internal education and developinternational agreements on human rights. ment processes in Group Academy with We do not accept forced labour and/or child the purpose of developing both male and labour, and respect the right of our emplofemale management talents. yees as to choice of trade union and to take part in collective wage bargaining. Throughout the year we have worked with above mentioned policies through activities We also observe relevant standards concerin order to increase the representation of the ning working hours throughout the group. underrepresented gender in our manageFinally, we ensure that wages comply with ment team. the law and industry standards in those countries in which we are active. 6 LABOUR RIGHTS The new trainees started on 1 September, The UN principles about social and the objective is for them to undertake a responsibility and sustainability customised course focusing on either pigs, cattle or arable farming, in which they get to The business should explore every inch of the agribusiness industry. 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right The course will involve periods at the acato collective bargaining; demy and practical experience postings with the parent company and subsidiaries, focu4. Support the elimination of all forms sing on sales. of forced and compulsory labour; We believe that we have a responsibility to 5. Support the effective abolition of share our know-how and experience with child labour; and young people with an interest in the industry. 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Agricultural education courses give young people the essentials, which Danish Agro will then supplement with the knowledge our trainee programme will provide in terms of commercial skills and practical experience. Activities and results During the year, we also focused strongly on job satisfaction in the workplace, performing Danish Agro is a member of the GLS-A monthly HR surveys in which employees employer’s federation. Membership acts as could provide anonymous feedback on their a guarantee for decent conditions for the level of job satisfaction via an online questicompany’s employees, via collective and local onnaire. wage agreements. The questions they answered primarily conWe focused on implementing and integracerned stress, health, mood, creativity and ting the group’s overall HR policies througefficiency. hout our subsidiaries in 2015 to ensure consistency. We hired five youngsters in 2015 as part of the group’s new trainee programme, aimed at young people with an agricultural background interested in selling to the agribusiness industry. 7 Policies We will provide an exciting, attractive, effeWe offer competitive terms for our emploctive and involving workplace for all group yees and focus on creating a safe, healthy employees. working environment. Finally, we offer working conditions that comply with the law, That means that we will provide a multifacerelevant guidelines and the standards of the ted and inclusive workplace, offering opporUN Global Compact. tunity for everyone. Danish Agro has a working environment We will provide space for our employees to committee tasked with ensuring the best progress in their job and develop leaders able conditions for our employees. to inspire their personnel to achieve their best. The group also has a collaboration committee in which the management and emploWe will persistently strive to ensure efficient yees are represented, to support job satisfacworking processes throughout the group. tion and dialogue within the group. 8 ENVIRONMENT It serves as an overall guide for our work The UN principles about social within this area. It is the plan to develop responsibility and sustainability a more detailed policy for Danish Agro’s environmental and climate work in 2016. The business should As an example of how Danish Agro tries to 7. Support a precautionary approach to diminish our impact on the climate, our environmental challenges; project within energy-efficiency should be mentioned. It is designed to gather details of 8. Undertake initiatives to promote the group’s energy supplies, and to find ways greater environmental responsibility; of optimising and streamlining consumption and to the benefit of the environment and our overheads. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Analysis of the group’s current energy-eftechnologies. ficiency status was conducted by certified energy consultants, and the report will be presented on 1 March 2016. The report will contain an action plan for energy-efficiency measures over the next few years. Activities and results The project complies with the EU’s requireThe Danish Agro group applies consistent ment that large companies must undertake focus to its impact on the environment. This mandatory energy audits to identify possible is particularly true of the immediate area in energy savings. which we are located. Within transport, Danish Agro has bought We focus strongly on having the most effiten new 7 axle trucks that can carry approx. cient logistics setup possible, to reduce 15% more goods at a time than 6 axle trucks. unnecessary transport by road and sea. The new trucks only use between 1-5% extra The group is focusing generally on the fuel per kilometre and given that they carry implementation of ISO 14001 Environmental more, help save the environment and cut Management Certification. group overheads. 52 out of 110 trucks in Danish Agro’s fleet are now 7 axle, and we Certification systematises planning, control plan to phase out the 6 axle models progresand evaluation of environmental improvesively. ments, and will benefit the environment, customers and the business. Danish Agro invested in the expansion of production at Scanola, its subsidiary speCustomers will be guaranteed greater transcialising in processing rapeseed, with the parency for environmental aspects of our objective of achieving processing capacity of production processes. 285,000 tons p.a. Danish Agro has an overall policy on our environmental and climate footprint, which Continues... is described on both our Danish and International website. 9 A further 50,000 tons of capacity was added. This is a method that has been used for years Expansion also means lower energy costs in the industry, but now discontinued by due to the installation of new presses and DAVA Foods and replaced by the breeding ‘conditioners’ that heat and dry the seeds. programme for organic male chicks. Once the new production facilities are fully Hedegaard Foods is studying the possibility implemented, we expect a cut of around of slaughtering, processing and sale of orga1,300 mW in energy consumption, and a nic chicken meat. In common with organic further cut of around 3,100 mW for steam eggs, the products can be stamped as approproduction. ved by Dyrenes Beskyttelse. Our subsidiary DAVA Foods, the biggest egg producer in the Nordic Region, launched organic chicken products and eggs stamped Policies with the approval of Dyrenes Beskyttelse, Denmark’s animal protection society. Danish Agro wants to reduce its impact on the environment as much as possible, not Sales and interest in organic foods have risen least within the areas in which we are locarapidly in recent years, which is why DAVA ted. Foods has set a highly ambitious target of generating 50% of its turnover from organic That means that we promote sustainable products by 2020. processes within the group, and are in constant dialogue with stakeholders on environThis vision for the future has already resulted mental issues. in the breeding of organic male chicks and the sale of the approved eggs. We focus on saving energy and reducing consumption of materials by constantly moniDyrenes Beskyttelse has consistently criticitoring and optimising the way we operate. sed the practice of separating male chicks We comply with all relevant legislation and immediately after hatching, whereupon they requirements, and take a proactive approach are gassed and used for animal feed. to the principles of the UN Global Compact. 10 ANTI CORRUPTION The UN principles about social Policies responsibility and sustainability Integrity is in focus in every aspect of our The business should business. 10. Work against corruption in all its That means that we set high standards of forms, including extortion and commercial ethics throughout the value bribery. chain and the group. We tackle dilemmas according to our values, and strive for transparency in our commercial decisions and practices. We abide by the law and adopt a proactive approach to the Activities and results principles of sustainability in the UN Global Compact. Danish Agro was given the green light to revise the constitution of two of its subsidiaries, Hedegaard and DLA Agro, both of which had been subject to voting restrictions. Removing this restriction makes these two companies full members of the group, creating a number of synergies but ensuring that the employees do not unintentionally infringe competition legislation. The Danish Agro group has a fixed set of internal competition rules to be followed by all our employees at all times. They are designed to ensure that our employees abide by the law in Denmark and the corresponding national laws in the countries in which we operate. The objective of such laws is to protect free enterprise in a healthy, competitive economy, which is the basis of Danish Agro’s business. Danish Agro will not accept unethical business practices. 11 Danish Agro a.m.b.a. Køgevej 55 DK-4653 Karise Tlf. +45 7215 8000 mail@danishagro.dk www.danishagro.dk
