REC’s Commitment in Support of UNGC Programme Rural Electrification Corporation Limited (REC) occupies a key position as one of the leading Public Financial Institutions – non-banking Financial Company (NBFC) in the Power Infrastructure value chain in the Country. REC has a niche role in implementing the Government of India's plans for the growth of Power Sector with special focus on Rural Electrification. REC finances all segments of Power Sector i.e. Generation, Transmission and Distribution throughout the Country. REC acknowledges and reiterates its adherence to the Ten Principles proposed by the Global Compact of the United Nations. We are committed to such adherence and look forward to leverage within our Organization and its Subsidiaries, the actions that such principles impress for. These principles are incorporated in our Organizational policies on different areas which are modified with the emergence of changing priorities of the Organisation, Govt. of India and demands of the Socio Economic demographics of the Country, within the law of the Land from time to time and we seek the direction from these policies while discharging the issues mentioned above. REC also engages itself in various Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability initiatives. We in REC have taken measures to accommodate the principles of Human Rights, Labour Practices, Environment Protection and Corruption in Organization’s policy as a part of identifying ourselves with best business practices. Further in this direction, REC in its Annual Disclosure Report/Annual Report also puts a feature on Business Responsibility Report (BRR) every year. With the Government of India focus to harness and promote Renewable Energy especially Solar Energy, REC shall endeavor to play an active role, towards our concern for clean and green environment. REC is a Joint Venture partner in ‘Energy Efficiency Services Limited’ along with other PSU Organizations, the remit of which is to provide energy efficient solutions in electricity usage. One of the notable effort is provision of LED bulbs at subsidized rates throughout the Country. As a Subsidiary of REC, the REC Transmission Projects Company Limited (RECTPCL) and REC Power Development Company Limited (REC PDCL) are playing an active role in the strengthening and augmentation of Power evacuation and Distribution system in the Country. In terms of performance and MoU signed with Govt. of India for the Fiscal 2013-14, REC has been rated Excellent for the 21st year in succession. REC is also expected to be rated Excellent for the Fiscal 2014-15 also. REC is the Nodal Agency appointed by Govt. of India for Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDUGJY), a flagship scheme of the Govt. for 100% Village Electrification across the Country by May 2018. The programmes undertaken by REC identify with the philosophy of Global Compact such that from the very beginning its efforts are directed towards improvement in living standards of village folk through village electrification. The programmes help in poverty reduction, income generation opportunity, better health and sanitation, education, increased productivity and improved living conditions in the rural areas. We believe that adherence to the above principles would strengthen the Organisation’s response for future environmental challenges and continue to commit ourselves with the standards of the Ten Principles of Global Compact in future also.
