2016 KOMSCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Connecting Trust, Creating Value About This Report Reporting Framework This Report has been prepared in accordance with the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which is the global sustainability reporting standard, and satisfied with the requirements of the ‘Core Option’. The quantitative data have been calculated based on the G4 Protocol of GRI. Undefined data in the Protocol have been written in accordance with our own management standard. These data are described in the GRI Index and CSR Quantitative Performance reporting pages in this Report. Reporting Period Qualitative contents in this Report encompassed our activities and performances from January 1st, 2015 to December 31st, 2015. We also included some activities up to October 2016. Quantitative data have been reported for three years’ performances (2013~2015) for effective comparison of the performance trends. Reporting Scope and Boundary This Report includes all activities and performances covering the Head Office, Plants and subsidiaries. Some contents that could not acquire supporting data enough are marked with an asterisk. Financial performances were written in accordance with K-IFRS, based on the end of December, 2015. Assurances The financial information in this Report was assured by Samjong KPMG LLC, an independent accounting firm. And the nonfinancial information was assured by the Korean Foundation for Quality, a third-party assurance, in accordance with AA1000AS (2008), in order to secure accuracy, objectivity and reliability. 2016 KOMSCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Contents 01 Overview 02 04 CEO Message  015-2016 KOMSCO Sustainability 2 04 KOMSCO’s Value Creating for Stakeholders 26 32 Issue 1. Company : Establishing Future Growth Drivers Issue 2. Employee : Creating Employees’ Value Highlight 40 Issue 3. Supply Chain : Establishing ‌ Mutual Growth Culture  with Our Suppliers 46 Issue 4. Community : Building Trust with Local Communities 52 Issue 5. Customer : Realizing Customer Satisfaction Management 58 Issue 6. Environment : Realizing ‌ Environmental-friendly Management 02 Business Overview 06 08 KOMSCO’s Introduction KOMSCO’s Past & Future 05 KOMSCO’s Sustainability Governance 66 67 Sustainability Promotion System Risk Management 10 KOMSCO’s Business 68 Corporate Governance  70 Business Ethics 74 Business and Human Rights 03 Stakeholders Engagement 18 Definition ‌ of Our Stakeholders and Communication 06 KOMSCO’s Sustainability Performance 80 84 Strengthening ‌ GKD’s Sustainability Competitiveness CSR Quantitative Performances of KOMSCO 20 Stakeholder Interviews 22 Materiality Assessment Appendix 88 GRI G4 Index 90 KOMSCO’s Human Rights Declaration 91 UNGC 92 Independent Assurance Statement 94 External Awards and Recognitions 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report CEO Message Dear Respected Stakeholders, It is my pleasure to greet all of our stakeholders through 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report. In 1951, KOMSCO started our business with responsibilities in steadfast manufacturing and supplying of national security products, such as banknotes and securities. Since then we have diversified our business to ID industry, security papers and security printing while trying to do our public responsibilities as a state-own company. KOMSCO has declared 2016 as “the first step of next growth” to become a ‘Global Top 5 Minting & Security Company’ based on our 65 years of experience in forgery and alteration prevention technologies. And we have done our best efforts to create sustainable values and realize our social responsibilities. First, we have created future values based on the advanced technologies and trust. KOMSCO has created values of ‘trust’ in our society by not only manufacturing banknotes but also providing various security products based on our global top level of forgery and alteration prevention technologies. In the future, we will establish ‘KOMSCO Trust Platform’ to preemptively promote next generation public security service businesses such as Trusted Service Manager (TSM), block chain and others. Second, we are creating environmental values as a green state-own company. Under the goal of ‘Realizing an Environment-friendly Green Company’, we have responded to climate change through proactive greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction activities. Also, to minimize our environmental impact in local communities, we have carefully managed waste water, hazardous chemical substances, wastes, and other materials. We have been acknowledged as a leading stateown company practicing environmental management, by winning awards of outstanding institution for implementing GHG Target Management System in public sector for five consecutive years. Third, we have created social values for local community, customer and supplier. KOMSCO has been supporting youth, the future leaders, through voluntary education programs that utilize a feature of minting company and contributing to local community through sharing hope activities. In addition, we have provided the best value to customers through company-wide quality management, customer-oriented products and services, thorough information and security management. Moreover, we have practiced mutual growth activities such as public procurement of SME products, cooperation and support for technology development and others. 02 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance We will do our best to create new values based on trust of the people. Fourth, we have fostered excellent talents and have been growing together with them. KOMSCO has established human resources management and talent development system, which is connected to the business goals and characteristics of the company, to foster global top level talents. We also have built family-friendly and open communicative corporate culture. Furthermore, we have tried to embed people prioritized culture in the organizations by establishing human rights management strategy. We will do our best efforts to create new values based on trust of the people and efforts above mentioned. We will expect your continuous interest and support for KOMSCO. Thank you very much. November 2016 Korea Minting, Security Printing and ID Card Operating Corp. CEO Hwa-dong Kim 03 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report 2015-2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Highlight First export of Resident Card to the Kyrgyzstan President Award for the 14 Consecutive Year in the Republic National Quality Circle Contest KOMSCO concluded a contract worth KRW 7.6 billion to build KOMSCO is actively engaging in quality circle activities to establish a electronic resident card supply and issuing system in the Kyrgyz corporate culture of quality first. We have been honored to receive Republic with KOICA in 2016, and it was the first case exporting the Presidential Award in the National Quality Circle Contest for national ID cards in our history. In addition, in 2016, the company 14 consecutive years from 2003 to 2016 thanks to the voluntary achieved total overseas sales of KRW 49.3 billion in 11 countries. quality innovation activities of our employees. In 2014, we have been Since our first export in 1970, it has continuously improved our selected as an excellent company for quality competitiveness for 10 global competitiveness and export performance. consecutive years, and we devoted ourselves to the Hall of Fame. In this way, we are realizing the value of quality first. Holding Explanatory fair of New Technology for Receiving Commendation from the Ministry of Mutual Growth with SMEs Employment and Labor for Rationalizing LaborManagement Relations Since 2014, KOMSCO has held Explanatory fair of new technology every year and has shared the most advanced anti-counterfeiting KOMSCO was awarded the Ministry of Employment and Labor technology with the private sector. Through this, we prevented the Ministers Award for ‘Rationalization of Public-sector Laborinfringement of intellectual property rights and damages caused Management Relations’ in recognition of the sincere implementation by counterfeit products, and we created collaboration and business of the Ministry of Employment and Labors government policy opportunities with SMEs that utilize our technologies. As a result, and efforts to settle rational labor-management relations. In we contributed to the mutual growth of SMEs through awarding of 2014, the labor-management agreement on the normalization 5 technology grants and 8 free technology transfers in 2015. of labor management was made, and in 2015, we introduced a wage peak system based on the labor-management agreement. Similarly, KOMSCO has been pursuing cooperative and productive relationships between labor and management for the past 17 years. 04 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Receiving Commendation from the Ministry of Gender Receiving Commendation from the Prime Minister Equality and Family for Creating a Family-friendly Culture for Public Procurement from SMEs KOMSCO was selected as an ‘Excellence Institution for Creating At the ‘2016 Public Purchase Promotion Contest’ hosted by the Small Family-friendly Social Culture’ at the family month event in 2015 and Medium Business Administration, KOMSCO won the prime minister and was awarded a commendation from the Minister of Gender prize of public procurement excellent organization and received the Equality and Family. We provide cultural and institutional support commendation of the Minister of Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy for employees to keep work-life balance by operating flexible for three consecutive years. We have made various efforts to purchase work system and family care leave system and operating various SME products and support their sales channels. In addition, we have maternity protection programs and childcare facilities. contributed to the win-win economic development by increasing the purchases of small and medium business products by more than 90% for three consecutive years. Receiving Accreditation of Excellent Institution by Accredited as an Excellent Institution for Energy Donation for Education and Commendation from Target Management in the Public Sector the Minister of the Ministry of Education In October 2016, KOMSCO received the institutional award in In 2015, KOMSCO was accredited as ‘Excellent Donation for Education the ‘2015 Public Institutional Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Institute’ from the Ministry of Education and Korean Foundation for the Management Performance Report’ hosted by the Ministry of Advancement of Science & Creativity and received the Deputy Prime Environment for five consecutive years, it was selected as an Minister and Minister of Educations Award for the free semester system. excellent public institution to reduce GHG emissions. We are As a representative social contribution activity, KOMSCO promotes continuing our efforts to reduce GHG emissions as a state-own educational donation activities that reflect the characteristics of the corporation by effectively reducing the emissions by 36.9%, this was money manufacturing industry such as ‘people making money, career, achieved from running efficient operation of biomass boilers and and job lectures’, providing opportunities for young people to explore energy conservation campaigns throughout the company. their careers and making good currency culture through currency economy education. 05 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report KOMSCO’s KOMSCO, a World’s Leading Minting and Security Company Introduction The Korea Minting, Security Printing & ID Card Operating Corporation (KOMSCO), a state-own company of the Republic of Korea, was established under『the Korea Minting and Security Printing Corporation Act』 for the purpose of contributing to national economic development by manufacturing banknotes, coins, national and public bonds, marketable securities, and producing special products to be used by central and local governments, and conducting related business. Company Overview (As of the end of December 2015) Corporate Korea Minting, Security Printing & ID Card Total Assets KRW 378.9 billion Name Corporation CEO Hwa-dong Kim Sales KRW 462.4 billion Competent Operating Ministry of Strategy and Finance KRW 7 billion Authority Profit Foundation Korea Minting and Security Printing Corporation Act Number of 1,361 (based on full-time employee) Law (Law No. 215: 1951. 09. 02). Employees Foundation Head Office (Gajeong-dong) 80-67, Gwahak-ro, Yuseong-gu, 1951.10.01 Date Location Daejeon, Republic of Korea Organization Chart 6 Executives, 3 Plants, 1 Institute, 11 Departments, 13 Offices and 4 Groups CEO Auditor Audit Office Secretary Office Management Technology Integrity Audit Team Audit Team Strategy Team Domestic Technology & Overseas Planning Director General Affairs Director Business Director Business Director Monetary Plant Paper Plant ID Plant Technology Research Institute Company Timeline Oct. 1951 Jan. 1983 Oct. 1993 Established KOMSCO in Opened Buyeo minting KOMSCO hosted the 1st temporary capital Busan, plant (moved paper international conference, with the government making facility from the ‘The 15th Pacific Bank subsidy Daejeon minting plant) Printing Executive Meeting’ Jul. 1953 Apr. 1973 Dec. 1987 Jul. 2007 With the signing of the Moved the Head office to Moved the head office Founded ID Plant in armistice agreement, the Daejeon city and Technology Research Daedeok Techno Valley government moved to Institute to Daedeok Complex Seoul and so did the Head Innopolis office of KOMSCO 1951 2010s Establishment Becoming 1950s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s of KOMSCO a global stateBuilt the foundation Commitment for Challenges to Overcoming difficulties State-own corporation that with competitiveness own corporation for growth innovation the world builds ‘trust’ to the nation Oct. 1964 Nov. 1974 Apr. 1988 Jan. 1999 Nov. 2011 Moved Busan printing Opened Daejeon minting Opened Okcheon Consolidated Okcheon Celebrated 60th plant to Deajeon plant (printing, paper minting plant (closed minting plant to anniversary of making) Daejeon minting plant) Gyeongsan minting plant foundation, Held (unified printing facility) 2nd Korea Money Fair Jan. 1975 Jun. 1988 Opened Gyeongsan Opened Currency Oct. 2016 minting plant Museum, Korea’s first Celebrated 65th (printing, coinage) museum of anniversary of monetary culture foundation 06 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance KOMSCO Vision and Strategy KOMSCO has established and is promoting Vision 2024’ in order to become a ‘Global Top 5 Minting & Security Company’. Our specific management plans to achieve our vision are Advancing core business; Fostering future growth business; Securing leading technologies; and Innovating the organization. We are implementing 12 strategies based on three core values: ‘Creative Innovation’, ‘Sustainable Management’ and ‘Unity and Harmony’. Mission “We realize belief and value with the world’s top forgery/alteration prevention technology” Vision Global Top 5 Minting & Security Company Fostering Securing Advancing Innovating the Future Growth Leading Core Business Organization Management Plans Business Technology (Strategic Goals) 1 27 150 Sales Future businesses ratio Number of intellectual 500 Labor productivity property applications KRW trillion % Level up to % More than ('15~'24) (compared with current level) Strategic Tasks 01 04 07 10 Completing Transforming production Securing future Advancing performance basic business quality system leading technologies responsibility based organization 02 05 08 11 Expanding Securing global Advancing forgery/alteration Strengthening creative ID business competitiveness prevention technologies organizational capacity 03 06 09 12 Renovating production Diversifying Globalizing Completing social quality system export R&D capacity responsibility 2 3 1 (2019~2021) Achieving KRW 700 billion in sales with sustainable (2022~2024) growth (2021) (2016~2018) Realization of Reformation based a Global Top 5 Minting & on basic business Security Company stabilization (sales of KRW 1 trillion in 2024) KOMSCO Strategy Roadmap KOMSCO plans to continue to grow by re-leaping based on the stabilization of our basic business. Through this, we will become a Global Top 5 Minting & Security Company. 07 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report KOMSCO’s Changes in Public Roles and Core Competencies of KOMSCO Past & Future KOMSCO not only supplies various security products based on the technology for preventing monetary counterfeiting, but also focuses on securing new capabilities for the future. Especially, in the era of 4th Industrial Revolution, which means the transition to the hyper-connected intelligence society, we declare ‘Public Authenticity’ which protects public interest and value as the future core competence, and realize it by securing distinguished capabilities across all industries, including IoT (Internet of Things) and future finance. Meaning of Public Authenticity The role of KOMSCO is to provide various solutions that contribute to the national economic development in the public sector. The reality of the ability to ‘contribute to the national economic development’ and ‘various solutions’ provided to the government is that public ‘sincerity’, truthfulness’, public authenticity’ don’t allow a chance that ‘products and services with KOMSCO’s involvement cannot be fake’. Considering that a substantial part of the public sector, which requires a guarantee and protection of real, is transformed into information, Public Authenticity which is our core competence can be defined as follows. Public Authenticity: the ability to protect the physical objects, characteristics of information, structure, content and context from being forged or tampered with, and to certify and make trust of the above for public interest and value. Changes in Core Competence by Age If the firstand second-generation core competencies of KOMSCO were based on facility, technology and manufacturing, the third generation core competency, which is public authenticity, focuses on the overall and comprehensive role of building ‘public trust’. In addition, the distinguished competencies that enable each core competency to be developed are expanded into TSM, block chain, biometric information application technologies, and nanotechnology in special manufacturing technologies and element technologies of culture, systems and processes as we are fundamentally a security company. Public Role & Tech. Evolution Exclusive currency Manufacture of multiRealization of tangible and Public Role manufacturer in Korea sector security products intangible public authenticity Money manufacturing Forgery and alteration Public authenticity Core Competency competency prevention technology Banknote paper manufacturing facility, Special ink, specific wavelength TSM, block chain, biometric special printing facility, establishment of response, security paper, information application Distinguished coin manufacturing facility, strengthening product diversification COS, technologies, nanotechnology, Competency production quality capability cotton pulp application optically variable element 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 1st Generation 2nd Generation Money manufacturing competency Forgery and alteration 3rd Generation prevention technology Public authenticity 08 Business Stakeholders KOMSCOs KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCOs KOMSCO’s KOMSCOs KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance History of Forgery and Alteration Prevention Technologies In order to prevent the possibility of forgery and alteration of products, KOMSCO has continuously accumulated anti-counterfeiting technology for the past 65 years. Since the establishment of the Technology Research Institute in 1967, we went through ‘Foundation establishment era’ when we established technology for stable production and supply of products, and ‘technological self-reliance era’ when we secured security elements and technology to prevent forgery and alteration, and are now entering ‘advancement of technology’ when we are creating new business through strengthening security product technology and commercializing technology. In recent years, we are developing new growth engines by developing ‘HiddenQR’, ‘Smartsee’ which are smart patterns for smart devices, and security micro SD which can be used to block illegal manipulation of gas pump. In the future, we will contribute to build a transparent trust society by securing the best technology for preventing forgery and alteration at the global level, preventing damages to citizens and businesses caused by forgery and alteration, and preventing various crimes and corruptions in advance. 1967~1989 1990~1999 2000~ Foundation Technological Advancement of Establishment Era Self-reliance Era Technology Creation of new businesses by strengthening core Securement of security elements and security products and commercializing technology Establishment of technology for stable technology for the prevention of forgery such as developing new KRW 50,000 banknote, production and supply of products such and alteration such as anti-counterfeiting commercializing self-developed security material and as high-depth intaglio ink, high-speed element for a color copier, computer bill recognition module, creating NID card with selflithographic ink, window thread paper, and graphic design application technology, developed COS technology, and developing antipaper surface treatment technology diversification of security products, and counterfeiting technology for IT convergence including development of high quality technology manufacturing of e-Passport Establishment of Move to Change organization Operation of Information Technology Technology Transfer of Explanatory Technology Research Daedeok Research of Research Institute Research Team to Concentrate on Intellectual Property Fair of New Institute Complex (Division→Department) ID‧IT Technology Development Rights for the First Time Technology 1967 1987 1991 1999 2001 2010 2014~15 • ‌Development of manufacturing technology for optically variable pigment and new security material • Development of prefabricated combi card manufacturing technology • Development of NID card and operating system • Development ‌ of anti-counterfeiting element for color • Development of biometric e-Passport copiers • Development of bill validation module and authenticator • Development ‌ of computer graphic design application • ‌Development of new banknotes (3 models) and KRW 50,000 banknote • Development of high-depth intaglio ink technology • ‌Acquisition of openplatform COS and native COS CC certification • Development of high speed lithographic ink • ‌Diversification of security products and development (domestic and overseas) • Standardization of printing plate properties of advanced technology • ‌Development of security patterns for smart device recognition • ‌Development of paper with window thread • Development of card and IT related technology (Smartsee, HiddenQR) insertion • ‌Strengthening anti-counterfeiting and alteration • Development of metallic intaglio ink • Development ‌ of paper surface treatment technology and securing competitive advantage • ‌Development of security micro-SD (for preventing illegal operation of technology technology gas pump) 09 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Business Growth Path Business Since the foundation in 1951, KOMSCO has faithfully fulfilled its purpose of foundation. We are expanding our business by utilizing accumulated forgery and alteration prevention technology, and are diversifying in terms of function. In particular, designated as the exclusive agency for the manufacturing and issuance of e-Passport in 2007, and we have been fostering new growth driver business centering on ID business. As a result of analyzing the 5-year average of sales structure by business, the banknote and mint business, which is the core business sector, accounts for 52% of sales. Security printing and security paper business accounts for 18%, and ID and future business does for 30%. Banknote Security Printing Security Paper Mint ID Future Business 1951 ~ 1965 1966 ~ 1998 1999 ~ 2015 Banknotes export (1978~1995) Banknotes (1952~) Certificate stamps export (1970~1983) Banknotes export to Peru (2013) Lottery tickets (1951~), Postcards (1952~), Tram tickets (1953~) Gift vouchers (1999~), Supply of strengthened check for forgery/alteration prevention (2013~) Stamps (1952~), Checks (1952~), Certificate stamps (1956~) Stamp paper (1964), Certificate paper (1965), ID card paper (1968) Banknote paper (1959~) Check paper (1970~), Check paper export (1985~) Indian banknote paper (2015~) Coins (1968) Medals (1975~), Badges (1985~), Metal crafts (2008), Gold bar sales expansion (2013~) Coins (1966~), Coins export (1973~), Commemorative coins export (1975~), Medals export (1987~) Passports (1968~2008), ID cards (1968~1998) New ID cards (1999~), e-Passports (2008) System (1999~), Public ID (2007~), NID export (2007~) Window thread export (1998) Security ink export (2004~), Automation equipment (2009~) Introduction of TSM system (2014~) Precious metal quality certification agency (2014~) 10 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance 30 % s se nes i B us ID a nd Future Fu tu Business re Banknote nal Businesses ventio Con ID sic KOMSCO Ba Business Portfolio Security Paper 70% Mint Security Printing 22 % 13 % 5% 30 % 20 % 10 % Banknote Security Printing Security Paper Mint Identification Future Business Business Business Business Business Business Banknotes Checks Domestic security paper Domestic coins e-Passport TSM and etc. Commemorative Gift vouchers Overseas security paper Commemorative coins Identification card Precious metal quality banknotes Overseas banknotes Stamps GKD cotton pulp Special stamping PublicㆍGeneral ID Brand protection Securities, Bond, Medal System and etc. Security material Certificate stamp Overseas coins Overseas ID Technology revenue 11 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report KOMSCO’s Banknotes as an important medium of national economic flows are currently being issued in four types; thousand, five thousand, ten thousand, and fifty thousand KRW. The entire process from printing, inspection and completion Business is carried out with thorough security and quality check at the Monetary Plant that has the latest printing facilities. In recent years, we have prepared ways to improve the current banknotes for the issuance of next-generation banknotes. We are also strengthening anti-counterfeiting capabilities at the global level by expanding anticounterfeiting campaigns and collaborating with related organizations. In addition, we have improved various systems to meet customer needs such as introducing commemorative monetary sales throughout the year, and laid the foundation for growth of currency culture industry by establishing a strategy to revitalize memorial money. Com Co mem ora yp es te his m t to te ric no al nk e em cifi c Ban m pe ba rs s kn knote ly c so ote urr nt en ve t4 s Ban sup p ve ati Manufacture and or y issuing themed money Banknote Business ple b peo Domestic and overseas banknote business te ts ch A ke no ccum ew mar log n u y fo lation nd te r va of man olo gy a nkno ufac turing techn ba riou s s ban rsea knotes by entering ove Oversea s Banknotes 12 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance By advanced printing facilities and technologies, KOMSCO has manufactured and supplied domestic banknotes, and marketable securities such as checks and gift certificates, all of which are protected against forgery and alteration at the highest level. We also export overseas banknotes and special security printing products. We make checks and gift certificates by applying world-class currency making technology and advanced security elements. In particular, to prevent forgery and alteration of checks, we insert a watermark and a offset latent image so that it cannot be reproduced by a color copying machine. In addition, we manufacture and supply certificate stamps such as government revenue stamps, revenue stamps from the Supreme Court and the Office of Education, bonds such as national housing bonds, small and medium-sized business financial bonds, certificates of deposit, and stamps with various kinds of special elements such as fragrant stamps and luminous stamps. ned tren gthe Replacing Gif eat ly s ion impo rts tC ks ith gr n prev er ent by sec ur s w atio ing ck lter te Manufa tes a c cturi ness etitive d ng omp i ca elem and s u Ch ce c tif ent s fo pply pri r fo ing ec nd ya rge c ry he og an ol hn Security Printing Printing with security elements and related businesses etc. os p it, su ce Ce nd p rti te ga am fic Sta rti rin e st ate a mp St ctu fic ufa iv sta rat mp a Man mo s and me pl com s a ying nd fd ep m reg es o ps perso ular sta tifi cat nd, o na mp cer l st s, s, B es, am ond ps Bank b i urit Sec 13 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report KOMSCO’s KOMSCO uses high quality cotton fiber to produce special security paper products with anti-counterfeiting elements such as watermark and window thread. Security paper is used for confidential documents, Business certificates, applications, and official documents that require. It is also applied to banknotes, various printed products, check paper, e-Passport paper, and test reports. In addition, we have established a subsidiary in Uzbekistan that manufactures and sells cotton pulp, and actively expanded export business to all over the world. ents elem Exp rity o ov rtin cu se r) ers g ith e ea ba w pap sc n en l me ia P as ed by aper us Manufacturing and selling stic se rity p er ecu nizations Pa spe d s ting orga Ov (copy pro cia n pe a tect er d min aper pap l secu Do ap r n er, e p ks a r mi ity p ot n lita kn l ba a ry p Security Paper tra sp er ec Paper products and services with security elements rin si Secu ness gs bu ta ble ulp raw asp ma rse teria ove ls of b ting anknotes and promo GKD 14 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance KOMSCO produces six kinds of domestic coins and special coining products including high-quality commemorative coins, corporate promotional medals, and reproductions of cultural properties. Based on the accumulated coining technology and craftsmanship, we are actively expanding into overseas coining markets. Currently, six types of domestic coins (1, 5, 10, 50, 100, 500) are being issued, and KRW 1 and KRW 5 coins are provided only for the purpose of collecting coins. A commemorative coin is lawful currency of the Republic of Korea issued by the Bank of Korea to commemorate or celebrate national events and historical events with the people. In addition, we manufacture a variety of medals such as government commemoration medals, promotional medals and art medals. We also manufacture 12 types of medals including the Grand Order of Mugunwha for the government. s Ba oin ix types of Manufa C ctur ing dg tic plying s of Korea) comme ndat and es s e up ank ion ma sup ply om and s ins (B ter ial ing (M me ng co in ist d D se Ma nu and cu fa es r) rre ctu dg rio ba Inte nt ri ls/ ly u e da of th ry Mint Business Ma ins s of nufacturing and su an Metal coining products nt de Co r eve and services manufactured xpa related to majo ive by applying security ndi orat ng o elements versea Commem O ver s coin markets c e tiv sea ra s Coi mo ry ns me unt om o ng c the c pplyi nt oi erin ns g E Sta mp als ing med for ium natio prem nal eve nt, special series and Special Stamping 15 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report KOMSCO’s Based on decades of experience in manufacturing ID products, KOMSCO is producing world-class security ID products such as e-Passports, ID cards, and electronic civil servant ID cards. We also develop and Business manufacture ID cards, credit cards, and special ID cards with embedded MS*, IC*, and RF* using advanced forgery and alteration prevention technology. And by using latest RFID electronic access control system, we are making a safe and convenient world. Recently, in particular we are building a growth base by expanding the public ID business such as e-Passport and electronic civil servant ID cards. We are also concentrating on our business capacity by establishing a comprehensive plan for smooth execution of the next e-Passport business. In addition, we are striving to find new value-added businesses based on ID-source technology, such as COS solution business. *MS: Magnetic Strip *IC: Integrated Circuit *RF: Radio Frequency ID rts ssports a ffairs) Ca nd Man o ufa rd sp A ctu -Pa eign s Pas uing e ry of For (Min ring a eistr n iss ist y o d is d in f th su an ts (M e I in g c nt du e g Ma ID oth er p nufa ca rd s ass c rior) po turin rt pr o ID Business nd s a rds we Elec Identification with security es a lfa tr element, products for payment acc ID c re onic and related service business ith ca IDs c d w roni rds for p linke , al ublic o t lec ien ff i cials, Establishing a system m blic Syste ng e regis IDs Pu tration c t usi ards etc. operation managemen Est rt abl xpo ishin as e bas g mar erse e by ket leading and ov rds acquir ID ca ing core technology of Overseas IDs 16 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance KOMSCO actively fosters future businesses based on core competencies. In recent years, we are pursuing new businesses such as precious metal quality certification, brand protection, and test report papers and are seeking to transform our business structure. We are also pursuing Trusted Service Manager (TSM) and tobacco distribution management solutions. In addition, we are aggressively developing future technologies, securing the highest level of anti-counterfeiting technology in the world, and gathering corporate-wide capabilities to become a Global Top 5 Minting & Security Company. Security Material Tec n hn ctio olo ote gy Pr Re d ve an Developing and commercializing optically e o Br variable materials, nu gt bu Pro tin ion electromagneticsin m ri bu tect new e ot nt ro g sensitive materials, d R & sses ing Co nd p ucin tion gy ev D b ne ra o color shifting e lop pro y ut w bra trod alte hnol sy i in y/ c a materials and KO d b uc lizin e d by rger n te s it e M t g other security p inte SC ased s ness fo ntio ake uish Precio ro lle O’s Busi v e m ng t materials p c on e pr hich dist erfe i i ert tu us M y r al ure w to unt s igh eta co good Fut Adv a and ncing ts high new siness l s in bas ilver ba to gold ting u Crea ded b ervice Future Business ed o rm n ar e-ad ed S , cert the qu ket valu s Trust M) and i a tech fication lity ha TS suc ager ( ributio n nol prec ogy of New business that creates new values Man co dist ent c io met us toba anagem in connection with KOMSCO strategy m tion als solu Change in KOMSCO Role Digital Revolution Mobile Revolution Industrial Revolution (Appearance of Internet) (Appearance of Smartphone) Change in Currency Smart card (credit card, ID card) Smartphone (mobile security card (medium): SE equipped) Medium KOMSCO Applying forgery and alteration Applying forgery and alteration Applying forgery and alteration Mission protection element protection element for smartcard protection element for mobile card (medium) • ‌Securing technology such as • ‌Securing Chip Operating System • Applying ‌ existing smart card operating Technical hologram, window thread, (COS), and security and management system and management security Competence watermark and security ink technology technology to mobile environment • ‌Banknotes, coins, checks and • ‌e-Passports, electronic ID cards for • Promoting ‌ Trusted Service Manager gift certificates etc. public officials (TSM) business 17 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Definition of Our KOMSCO has defined our stakeholders in consideration with the institution establishment law and business characteristics. Based on values generating from each stakeholder group, we classified into five types Stakeholders and and manage the groups into Value Creating Group, Value Experiencing Group, Value Cooperating Group, Communication Value Sharing Group, and Value Evaluating Group. We identify major sustainability issues by operating different communication channels tailored to the characteristics of each stakeholder and continuously communicating with them. To become a sustainable company, we will continue to communicate actively with our stakeholders to build trust and do our responsibilities as a state-own company. Communication Channels Planning (Major channels) Monthly meeting, company portal website, training Department, AdminiBuilding and education, labor-management cooperative activities, seminars, debating event, and PC video stration department, Labor Cooperative Partnership conference call Relations Department (Online) • KOMSCO Sympathy Round • KOMSCO News 24 • Operation of KOMSCO page in SNS • Free board (anonymous board) • MOON for future (anonymous board) • CEO portal Value Creation (Employees, Labor union) • Salespersons’ room • R&D Areumteo Main agents of KOMSCO who produce KOMSCO main products and have (Offline) • Operation of extended management meeting duties to contribute to stabilize • Operation of corporate culture messenger group the national economy based on its • Labor-management meeting (upon request and monthly) establishment law. • Operation of Grievance Committee • Labor-management joint social contribution activities Department Stakeholder • Labor-management join workshop in charge classification • Business update presentation and forum • R&D sharing seminar • KOMSCO POPCORN Talk • KOMSCO 3.0 Leader Group Value Cooperation (Central & Local governments, National Assembly, The Bank of Korea) Political customers impacting on decision making of value creation Communication Channels Planning (Major channels) Public disclosure of business information, Department issue reports, business report (Online) • National Assembly Business Support System • Public Business Portal System Political Cooperation (Offline) • Operation ‌ of Forgery and Alteration Prevention Working Committee • Inviting related employees • Business Agreement • Business presentation session for assistants of Congressman of Strategy and Finance Committee • Holding a Policy forum 18 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Communication Channels Technology Depart(Major channels) Forum, presentation, workshop, ment, Public Relations & advertisement, homepage, SNS, Cooperation Department corporate newsletter (Online) • The ‌ Government 3.0 Information Disclosure Portal • KOMSCO Mutual Growth Online Channel Strengthening • Operating introduction page on Mutual Growth KOMSCO technology transfer • KOMSCO Future Vision PR channel (Offline) • Operating the Currency Museum • CEO led supplier workshops • SME Support Group Value Sharing • Mutual Growth Working Committee (Supplier, Local community, General public) • Junior Doctor Agents promoting win-win cooperation • Money manufacturing facility visit program through sharing and cooperating on • Publishing and distributing product brochure produced values • Explanatory fair of new technology • Social contribution contract with Publico • 1 company-1 village partnership Maintain Close Cooperation • Forgery and Alteration prevention technology forum and Information Disclosure for Both Sides Communication System for KOMSCO’s Value Evaluation (Media) Public Relations & Cooperation Stakeholders Department Agent Evaluating the level of enjoyment and contribution of the value Communication Channels (Major channels) Press release, thematic news article, journalist forum, and etc. (Online) • KOMSCO page in SNS Expanding (Offline) • Operating SNS Ambassador Sharing Network • Photo session Communication Channels (Major channels) CS activities, forum, site visit, Value Experience international conferences (Private companies, Overseas companies) (Online) • Operation of online shopping mall Business Department, (Offline) • Expanding overseas social contribution activities Major customers directly providing Overseas Business • Field visit programs tangible/intangible feedbacks of Department • Operation of product improvement council produced values • Participation in fairs and operation of exhibitions • Customer satisfaction survey • Exporting product presentation sessions • Visiting overseas customers • Visit domestic buyers 19 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Stakeholder Interviews KOMSCO must focus its capabilities on the development of futuristic payment instruments and financial security, and it must not be afraid of the future, but go on to become a sustainable corporate through bold innovation and response. Future Growth Driver Dr. Yong-rae Cho, Science and Technology Policy Institute Without the traditional currency, the dramatic changes in payment methods that are driven by bitcoin, credit card, and smartphone NFC will threaten the monetary business, which is the main business of KOMSCO. This is certainly a crisis factor for KOMSCO, but it can be a new opportunity. KOMSCO must overhaul its business portfolio and respond actively to internal and external issues based on the consensus of its employees. In this context, the fact that KOMSCO formed a separate strategy team for the future and conducted future social prediction analysis on payment and credit transactions is highly appreciated as a preemptive response to the future. In addition, KOMSCO is expected to maximize the synergy of the organization by exploring new growth items based on long-term technical competence in the security field such as currency production, banknotes and passports. In the future, it is important to enhance the vitality and efficiency of the organization by concentrating the organizational capacity on futuristic payment instruments and financial security, and re-organizing redundant or unnecessary businesses drastically. KOMSCO can achieve sustainable growth based on the dynamics of challenge and response by not being afraid of challenges for the future but by aggressively entering the global market and actively responding to it. The competitiveness of quality management can be achieved through the evolving quality circle activities. Quality Management Prof. Gang-in Lee, Jeonju University As the world is facing the challenges of environmental changes known as ‘cashless money battle’ and ‘Smart Factory’, active and swift response should be prioritized in terms of quality management. In the future, the concepts of defect and failure will be completely different, so it is expected that integrated monitoring of the industrial field, collection and analysis of actual data, management of human errors, and deviation of physical standards will be realized in real time utilizing the Internet of Things. For more than 10 years, KOMSCO has been acknowledged its quality management both internally and externally through winning presidential award for the national quality circle competition and acquiring ISO 9001 quality management certification. KOMSCO needs to revitalize its team-oriented quality circle activities as a tool to solve repeated problems on site and to promote innovation activities. By using the ideas from experts who have been working in the field for decades, when KOMSCO improves product quality, increases production, and reduces cost and expense, cost-effective innovation activities will be embedded in KOMSCO. KOMSCO will be able to secure the competitiveness of both quality management through the activities of quality circle that they have pursued so far and activities of team-centered quality circle that is different in dimension. Adaptation measures should be established and utilized in order to minimize the risks that may arise from climate change, such as heat waves and typhoons. Environment Oh-sang Kwon, Chairman ‌ of Daegu Gyeongbuk Environmental Engineers Association (Professor of Environment Department, Daegu Health College) A continuous increase in GHG emissions causes climate change, so that extreme weather events such as heat waves, heavy rains and typhoons are becoming more frequent. Hence, metropolitan councils in Korea have established “climate change measures” every five years to actively respond to the risks that may arise from climate change. It is necessary for KOMSCO to evaluate the health vulnerability caused by rising temperatures, heat waves and typhoons, and to find its own ways to cope with natural disasters. In particular, it must be prepared for disastrous situations caused by recent frequent earthquake and pay more attention to the health problems of field workers who are affected by summer weather events such as heat and typhoons. Moreover, as a leading state-own corporation of environmental issues, I recommend that KOMSCO analyze the impact of its business areas and products on the environment, proactively respond to them, and pay special attention to greenhouse gas reduction activities to cope with climate change. 20 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance KOMSCO will be able to be reborn as a top-class security corporation in the world when it cooperates rather than grow alone. Mutual Growth Director Chun-gi Lee, Gomundang Printing Inc. (Outsourcing Company) Gomundang Printing Inc. is working on the processing of gift certificates, which is one of the outsourced products of KOMSCO. We continue to cooperate with KOMSCO through development of new security technologies, proposal of ideas to expand and apply existing technology, and commercialization tests. KOMSCO regularly arranges communication sessions to listen to the opinions of its partners and strives to reflect or improve them in the course of its work. In particular, KOMSCO holds workshops on win-win cooperation to develop partnerships and constantly conduct monitoring through regular inspections and consultations. At the request of partners, it also provides necessary skills, lectures and training programs on the basis of mutual benefit. I believe that KOMSCO can become a top-class security company in the world if it keeps collaborating with partners in the future, as it is less difficult to moving forward together than alone. We will continue to search for sympathy and participatory social contribution activities in accordance with the characteristics of KOMSCO. Social Contribution Secretary General Kyung-sun Yoo, Daejeon Metropolitan City Volunteer Support Center In conjunction with local volunteer centers, KOMSCO is carrying out various sharing activities for neighbors with difficulties in local communities. First of all, it is carrying out volunteer activities such as free lunch, bathing service and welfare facility support for the elderly seniors through campaigns known as monthly donation “1% Sharing” and “Sharing-113 Movement” which means 3 hours’ volunteer service once in a month. In particular, they provide a delicious meal to local seniors by operating a meal car once a month. They also customized special wheelchairs for ramps and buses to support the disabled for easy boarding. In addition, they are making efforts to provide cultural benefits to the underprivileged by conducting various cultural events using their currency museum, In the future, I hope KOMSCO continues to promote activities to support the underprivileged and strengthen cooperation with local volunteer organizations to provide tailored social contribution activities that enable the underprivileged to grow their dreams and hopes. We hope that KOMSCO makes sustainable growths by raising customer satisfaction through quality management and customer-oriented management activities. Customer Satisfaction Sun-wha Lee, Homeplus Asset Management Team, Gift Certificate Part Homeplus is a customer who has been provided gift certificates from KOMSCO. Through this Report, we have gained a glimpse of various efforts what KOMSCO makes to improve product quality and customer satisfaction. First, gift certificates are used like cash in various places including our stores, so thorough quantity control and prevention of counterfeiting are important. In this regard, we have confidence in the products of KOMSCO, which is responsible for manufacturing currency of Korea. In addition, their sales representatives are working hard to provide customer-oriented products and services, such as supplying products that meet customers desired quality, technology and service level, and conducting customer satisfaction surveys after delivery. We hope that KOMSCO continues to be a corporation that provides the best value and service to customers and become a sustainable institution. 21 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Materiality Materiality Assessment Process Assessment KOMSCO 2016 Sustainability Report was written in accordance with ‘sustainability context’, ‘materiality’, ‘stakeholder inclusiveness’ and ‘completeness’, the principles of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the international sustainability reporting guidelines. In order to comply with the principles, we conducted analysis of sustainability international standards, benchmarking advanced companies, media research and stakeholder survey, and identified KOMSCO related sustainability issues based on the results. And then we prioritized the identified issues by conducting materiality assessment in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines to prioritize, and selected the final reporting issues. STEP 1 Structure of Issue Pool Media Research Benchmarking Advanced Companies  A total of 2,057 sustainability related news articles Sustainability reports published from overseas released from January 2014 to September 2016 advanced minting and security paper companies was extracted and categorized into positive were benchmarked to identify important industrial and negative issues by economy and business issues. 34 management, environment, and society. Issue Pool economy and business management, society, environment, employees Analysis of Sustainability International Standards Stakeholder Survey International standards such as GRI G4, UN Significant issue assessment survey of internal and Global Compact (UNGC), ISO 26000 (International external stakeholders, including employees, local Guidance for Social Responsibility), and Dow communities, suppliers, customers and etc., were Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) were analyzed to conducted and representatives of major stakeholder identify latest CSR trends and issues. groups were interviewed. STEP 2 Major Issue Assessment External stakeholders’ social concerns and business impacts regarding the 34 sustainability issues were analyzed and major issues were selected. Social Concern Business Impact External stakeholders’ social concerns regarding Based on CSR strategy, media research, and the issues were identified. In particular, how industrial issues, prioritized issues were assessed each issues impact to stakeholders’ activities and to identify connection between business strategy impact to their decision making were analyzed. and CSR issues, and business impact to the company. 22 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance STEP 3 Selecting Core Issues We set a materiality assessment matrix by integrating stakeholders’ social concerns and business impacts regarding the 34 issues derived from the issue pool. Core issue (High) Social Concern 6 Efforts to proliferate mutual growth culture Advancing forgery/alteration prevention technologies Securing quality competitiveness 2 1 Reinforcing corruption monitoring and anti-corruption activities Promoting differentiated social contribution 3 7 activities Investment and development Strengthening 8 of future businesses global 4 competitiveness and diversifying Strengthening enterprise risk export markets 9 management 10 Respect diversity and equality Responding to climate change 5 11 Enforcing talent development system through GHG reduction Major task (Medium) Potential issues (Low) Business Impact Results of Materiality Assessment Through the materiality assessment, we selected 11 core issues and wrote this Report regarding the issues. Reporting Boundaries No. Aspects Core Issues Reporting Contents Internal External Advancing forgery and alteration prevention • History of Forgery and Alteration Prevention Technologies 1 Added Aspect ● technologies • Issue 1. Establishing Future Growth Drivers 2 Product and Service Labeling Securing quality competitiveness ● • ‌Issue 5. Realizing Customer Satisfaction Management Promoting differentiated social • ‌Issue 4. Building Trust with Local Communities 3 Local Communities ● contribution activities • ‌Strengthening GKD’s Sustainability Competitiveness Strengthening global competitiveness and 4 Economic Performance ● • Issue 1. Establishing Future Growth Drivers diversifying export markets 5 Training and Education Enforcing talent development system ● • Issue 2. Creating Employees’ Value • ‌Issue 3. Establishing Mutual Growth Culture with Our 6 Procurement Practices Efforts to proliferate mutual growth culture ● Suppliers Reinforcing corruption monitoring and anti7 Anti-Corruption ● • Business Ethics corruption activities Investment and development of future 8 Added Aspect ● • Issue 1. Establishing Future Growth Drivers businesses 9 Added Aspect Strengthening enterprise risk management ● • Risk Management 10 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Respect diversity and equality ● • Issue 2. Creating Employees’ Value Responding to climate change through 11 Emissions ● • Issue 6. Realizing Environmental-friendly Management GHG reduction 23 KOMSCO’s Value Creating for Stakeholders Issue 1. Company  26 Establishing Future Growth Drivers Issue 2. Employee  32 Creating Employees’ Value Issue 3. Supply Chain 40 Establishing Mutual Growth Culture with Our Suppliers Issue 4. Community  46 Building Trust with Local Communities Issue 5. Customer  52 Realizing Customer Satisfaction Management Issue 6. Environment  58 Realizing Environmental-friendly Management 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report ISSUE 1 Company Establishing Future Growth Drivers Business Relevance & Importance 2015-2016 Performance Due to the reduced cash usage worldwide, the banknote segment, which is our main business segment, has been stagnant and faces net profit reduction. Therefore, KOMSCO needs to find businesses for our future profit other than relying on the banknote business so we can move forward before the ‘society without cash’ arrives. And we are standing on the precipice to explore new paradigm of public Winning Award of Prevention of Forgery responsibilities for state-own companies. As a hyper-connected Prime Minister on Performance Index society, where everything is connected by internet, the change of the Invention Day 1.273 (Excellent) IT paradigm is coming, therefore, we are required to forecast the demands of future markets and secure technical competitiveness that fits our nature of business. Thus, KOMSCO aims to contribute to improvement of the Korea’s competitiveness by not only Status of Intellectual strengthening our competitiveness in the global market by securing Property (accumulated) advanced technologies but also developing new markets. 776 of patent applied 585 of patent registered Our Approach Our Strategy KOMSCO has defined our vision as ‘KOMSCO, creating new value based on the trust of the people’, and has strived to realize ‘Public Authenticity’, which is the core competence of our future. In order to realize public authenticity, we are developing applied nanotechnology and promoting Trusted Service Manager (TSM) business. We are also building cooperation system with technology Establishing business foundation companies for securing block-chain technology, which will be a for future growth drivers dominant platform in the fields of Fintech and applied IT security. Furthermore, we are developing new growth drivers to enter into future security markets based on our outstanding technologies that we have built over the past 65 years. Strengthening global Strengthening competitiveness and technological diversifying exporting competitiveness markets Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Reinforcing Future Vision of KOMSCO Future Growth The hyper-connected society coming after the information era has been accelerating ‘Cashless society’ backed up by electronic payment means, such as mobile payment services. Therefore, KOMSCO has Driver defined our future growth driver as ‘public authenticity’ representing protection of the public benefits and values. Based on the vision, we’re now preparing to take a step toward accomplishing the future vision of ‘KOMSCO Trust Platform’. In order to lead the future, we’re trying to secure distinguishing capabilities including TSM, block-chain, and biometric information application technology, nano-optics‧color shifting technology and constructing KOMSCO Trust Platform based on these technologies. Connecting Trust, Creating Value Public Authenticity Public Security Service Capabilities to protect characteristics, (Electronic money, Next structures, contents, and contexts of physical generation identification) objects and information from counterfeiting or tampering, identify them, and secure their Application of Biometric KOMSCO Blockcredibility, with the purpose of the public Gold Business Information Trust Platform chain+ Passport benefits and values Special Ink Security Identification TSM Material Nano-optics, Color Shifting Connecting Trust, Creating Value  The future vision of KOMSCO is ‘KOMSCO, rity CO creating new value based on the trust of the cu S, Banknote se IT Coin ial /ID people’ ec nt gy Marketable Sp eme olo Special facility Method: Connecting trust of the people el chn for producing money Security Paper Securities te Outcome: Creating new values to the nation Security-oriented corporate culture and production system Public Authenticity Capability Preparing Foundation for Future Growth Driver Business Establishing Foundation of Sustainability for the Future ‘KOMSCO 2040’ future report was published in a way of considering how we respond to changes in future payment methods and whether our security technology and payment tools can provide safety and benefits for the people in the future. This report predicts comprehensive macro environment changes including politics and economy, discovers main issues influencing our future, and provides strategic subjects that can give ways to the public domain. In particular, we are paying attention to the changes in payment methods due to the development of information and communication technologies, including Internet of Things. We have also selected key tasks to develop various authentication, settlement and information verification tools and to build a platform to safeguard them. Core issue Core issue Core issue Core issue Core issue 1 Future public 2 Electronic bills 3 Security 4 New business, 5 Unified Korea enterprise policy and future industry related Rise of and currency payment means business status technology INTERVIEW We will redefine our role for future public businesses and establish a foundation to adapt with changes in management environment. According to our research and overseas research and analysis, the gradual shift to ‘cashless society’ will continue while riding the wave of Fourth Industrial Revolution. As a result, we are striving to be the most important stakeholder in the policy direction of the Bank of Korea and preparing for a preemptive response through continuous monitoring and research on future cash substitutes. In addition, we’re redefining our role in the future public businesses, preparing for the reorganization of related laws, and preparing the foundation of the organization Eui-seok Kim, Senior manager Future Strategy Team, KOMSCO and personnel structure that can flexibly respond to sudden changes in management environment. 27 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Reinforcing Establishing TSM, the Future Platform for Digital Commercial Transactions Future Growth In response to the rapidly increasing demands for smartphone-based electronic payment, KOMSCO is carrying forward Trusted Service Manager (TSM) business which expands production and issues of public Driver payment authentication in mobile devices based on our technology and public confidence. TSM is a business that wirelessly transmits information such as gift certificates and ID cards for mobile services to mobile carriers in a secure manner. In 2014, KOMSCO signed memorandum of understandings (MOU) and confidentiality agreements with 12 companies including mobile carriers, distributors, and credit card companies. In 2015, we jointly established TSM systems with three mobile telecommunication companies. In the future, we will further expand TSM to become a KOMSCO Trust Platform and build a digital ecosystem around it. KOMSCO Trust Platform Issuing Security Media Service Operation Offline Online Issue Block-chain: distributed ledger management Production/Issue Tokenization TSM server H/W Forgery/ S/W Forgery/Alteration element ㅣ COS, applet, application program etc. Alteration element Hologram Security ink Security element Finance Authentication Brand protection M2M/ IoT USIM TEE HCE **** PIN Fingerprint Paper, Label Card NFC Barcode [Security paper, Card base] Chip base [Mobile base] Security Media On/Off Line Service Strengthening Global Competitiveness and Diversifying Exports Ever since KOMSCO started our first export in 1970, we have steadily exported products to 47 countries, some of which are coins, banknotes, banknote paper, passports, NID cards, special ink and pigments. Cumulative overseas sales including 2015 was KRW 530 billion, and KOMSCO has continued to make entries in overseas markets with our global competitiveness including diversification of export markets and products, and securing market leading technologies. Accumulated Results of Overseas Businesses (1970~2015) 47countries KRW 530billion Achieve sales 28 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Amount of Orders Received in 2016 Strategic Global Marketing 11countries KOMSCO is continuing our effort to maintain the existing markets and develop new ones by establishing market-friendly marketing strategies, expanding networks and building private and state-own cooperation. KRW 49.3 billion We are managing our clients actively by visiting and inviting them to the company and working on overseas businesses by establishing marketing strategies for each target market and building mutual cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Korea Trade Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) and local general trading companies. Especially, we’re focusing on developing potential clients by reinforcing global networks such as signing the MOU with global network holders and establishing business networks with global cooperation organizations including Association of World Election Bodies and Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA). Expansion of Product Line Focusing on High Value-added Products Diversifying Overseas Businesses In order to overcome the limitations of the domestic market and meet the demands of the national export 9items policies, KOMSCO is trying to expand overseas exports. Conventional export items such as banknote paper and coins have proven their worth as export items, and we’re trying to actively expand export markets and 6 items products by selling special security ink and pigments. Additionally, we are making efforts to create more values through high-tech security products, such as electronic ID card and technology export based on patents. Export Overseas Paper to I country Export Banknotes to P country First Export of Electronic Identification Card and Issuing System to Kyrgyz Republic Obtain Order from Kyrgyz Republic In October 2016, KOMSCO and KOICA signed an e-NID business with Kyrgyz Republic and successfully exported the first national identification card system. This is a KRW 7.6 billion contract including KRW 7.6billion 1.9 million electronic national identification cards and the issuing system, which will be supported by KOICA’s grant budget. The e-NID exported to Kyrgyzstan Republic is laser-printed on advanced polycarbonate material and features combi-chip that performs both contact and non-contact functions, which is characterized by high security and functionality. To undertake this business, we will build a consortium with Korean system companies and provide an e-government system by October 2017 which allows the entire applying, issuing and delivery process to be made electronically. 29 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Strengthening Establishment of Technology Development System Based on Public Authenticity Technology KOMSCO has established a medium-and long-term technology development strategy plan to pursue our Competitiveness vision of a ‘Global Top 5 Minting & Security Company’. With the purpose of establishing the KOMSCO Trust Platform based on public authenticity, we have chosen promising technologies for future businesses and set up technology development directions through choice and concentration process. Mid to Long Term Strategy for Technology Development Global Top 5 Minting & Security Company Vision Establishing KOMSCO trust platform based on Public Authenticity Goal (public product and service security authentication agency) Establishing strategy for technology development Enhancing organization management system Shifting to the Open R&D System Cooperation for R&D outcome improvement and Introducing systems and making researcher-centered outcome distributions Diversifying and vitalizing growing items Improving research outcome evaluation to maximize efficiency Development Advancing R&D roadmap and big strategic subject Strategy  Elevating ‘planning process and organization Reinforcing strategic cooperation with overseas interagency partners management’ to maximize R&D outcome Propelling package-type technology development Improving infrastructures and system to make strategic Discovering BM and establishing commercialization strategy positioning for KOMSCO’s technology capacities Public information and security technology area Anti-forgery and alteration technology area Technology Development IoT security and authentication M2M Security material/ink Nano-optical security Security paper element and optical film /special paper Item Embedded security module (eSE) Storage, encryption and authentication of biometric information Brand protection Special Production and authentication coining products issuing ID card Developing Leading Future Technology Based on Convergence KOMSCO is advancing technologies in the existing business areas and developing major leading technologies to expand the existing businesses and create new business areas based on Public Authenticity. First, we are enhancing technologies in the existing business domain, such as security ink and nano-optical security element, and integrating them with brand authentication and tracking management system, which are outstretched from our conventional businesses. Additionally, we are continuing to create new business opportunities by developing electronic money related technologies such as blockchains, Internet of the Things (IoT), Machine to Machine (M2M), information protection and biometric authentication for payment settlement. Mid to Long Term Technology Development Area (2017~2026) Creating Expanding New Business Advancing Existing Business Existing Business IoT/M2M/eSE Brand authentication Storing, ‌ encrypting and Security ink/element Tracking management system authenticating biometric information Nano-optical security element Special ink IOT/M2M Biometric authentication Nano optical element Brand authentication and tracking management eSE <Existing business area> <New business area> 30 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Establishing the Social Safety Net by Developing an Independent Safety Module *COS (Chip Operating System): Technology for designing and implementing KOMSCO is actively developing technologies necessary for the country. For example, KOMSCO has smart card operating system that works with smart card chip developed COS* technology on its own efforts. COS is a core technology in the era of electronic ID including e-Passports, electronic identification cards, and it can be used in civil servant cards. In recent years, in order Gaining Gas Pump Security Module Market to prevent the case of manipulating the gasoline volume in the field of information security, we have been  contributing to the establishment of the social safety net by developing and commercializing the security (piece/KRW million) 2015 record 2016 plan increase and decrease rate module for gas pump electronic seal using the COS technology developed by KOMSCO. 67% 67% Strengthening Research and Development Capacities 5,000 215 Advancing Research and Development Organization Management 3,000 129 KOMSCO recognizes that developing next-generation technologies in line with changing industrial bases is the key to lead the market, and is improving the organizations operating system to strengthen our R&D capabilities. In order to secure expertise in future business growth areas, we have formed a R&D Volume of Business Sales organization and placed dedicated workforces to reinforce our infrastructure and create an optimal environment for research. Status of Intellectual Property Right (As of March 2016) Expanding Outcomes through Strengthening Research Development Network Domestic 547 Cooperative researches with national research institutes and universities have been boosted and expanded to cooperation with small businesses, which is creating mutual growth in the entire industry and solidifying 200 KOMSCO’s base capacities. In particular, through joint research with external research institutes, the number of patent applications is increasing and the number of in-house developed technologies is continuously increasing. Applied for 776 Overseas 9 Total 20 Patent Others Copyright National Korea Testing Korean Electronics Korea Invention Forensic Service Certification Technology Institute Promotion Association Domestic 382 Technological cooperation Development and Carrying out technology External PR of KOMSCO’s and development in printing commercialization of MOUs in the areas of technologies and cooperation 181 and digital encryption security security module for illegal security material, paper in transaction supports: Support element (Hiddencode) operation of gas pump and smart meter for technical commercialization Registration 585 Overseas 9 Total 13 Registration Others Copyright Strengthening Technology Development Competitiveness through Sharing KOMSCO’s own Technologies In order to actively respond to the forgery and alteration of certified test reports and distribution of name brand counterfeit products, KOMSCO has been sharing excellent security technology accumulated with private companies over the past 65 years. Through the Explanatory fair of new technology, we are sharing the technology to prevent forgery and alteration, and are creating opportunities for business creation and employment promotion with private companies. We also hold exhibitions at the Creative Economy Expo, Tech-Biz Korea and other events to build a trust society without forgery and alteration. Through this, KOMSCO will build a transparent and trusted society free from forgery and alteration, and aims to realize a virtuous circle structure that benefits both people and corporation with us. Free Technology Transfer Technology Grant  8 1case 5 4 8case KRW KRW 0 180 420 million million (133% ) 2014 2015 2014 2015 31 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report ISSUE 2 Employee Creating Employees’ Value Business Relevance & Importance 2015-2016 Performance It is considered that hiring and developing outstanding talents are Received Commendation of directly connected to strengthening a corporate competitiveness Excellent Organization for among leading companies. Together with that, individual desires Creating Family-friendly for self-realization through work itself and work-life balance have Culture been increasing in this society. Building in a corporate culture that Selected by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family values family-oriented atmosphere and has open communication structure in the organization and realizing human resources management have been regarded as one of the fundamental corporate competitiveness. Consecutive 17 Received Commendation Years from the Minister of the Achieved Non-conflict Ministry of Employment between Labor and and Labor Management for rationalization of labormanagement relations Our Approach Our Strategy KOMSCO has developed job profile and career development path based on job analysis and applied these to recruitment and development of talents who fit to the nature of our company. We also built a performance management system for both Top-down and Bottom-up performance evaluation, which allows effective, systematic and fair performance evaluation to reach our business Recruitment based on NCS goals. Furthermore, we have made the best efforts to foster familyand establishment of CDP friendly, open and rational organizational culture as well as to establish a sound labor and management culture that grow healthy together. Establishment of Strengthening employee K-STARS, performance communication and Rationalizing management system labor-management relations Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance HR Management Employment and Talent Job Competency-oriented Fair Hiring Development KOMSCO creates job profile based on the NCS*. This job profile, which includes functional knowledge, technology and attitude required by the characteristics of our company, is utilized in recruiting entry level employees. Private information, such as applicant’s photo and family information, is excluded in filling out our corporate job application. Moreover, we try not to rely on applicant’s background but to practice fair *NCS: National Competency Standards employment by conducting blind job interviews so job interviewers are unable to see applicants’ schools and hometown during the interview. Converting Interns in the Youth Internship Program to Full-time Employee Creating Jobs for Youth KOMSCO has strived to provide decent work experience and jobs to youth who are experiencing Number of employed Youth Interns (persons) Number of interns converted to full-time employee (persons) Conversion Rate (%) unemployment crisis. We have converted 100 percent of youth interns to full-time employees both in 2014 100 100 and 2015. Also we have created decent jobs for youth by providing same salary and benefits to employees 96 based on their level of job function regardless educational background, such as high school diploma or 46 university diploma, and employment type, such as permanent, contact and temporary. 4747 39 KOMSCO’s Talents 3030 23 22** 18 CustomerCreative Global oriented Talent Talent 2013 2014 2015 2016 ‌ Talent First half year People who think and act from customers’ perspectives People who create added values by creating People who can compete with world class talents -P  eople who satisfy customers by producing knowledge ‌People who have international insights, ideas **One intern resigned during his/her internship. flawless products and People who have new ideas and work with and capability All of the interns completed the Youth People who does their best to create customers’ passion Internship Program converted to full-time values employee Number of New Employees by Year  (Excluding executives) Diversity Respect KOMSCO does not discriminate gender during hiring process and provides same starting salary for male New Employees (persons) 50 49 and female entry level employees. Also, with our open employment, we have advanced social fairness as we have complied 100 percent with the Korean Government’s disability employment rate and senior citizen standard employment rate by hiring the disabled and the elderly. Particularly, we promote the 19 employee diversity, including appointment of the first female non-standing director in our history in 2014. Compliance Status of Disability and Senior Citizen Standard Employment Rate Female Employee Rate (Unit: persons) 2013 2014 2015 Legal Actual employment rate 2013 2014 2015 The disabled standards 50 people (3.7%) Number of female 273 280 286 Public institution 3% employees (19.6%) (20.1%) (21.0%) 312 people (22.9%) Number of female 38 46 49 Senior citizen employees above senior managers (7.8%) (9.0%) (10.0%) Manufacturing industry 2% INTERVIEW I expect KOMSCO to be more solid organization in the changeable business environment by creating dynamic and creative corporate culture. Autonomous and active attitude and creative thinking of the employees are the critical element to secure growth drivers for KOMSCO in the changes of a series of business environment where the company is facing coinless society, reform of state-own company, and so on. To secure the growth drivers, the company has strengthened labor and management communications and operated various employee engagement programs to share business issues as well as to find solutions for the issues. On the foundation of the communication and engagement, we strive to help our employees to build stronger fellowship, passion to their work and responsibilities. Furthermore, we endeavor to form dynamic and creative corporate culture. Yet these activities are Ji-ho Choi, Assistant Manager Creative Strategy Team, KOMSCO considered as the first step towards our big corporate change. To root these corporate cultures in our organization, I anticipate more activities for building corporate culture to be designed and promoted from long-term and strategic perspectives. 33 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report HR Management Talent Development and Talent Talent Development System Development KOMSCO has enhanced roles and responsibilities which are required by position and job function to achieve our corporate business goals based on strengthening human resources. We also have improved our employees’ competencies to respond to changeable business environments. Talent Development System Above Level 3 Level 4 Below Level 5 Basic Competency Training on organizational vitality and etc. Leadership Mandatory courses for each position Competency Improvement of Training for new manager, Orientation for new employees Internal Manager Competency mid-career employees training Digital training center/Upright training/Corporate rules Future Biz Talent Development Training/ Sales Experts Fostering/Business Support Training Technician Fostering Training/Technology Transfer Training Functional /Quality Experts Fostering Competency R&D Researcher Fostering/Legal mandatory training, etc. External Short-to-long term external special theme based training/Graduate programs training Overseas Technology Training Building a Corporate Government 3.0 training/ Lifelong Planning/ Voluntary learning organization, etc. Special Culture, Personal Offline training/special lectures training Development, etc. /workshop, etc. Establishing CDP* Based on the NCS In 2015, KOMSCO established job functional system in line with NCS to strengthen the connection between *CDP: Career Development Path our corporate strategy, and talent competency management and development. Based on this job functional system, we defined core competencies for each job and reflected our corporate characteristics. In this way, we categorized job function by 18 different groups and established CDP in consideration with levels of correlation, difficulty, transferring of job, and etc., among jobs. On the foundation of this CDP, we have developed connected training programs and managed talents by reflecting expertise and diversity of each job. Planning Systematic Training and Education Plan Based on Demand Analysis KOMSCO analyzes the effectiveness of training curriculum in previous year, including individual employee’s demands on training, their satisfaction level and application level of training contents to their work. By doing so, we establish annual training and education plan, based on mid-to-long term workforce operation planning, that can fulfill the organizational and individual demands. We have increased actual effects of the training and education through above mentioned process. As a result, the satisfaction level of our employees and the application level of our employees’ learning from external training have steadily increased from 2013 to 2015. Training and Education Result  Training and Education Performances Training and education budget (KRW 10,000) Training and education budget per person (KRW 10,000) (On a scale of one to five) Number of trainees (persons) Satisfaction level on training ‌ ‌Application level of our employees’ learning from 175,900 130 5,017 external training 172,000 4,947 4.6 4,806 4.5 125 169,400 4.45 4.46 123 4.4 4.34 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 34 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Performance Management K-STARS, a Performance Management System KOMSCO has formed and operated K-STARS (KOMSCO Strategic Task and Ability Rating System), which is our original performance management system. With K-STARS, we have continuously improved our organizational and employees’ capabilities to achieve our business goals and strategies. We have evaluated performances in a transparent manner and compensated accordingly. The advancing of performance management system has enhanced the level of contribution to accomplish the business goals by the performance management policy from 73 points in 2014 to 75.6 points in 2015. K-STARS T ask •Derive evaluation index based on core business duties S trategic Rating S ystem aligned with the strategies •Categorize rational evaluators and operate appropriate evaluation method • Set strategic directions based on internal • Draw results from metrical and • Operate differentiated •Conduct three-step evaluation based on BSC* compensation system according and external environment analysis non-metrical evaluations and A bility • Check strategic connectedness of KPIs and organizational and individual to results of performance achievement of business goals evaluations evaluation • Design optimal performance management • Operate fair evaluation procedure, • Operate feedback system, system •Create positive cycle from MBO** based individual including evaluator group, including level diagnosis, system evaluation of his/her competencies and performances adjustment of earning points, improvement, and etc. •Individual KPIs setting and optimal operation of evaluation performance verification, receiving criteria objection and etc. *BSC: Balanced Score Card. Performance •Link organizational and individual performances management system by setting KPIs from four perspectives (finance, customer, internal process, and learning and growth) to achieve organizational vision and KPI Designing through Top-down Connectedness strategic goals **M BO: Management By Objectives. A KOMSCO has developed key performance indicators for Top-down and Bottom-up methods to design KPIs management method that employer/ that are able to reflect business environmental changes, aligned with the organizational goals and trusted by supervisors introduce only a set of business goals and the employees strive to our employees. Once an organization provides principles of indicator setting and prepares organizational goals achieve the goals linked KPI planning procedure, employees select or develop their individual KPIs autonomously after discuss with their manager, and finally decide individual KPIs through verification of indicator appropriateness. Advancing Appropriateness of Performance Evaluation Results KOMSCO has advanced the expertise of performance evaluation as improving the composition and operation of evaluation group. In order to enhance fairness of the evaluation we removed evaluation of CEO and increased MBO based evaluation ratio within the evaluation. Also, we have shared employees’ opinions on the performance evaluation system and improved the system by diverse communication channels, such as business strategic meeting, evaluation discussion forum, and performance management workshop. Moreover, we operate appealing on the evaluation results and give chances to demurrer, who addresses re-assessment, through explanation process. We have increased transparency of the evaluation system by not only providing prompt feedbacks to demurrers and conducting interviews with individual demurrer but also surveying employee satisfaction. Improvement Areas of Evaluation Group and Operation Method Before Improvement (2014) After Improvement (2015) Organizing evaluator pool Selection criteria Inviting evaluators and selecting evaluators Satisfaction on Performance Management (On a scale of 0 to 100) Composition of 24 members (executives) 32 members (including general staff and experts) Internal evaluators Teams that current 24 Teams that worked for the evaluations Category 2013 2014 2015 evaluation Requisite for evaluators belong to over the last two years and team group excluding evaluators Receptivity 72.8 73.5 74.6 1 internal auditor where current 32 evaluators belong to Linking audit Validity 70.6 72.8 74.4 Group discussion and 3 internal auditors Evaluation method comprehensive evaluation Trust 69.8 71.7 73.6 Individual evaluation within the system Practicality 70.0 70.5 73.4 External Total 70.8 72.1 74.0 evaluation Selecting evaluators based on expertise, relevancy and reliability group 35 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Great Workplace Pursuing Work-life Balance Family-friendly Corporate Culture KOMSCO has made practical supports in areas of pregnancy, childbirth and childcare so that our employees can concentrate on their works. We opened ‘Sejong Children Center’, an in-house childcare center in 1996. We have outsourced the operation of the Center to professional childcare education institution to provide high quality of childcare services to our employees. Moreover, we have prohibited overtime work to pregnant employees and expanded a parental leave from one year to three years and proactively encouraged pregnant employees to use this benefit. We have tried to build happy workplace with holding various family-oriented events and family inviting programs, such as new employees’ parent inviting to the company, lecture on economics which our employees can attend with their kids, operation of in-house camping site, and discount coupons of Daejeon Art Center. Number of Employees Used With the efforts to make family-friendly corporate culture, we were certified as one of the outstanding Maternity Leave work-family balanced corporation from the Ministry of Employment and Labor. We also not only received (Unit: persons) commendation of Excellent Organization for Creating Family-friendly Culture from the Ministry of Gender 8 Equality and Family but also selected as one of the best practices. Moreover, we have certified as the Family-friendly Corporation by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family, and acquired a certification of the Women-friendly Corporation from Daejeon Metropolitan City. 3 2 2013 2014 2015 Number of Employees Used Parental Leave (Unit: persons) 28 25 16 Received Commendation of Certified Family-friendly Invitation of New Employees’ Parents Excellent Organization for Corporation Creating Family-friendly Culture 2013 2014 2015 Remove Long Working Hour and Encourage Leisure KOMSCO has a flexible working system that is reflected our employees’ needs. We started this system from Percentage of Employees Returned flexible work scheme. As the result of employee satisfaction survey, 97.1 percent of our employees were from Parental Leave (Unit: %) satisfied. In order to reduce long working hours, the work schedule was changed from 4 teams 2 rotating shift to 3 teams 2 rotating shift and the night time work hours decreased 2.9 percent in 2015 compared to 100 100 100 the previous year. With our efforts to reduce overtime, the overtime work hour also reduced 37.2 percent compared to the previous year. We have encouraged our employees to take holidays for creating ambience to have their leisure freely. Particularly, as we have actively encouraged employees to take annual leaves and week-long vacation, the usage of annual leave increased from 3.4 days in previous year to 4.2 days in 2015. Every Wednesdays 2013 2014 2015 is set as a ‘Family Day’ and every Friday is set as a ‘Friendship Day’ to promote people leave the office on time. We have conducted 119 Campaign, a sound campaign team building dinner culture, which means employees should consume only one type of drink once and company dinner must end by 9 PM and promoted a ‘Culture Team Building Dinner’ that watches cultural performances or sports games. We financially support in-house sports clubs. In these ways, we try to create a healthy team dinner culture. 36 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Corporate Culture with Open Communication Strengthening Employees’ Access to Information and Employee Communication KOMSCO is building an open corporate culture with strengthened communication and enhancing business transparency by sharing corporate news, such as business issues, with our employee through various communication channels. For example, we have facilitated cross organizational employee communication and their voluntarily participation in business management by using Blue Supporters, which is KOMSCO messenger group, for discussing business issues and developing solutions. We are holding business status sessions three times a year for all KOMSCO offices to share business issues and ask our employees input to solve such issues. In addition, we opened a NAVER Band, an online social network system, for all employees to share our business information, corporate news, employee’s news, interesting articles, culture information, and so on regardless time and place, and to promote communication and cooperation among our employees. We also run KOMSCO POPCORN program, which invites prominent writers, professors, and others, to give talk to our employees. As this talk is shared through internet broadcasting media, we have enriched a cultureoriented communication among our employees and cultural position of KOMSCO. KOMSCO SNS page KOMSCO POPCORN Employee Grievance System KOMSCO has established a grievance committee to listen to our employee’s difficulties. In 2015, in addition to the grievance committee, we extended grievance consulting channels by appointing labor relations managers in each production plant as a grievance consulting member and opened a grievance consulting room. Furthermore, CEO Hot-Line, 1-on-1 mentoring, employee satisfaction survey, and internal grievance reporting system are working as grievance channels. The result of received complaints is shared with submitter within 10 days after the grievance committee discusses the issues. Business Case ‘KOMSCO Blue Supporters’, Messenger Group of KOMSCO Corporate Culture Blue Supporters is an agora where activates innovation and communication of the corporate culture and discusses business issues. Demand for a council body to lead corporate culture innovation and to activate communicate among different positions and levels has been growing, KOMSCO organized corporate culture messenger group, Blue Supporters, in 2015. First we selected employees from different age groups, job functions and levels, and then we divided these selected people into junior, middle and senior groups by their tenure. Blue Supporters has dedicated to build company-wide consensus by freely discussing business issues and sharing their ideas at quarterly workshops. Additionally, Blue Supporters are replaced by new members every year in order to expand more employees’ involvement in business management as well as to find new ideas. Blue Supporters receive professional training opportunities, such as change management and leadership training, and outstanding members are awarded upon their service is completed. In these ways, we have tightened their engagement will and enhanced their capacities. 37 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Sound LaborEstablishing Mutually-growing Labor-Management Relations Management Operation of Labor Relations Dedicated Body and Labor-Management Joint Body Culture KOMSCO has operated ‘Grievance Committee’ together with ‘Labor-Management Council’, as the highest decision making organization on labor relations. Also, we operate ‘Labor-Management Joint Committee’ as a special body to improve the work efficiency on labor relations. In 2015, we introduced wage peak system, by running ‘Labor-Management Promotion Committee’ to extend retirement age and introduce wage peak system. Besides, we have an in-house team dedicated to labor-management cooperation in order to develop strategies for mid-to-long term advancement of labor-management and reinforcement of the partnership, and to respond labor-management and labor relations issues. Labor-Management Council Grievance Committee Labor-Management Joint Committee KOMSCO Labor union Labor Relations Department in the Head Office Head Office of Labor Union Labor Relations Team in each Plant Branch of Labor Union Selected Labor-Management Partnership Program Financial Support Program Labor-management partnership financial support program is overseen by the Ministry of Employment and Labor and the Korea Labor Foundation. This program supports directly partial budget for labormanagement joint programs. KOMSCO has been selected as a beneficiary for the program for four times over the last five years. We have strengthened our labor-management partnership competencies through conducting these projects successfully. Major Program for Labor-Management Partnership in 2015 Declaration of Mutual Work-Life Realization New LaborCooperation Balance, of Social Management and Mutual Full of Responsibility Development Growth Happiness Paradigm Memorandum of Understanding on LaborManagement Partnership Program Support - Communication relay Workshop on mutual Inviting parents for giving - Discussion on new for building consensus growth with suppliers thanks labor-management between laborDiscussion with suppliers Inviting employees’ development paradigm management on new technologies children to workplace - Re-designing employees’ - Labor-management lifetime joint farm experience - Labor-management joint and donation of organic trekking day agricultural products - Building labor- Labor-management joint management volunteer day joint prevention of occupational accidents and healthy workplace Reinforcement of Labor-Management Cooperation for Creating Business Performances Improvement of Irrational Labor-Management Practices We have strived to form consensus between labor and management by doing various activities to fix Received Commendation from the Minister irrational labor-management practices, advance the contents of collective agreement, and improve the of the Ministry of Employment and Labor for Rationalization of Labor-Management Relations organizational culture. We especially rationalized various irrational labor-management practices through revising collective agreement and improving labor policies. Our performances were acknowledged and we received commendation from the Minister of the Ministry of Employment and Labor for rationalization of labor-management relations in 2015. 38 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Operation of Labor-Management Council for Promoting Employees’ Morale We have operated labor-management council proactively. The council is composed of less than 10 members from employer and employee-side with co-representatives by the CEO and the union head. The council promotes employees’ satisfaction and improvement of productivity by holding a formal meeting at every quarter and calling for a special meeting when needed. In 2015, the CEO attended 100 percent in the labor-management council, and the council implemented 16 improvement tasks. Minute of Labor-Management Council Meeting Consecutive 17 Years Matters for Resolution Matters for Discussion Matters for Report Basic plan for employee training Improvement of productivity, Business update, actual producAchieved Non-conflict education, building welfare facilihiring, placement and education, tion against production planning, between Labor ties, and etc. training, grievance, and etc. workforce operation update, and Management financial statements Employees Recognition on Labor-Management Strengthening Labor-Management Communication and Management Capability Relations: Necessity of Trust and Cooperation to Create Business Performances. Labor-Management Relations and Management Capability Reinforcement Training Program We have set up ‘fostering labor relations management experts, communicating across levels for mutual cooperation’ as our labor-management training goal in 2015 and run various training programs. Particularly, we targeted labor relations personnel at the head office and each plant and provided specialized educations, such as labor management, benchmarking outstanding labor-management partnered companies, leadership courses by external institutions and online training. Furthermore, we provided training programs on strengthening of field-oriented labor-management capabilities to all employees including managers. The training included understanding and improvement of understanding Highly required 185 persons on collective agreement on salary, revised labor law, company rules and regulations, mindset on laborAlmost required 167 persons management mutual cooperation and etc. Neutral 39 persons Somewhat required 7 persons Survey and Feedback Employees’ Awareness on Labor Relations No required 1 persons KOMSCO surveyed employees’ awareness level on labor relations to figure out the awareness level and to receive their feedback more actively. In a 2015 survey, 88.2 percent of respondents answered trust and cooperation between labor and management are necessary to create better business performances. This result is evaluated as labor-management roles for creating business performances are working positively as well as labor-management mutual cooperative mindset is well-established. Business Case KOMSCO Debate for Hope Management 2015 Rather than relying thoroughly on my own limited knowledge, we would borrow wisdom from many people to run our company. The CEO of KOMSCO believes that when every employee involves in our business issues and think and seek together how to solve the business concerns, good solutions we can find. Based on the CEO’s belief, we held 『KOMSCO Debate for Hope Management』, a collective intelligence enrichment program, for a communication platform to discuss the business issues together with labor and management. All employees discussed incumbent business issues and we received various opinions from different positions and levels in order to draw practical solutions. By doing so, we seek labor-management balanced solutions. We could reinforce labor-management partnership through providing our employees’ involvement in the business management under the topics of understanding of the Government 3.0 and KOMSCO’s roles, promotional direction of the public institutions’ normalization in the second phase, target sales and plan for profit achievement, innovation plan, and so on. 39 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report ISSUE 3 Supply Chain Establishing Mutual Growth Culture with Our Suppliers Business Relevance & Importance 2015-2016 Performance Awareness on the important roles of suppliers, a crucial stakeholder Received Commendation from of a company, has been growing. Accordingly activities for the Minister of the Ministry of mutual growth to improve suppliers’ competitiveness have been Trade, Industry and Energy for activated. Mutual growth activities also affect to a corporate image Three Consecutive Years enhancement as more social interests are attended to win-win Contribution to public procurement of corporate culture between large and small-medium enterprises SMEs products (2014-2016) (SMEs). In case of KOMSCO, demands on our forgery and alteration prevention technologies are growing from various industries. 91.5% 91.3% Therefore we have expanded our businesses to new industries, and 90.2% we have made partnerships with more suppliers than before. The importance of mutual growth is getting bigger to us. 5 Cases Technology granted to SMEs 2013 2014 2015 8 Cases SMEs product Gratuitous transfer of purchasing rate technology to two SMEs Our Approach Our Strategy For mutual growth, KOMSCO established three strategies and action plans, which are strengthening SMEs technology development and cooperation, embedding transparent mutual growth, and proliferation of mutual growth culture. Departments in charge of mutual growth, Mutual Growth Promotion Committee, mutual growth taskforce team, and SME Support Group, which is a new organization, divide roles and responsibilities to promote Strengthening SMEs technology development systematically these action plans. Based on fair trade and win-win and cooperation cooperation culture, we share our high technologies with SMEs so that we can create new values through technology cooperation and share the value again with the SMEs. In order to encourage our employees to join the mutual growth activities, we have included mutual growth practices in our KPIs and provide related incentives. Embedding transparent Proliferation of mutual mutual growth growth culture Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Mutual Growth Mutual Growth Promotional Strategy Promotional KOMSCO endeavors to achieve ‘Realizing sustainable mutual growth to create new values’. Strengthening System SMEs technology development and cooperation, embedding transparent mutual growth, and proliferation of mutual growth culture are set as three strategies and seven action plans are selected. Mutual Growth Promotional Strategy Realizing sustainable mutual growth to create new values’ Strengthening SMEs technology Embedding transparent Proliferation of development and cooperation mutual growth mutual growth culture 1. Strengthening infrastructure for mutual growth 6. Enhancing internal and external 4. Reinforcing fair trade program 2. Developing and supporting communications for mutual growth 5. Active implementation of improving domestic and overseas markets 7. Embedding mutual growth culture of transaction practices 3. Joint technology development and and proliferating mindset strengthening technology support Mutual Growth Promotion Organization KOMSCO has formed SME Support Group in addition to incumbent mutual growth department and committee, and taskforce team to provide an official SME support channel. Corporate Partnership Support Foundation (Government) Mutual assistance Support and Review cooperation operational issues Mutual growth Mutual Growth SME Suppliers Department Promotion Committee Performance Support evaluation Consulting, training Feedback Idea development Mutual growth SME Support Group Taskforce Team Organization Structure Roles and Responsibilities • Establish mutual growth promotional strategy Management and action plan Evaluation Department • Proliferation of mutual growth culture Mutual growth 3.0 • Operate and oversee benefit sharing program Mutual Growth promotion team • Operate Mutual Growth Promotion Committee Department Department in charge • Review the operation of mutual growth and team leader in each • Performance evaluation of benefit sharing program Mutual Growth related department • Prepare job creation project with SMEs Promotion Committee • Develop ideas related to mutual growth policies • Coordinate proliferation of mutual growth culture Person in charge in each • Develop and monitor benefit sharing action plans related department • Cooperate to submit mutual growth evaluation Mutual Growth materials of public institutions Taskforce Team • Technology support for suppliers, guide patent National Quality Master and technologies and new technologies Minting Quality Master • Management consulting for suppliers and introduce Production quality experts SME Support Group SME support programs and researchers (formed in 2015) • Receive suppliers’ opinion 41 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Strengthening Enhancing Infrastructure of Mutual Growth SMEs Technology Expanding Benefit Sharing Program Development and Not sharing simply exceeding profits with the suppliers but sharing our management methods Cooperation and performances on cost saving and technology development with the suppliers to enhance their fundamental competitiveness. To implement our benefit sharing program more efficiently, we develop projects that will lead win-win model through holding workshops and meetings with the suppliers. The developed projects are reviewed and evaluated by the Mutual Growth Promotion Committee to select final benefit sharing tasks. We have strengthened benefit sharing program related incentives to make all employees engaging in project development and implementation. In this effort, we had developed and promoted total 44 benefit sharing tasks from 2013 to 2015. We are planning to foster benefit sharing program experts and will do our best to rejuvenate benefit sharing programs. Benefit Sharing Models Tailored to KOMSCO Project Technology Development for Technology Outsourced Model development localization sharing processing Research overseas Research KOMSCO’s Improvement of Workflow Research facilities and demanded technologies technologies available for incumbent products equipment for localization and new technologies commercialization (apply new technology) (conclusion (conclusion of a contract) of a contract) Select potential Analyze required Joint research, R&D R&D partner company techniques (conclusion (conclusion of a contract) of a contract) Technology acquisition, Develop new product Technology acquisition, Cost saving, quality enter into overseas (sales) through cost saving improvement markets technology support KOMSCO’s R&D costs, Provide test opportunity Technology transfer, Technology guide and Roles R&D personnel support and technology support technology guide support sales channel • KOMSCO: purchase • KOMSCO: technology • KOMSCO: purchase • KOMSCO: technology Benefit products acquisition products fee Sharing • Partner company: • Partner company: • Partner company: • Partner company: preferential condition technology acquisition create revenues technology acquisition of contract Developing and Supporting Domestic and Overseas Markets Strengthening Supports for Expanding SMEs Sales Channels KOMSCO supports SMEs to develop their sales channels. For examples, we have cooperated with SMEs in cotton pulp industry to commercialize their products, and tapped into new sales markets for security modules of gas pump main board and manufacturing technology for special papers, which were developed jointly, by supporting sales marketing. Also we have assisted SMEs to expand their gold bar distribution channels and promoted joint marketing for commemorative medals. We have publicized SMEs’ technologies and products through diverse PR channels, such as exhibitions, and technology and Mutual Growth and Win-Win Cooperation product demonstration events. In 2015, we ran joint-exhibition booths with our small-and-medium sized Agreement Ceremony for Protection and suppliers (SM suppliers) at domestic and international business events, which KOMSCO participated in, Activation of Precious Metal Local Business such as the IDB General Assembly, the World Korean Business Convention 2015, CARTES 2015 PARIS, and etc., to support their sales channel expansion. Moreover, we have utilized various communication channels, such as KOMSCO SNS and KOMSCO corporate newsletter to publicize our SM suppliers. 42 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance SME Product Purchasing Performance Activating Public Procurement of SMEs Products  (Unit: KRW million) Total purchasing amount of SME products We establish public procurement promotional plan every year and implement the plan together with Total purchasing amount KPIs and promotional strategies that connected to performance evaluation by a public procurement Purchased SME product rate dedicated team. We have trained on public procurement program to procurement personnel to enhance their expertise by holding workshops how to activate public procurement and inviting external specialists. 91.5% 91.3% With these efforts, we have exceeded our SME product procurement performance 90 percent for three 90.2% consecutive years since 2013. And we received Commendation from the Minister of the Ministry of Trade, 99,965 93,606 Industry and Energy for three consecutive years since 2014. Furthermore we won the Prime Minister’s prize 86,552 for outstanding institution on public procurement in 2016. 91,510 85,415 78,042 Support Female-owned and Social Enterprises We have supported SM suppliers, such as female-owned and social enterprises, to build their sustainability. 2013 2014 2015 For SMEs’ production fund, we supported SM suppliers a contracting amount of approximately KRW 450 million of public procurement loan* (approximately KRW 360 million of available amount of the loan). We *Financial service that provides fund to have promoted ‘Lunch box day’, events that we have lunch boxes made by social enterprises to expand SMEs for manufacturing from banks based their products. on the evidence of making contract with public institutions. Joint Technology Development and Strengthening Technology Support KOMSCO has developed advanced security technologies together with our suppliers and shared the performances with them. In 2015 we conducted 11 cases of researches with the SM suppliers in printing, paper manufacturing, coining, ID technology, and so on. We have shared proactively our world class forgery and alteration prevention technologies with the SMEs to enhance their competitiveness. Not only have we held Explanatory fair of new technology every year since 2014 but also have participated in various exhibitions, such as the National Public Contest for Inventions and Tech-Biz Korea, to advertise Received Commendation and Contribution our new technologies and security technologies to SMEs. Through these activities, we transferred eight to Public Procurement of SMEs Products technologies under two cases to SMEs free of charge in 2015 as the first cases in KOMSCO. And we permitted five SMEs to use our patent technologies related to forgery and alteration prevention, such composite material coinage manufacturing technology to prevent damages from counterfeit products and to protect their brands. Explanatory Fair of New Technology 2016 Season 3 Conducted Gratuitous Transfer of Technology INTERVIEW We will build a foundation to grow together with suppliers. KOMSCO believes the competitiveness of SMEs is an important driver to sustain our growth. Therefore, we strive to build a win-win system that we can cooperate closely with the SMEs and foster their competitiveness. First, we have shared our technologies with SMEs in ways of technology share, cooperation and partnership by expanding our forgery and alteration prevention technologies, which have accumulated from currency manufacturing experiences, to social values. We have also achieved SME product purchasing rate more than 90 percent over the last three years Moreover we try to support SMEs to improve their productivity by mentoring from our technicians. Jae-sang Lee, Manager Mutual Growth 3.0 Promotion Team, KOMSCO 43 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Embedding Reinforcing Fair Trade Program Transparent KOMSCO has complied strictly with the『Act on Contracts to Which the State is a Party』(so called ‘National Mutual Growth Contract Act) in the process of making contract, operation and evaluation to establish fair trade rules and to provide fair opportunities to various suppliers. In addition, we have improved transparency and fairness in our transaction policies, such as private contract and contract evaluation. First of all, we extended qualification limit for direct contracts to KOMSCO retirees and related parties of KOMSCO employees related persons and retired KOMSCO employees. The limit has extended not only to companies but also to their subsidiaries that either employing KOMSCO retirees and related parties of KOMSCO employees or were established by them. Applying this extended limit, we prevent any suppliers, which make private contract with us, hiring our employees’ related personnel or KOMSCO retirees. Improving from previous negotiation based contract evaluation criteria, we introduced a blind evaluation method for technology competency evaluation procedure so that proposal submitters are not revealed during the evaluation. The proposal submitter should not indicate any marks to recognize who they are in the proposal and if this rule is violated, the submitter receives penalty. In this way, we enhanced fairness in the evaluation process. Whereas only private contracts with contracting amount more than KRW 5 million had to be disclosed before, now all contracts regardless the size of amount are disclosed all the details in order to improve operational transparency of contract. In the future we will reinforce controls over the evaluation procedure of negotiation based contractors’ technology competency proposal by attending the evaluation with internal auditors. In addition, we will increase the number of open and competitive tendering to enhance fairness and transparency as well as to provide opportunities more diverse SMEs to participate in. Active Implementation of Improving Transaction Practices KOMSCO conducted increased number of workshop and training on business ethics to implant fair transaction practices in the organization in 2015. While the training has targeted only employees in the Procurement Department and has been conducted once a year, the targeted trainees have been extended to all employees in the Audit Department, and contract and purchasing personnel at each plant and subsidiaries, i.e. a total of 221 employees, and the frequency has increased to four times a year. These training is planned early of a year and included in our education program systematically. In the future we will operate an online website where all gifts including monetary gifts received and treated are disclosed in real-time to increase our transparency further so that to prevent bribery ultimately. Business Case Value Creation through Joint Technology Development with SMEs Successful commercialization of the world’s first security module preventing manipulation of gas pump by joint technology development with SMEs contributes to enhancement of public interests. Recently, as manipulated gas pump damaged consumers, rooting out the manipulated gas pump addressed as a social issue. Together with SMEs, KOMSCO had conducted ‘Research cooperation on development of gas pump security module testing device for testing gas pump security module product’ under the host of the Korea Testing Certification for two years from 2014 to 2015. The security module installed in gas pump sends manipulating information to the governmental regulators once it detects manipulating of gas pump board. From 2016, all newly installing gas pumps are mandated to be equipped with this security module. We expect the security module will protect consumers’ rights and contribute to create public interests. 44 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Proliferation of Enhancing Internal and External Communications for Mutual Growth Mutual Growth We held various forum and workshop for the suppliers to share our mutual growth tasks and performance Culture with the suppliers. In 2015, we hosted forums and workshops, which targeted 25 suppliers, for 14 times, which is 10 times increased from previous year. Since 2015, we have also conducted survey to suppliers for the purpose of effective promotion of mutual growth. Selected 22 suppliers by the Mutual Growth Promotion Committee and seven SMEs, which had transaction with us more than KRW 200 million for two years, were answered to the survey. We will continue to do survey and the survey results will be reflected into mutual growth promotional strategies in the following year. We will continue to support professional areas such as quality management technology, ISO and patent together with SME Supporting Group to the technology supporting enterprises, outsourced processing suppliers and material supplier. Held Mutual Growth Workshop Definition of Stakeholders for Mutual Growth and Communication Methods Category Related Organization Technology Support Outsourced Process Purchasing Vendor Performance of SME Supporting Group Activities Governmental Joint R&D partners Job sharing Material supplying Definition agencies Technology transfer enterprises vendors Number Of Customers enterprises Supporting Category Trainers Supporting Persons MOU Workshop and survey Sending letters on Time Communication Meeting Workshop and Visit for technology business ethics Quality method Mutual visit 2014 technology 62 17 seminar guide survey support Quality technology 47 15 support Embedding Mutual Growth Culture and Proliferating Mindset 2015 ISO experts 3 1 Previously mutual growth related departments used to have common mutual growth KPIs but the Patent experts 18 5 ratio of the KPIs was different by department. In order to proliferate and embed mutual growth culture and mindset across all departments, common mutual growth KPIs have been set and included in all departments’ KPIs since 2015. Even departments have no work relation to mutual growth are encouraged to suggest ideas for mutual growth promotion to build the culture. Executive performance evaluation has included indexes of SME product purchase and efforts to secure fair competition trade. The chairman of ‘Mutual Growth Promotion Committee’ was promoted from head of Public Relations & Cooperation Department to vice president. We have promoted mutual growth related internal interests and communication. For this we have worked together with KOMSCO 3.0 Leader Group and in-house venture supporting group. And we have promoted mutual growth by activating mutual growth taskforce team. Business Case Integrate Suppliers’ Needs into Our Mutual Growth Activities. We have endeavored to increase the effectiveness of mutual growth program reflecting our suppliers’ needs. The barcode number in gift vouchers is composed of a product serial number and check digit, which is created by complicated formula depending on product. The quality of check digit printing is invisible to verify by eyes, thus computing work using calculator is required. There were feedbacks from our suppliers that it takes excessive hours to revise when non-qualified check digit is found. Responding to their feedbacks, we developed by ourselves a verification program for gift voucher check digit, which allows preventing under qualified printing issues of check digit and makes even beginners to be able to utilize it. This program is provided to our suppliers free of cost. We try to increase the satisfaction and effectiveness of our mutual growth program as developing the suppliers-tailored supporting programs. 45 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report ISSUE 4 Community Building Trust with Local Communities Business Relevance & Importance 2015-2016 Performance Social contribution has evolved its roles from one-off donation and voluntary activities to creating social values that utilize corporate characteristics and core resources. These strategic social contribution activities have received greater recognition as more benefits positively impact corporations across business operation, including not only better corporate image but also increases in sales and talent attraction. In addition, the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), urged corporations to match their social responsibility performance with global standards. Award of Deputy Donation for Education Prime Minister for three years & Minister of the Designated as Ministry of Education outstanding institution Commendation for Institution contributed to Free-semester system Our Approach Our Strategy KOMSCO has continuously strengthened our business linked social contribution activities, which use the characteristic of the only one currency manufacturing state-own company in Korea. Career and vocational education under a theme of currency manufacturing to teenagers and education on currency economy are our representative social contribution activities that we have promoted. Creating informative Making happy local Also, we have provided opportunities to the public to experience currency Culture communities a culture of money, and volunteered with employees’ expertise and talents. Lastly, we have continuously strived to conduct global social contribution activities and fortify our cooperation with international NGOs. Sharing my talents Joining in global sharing Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Promotional Promotional Strategy of Social Contribution Activities Structure of Social KOMSCO purses three core values, ‘Sharing, Hope and Interaction’, under our social contribution vision, Contribution ‘Make Happy World Together’. Utilizing our own human and physical resources including KOMSCO employees’ expertise and the Currency Museum, we promote KOMSCO specialized social contribution Activities activities. We have also deployed our social contribution in ways of sharing voluntary activities both for marginalized and local communities, and global hope sharing activities. Vision Make Happy World Together Core Values Sharing Hope Interaction Creating Informative Making Happy Local Joining in Global Sharing My Talents Currency Culture Communities Sharing Goals Currency lecture, the public Strengthening support for Art and culture activities, Overseas volunteer friendly museum, improvement marginalized communities, technical and physical participation, emergency of counterfeit money detection expanding 113 Sharing activities, etc. support to disaster area, Activities capability, etc. Campaign etc. and support overseas impoverished children KOMSCO Volunteer Group Social Contribution Activities Promotional Organization KOMSCO seeks to find ways every employee makes his/her life well with others through participating in Endeavor Club voluntary activities. Thus, we operate KOMSCO Volunteer Group to systematically organize our employees’ Volunteer Group Volunteer Group sharing activities and to proactively support their volunteering. The employees also actively participate in ‘KOMSCO Employees’ Love Fund’, which the employees donate certain amount of their salary to a inFive 22clubs Organizations house social contribution fund. 1,386 members 1,331 members Execution Status of Donation and KOMSCO Employees’ Love Fund (Unit: KRW million) Talent Volunteer Donation KOMSCO Employees’ Love Fund Group 91 88 21 groups 84 87 133 members 81 74 72 70 Total Members of KOMSCO Volunteer Group 2,850 (including duplicated participation) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 INTERVIEW We will continuously develop KOMSCO-specialized social contribution activities so our people can participate and evoke empathy in more people. KOMSCO has promoted our own differentiated social contribution activities according to our social responsible management promotional strategy. Particularly, we have prepared promptly Donation for Education as the Free-semester system has been executed. Since 2015, we have operated 『Money Makers』,a vocational education. This is our proud field-oriented experience program and meets both demands from schools and the governmental policy. Corporate social contribution activities are no longer optional but mandatory. It should be regarded as longterm investment rather than cost. Therefore, we think we need corresponding institutional measures to encourage our employees’ voluntary participation in those activities through reinforcing internal evaluation policy to link with social contribution. By continuously developing Soon Yoo, Senior manager Customer Happy Center, KOMSCO KOMSCO’s special social contribution activities that people can participate in and evoke empathy in more people, and by proactively joining in the governmental national service reinforcement policy towards the nation, we will endeavor to do our best and implement social responsibility. 47 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Differentiated Creating Informative Currency Culture Social Contribution Currency Culture Experience Program Activities KOMSCO is the only currency manufacturing institution in Korea so we operate special education donation programs and currency culture experience programs to help students’ understanding on currency economy and counterfeit detection, and to improve their understanding on the importance of currency. Since 2008, we have run 『KOMSCO’s Money Story』. This program provides opportunities to visit currency manufacturing facilities and education for currency economy to students in remote areas so that have limited cultural experiences and children from low-income families. In addition, we run various currency related experience program in schools, including ‘outreach currency KOMSCO’s Money Story  design class’, ‘crating cultural heritage in banknotes’, and ‘currency making class’, that our currency 104times 10,555attendants designers visit. We have also actively participated in external events, such as Happy Fair of Korea Donation for Education. (Accumulated performance from 2008 to November 2016) Operation of Lectures on Currency Related Careers Since 2015, KOMSCO has provided 『Money Makers』 program, which allows teenagers to experience currency related careers as part of free semester system. We offer career class to introduce four professional careers, including curator, money designer, graver and counterfeit money detector. In 2015, 351 students from seven schools attended this class and they showed high satisfaction with the classes. In 2016, the number of requested schools has increased and approximately 1,330 students from 33 schools participated in this program. Money Makers, a Career and Vocational Through this program, KOMSCO has been recognized as an outstanding institution, which conducted Education good Donation for Education programs, from the Ministry of Education on Free-semester system and 40schools 1,681students Korea Foundation for the Advancement of Science and Creativity for three years from 2015. And we won awards from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Ministry of Education for free semester system promotion. (Accumulated performance from 2015 to 2016) Performance of Education Donation Programs (As of end of December 2015) Category Target Activities Performance Primary, Help students to have rational consumption and economic Currency lecture and middle, and 43 schools concept through currency economic education at the Currency 2016『Money Makers』Program field visit high school 1,714 students Museum and visit to currency manufacturing facilities students Participated in Primary, Join in ‘Making my own Ecobag’, run by currency designers, Happy Fair of middle, and 25 times experience forgery and alteration elements with exhibition Korea Donation for high school 450 students items from the Currency Museum Education students Local children Outreach currency centers, Primary, Outreach programs run by talent donators such as currency 5 times design experience middle, and designers at exhibition, schools, and etc. 907 students class high school students Activities to Improve Public Counterfeit Money Distinguish Capability In order to deter counterfeit money criminals, KOMSCO developed and distributed for free of charge, ‘Smoony’, a mobile application to allow people to distinguish counterfeit currency and gift cards easily. Smoony users can distinguish counterfeit money through Smoony by taking a picture of banknote or gift card without time or geographic constraint. Moreover, we educate people counterfeit detection by operating counterfeit money distinguish experience booth at events, such as the Fair of Donation for Education, or flea markets and visiting wet markets to educate small business owners. 48 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Special Page Currency Museum, a Cultural Spot for Local Communities and Hub for Education on Money Economy Introduction of The Currency Museum, located inside KOMSCO headquarters, organizes systematically and displays historical records including domestic and various foreign countries’ currencies, bonds, and others. It opened in June 1988 to contribute Currency Museum to development of currency culture and to enhance people’s understanding on the role of money as the medium of exchange. The Museum has approximately 4,000 pieces of historical Korean currency artifacts that are organized by chronology and type, which makes the Museum to an education hub of currency economy. It also works as culture and attraction among local communities as it holds various culture programs and local events. Fun and Hands-on The Currency Museum offers various hands-on experience programs to help our visitors understand currency economy and currency function in easy and fun ways. Every Spring and Summer we hold Currency Museum flea market. This event Experience Programs not only introduces learning and practice opportunities to event participants about roles of currency and resource saving, but also to make a foundation of mutual growth with small and medium-size enterprises and micro enterprises selling their products in this flea market. The Museum also holds different events such as inviting multi-culture families, and marginalized children in local youth centers and schools in remote areas to the Museum and our currency manufacturing facilities, Jr. Doctor, Surprise Quiz Show, and proving learning materials. Besides, the Museum holds children essay contest on Children’s Day under a theme of money. Hands-on Experience Program of the Currency Museum Visitors since the Opening of Currency Experience Service Activities Museum 4.1 million of visitors Making Sangpyeong Tongbo bookmark, taking sticker Year-round experience program picture like a figure in banknote Recorded (Accumulated performance from June 1988 to first half of 2016) Flea market themed with cherry blossom and autumn leaves Currency Museum flea market and essay contest Children’s Day essay contents themed with money Number of Currency Museum Visitors  (Unit: persons) Invite multi-cultural family, local children center, Invitation event to Currency Museum and currency schools in remote areas for special lectures on currency manufacturing facility and visit manufacturing facilities. 146,827 129,214 Currency event, Jr. Doctor, surprise quiz, learning Currency Museum experience event materials, etc. ‘Making my own piggy bank’ as a currency related Currency Museum school vacation experience event economic education 2014 2015 Open Cultural Space The Currency Museum provides opportunities for amateurs and rising artists to exhibit their artworks, such as pottery, calligraphy, amateur photo exhibits, as well as a local hot spot among local communities by providing cultural services. for Local Communities Currency Museum The Museum lets local arts group, clubs and research institutions free use of its meeting rooms and exhibition halls for mutual growth with local communities. In 2015, it invited a coffee shop run by a local coffee company to foster local SMEs Grows Together with and to increase the Museum visitors’ convenience. Instead of paying rent, the coffee shop sells its coffee at discount for Local Communities visitors. This coffee shop has become a favor hangout place among researchers from Daedeok Innopolis, which is the R&D district in the city as well as among the Museum visitors. 49 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Differentiated Making Happy Local Communities Social Contribution Strengthening Cooperation with Local Social Organizations for Marginalized Communities Activities KOMSCO has conducted various social contribution activities working together with local NGOs and social welfare centers. We held walking events, Hope sharing concert, history and culture tours among others for marginalized local communities and veterans’ families. Performance of Social Contribution Activities Jointly Promoted with Local NGOs (As of the end of December 2015) Institution Activities Performance Donated Lunar New Year rice cake to five district Selected as Daejeon governmental offices in Daejeon and promoted national Volunteers’ Happiness Daejeon Volunteer Supporting holiday community love movement sharing program for two Center Participated in State-own Company Association Volunteering consecutive years and and Hanbat Sharing Festival 2015 awarded the grand prize Daejeon, Chungnam Cash donation and participated in Sharing Campaign KRW 11 million Community Chest of Korea Daejeon Volunteer Association Supported Kimchi making and participated in volunteering KRW 3 million Daejeon Coal Briquette Bank Cash donation and delivery volunteering for Love Coal briquette KRW 8 million Total amount of gains Beautiful Store Joint host of flea market and operate goods donation KRW 3 million Total amount of gains The Korea National Red Cross Regular blood donation and participated in bazaar KRW 5 million Hope Sharing Concert Talent Donation Program Talent Sharing KOMSCO has connected our employees to places where their talents are needed. The employees’ talent donations are incentivized by reflecting the activities into internal performance evaluation or accumulating into Customer Service Mileage. The employees group into teams by beneficiary group where they do voluntary works or by themes to share their skills and talents. In the future we will support budgets for in-kinds donation or run matching grant program to activate more talent donation activities. Examples of Talent Donation Program (As of the end of December 2015) Type of talent donation Related occupational group Times Attendants Activities Mother Theresa. Project Career and vocational education and (education, cooking General office workers 54 105 currency lecture, Counterfeit detection volunteering) tips, cooking three-color pancakes, etc. Designers My art works, donation of IT talent, Audrey Hepburn Project (art, IT engineers 15 52 balloon art, wishing longevity photo culture, etc.) General office workers taking, etc. Hercules Project (house Repairing house for elder who lives Technicians 2 12 repairing, sports, etc.) alone, etc. 50 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Operation of Volunteer Programs KOMSCO has been running ‘1 percent Salary Sharing Fundraising’, which supports local social welfare *Including duplicated participation centers, a child head of household, and senior citizen who lives alone, every month with our ‘KOMSCO Employees’ Love Fund’, funded by employee donations from their monthly salary. In 2015, a fund amounted to KRW 87 million was handed over to local marginalized communities. In addition, we have set every Saturdays on the second week as a ‘Volunteer Day’ and deployed ‘113 Sharing Campaign’, once in a month doing volunteer service for more than three hours. In 2015, a total of 2,164 employees* donated 6,662 hours in voluntary activities through this program. Moreover, either departments or families compose a volunteer group and conduct a ‘Relay voluntary activities’ once or twice a month. In 2016, the employees and their families have joined every month in ‘Very Good! Love Food Truck’, a free meal program operated by Daejeon Seo-gu district Volunteer Center. New entry-level employees also do charity activities to try to contribute to build caring communities in the local society. New Employees Voluntary Activities Very Good! Love Food Truck Global Sharing We have volunteered in various global social contribution activities. Under the World Vision’s sponsorship project for overseas impoverished children, we signed on 61 sponsorships and we donated KRW 7 million promptly to Nepal Earthquake recovery project in 2015. We have also operated Uzbek children happiness promoting program. Through this program, we sent Hanbok, a Korean traditional costume, soccer balls and ecobags containing stationery to children in Uzbekistan, where our subsidiary company is located in. In addition, we have participated in ‘Global 2015 Sharing Hope Project’ hosted by Daejeon City, where our head office is located in, for two consecutive years. We funded and dispatched volunteers to the Project, which was building village facilities such as library, orphanage, playgrounds, in Indonesia. We also donated over KRW 19 million in ‘Sending red goat to Africa’ project, which was hosted by Save the Children. KOMSCO will strengthen global sharing activities by developing overseas volunteer programs that we can run mid-to-long term. Global Hope Sharing Project 2015 51 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report ISSUE 5 Customer Realizing Customer Satisfaction Management Business Relevance & Importance 2015-2016 Performance Customers are the most important stakeholder to our existence. Today’s customers request much higher quality which means they demand products and services to meet their needs not just consume products. Thus, high-quality products and active customer 10 Years Consecutive 14 Years Consecutive communication are core elements of corporate competitiveness. Quality Competitiveness Winning President Award Information security capability is getting attention as one of the Outstanding Company National Quality Circle crucial corporate competitiveness as the benefits from IT system Dedicated to the Hall of Contest grow, on the other hand, risk related to attack from external parties Fame to access business secrets and customer details have increased. 99.42 Points Establishment of Entered into Top 5 Verification Process for Privacy Protection Management Harmlessness to Level Evaluation of Public Institution By the Ministry of the Interior Human Body Our Approach Our Strategy Satisfying customers through quality management is a top priority to KOMSCO. Under this overarching goal, we strive to strengthen our quality management system, quality innovation and quality professional expertise to improve our quality competitiveness. Also, we endeavor to practice customer-oriented management that integrates customer needs into our business. We will strengthen our IT and information security system to manage customer’s valuable Strengthening quality competitiveness information. Customer Strengthening information communication security management Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Strengthening Promotional Approach of Quality Management Quality KOMSCO aims to realize customer satisfaction by achieving ‘Customer Quality’, which incorporates higher Competitiveness customers’ expectations as a quality criteria to meet higher customer expectation, we will go beyond merely meeting our product quality standard. For this to materialize, we set our promotional approach of quality management as “Establishment of quality prioritized organization culture”. Levels of Quality Management Level Product Quality: securing reasonable price and outstanding quality Customer Quality: Satisfying customers’ needs Experience Quality: Allow customers to experience Acknowledgement Establishment of the quality and improvement of Pleasant Innovative Trusted quality prioritized KOMSCO’s quality limit quality quality quality organization culture ISO 9001 Certification (since 2004)  2020 2016 2015 2018 2019 ~2017 The first year Zero defects CustomerEmbedding Experience production with embedded oriented quality Customer-oriented quality zero defects production quality into business Product quality Customer quality Experience quality Quality Management System Through systematic quality management based on statistical methodology and quality management manual, we have reduced Cost of Poor Quality (COPQ*) and improved reliability with companywide quality management. We have established quality management promotional tasks for each of the four elements, which are manufacturing personnel, machinery, material and method that quality problems can occur at initial process of manufacturing, as our quality management promotional tasks, and then we have performed the tasks. In terms of preemptive action, we have minimized internal failure cost by preventing inconsistent quality problems. Moreover, we are preventing inconsistent quality problems through new product design and process Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) and removing quality setbacks preemptively, and expanding evaluation, compensation and feedback processes on quality performances company-wide. In addition, we will strengthen management and supervise our outsourcing vendors’ product quality and quality management process. Financial Performances of Quality Management Activities in 2015 Category Number of Tasks Performed (Cases) Financial Performances (KRW million) *D O-DREAM: KOMSCO’s original and differentiated innovation activities, which 6Sigma 4 MBB, 6 BB, 4 GB 1,056 allow anyone to recognize problems easily, check countermeasures and QCC 58 On-site improvement tasks 1,627 post-management rather than using complicated tools, i.e. conventional 6 Sigma and QCC, to solve and improve KOMSCO Innovation Tasks 32 DO-DREAM* tasks 263 problems. INTERVIEW We will start our company-wide quality management improvement program in production plants. KOMSCO believes that product competitiveness is rooted in quality management, so we have kept and renewed quality management system (ISO 9001 and etc.), and all employees including the CEO have endeavor to achieve quality prioritized management. First of all, under the belief of ‘Quality management starts from production’, all employees actively participate in quality circles to find any possible quality problems in advance and to formulate solutions. Our systematic support and management on innovative quality activities were recognized by the President Award at the National Quality Circle Contest every year since 2003. We will enhance our competitiveness in human resources by emphasizing the importance of quality management Byeong-jin Jeong, Manager Quality Control Division, in all employees. Based on this requirement, we will strengthen our quality competitiveness and will develop futuristic products to KOMSCO Monetary Plant meet demands in the Internet of Things era. (National Quality Master) 53 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Strengthening Quality Management Promotional Task by 4M Elements Quality Category Activities Benefits Competitiveness Company-wide contest for quality accident free Prepare foundation for ‘Quality prioritized Man organizational culture’ commitment through sharing inconsistent quality cases Each headquarters’ original quality mindset Proliferate quality mindset strengthening activities strengthening activities *SPC (Statistical Process Control) Promote quality improvement by improvement of production facilities and optimization of operational Improvement of window thread input devices Machine condition Improvement of machine reliability Improvement Performance of Technology Strengthening inspection of major production facilities, (failure rate) and Quality Competitiveness by Year conducting ‘My Machine’ activities Number of products achieved 6 Sigma (A) Number of manufacturing products (B) Strengthening raw material import inspection Enhancement of product quality by raw (setting material standards) material management 67.1% Material Conduct paper quality test and share the test results Prevention of mass defectives by preventing 59.2% Established Verification Process for Harmlessness to inconsistent material input 56.3% Human Body on KOMSCO products (Nov. 2016) COPQ reduction 87 Re-establishment of technology standards (work 71 70 Re-establish quality management process and promote standards, material standards, quality standards, Method onsite-focused quality activities 49 47 Preemptive quality management through statistical process inspection points) 42 management (SPC*) Re-establishment of integrated quality management manual and sharing the system 2013 2014 2015 Strengthening Capabilities of Quality Management KOMSCO has designated a ‘Quality Day’ for proliferating company-wide quality mindset, and has operated quality circles. The quality circles lead not only onsite quality innovation but also the company-wide quality management. In addition, we have strengthened our quality management capability by fostering quality experts. Operation of Quality Circles To ‘achieve zero-defect in each responsible quality’, we operate quality circles under our goal, ‘zero defects and worksite accident free by performing practical tasks connected to onsite quality improvement projects’. We have conducted company-wide quality improvement through proactive quality circles activities. Through these activities, we won the President Award at the National Quality Circle Contest for 14 consecutive years from 2003 to 2016. Participated in National Quality Control Circle Competition Fostering Quality Experts Our Technology Quality Customize Master (TQCMs) (Technology Quality Customize Master) lead quality innovation activities through solving onsite problems. We have continuously fostered quality experts. As of the end of December 2015, we have a total of 281 TQCMs. In addition, we do not only focus on enhancing our quality experts’ capabilities but also do networking with external quality personnel via quality expertstailored Quality Master refreshing training and attending quality themed seminars hosted by the Korea Quality Association. Performance of Fostering Quality Experts Quality Master 6Sigma Total ** MBB: Master Black Belt Category Mint National MBB** BB GB BB: Black Belt 2015 Performance 1 0 0 2 3 6 GB: Green Belt Accumulated performance 4 6 17 55 199 281 54 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Establishment of Verification Process for Harmlessness to Human Body We strive to uphold our social responsibility that prioritizes customers’ health and safety by producing *MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet): Sheet contains information for using and and supplying environmental-friendly and harmless products to human body. To achieve this goal, we managing chemicals in safer manners. conducted safety tests on our products that people use in their daily lives, such as banknotes, ID cards, and others, in 2012 and 2016. As the results of the double testing, all of our products were confirmed to be harmless to human body and comply with domestic and international hazardous substances management standards. KOMSCO, however, was not satisfied with these results, we have established hazardous substances management standard according to international levels and created our own Verification Process for Harmlessness to Human Body. We manage, monitor and verify painstakingly hazardous substances across our operation from product design to production to manufacture Verification Process for environment-friendly and harmless products. Harmlessness to Human Body Request of Apply to mass Product Sample verification for Feedback production designing manufacturing harmlessness to on results human body products • Prohibition of banned substances based • Management of raw material use based • Utilization of national authorized testing • Find replacement materials when • Apply to mass production products on chemicals laws and regulations on each material’s MSDS* and inspection institutions such as banned substances are detected or after harmlessness to human body is when we design new products KOTITI, FITI Testing & Research Institute restricted substances exceed legal limit confirmed • Harmfulness evaluation of chemical substances when we select new or replace materials Reinforcing Information Security Management System Information Promotional Approaches and Organization Security To realize ‘Safe and Reliable Cyber Security Service’, KOMSCO reformed our mid-to-long term information Management security management system and reestablished strategic goals and tasks in 2015. Under the leadership of Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and the head of Cyber Security Center, we have established systematic management organization and strengthened information security capabilities. Vision Safe and Reliable Cyber Security Service Implementing national Securing stability of major Promotional Goals Preventing cyber infringement information security policies infrastructure facilities Strategic Tasks Establishment of management system Building infrastructure Fostering security experts [strengthening management system] [introduction of system] [capacity building] Persons in charge of Cyber Security Control and Network Chief Information Information security Security Officer (CISO) Head of Cyber (Planning Director) Security Center Personal information protection Integrated maintenance Individual maintenance and repairing and repairing 28 suppliers 16 suppliers 55 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Reinforcing Information Security Regulations and Guidelines Information In order to respond actively to changing environment of information security, we added information security related regulations in 2015. And we strengthened the information and security policies, such as Security upgraded personal information protection guidelines. Management Category Before 2015 After 2015 3 guidelines 1 regulation and 3 guidelines • Information security regulation • Information security management guidelines • Outsourcing project information security Information security • Outsourcing project security management management guidelines specific guidelines • Security control operation guidelines • Cyber Security Center operation guidelines • Infrastructure facility Information security management guidelines 2 guidelines 1 regulation Personal information • Personal information protection guidelines protection • Personal information infringement response Personal information protection regulation specific guidelines Building Infrastructure Strengthening IT Infrastructure Protection System KOMSCO has enhanced managerial and technical protection measures for IT infrastructure security. We have further separated of business broadband and internet broadband to across the company, which used to be applied in only certain business departments. Not only expansion of data encryption for all areas and Intrusion Prevention System but also we expanded security vulnerability analysis and evaluation, which we conduct every year on IT infrastructure. With these activities, we were selected as an ‘outstanding’ institution on implementation of national infrastructure protection countermeasures hosted by the National Intelligence Service in 2015. Building and Operating Data Leak Prevention System By using a personal information filtering program, KOMSCO prevents illegal leaking of personal information. Personal information detection system is operating 24/7 on our homepage and online shopping mall. And in 2015, we established information leakage prevention system that requires security manager’s approval when any web-based mail that includes personal information is sent out. Strengthening Information Leakage Response Capacity Building Cyber Infringement Response System with Small-medium Suppliers As the results of research on information leak pathways from recent security information leakages in Korea, the largest number of leakage cases were mishandling by personal information managers and suppliers. Therefore, KOMSCO has expanded information protection target systems to suppliers, which should apply our security system, so we can respond preemptively to cyber infringement accidents. In 2015, we designated production related information system, i.e. automatic warehouse, biomass, passport manufacturing, and etc., as our information protection target areas. Accordingly, we expanded information protection target suppliers from 28 to 44 suppliers, and we achieved 100 percent information protection coverage of our target suppliers. Together with this, we provided offline trainings on information security five times to 178 supplier employees. Conducted Mock Training for Improvement of Cyber Infringement Response Capability KOMSCO has enhanced cyber infringement response capability through conducting simulation training. Once in a month, we hold mock training with mail hacking. We increased our safety countermeasure rate against cyber infringement from 90.5 percent to 98.5 percent in 2015 by finding vulnerabilities at these training and devise countermeasures to these vulnerabilities. Moreover, after we were recognized for our improved response capability through mock training, such as Safe Korea Training hosted by the Ministry of the Interior, and we were selected as ‘the best’ institution by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance when we achieved four consecutive years of zero cyber infringement incident. 56 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Customer KOMSCO operates various communication channels to communicate actively with our customers. And we have increased customer satisfaction by providing customer-oriented products and services that are able Communication to fulfill their needs. Customer Communication Channels Call Center Voice of Customer (VOC) Handling Performance (Unit: case) VOC Channel 43,349 We listen to customers’ voice via our call center, homepage, online shopping mall and so on. Together 43,028 with prompt handling of customers’ requests using our VOC integrated management system and kind 42,967 responding to their call, KOMSCO call center has received the highest satisfaction from caller survey. Moreover, we try to talk to our customers first before they call to us by conducting ‘Happy Call’, a customer satisfaction survey after we supply our products. 2013 2014 2015 Operation of Customer Suggestion Program To be a company working together with our customers and integrating their ideas to our business management, we receive customer suggestions via our homepage under a variety of topics, such as new product idea, social contribution and corporate advertisement. Customers with selected suggestions are awarded with cash to encourage customer participation. Customer Suggestion Handling Procedure Confirm Review Review and the level and Customer Receive and Committee decide level of announce suggestion review meeting suggestion the result to customer Customer-oriented Products and Services Nationwide Notification Service We provide a nationwide notification service, which notifies applicants for various ID card issuing services  including welfare card, passport, and identification card. KOMSCO has developed customer-oriented (Unit: 1,000 cases) products and services to improve customer convenience and satisfaction. We have established core service 1,049 1,048 implementation standards by category, such as providing high-quality products and services and providing 952 customer requested information responsibly. We also set specific KPIs and disclose the compliance rate and performance results of the KPIs in every quarter on our homepage. 2013 2014 2015 Business Case Realization of Customer-tailored Service through Expanding Delivery System Improvement of customer convenience and satisfaction with our tailored customer services for those who have difficulty moving around and foreigners who have difficulty communicate in Korean. Until now customers those who have difficulty moving around and foreigners who have difficulty communicate in local language had experienced difficulties in card issuing, as they had to visit directly to public offices, such as local community centers, to receive their public ID card, such as welfare card or alien registration card. To save public ID card users’ time and expense, KOMSCO has expanded our delivery system in 2015 through blanket agreement with local governmental agencies. Final receiving location for alien registration cards and for welfare cards have expanded from 3 places to 15 places and from 52 placed to 97 places, respectively. Also, the card delivery time has shortened from 8 days to 2 days. As the result of these tailored customer services, 100,506 alien registration cards and 158,491 welfare cards were issued in 2015, increase of 43,451 cases and 32,723 cases respectively from previous year. 57 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report ISSUE 6 Environment Realizing Environmental-friendly Management Business Relevance & Importance 2015-2016 Performance Across the globe, people are experiencing unusual weather events, such as record heat wave and heavy snow, due to climate change. As natural resources, including fresh water and natural resources, are becoming increasingly scarce, how a corporation responds to these environmental issues is tied to the corporation’s long-term survival. In accordance with the Paris Climate Agreement of the Monetary Plant Selected as Implementation Performance Outstanding UN Climate Change Convention (COP21), each nation has set and Designated as Institution for GHG & Energy committed to implement country specific voluntary greenhouse gas Green Company Target Management in Public Sector (GHG) reduction target. Accordingly, the demands on environmental regulations, such as GHG & Energy Target Management System, Emission Trading, and Environmental Information Disclosure Energy Consumption Program, are increasing in Korea. Therefore, KOMSCO plans to be 12,219 TOE a sustainable institution, who leads energy and natural resources (Reduction of 23% in 2015 reduction through implementing systematic environmental compared with 2014) management. Our Approach Our Strategy KOMSCO has set our environmental management approaches as implementation of GHG & Energy Target Management System, establishment of Chemical Substances Management System, and ISO Integrated Business Management, and has promoted these approaches in order to reach to our environmental management target, ‘Realizing an Environment-friendly Green Company’. Particularly, we proactively manage GHG & Energy Target to implement the governmental GHG Establishment of Responding to & Energy Target System, which is to respond to climate change. To environmental climate change meet the targets, we have conducted various energy saving activities management system including efficiency improvement of company-wide production process and replacement to LED lightings. Also, we improved natural resource usage efficiency through higher water reuse rate and waste recycling rate, and methodically manage air emissions, wastewater quality and hazardous substances. With this environmental management and continuous disclosure of our environmental information, we practice a ‘transparent government’, one of the policies in Government 3.0, Continuous resource Environmental management pollutant management which is a new paradigm of Korean government workings. Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Establishment of Vision and Strategy of Environmental Management Environmental KOMSCO has promoted systematic environmental management by implementation of GHG & Energy Management Target Management System, establishment of Chemical Substances Management System, and ISO Integrated Business Management, under our environmental management target, ‘Realizing an System Environment-friendly Green Company’. We have also formed a Green Management Organization to promote environmental management efficiently. Lead by the Technology Department, which oversees environment and energy management, departments in charge of environmental management in each Plant practice continuous environmental improvement. Green Management Organization Chart CEO Goal Realizing an Environment-friendly Green Company Technology & Overseas Business Director Implementation of GHG & Energy Establishment of Chemical ISO Integrated Business Approach Technology Department Target Management System Substances Management System Management • Efforts for GHG emissions reduction • Responding proactively to chemical substances • Minimization of environmental pollutant • Promotion of energy saving activities related laws and regulations generation Monetary Paper Plant ID Plant • Compliance with energy utilization and • Chemicals spill prevention and responding • Continuous promotion of environmental Plant rationalization regulations training management improvement activities Tasks • 1% energy savings compared to standard • Establishment of chemical substances • Proactive compliance with Environmental consumption during summer and winter management process Information Disclosure Program Energy and Production Production • Roles and responsibility adjustment of chemical • Settling ISO Integrated Business Management Environmental Control Control substances related departments and inspection across operation Division Division Division Establishment of Environmental Management System KOMSCO has operated an Environmental Management System (EMS) since we acquired the EMS certification (ISO 14001) in July 2010. We also promote leading environmental management activities by setting business unit and team specific environmental KPIs to achieve our environmental management policy and mid-to-long term environmental goals, and working on specific improvement activities and sharing best practices. With these efforts, our Monetary Plant was designated as Green Company in January 2015. Establishment Environment of company policy goals Performance Improvement Continuous Environmental Implementation Environmental measurement activities by improvement Management and operation of company KPI teams at System goals Management workplace Inspection Periodical and review review INTERVIEW We will advance our environmental management strategy and strengthen company-wide environmental management mind. Many companies, regardless domestic or overseas corporations, consider environmental expenses as a burden as environmental regulations tighten. KOMSCO has set even stricter internal environmental regulations in areas of air and wastewater management than domestic legal regulations to preemptively responding to the raising standards in environmental conservation. In addition, we have promoted a systematic environmental management by environmental management system (ISO 14001) certification, designation as Green Company (Monetary Plant), introduction of Chemical Substances Safe Management System, among others. Moreover, every year we receive product safety test by external professional chemical analysis institution and conduct environmental impact assessment near our workplaces to secure environmental safety of neighboring communities Gyeong-yong Lee, Senior manager and natural environment. In these ways, we try hard to supply harmless products to our customers. In the future, we will advance our environmental Energy and Environmental Division, KOMSCO Monetary Plant management strategy, and raise environment mindset to the company-wide through continuous environmental education. 59 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Reinforcement of Responding to Climate Change Environmental KOMSCO has promoted various environmentally-friendly activities to reduce costs and to minimize Management environmental impact by maximization of energy efficiency under our vision of ‘Establishing Environmentfriendly Manufacturing Process’. We have set up environment-friendly manufacturing processes in our workplaces and have reduced energy consumption through company-wide energy reduction activities. Five Consecutive Years Implementation of GHG & Energy Target Management System Implementing KOMSCO has promoted company-wide energy reduction activities, as one of the GHG & Energy Target Management System target companies, and we have reduced energy consumption continuously. As GHG & Energy the result, we were selected as Excellent Institution at the GHG & Energy Target Management and Target Implementation Performance Award under the Public Institution category, which was hosted by the Ministry of Environment, for five year consecutively. We will promote GHG reduction project continuously, Management and lead mitigation of global warming by laying down the groundwork in response to climate change. System Reinforcement of Energy Saving Monitoring Selected as Outstanding We manage energy reduction targets preemptively by introducing System for the Total Energy Institution Consumption, and try to maximize energy efficiency by analyzing company-wide and departmental actual energy reduction against energy reduction target. We do all our best efforts to save energy through operating Energy Saving Promotion Committee, which inspects improvement of energy operational method every six months and reinforces electricity conservation. Each department designates an ‘Energy Steward’ to conduct practical energy saving activities, including keeping heater and air conditioner temperature to standard temperatures, indoor/outdoor lighting management, such as turn off office lights during lunch time, and regularly inspection of all electric appliances. Offices and Technology Research Institute GHG and Energy Reduction Efforts LED lighting KOMSCO has enhanced energy efficiency by improving aged production facilities and repair old machines Replaced to establish environment-friendly manufacturing processes. Through these activities, we reduced consumption of waste oil. We also promote various energy saving activities to reduce energy cost and 60% minimize unnecessary electricity use. Announcement of public transit days and use of commute bus or public transportation during commuting have been employed, and we have kept overall temperature 1℃ cooler in winter and 1℃ warmer in summer than the optimal indoor temperature in order to practice energy conservation. The elevators in the Head Office and Technology Research Institute are restrained to use except unavoidable situations, and 60 percent of total lightings in the company are replaced to LED lighting. Conducted Energy Saving Activities across All Departments Strengthening energy stewardship activities Minimize standby power through removal of unnecessary electric cord Turn off unused lightings during lunch time and after office close time Prohibition of use of individual heater Setting sleeping mode of computers Improvement of Energy Equipment and Facility Operational Efficiency Efficient operation of biomass boilers Efficient use of conditioning equipment and minimized operation of electrical inverter Improvement of equipment efficiencies, such as boiler, freezer, by regular inspection 60 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Continuous Resource Management Efforts to Reduce Water Use We use municipal water supply as water source. Every year we set annual water resources management plan and manage water use systematically. We reduce water use by employing rainwater storage facility and wastewater treatment facility. We promptly fix any water pipe leakage, and treat wastewater before discharging to nature to avoid negative environmental impact. Waste Management We outsource our manufacturing wastes to legally registered professional waste treatment contractors. In order to reduce general wastes, we have practiced avoiding paper cup use, and using scrap papers. As a result, we have continuously reduced waste volume since 2013. Environmental Pollutant Management Reduction Activities of Hazardous Chemical Substances We inspect chemical leak-proof devices in chemical storage and storage condition of personal protective equipment every month to prevent any hazardous chemical accident. We manage hazardous chemical substances systematically, including practicing regular chemical spill response training based on safety information of Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS). Also, we have continuously optimized chemical related equipment to minimize use of hazardous chemical substances and toxic chemicals, and to improve Hazardous Chemical Substance Facility processes at every business units. Management Air Pollutants Management KOMSCO analyzes and regularly monitors air emissions at each facility. In particular, we have improved efficiency of air treatment facilities by installing air emission preventive equipment at workplaces and periodically cleaning washing tower and removing sediment. Also, we reduced environmental pollution and achieved energy savings by replacing conventional boilers with biomass boilers. Air Emissions Facility Management Water Pollutants Management We operate real-time water pollutant monitoring system for managing water pollutants within legal levels. Sediment and Floaters Removal in Once water pollutants reach to overflow condition, the monitoring system sends alarm so that we can Wastewater Treatment Plant (Reduction of wastewater pollution rate) prevent any environment accident from wastewater. Particularly, BOD and COD of discharging wastewater are regularly monitored to meet legal limits, and systematically managed within the safe level by sampling Reduced KRW 3.9 million test and analysis of ecological toxicity and specified water toxic substances in the environmental law. Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations There were two environmental violations. There were small amount of wastewater leaked from wastewater storage tank in 2013 and a non-compliance of self-testing of discharging facilities in 2015. We took corrective actions immediately by repairing wastewater level sensor in the storage tank and complying with the frequency of self-testing. We will enforce our environmental management to comply with environmental laws, and operate thorough pollutants management and implement prevention activities. Small amount of wastewater stored in the waste paper dissociation Lack of periodic inspection for discharging facility (boiler): Warning storage tank leaked due to malfunction of the water level sensor ‌Comply with the self-testing frequency (when we operate the boiler, a professional (ceased operation for 10 days) outsourcing vendor conducts inspection once a week) since Feb. 9, 2015 Fixed the facility on Aug. 10, 2013 61 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report KOMSCO Material Flow Map KOMSCO practices environmental management for both nature and human by continuously pursuing the right balance between our business activities and environment. Environmental conservation is one of our important management tasks. In particular, our Monetary Plant was the only state-own company that won the Minister prize from the Ministry of Environment at the ‘Environmental Information Disclosure Award 2016’, as the result of our transparent environmental disclosure and management. Consumption of Main Raw Materials (ton) ■ Cotton pulp ■ Ink 4,034 3,879 2,531 2,527 125.8 133.2 110.2 93.2 2012 2013 2014 2015 Energy Consumption  (TOE) 17,225 16,257 15,785 12,219 2012 2013 2014 2015 Water Use (ton) GHG Emissions (tCO2) 1,467,090 28,546 28,507 26,221 1,268,885 25,390 1,020,345 985,123 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Reference 1: ‌Above mentioned scope of environmental information disclosure covers KOMSCO Head Office, Monetary Plant, Paper Plant and ID Plant, which are target business units of the GHG & Energy Target Management System and Environmental Information Disclosure Program Reference 2: Amounts of GHG emissions and energy consumption are same amounts indicated in the GHG & Energy Target Management System statement 62 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Waste Generation  (ton) Air Pollutant Emissions (SO2) (ton) ■ General wastes ■ Designated wastes 17 3,175 3,043 2,849 2,603 13 9 9 466 258 332 64 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Water Pollutant Discharging (ton) Output of Main Products ■ Passport type (1000 pieces) ■ Card type (1000 pieces) 9,915 64 9,203 56 740 ■ Bank note (million bills) 670 8,482 33 34 ■ Coin (million pieces) 7,889 580 550 4,660 690 4,505 4,546 670 4,229 517 620 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 *Water pollutants: sum of BOD, COD, SS, T-N, and T-P 63 KOMSCO’s Sustainability Governance Sustainability Promotion System 66 Risk Management 67 Corporate Governance 68 Business Ethics 70 Business and Human Rights 74 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Sustainability Sustainability Promotion System Promotion We have set our sustainability vision as ‘KOMSCO, creating sustainable values and taking social System responsibilities’, and four promotion targets as ‘creating future values’, ‘creating environmental values’, ‘creating social values’, and ‘creating personnel values’. In order to reach these targets, we have created 11 strategic tasks, including strengthening sustainability competitiveness and advancing ethical management system, some of which are linked and operated with internal tasks to boost execution power. CSR Vision KOMSCO, communicates with stakeholders, creates sustainable values, and upholds social responsibilities Sustainability promotion directions Creating Creating Creating Creating future values environmental values social values personnel values Sustainability strategies • Strengthening sustainability • ‌Advancing environmental • Promoting social contribution • Fostering talents systematically competitiveness management system activities • Establishing great place to • Advancing business ethics • Responding to climate • Practicing customer satisfaction work culture system management • Creating respect for human • Promoting future growth • Creating a win-win culture drivers with suppliers Sustainability Management Areas KOMSCO’s Planning Department supervises and manages sustainability and operates the Sustainability Execution Group to collect and manage performances by major areas. The Group is responsible for seven areas, including governance structure, future growth drivers, business ethics, anti-corruption, and environment/security. Representatives are selected by the department in charge and serve as representatives on the CSR Execution Group. The sustainability performances of GKD, KOMSCO’s subsidiary, are collected and managed separately by the department in charge of overseas subsidiaries. This report includes the results of enhancing sustainability competitiveness. (see page 80~83) Board of Directors (Chairman-CEO) Overall Management Promotion of Sustainability Department by (Planning Department) Sustainability Topic Future Business Customer/ Quality/ Employees/ Corporate Environment/ growth ethics, AntiSocial Mutual Human governance Security drivers corruption contribution growth rights Creative Future Strategy Team, Management Technology Management Customer Happiness Mutual Growth 3.0 Management Administration Strategy Team Technology Strategy Team, Administration Team, Team, Center, Promotion Team Team, Human Resources Overseas Business Team Integrity Strategy Team Cyber Security Center Quality Management Team Procurement Strategy Management Team, Team Labor Relations Team 66 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Risk Risk Management System Management KOMSCO categorizes major crisis management areas as business risks, disasters, public relations (external communication) risks, conflicts and security risks, and the crisis management department systematically manages them according to crisis alert level. KOMSCO Focused Risk Areas Business Public Relations Security Disasters Conflicts Risks (External communication) Risks Categorized business Classified as ‘issue’ in Categorized disasters Categorized conflicts as Categorized as employrisks as environmental, which negative public as natural, social, and economic, value, interest, ee turnover, information strategic, financial opinions are formed information disaster and complex conflict leakage, cash delivery and operational risk in the pre-crisis stage accident, and facility and ‘crisis’ in which intrusion damages are visible Crisis Alert Level Preemptive Response from Continuous Monitoring Reinforcement Category Content Remarks KOMSCO operates an on-going monitoring system to enhance our ability to respond to risky situations The state in which both at home and abroad. In particular, we have strengthened our risk management monitoring system there are signs but the level of by selecting Key Risk Indicators (KRI). In addition, we have established a monitoring system to respond Symptom Blue activity is low, and monitoring to crisis preemptively by strengthening on-site safety inspections to prevent occupational accidents, and the probability of developing into a activity supplementing and improving the crisis response manual. crisis in the near term is relatively low Reinforcing Activities for Risk Management The state in which signaling activity is Operating relatively active and Yellow cooperation there is a certain system Strengthening Crisis Response Capability through Education and Training level of tendency to turn into a crisis KOMSCO regularly conducts training every year for crisis management personnel to help them familiarized The state in which signaling activity with the use of the crisis management system and the response manual. In addition, in order to enhance is very active and crisis response capabilities, such as disaster and public relations, we are conducting joint training with development speed Checking Orange and tendency are preparation relevant departments and crisis response training in preparation for actual situations. Moreover, we are remarkably high, so planning the probability of strengthening our ability to respond crisis by examining the feasibility of the crisis response manual and crisis development is high the ability to use crisis management system through simulation exercises. Beginning The state in which Red immediate the crisis in progress action Proliferating Action Plan by Disaster Type To enhance risk management abilities, KOMSCO regularly holds crisis management representative meetings to check the maintenance of the crisis management system and to define and improve the core risk indicators. In particular, we have established action guidelines for each type of distributed them to all employees to contribute to the spread of safety culture. Enhancing Core Competencies for Disaster and Safety Disaster and Safety Management Strategy Management Establishment of safety culture through employee-centered safety practices KOMSCO is strengthening our disaster and safety management capabilities to cope with unexpected social disasters such as Facility Environment Health and trans-boundary infection and fire accidents, and to respond to Fire hygiene safety pollution and minimize damage of natural disasters such as typhoons and earthquakes that have recently increased. In particular, we have established a disaster and safety management system for each phase • Firefighting facility check • Facility safety check • Setting environment goal • Regular safety and health of prevention preparedness response recovery, and we are • Action in case of a fire • Action plan for disaster • Establishing environment education • Fire drill • Facility management management system • Action plan for infection improving our ability to cope with disasters through professional and • ‌Environment pollution • Training for infection systematic education and training. response training 67 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Corporate Board of Directors Governance As of October 2016, the Board of Directors (BOD) of KOMSCO consists of 11 directors, who are five Executive Directors (EDs), including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), and six Non-Executive Directors (NEDs). The chairman of the board is the CEO. The auditor can attend the board of directors and state opinions. There are also four specialized subcommittees within the BOD. CEO, Auditor and EDs Profiles NEDs Profiles Title Name Position Title Name Major Career Assistant professor of mechanical engineering, CEO Hwa-dong Kim President of KOMSCO Hong-jae Lee Dong-A University Policy advisor of the Yeouido Institute Standing Professor of Public Administration, Soongsil University, Kwang-bok Ahn Auditor of KOMSCO Auditor Cheol-ho Oh Former professor of political science, US Arkansas State University Vice president and domestic business Seung-hun Moon Director of Youngpoong Co., Ltd director of KOMSCO Sang-yoon Bae Former CEO of Golden Bridge Co., Ltd. NEDs Attorney of Law Firm SN Jae-man Lee Planning director of KOMSCO Kyu-ju Lee Former attorney of Law Firm Taesan EDs Director of Dongchun Research Center, Mokpo University Technology & overseas business Bong-ok Yoon Start-up Business Support team Su-hak Ham director of KOMSCO Former Honam Regional Manager of Hanguk Total Co., Ltd. Professor of dept. of media studies, Seoul National Sung-hyun Park General affairs director of KOMSCO Sung-hee Park University Former director of Samsung Welfare Foundation As of October 2016 Roles and Operation of the BOD 2015 BOD Meeting Record KOMSCO expanded the function of deliberation and resolution of the BOD on important matters and strengthened the actual role of the BOD. In 2015, we expanded our existing 12 tasks and 7 regulations Number of BOD meetings held 14 to 13 tasks and 8 regulations. In addition, we improved the efficiency of the BOD’s management system Number of agenda 63 by reorganizing the management advisory subcommittee into planning, management, and business Number of resolved agenda 19 technology fields. In 2015, a total of 14 board meetings were held. A total of 63 items were discussed, Number of reported agenda 44 including 19 resolutions and 44 reporting items. The attendance rate for NEDs during the period was 100%. Attendance rate of NEDs 100% Subcommittees in the BOD Standing Auditor EDs NEDs External Member Subcommittee Composition Roles Financial auditor Appointment Committee 1 5 Appointing financial auditor Management Committee 6 Pre-deliberating proposal, management proposal 4 6 Management Advisory Subcommittee Business consultation (Six areas including planning by sector and management) Executive Nomination Committee 6 2~3 Recommending executive candidates 68 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Independence of BOD People who have a lot of management knowledge and experience and are nominated by the Executive Nomination Committee, and the appointment of NEDs is made by the Minister of Strategy and Finance after deliberation and approval by the Public Institution Operation Committee according to the articles of association. Appointment for CEO and auditor follows the same process as the selection of NEDs, but is required to be appointed by the President upon the request of the Minister of Strategy and Finance. BOD Appointment Procedure Requested by the Appointed by the CEO‧Auditor Minister of Strategy Deliberation and President Recommended by and Finance resolution of Public Executive Nomination Institution Operation Committee Appointed by the Committee NEDs Minister of Strategy and Finance Appointed by EDs CEO BOD’s Expertise Appointed Areas for NEDs KOMSCO has selected six experts in the fields of including machinery, technology, policy, and corporate • Machinery‧Technology management as NEDs and supports them to demonstrate their expertise. We have been enhancing the • Policy NEDs’ understanding on KOMSCO, making full use of their expertise and strengthening the actual roles • Corporate Management • Law of the BOD by informing them business issues, conducting on-site visits and inspections, and holding on• Business Planning site workshops. As a result, the proportion of remarks made by NEDs increased by 5 percent point from • Public Relations the previous year to 79 percent, and management proposals and advisory results increased by 23 percent from the previous year to 54 cases. In addition, NEDs visited overseas subsidiaries (GKD) to conduct management consultations and inspections. As a result, subsidiaries earnings turned to surplus in 2015, achieving a net profit of USD 783,000. In addition, we conduct special lectures on the major issues of public agencies such as the Government 3.0 for our employees, thereby contributing to enhancement of the management performance of the corporation by utilizing their expertise. BOD’s visit to GKD Special lecture on the Government 3.0 Evaluation and Remuneration Evaluation and compensation for the head of the KOMSCO, auditors and EDs are paid according to the annual salary contract, and award of management evaluation bonuses is based on the results of management performance evaluation in Article 48 of the ‘Law on the Management of Public Agencies’. Remuneration of NEDs is divided into job allowance and attendance allowance. The annual salary is KRW 18 million and the attendance allowance for a meeting is KRW 500,000. The total amount of the annual remuneration is paid up to KRW 30 million according to the directors remuneration guidelines for public institutions. 69 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Business Business Ethics Strategy Ethics KOMSCO aims to enhance ethical management based on the CEOs commitment to business ethics, anticorruption and integrity management. We are actively promoting ethical management to realize sustainable growth that balances economic, social, environmental and ethical values in all areas of our business. Global Top 5 Minting & Security Company Sustainable growth through three-Respect ethical management Respect Basic & Principle Respect Trust & Cooperation Respect Customer & Employee [Ethical Company] [Cooperative Company] [Respected Company] Code of conduct Consensus by education Compliance check organization [Code of Ethics] [Spreading Consensus] [Promotion Organization] Business Ethics Roadmap 2015~2017 2018~2021 2022~2024 Advancement Establishment Leading of Ethical of Global Ethical Global Ethical Management Management Management 1 2 3 • Advancing ethical management system • Practice of global ethical management • Securing global standard • Securing external competitiveness • Strengthened reflux of business ethics • Leading win-win and mutual growth • Strengthening supervision on management • Expansion of ethics management and • Expansion of domestic and overseas ethics disclosure establishment of system in overseas business network • Strengthening partner management sites • Spread of ethical management of stakeholders Organization of Ethical Management KOMSCO is strengthening the status of internal organization and promoting the spreading and strengthening of ethical management and anti-corruption culture throughout the company. In addition, we are promoting the objectivity and transparency of ethical management through the establishment of private and public governance. Through this initiative, we actively participate in the governments ethical management system. Internal Organization Private and Public Governance External Organization • Planning Department • Integrity Ombudsman • Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights • Ethics and Integrity Committee • Open Audit Committee Commission • Integrity Club • Anti-Corruption Team • Ministry of Strategy and Finance • Integrity Improvement Committee • Daejeon Integrity Network • The Board of Audit and Inspection  of Korea 70 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Improvement of Ethics and Integrity Related Regulations and Policies Improvement of Code of Ethics (CoE) and Code of Conduct (CoC) KOMSCO strives to build a transparent and integrity-oriented corporate culture through the improvement of norms about ethical management, and reinforcement of the ethical management system. By establishing anti-corruption‧integrity regulations and rules for operating integrity contracts based on KOMSCO CoE and CoC, we have built a foundation for all employees to participate in creating an ethical office culture. Through exemplary ethical management activities, we will fulfill our social responsibilities as a global stateown corporation and contribute to the development of the local community and the nation. Strengthening Integrity-based System In order to form a company-wide consensus for zero corruption and to establish a continuous management system, KOMSCO is pursuing Integrity Perfect goal-reaching system. Each Plant sets up strategic and tangible goals, provides incentives for goal achievement, and re-establishes targets in the event of violations of the CoC. In addition, to protect sales confidentiality and R&D performance and to maintain transparency in procurement activities, KOMSCO has been operating a public interest reporting system and strengthened hiring restrictions for re-employed retirees. Moreover, we are constantly trying to discover new online contents such as Integrity Website, Integrity Magnifying Glasses, Conversations with Auditor Site, and Integrity Newsletter to improve the sense of integrity, and promote internally know-how of excellent institutions. Vitalization of Reporting Culture and System To ensure the anonymity of the internal reporting party, KOMSCO operates an anonymous reporting system. We do not accept direct reports, but reports are accepted with the exclusion of the registrant information through external research institutions. The result of the report sent to us is returned to the research institution and delivered to the applicant. In addition, we are expanding the duty to report to employees who are retired for less than one year, to improve autonomous corruption control systems, as well as expanding the promotion of the system through various channels including the company magazine, Integrity Newsletter. Spreading Consensus on Ethics and Integrity Vitalizing Integrity Education and Culture Through our integrity education, KOMSCO continues to provide our employees with integrity awareness *Vulnerable jobs: HR, budget, accounting, contract, outsourced processing, and audit and knowledge. We conduct anti-corruption and integrity education throughout the year for new employees. We also conduct a one-year in-class training of integrity at the ethics training institute each year for personnel in charge of integrity and high-ranking officials. In addition, we are conducting on-site trainings for subordinate organizations and mandating executives, team leaders, promoted employees, new employees, and employees in charge of vulnerable jobs* to take integrity training every year, spreading integrity culture throughout the company. Blue Signal Promoting Improvement of the Sense of Integrity in the Organization KOMSCO uses integrity notification system (『Integrity Alert』 , 『Mobile Alert Notices』, and etc.), which are used for everyday tasks, or during periods of vulnerability such as holidays and vacation periods, to constantly disseminate cases of employees violating the CoC, and rules employees should keep. In addition, the Integrity Strategy Team is sharing the integrity contents on its Facebook Page, ‘Blue Signal,’ in real-time and running the ‘Integrity Day’ on the first day of each month to make self-diagnosis about integrity level. 71 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Business Lead the Dissemination of Integrity Culture in the Public Sector Ethics In order to spread the integrity culture within the public sector, KOMSCO has formed the Anti-Corruption Team Alliance (ACT), an organization for anti-corruption autonomous cooperation consisting of integrity work practitioners at eight public institutions and public related institutions. Operation of Participatory Programs Employees voluntarily join various participatory programs to identify weaknesses in ethical management and actively participate in improvement activities. In order to encourage the participation of our employees, incentives such as official commendations and awards are given to executives and employees who have a track record of ethical performance. Performance for Participatory Ethics Management Program (As of the end of 2015) Program Performance *‌White hacker: Good hacker. It refers to White hacker* contest people who detect system vulnerabilities 26 entries/ 7 cases selected ('15.09) Integrity contents and report them to the administrator to Education and creativity contest ('15.11) prevent risks. Assessment of corporate corruption impact and 30 entries/ 7 cases selected ('15.5) improvement of anti-corruption self-sufficiency Strengthening the Audit Organization and Measures Advancement of Internal Audit through Re-establishment of Key Tasks In order to establish the basis for advanced internal audit, we have reestablished the task of improving audit activities. We are improving the fairness and reliability of internal audits by identifying 14 improvement tasks such as strengthening responsiveness to reckless management, strengthening specific audit of manufacturing risks, and establishing audit communication management system. Previous Priority Task Improvement Priority Task Background • ‌10 tasks including establishment • ‌14 tasks including strengthening responsiveness • ‌Increase the need for fair of a roadmap for prevention of to reckless management and reliable audit activities reckless management (New) Enhance specific audit of manufacturing risk • ‌Advance audit activities Strengthen risk-based audit system ‌(New) Establish audit communication such as presenting ‌Strengthen internal control management system management alternatives management system (New) Strengthen data base for computerization ‌(New) Enhance computerized and consultationbased performance audit Business Case Anti-Corruption Team (ACT) Alliance Through the ACT activities, KOMSCO is leading the spread of integrity culture in the public sector. ACT is an autonomous human network of practitioners in charge of anti-corruption and integrity in public institutions to enhance anticorruption integrity policy implementation. In June 2015, the ACT was founded by proposition of KOMSCO and consisted of six organizations including the Agency for Defense Development, Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency, Jeonju City Hall, the Defense Acquisition Program Administration, and the Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute at first. And now, as two more agencies, which are the Government Employees Pension Service and Small Enterprise and Market Service, joined, facilitators in charge of anti-corruption and integrity at these eight public organizations are currently conducting regular workshops. In the workshop, we share information on anti-corruption and integrity practices promoted by each organization including the National Anti-Corruption & Civil Right Commission’s corruption prevention policy evaluations, develop and promote anti-corruption measures, and work on anti-corruption tours and campaigns. By doing so, we are playing a leading role in spreading the integrity of the public society by securing the enforcement power of integrity policies and strengthening the receptivity on governmental willingness to practice anti-corruption practices through continuous information exchange. 72 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Increasing Independence‧Professionalism of Audit KOMSCO operates separate audit organization and reporting structure to give the auditor independence and responsibility and to facilitate internal audit. In addition, we are securing internal audit objectivity and transparency by independent evaluation of auditors. Moreover, we continuously foster and hire audit specialists through education and public recruiting, and utilize external experts such as the open audit committee and the integrity ombudsman to enhance our audit expertise. Advanced Computerized Internal Audit System In order to have an efficient computerized internal audit, the 3E computer audit system was created in 2015 and it implemented system-specific tasks. In addition, we have increased monitoring target indices from 56 to 60 and self-check checklist from 713 to 744 to enhance the computerized audit system. 3E Computerized Auditing System and Tasks e-Channel e-RM e-Audit Establish various audit channels Develop risk-based audit program Improve internal audit quality and for collecting and analyzing audit through unique risk identification value through precautionary audit *ASK : Integrated Audit Information System information and analysis activities using ASK* *CIA : C ertified Internal Audit *CISA : Certified ‌ Information Systems ‌Develop IT audit expert capacity ‌Secure computer-based audit ‌Enhance CIA* perspective Auditor ‌Strengthen channels for independence management information utilizing internal and external IT ‌Establish auditing knowledge diagnosis professionals management system Construct ‌ CISA* domain based IT audit ‌Enhance computer-based auditing ‌Audit work through database organization capacity analysis Expand ‌ sharing of audit cases online Corruption Prevention Measure Evaluation Result Activities to Strengthen Voluntary Anti-corruption Policy Highest grade KOMSCO conducts evaluations of anti-corruption measures that assess the efforts of four Plants (Monetary Plant, Paper Plant, ID Plant, Technology Research Institute) and one subsidiary (GKD) in regard with for three consecutive years implementing recommendations proposed by the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission. In addition, we are working to identify and propose integrity tasks that reflect the characteristics of each department, ensuring the prevention of corruption and the ability to control corruption in advance. At the same time, we are guiding and monitoring the CoC implementation. We have conducted audits of violations of the CoC in times of fragility such as holidays, election seasons, and holiday seasons, and have regularly checked the use of corporate credit cards by using an integrated audit information system (ASK). In addition, we report the external lectures given by our employees in advance and self-inspection of cost criteria to CEO so that we can raise the level of compliance with the CoC. Integrity Measurement Result Internal Audit Feedback and Follow-up KOMSCO conducts internal audit quality evaluation for self-diagnosis and improvement. In 2015, the 5 Excellent overall satisfaction score rose to 3.88 points, a 0.07 point increase from the previous year, and all six scores in the survey were also increased. To prevent customization of indicated matters and to enhance for five consecutive years the implementation ability of improvement activities, we implement progress management system for auditing disposition and implement management system of indicated matters. The audit management progressive system follows up through history management to provide weighted disposition to the same case issued within the last three years. The disposition implementation management system is to constantly check actual status of implementation, and has assigned a dedicated auditor for each Plant to conduct on-site inspection, information sharing, and dissemination. 73 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Business and Background for Introducing Business and Human Rights Human Rights As the social influence of corporations in the international society grows, international organizations such as the UN and the OECD are strengthening corporate responsibilities for respecting human rights. Also, in Korea, it is recommended to apply the human rights management guidelines of the National Human Rights Commissions of Korea (NHRC). There are growing demands for companies to implement and spread human rights management. KOMSCO actively promotes and implements the necessity and importance of human rights management throughout the company to prevent potential human rights problems in advance. Operation of Business and Human Rights System Since joining UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2008, KOMSCO has supported the UNGC 10 Principles, which lists respecting human rights as a key mandate. In 2015, based on the recommendations from the NHRC, we have laid out a foundation for the promotion of human rights management. By the definition of human rights management, KOMSCO focuses on implementation tasks in accordance with three strategies that value human dignity, trust and cooperation, and stakeholders. KOMSCO Business and Human Rights Implementation Strategy Definition of human Corporate respecting Interactive corporate Corporate of coexistence rights management human rights Vision Global top 5 minting & security company to fulfill customer satisfaction and social responsibilities • CEO’s public declaration on human rights management and expression of active commitment CEO’s commitment • Emphasize dignity and value as human beings and strengthen protective duties Focus on trust and Promotion strategy Focus on human dignity Focus on stakeholders cooperation Operate human rights Engage and communicate Strengthen social management system with stakeholders responsibilities and duties Implementation • ‌Build human rights • ‌Strengthen human right • ‌Establish and proclaim human task for human management system education system rights declaration rights management • ‌Improve human rights • ‌Manage and disclose • ‌Raise the satisfaction level of norms and system human rights management internal and external members performance Business and Human Rights Checklist Human Rights Management Operation System Refer to page 76~77 for details To promote systematic human rights management, KOMSCO’s Planning Department manages overall human rights management including establishment of human rights management plan, establishment of system, and response to the NHRC. We also focus on specific issues related to human rights management, such as employment, occupational safety, and consumer rights, by each related department. Check& PLAN DO Action CEO Establishment of human rights management Planning Department system (Planning Department) (Followup checklist) Human Rights Management Department by Field Human Rights NHRC Management Committee Freedom of Occupational Consumer Labor and Association Prohibition of safety and Suppliers human Employment and Collective forced labor environment rights bargaining right Planning Director (General Ministry of Strategy and AdminiLabor Cotton Pulp manager of human rights stration Relations Business Technology Procurement Business Finance (management Department Department Department management) Department Department Group evaluation of public institutions) Prevention and reduction of human rights violation 74 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Promoting Human Rights Management Education KOMSCO conducts training for all employees to improve awareness on human rights protection such as prevention of sexual violence. Human rights management education is conducted mainly through expert in-class education and discussion process, and we share with the whole company about sexual harassment laws, gender discrimination standards, sexual harassment counseling and grievances. Communication Channels Regarding Expanding Stakeholder Engagement and Communication Human Rights KOMSCO strives to improve human rights of our key stakeholders, including customers, suppliers and local • ‌Internal Employees: Human resources departments grievance handling process, sexual communities. In addition to strengthening services for vulnerable groups with physical or communication harassment counselor, reporting channel of disabilities, we are also trying to improve welfare and providing incentives to local employees. Moreover, the Board of Auditors and Inspection • ‌Outside stakeholders: complaint submission when internal and external stakeholders are involved in human rights violations, we take necessary form on company website, customer voice measures through various resolution procedures in accordance with corporate policies. (VOC) system, Audit Department report, procurement system complaint menu, and etc. Management of Human Rights Management Issue by Stakeholder Priority Purchasing  (Unit: KRW million) Category Key Issues Key Achievements 2014 2015 • ‌Inconvenience for foreigners and people • ‌Increased customer service satisfaction by expanding individual with mobility difficulties to receive alien delivery system and shorten the delivery date 4,060 registration cards. Expanded individual delivery destinations (52 places → 97 places) Customer • Need to supply integrated Shorten card delivery day (8 days → 2 days) 1,825 welfare cards for the disabled without • ‌Promoting convenience for the disabled by stably providing new interruption in case of a sudden increase. integrated welfare cards 200 149 • Improving purchasing performance of products by vulnerable 135 • Need of priority purchase for women and 109 Supplier social groups such as female-owned, severely handicapped 74 social enterprises. and social enterprises 0.4 • Need to support community • Promoting community service activities in cooperation with Local comFemale Social Products Veteran participation and development for the local communities (ex. expanding events for inviting family munity owned products made by products underprivileged and local residents members of vulnerable social groups) enterprise severely • ‌Sustaining all-round innovation through organic cooperation products disabled • Need of human rights manage between parent company and subsidiaries (ex. awarding and people Local ment for subsidiaries (frequent turnover inviting local talented employees hosted by parent company, employee of local personnel, possible human rights fostering local manpower at manager level, strengthening monproblems in local countries) itoring of human rights at subsidiaries, etc.) Strengthening Social Responsibilities and Duties In November of 2016, KOMSCO proclaimed the “KOMSCO Declaration of Human Rights Management” and expressed our commitment to human rights management both internally and externally. The KOMSCO Declaration of Human Rights Management contains human rights management philosophy based on the human rights management guidelines of the NHRC and the UNGC 10 Principles. Also, every year we conduct self-inspections to diagnose the level of implementation of human rights management at the Head Office and each Plant, evaluate our implementation and share improvement plans, and strive to improve the human rights of all stakeholders. In May 2016, we interviewed the ‘UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights’ so we can continuously review human rights protection infrastructures in the areas of employment, labor and environment. In this way, we are continuing to strengthen human rights in all areas of our business. Interview with the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights 75 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Business and Human Rights Human Rights Management Checklist Category Item Check Result Department KOMSCO Response The company made a policy declaration that it intended to fulfill the Planning Yes responsibility of respecting human rights. Department Planning The company regularly conducted human rights impact assessments. Yes • Proclaimed ‌ the Declaration of Human Department Rights Management in November Establishment The company implemented necessary measures to institutionalize human Planning 2016 to express commitment for Yes of human rights management. Department human rights management rights The company has procedures for tracking and recording human rights Planning management performance. Yes • ‌Regularly conducting human rights Department management diagnosis at each system Planning workplace, and systematically The company regularly reports on human rights management results. Yes Department monitoring performance indicators. The company provides remedial procedures for those who have been Planning Yes negatively affected by the companys activities. Department The company does not discriminate on the basis of gender, religion, Administration • ‌There are no discriminator y Yes factors in terms of gender, religion, disability, age, social status, or area of origin ​​ in relation to employment. Department disability, age, social status, area of The company does not discriminate against men and women when hiring Administration origin, etc. and on working hours, Prohibition of Yes workers. Department leave of absence, pay, retirement, discrimination Administration retirement, and education, all on employment The company does not differentiate non-regular workers from regular Yes workers. Department of which are defined in internal regulations such as “employment The company does not discriminate against foreign workers. N/A rules”, and “personnel management regulations”. The company recognizes workers freedom of association and collective Labor Relations Yes bargaining. Division The company does not disadvantage the workers because of their legitimate Labor Relations • ‌KOMSCO and its labor union sign Freedom of Yes trade union activities. Division collective bargaining agreements association once every two years, and the and collective The company provides the employee representative with the information Labor Relations Yes collective agreements signed on bargaining necessary to carry out activities. Division December 30, 2015 are in effect. If the company does not have a union, the company provides alternative N/A measures to allow employees to discuss labor-related issues independently. Administration The company prohibits all kinds of forced labor. Yes Department The company does not keep any other important personal documents, such • KOMSCO ‌ abides by Article 7 of the Administration as employees identification cards and travel documents, especially in the Yes 「Labor Standard Act」(prohibition of Prohibition of Department case of foreign workers. forced labor) and forbids forced labor forced labor following internal regulations such as GKD Administration The company takes additional measures to prevent forced labor from the “employment regulations”. Team, occurring in subsidiaries or cooperating companies operating in foreign Yes Administration countries. Department GKD Administration Team, The company does not hire young people under the age of 15. Yes Administration Department • KOMSCO ‌ abides by Article 64 of the In case of finding that a minor is hired, the company does not stop hiring 「Labor Standards Act」(minimum Prohibition of him/her immediately and, instead, provides educational opportunities or N/A age and employment authorization) child labor takes other remedies. and children cannot be employed as workers. GKD Administration Employees who are younger than 18 years of age are not allowed to do Team, Yes anything harmful to their health, safety or morality. Administration Department 76 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Category Item Check Result Department KOMSCO Response The company keeps safety equipment and facilities in the workplace safe Technology Yes and hygienic at all times. Department Separate safety and hygiene measures are being implemented for pregnant Labor Relations • ‌KOMSCO prevents occupational Yes women, the disabled and other vulnerable workers. Division a cc i d e n ts a n d co n t i n u o u s l y manages risk factors by OHSAS Ensuring The company provides workers with essential protective equipment for their Technology 18001 safety and health manageoccupational Yes ment system. duties and regularly conducts training on industrial safety. Department safety • ‌KOMSCO provides protective The company conducts health checkups on workers to protect and maintain Labor Relations equipment and occupational safety Yes education in accordance with their health. Division industrial safety standards. If a worker is injured or gets sick from work, the company pays the cost of Labor Relations Yes necessary medical care or necessary medical expenses. Division The company requires suppliers, subcontractors, subsidiaries and other Procurement • ‌The company has an obligation to Yes major suppliers to fulfill their obligations to protect human rights. Department include human rights protection in supplier contract, such as comResponsible The company monitors suppliers, subcontractors, subsidiaries, and other pliance with labor laws including Procurement supply chain major suppliers regarding compliance with the human rights protection Yes prohibition of child labor, and Department management through surveys or site visits. fulfillment of social responsibilities Emergency in the field of environment and The company pays special attention to prevent human rights violations made by occupational safety. Bidding is Yes Planning security personnel. limited in case of violation. Department The company consults with the landowner and the party affected by the N/A transfer of ownership of the land. The company does not take unfair advantage from the people who are Protecting • KOMSCO ‌ operates an online cominvolved in the inappropriate forced migration or have to migrate, and N/A human rights plaints channel to prevent violations provides appropriate compensation. of local of local resident’s property rights or residents When local residents have already used artistic works in the area or environmental rights inventions that do not obtain copyrightable or patented material, the Technology Yes company obtains consent after providing sufficient information to the Department inventor or owner of the work before using it. The company establishes and maintains an environmental management Technology Yes • ‌KOMSCO acquired ISO14001 system. The company discloses environmental information. Department certification to establish an enTechnology vironmental management system. The company discloses environmental information. Yes Ensuring Department • ‌KOMSCO uses MSDS (Material environmental The company stands for the principle of preventive approach to Safety Data Sheets) to check the Technology rights Yes harmfulness of raw materials and environmental problems. Department regularly discloses environmental The company makes emergency plans to prevent, moderate and control Technology information at the environmental Yes information disclosure system. environmental damages and disasters. Department The company takes necessary precautions in accordance with the standards of laws and ordinances in the design, manufacture and labeling of products Technology • ‌KOMSCO describes quality control Yes in order to prevent harm to consumers life, health and safety due to defects Department and necessary response procedures in the products. in accordance with the Product Protecting Liability Law in the quality control The company informs the consumers of the risk of the product when consumer Business regulations. damage occurs in the product due to defects. And the product is recovered Yes rights Department • ‌KOMSCO strictly controls quality as soon as possible. according to the ISO9001 manual Management (much of the cost is quality control The company respects the privacy of the consumer and takes necessary Yes Evaluation costs) measures to secure the personal information the company collects and stores. Department 77 KOMSCO’s Sustainability Performance Strengthening GKD’s Sustainability Competitiveness 80 CSR Quantitative Performances of KOMSCO 84 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Special Page Background and Status of GKD Establishment Strengthening GKD’s Sustainability KOMSCO established a subsidiary, GLOBAL KOMSCO DAEWOO., LCC (hereafter ‘GKD’), in Uzbekistan in 2010 to supply raw material stably and to replace aged facilities in Korea. GKD is a joint-venture company formed Competitiveness between KOMSCO and Daewoo International Corporation. KOMSCO owns 65 percent of GKD shares and Daewoo International holds the remaining 35%. Confirmed Memorandum of *Daewoo International Corporation has Understanding on overseas changed its corporate name to POSCO 2009.05 business with Daewoo Daewoo in March 2016. Kazakhstan International Corporation GKD at a Glance  Ministry of Strategy and 2010.04 Finance approved the GKD Information Content subsidiary enterprise Uzbekistan Kyrgyzstan Company GLOBAL KOMSCO DAEWOO., LCC (“GKD”) Turkmenistan Name Tajikistan HeadToshkent Region Yangiyul District 2010.09 Founded GKD quarters Uzbekistan Establish13 September 2010 ment Date Started to produce 2011.11 Main Manufacturing and selling cotton Business pulps cotton pulp Corporate 65% KOMSCO Governance 35% POSCO Daewoo Capital USD 11 million (USD) Production Cotton pulp, maximum 20,000 Capacity tons/year Number of 194 employees Structure of GKD Sustainability Promotion Employees (As of September 2016) Chief Executive Moon-pyo Lee (dispatched from Sustainability Strategy Officer KOMSCO since 01 December 2016) Company GKD has set its sustainability goal, ‘Strengthening of GKD’s social role through leading economic growth’, www.gkdream.com Webpage and it has managed sustainability issues and performances in line with Triple-Bottom Line (TBL) of economy, social and environment to promote systemically sustainability activities. In particular, it has led creating shared values based on demands come from local communities in Uzbekistan by promoting effective social Number of Employees by Type (As of September 2016) (Unit: persons) contribution activities. Total 189 Expat Contractor 129 Office worker Global Leading Company for Production Technician Vision High Quality Cotton Pulp 5 33 2 3 27 Korean Local Sustainability Goal Strengthening of GKD’s social role through leading economic growth Economy Environment Society (Secure competitiveness) (Be an environmental-friendly corporation) (Enhance social trust) • Increase revenue • Environmental protection • Management of supply chain risks • Productivity improvement • Energy saving • Children-friendly business and management innovation • Efforts to manage local natural • Expansion of cultural exchange • Enhancement of quality resources • Activation of local economy competitiveness 80 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Selection of GKD Stakeholders and Direction for Sustainability Implementation GKD defined its main stakeholders into Uzbekistan government, shareholders, clients, local community, NGO and media, and its employees. It communicates closely with its stakeholders regarding their issues. • Ministry ‌ of Finance, Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, etc.: Improve negotiation Uzbekistan power toward the governmental agencies and receive governmental policy supporting Government through building close cooperative relationship • Raw ‌ Cotton Association: Maintain mutually cooperative relationship with the members Shareholders of the Raw Cotton Association, which is the core raw material supplier of GKD, through improving the members’ recognition on quality and supporting training, and etc. • ‌KOMSCO: As the largest shareholder and client, KOMSCO strongly supports GKD’s sustainability initiatives to transform GKD to a global leading company Clients • ‌POSCO Daewoo Co., Ltd.: As the second largest shareholder, POSCO Daewoo partners with GKD to increase GKD’s revenue by developing new markets Classification of GKD Stakeholder • ‌Domestic and international cotton pulp clients: Develop and supply customer-tailored products, and exceed customer expectation by strategically Uzbekistan forecasting customers’ needs Local Community • Local ‌ communities and others: Establish relationship with communities for mutual development by creating jobs in the region, social contribution activities, and etc. NGO and • ‌Domestic and international NGOs and media: Preserve GKD’s positive Media business image through appropriate response to various organizations Employee • ‌Employees: The most important stakeholder who drives satisfaction for each of GKD’s stakeholder Securing Competitiveness Year 2014 ~2015 GKD was about to experience the state of capital impairment in 2014; however, it has implemented innovative efforts to reduce cost, improve quality and productivity, and expand markets among many other initiatives. Two consecutive years With these efforts, it has obtained significant achievements, such as hitting the highest profit margin in its Surpassed profit history in 2015 and surpassed profit over two consecutive years in 2014 and 2015. For GKD’s revival, KOMSCO not only formed marketing and R&D departments in order to reinforce its business competitiveness, but also went through intensive reforms, including restructuring of business units and personnel. It achieved USD 13.18 million of sales and USD 780,000 of net profit in 2015 with these proactive efforts. (Unit: ton, USD 1,000) Net Profit (Unit: USD 1,000) 2012 2013 2014 2015 Yield 3,321 5,524 6,640 8,360 783 Amount of Sales 3,023 5,377 5,573 7,967 222 Revenue 8,089 13,825 10,098 13,176 Operating profit △2,237 547 1,018 1,810 Net profit △6,136 △421 222 783 2012 2013 2014 2015 Becoming an Environmental-friendly Corporation 421 GKD has reduced energy use under our systematic energy management, which includes modernization of facilities and increased production efficiency. We saved 515,000kW of electricity in February 2015, compared 6,136 with the previous month, after we established and promoted peak electricity strategic management plan. This energy saving is equivalent to cost saving of USD 38,000. We also reduced water consumption and protect our water resources. GKD has increased water recycling rate and improved water purification and pulp washing facilities. In 2015, we reduced 1,507 tons of water use a day as white water, from washing cotton pulp, is recycled to use to dilute water. 81 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Special Page Enhancement of Social Trust Strengthening GKD’s Sustainability Sustainability Risk Management in Supply Chain Competitiveness Cotton is the key industry in Uzbekistan. The life cycle of cotton industry from seeding-cultivating-harvesting-sellingdistributing is controlled by the government. Children and adults were forced systematically to produce the national production target under the state-sponsored forced labor system. Due to organized boycott on the Uzbek cotton by the world fashion industry and human rights NGOs’ efforts, the number of children under 16 years old, who were forced to work in the cotton industry, was reported to have decreased since 2012; however, the possibility of forced labor still may exist. Therefore, GKD has strived to purchase child labor and forced labor free cotton pulp. Together with international organizations including the World Bank, GKD also tries to improve the labor and human rights conditions in Uzbekistan. Recognition of Human Rights Issues Requested active cooperation Delivered letter of for due diligence of the National intent to join the World Human Rights Commission of Bank project Korea in Uzbekistan 2012 2014 ILO Report 2015 2016 ILO Report 2016 2013 2015 Expressed deep concerns on child Confirmed improvement of labor and Measures for complete and forced labor issues to the human rights problem in Uzbekistan implementation of the Child labor has not been ambassador of Uzbekistan in through documents from the chamber Child Labor Convention has allowed in the society Korea through interview of commerce in Uzbekistan continuously conducted Monitoring GKD Human Rights ILO Report 2015 KOMSCO has continuously monitored the local labor and human rights practices in Uzbekistan through annual • ‌Due diligence period: 18 September ~25 report issued from the International Labor Organization (ILO), the most authorized labor and human rights group, October 2014 • ‌Due diligence place: cotton farms across newsletters from the Korean Embassy in Uzbekistan and by monitoring GKD’s local employees. In particular, we work Uzbekistan closely with the Uzbekistan government and related organizations to monitor the issues as well as actively participate • Due diligence result: in the World Bank’s labor and human rights related policy making through interactive information sharing. KOMSCO ‌A few child labors and teenagers were will continue to address labor and human rights issues in Uzbekistan and preventive measures in a variety of ways. found; however, preventive measures are taken to thoroughly implement the Child Risk Management Process in Supply Chain Labor Convention. Adult forced labor was not found. Supply ILO Report 2016 Risk recognition Risk chain risk in supply chain Risk analysis assessment • ‌Due diligence period: 14 September ~28 recognition and October 2015 assessment • ‌Due diligence place: monitored at the World • ‌Recognition on occurrence of risk • ‌Risk level analysis (Risk review • ‌Risk assessment Bank project sites issue (human rights related issues, and management at KOMSCO and (serious/alert) • Due diligence result: such as child labor, forced labor) subsidiary are required) The ‌ frequency of using child labors has been decreased and child labor is considered as an unacceptable issue in the society. Supply ‌While efforts of the government and Risk monitoring chain risk Risk response social groups regarding forced labor have and reporting response and influenced positively, it is not enough to consider the forced labor is not conmanagement • Operate prompt local response channel (Hot Line) ventional custom. •R  isk monitoring and managing findings ‌Address issue to the Uzbek government and request •R  eporting to KOMSCO management cooperation • Crisis management reporting system Control tower: KOMSCOs department in charge the issues Local control tower: GKD Planning and Business Plant Post-risk Supply chain management risk review • Risk reduction: methodology specification • Risk management: implementation monitoring 82 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance [B.P] Supporting Aid Project for Resolving Human Rights Issues in Uzbekistan The World Bank Project KOMSCO has proactively participated in “South Karakalpakstan Water Resources Management • Project ‌ name: South Karakalpakstan Water Improvement Project”, a World Bank project since 2015 for resolving child labor issues in Uzbekistan. Resources Management Improvement Project The World Bank has promoted modernization of the irrigation network and agriculture projects since for Uzbekistan (Modernization of the irrigation 2014 under the condition for complete cessation of child and forced labor in South Karakalpakstan, network and agriculture projects) Uzbekistan. GKD has proactively worked together with the World Bank policy by prioritizing • ‌Project cost: USD 337 million (project period 2015~2021) procurement of linters in this region and has strived to resolve human rights risks by updated ‌• ‌Project area: South Karakalpakstan, Uzbekistan information on the project progresses in the region. GKD will continue to join in the fight to resolve (Western Uzebekistan) human rights related issues and will actively procure linters, which were produced only from locations • ‌Financing for relieving human rights issues: Provide fund for projects in promise for cotton harvest that adhere to international human rights standards. mechanization in cotton farms belong to Uzbek government and being certified with child and forced labor free cotton GKD’s Social Contribution Activities Local Employment Rate Activating Local Economy (Unit: %) KOMSCO has given prioritization to hire local talents in Yangiyul. Not only we have contributed to create 89 89 local jobs for the communities but also procured local goods first when we purchased raw materials and 84 87 accessories to activate local economy and to promote mutual growth. GKD have also made numerous 77 donations to support local residents’ feedstuff and supporting Yangiyul handicapped association to grow together with local communities. Expanding Cultural Exchange KOMSCO have provided Korean language classes to local employees in order to increase work efficiency by 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 fostering Korean speaking employees, and to instill Korean national image in local employees by sharing Korean culture. In 2015, during two Korean language courses, approximately 56 local employees have Local Procurement Rate learned Korean and learned about Korean culture. We have supported ‘activities to secure cultural identity (As of the end of 2014) (Unit: %) for Koryo-in, which means ethnic Koreans’, run by Koryo-in Association to improve Koryo-ins’ identity and to 90% preserve their traditional culture within Uzbekistan. Children-friendly Business Total amount of domestic procurement (USD 5.083 million)/ GKD has donated soccer balls and stationeries to primary students in Yangiyul city, Uzbekistan to support Total amount of procurement (USD 5.649 million) children life in developing countries through ‘Children Happiness Sponsoring Program’. This program is run by KOMSCO, the parent company of GKD. Through this program, youth sport development supporting project was promoted in 2012. Sponsoring educational development fund and dream sharing event for Performance of Korean Language Education students were promoted recently. The Uzbek government has introduced these GKD’s social contribution in 2015 programs as a best practice that demonstrated localized social contribution, and has encouraged these programs to spread to other foreign invested companies. 2nd 36 session 1st 30 session people people including 10 repeat attendants May 2015 September 2015 Activating Local Economy (three months) (three months) Expanding Cultural Exchange 83 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report CSR Quantitative Economic Performance Data Performances of Summary of Financial Statement* KOMSCO (Unit: KRW million) Category 2013 2014 2015 KOMSCO Achieved the Highest Revenue since its Foundation Revenue 432,505 429,927 462,410 KRW 462.4 billion Cost of sales 396,574 388,482 419,443 Selling, general and administrative 33,464 35,710 35,877 expense Operating profit (loss) 2,467 5,735 7,090 Other revenue 1,100 689 563 Other expense 143 276 87 Other income 4,129 129 617 Finance income 569 500 650 Finance cost 2,492 2,059 2,085 Profit before income tax 5,630 4,718 6,748 Income tax 3,559 525 560 Profit for the year 2,071 4,193 6,188 Other comprehensive income (1,065) (4,925) 81 *Based on consolidated comprehensive income statement Total comprehensive income 1,006 (732) 6,269 (K-IFRS) Consolidated Financial Statement (Unit: KRW million) Category 2013 2014 2015 Current Assets 135,002 149,887 155,272 Non-current assets 254,402 234,606 223,616 Total assets 389,404 384,493 378,888 Current liabilities 50,842 57,198 45,529 Non-current liabilities 54,029 44,507 45,335 Total liabilities 104,871 101,705 90,864 Total equity 284,533 282,788 288,024 Other Economic Performances The Lowest Level of Counterfeit Banknote Founding in the World Category 2013 2014 2015 0.7pieces Annual finding number of counterfeit 0.9 0.9 0.7 banknotes (pcs)* domestic e-Passport issue (1,000 pcs) domestic 3,182 3,112 3,895 R&D investment rate (%)** 9.90 8.22 8.29 *Found counterfeit banknotes out of 1 million pieces of distributed banknotes, referred to the Bank of Korea press article. **‌R&D investment rate is defined as R&D expense against net income, and the calculation formula for R&D investment rate was changed in 2016. (Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning, R&D Investment Planning Division-1281 (1st November 2016), Net income is calculated after excluding adjustment items (including raw material expenses, and etc.) from gross income) 84 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Environmental Performance Data Air Emissions (SO2) (Unit: ton) Pollutant Concentration Test Workplace 2012 2013 2014 2015 Head office Twice per month Monetary Paper 0.75 16.07 0.21 8.69 0.36 12.79 0.43 8.08 ID 0.00 0.00 0.56 Total 16.82 8.90 13.15 9.07 Water Pollutant Discharge (Unit: ton) Workplace 2012 2013 2014 2015 Head office 0.14 0.14 0.11 0.08 Monetary 1.10 1.36 1.29 1.20 Paper 62.92 54.90 31.23 32.48 ID 0.00 0.00 0.01 Total 64.16 56.40 32.63 33.77 Hazardous Substances Usage Water Use (Unit: ton) (Unit: ton) Workplace 2012 2013 2014 2015 Workplace 2012 2013 2014 2015 Head office 0.60 0.61 0.40 0.42 Head office 11,422 10,575 10,119 11,265 Monetary 159.02 66.63 105.48 93.59 Monetary 141,790 77,260 83,360 81,760 Paper 1.11 2.85 5.35 2.38 Paper 1,302,428 1,169,208 878,066 915,070 ID 2.50 2.20 3.30 3.89 ID 11,450 11,842 13,578 12,250 Total 163.23 72.29 114.53 100.28 Total 1,467,090 1,268,885 985,123 1,020,345 Energy Consumption (Unit: TOE) GHG and Energy Target Management in Public Institution Sector Workplace 2012 2013 2014 2015 Excellent Head office 573.53 510.74 511.47 547.01 Monetary 4,996.56 5,185.90 5,333.70 5,083.92 Institution Paper 10,891.26 9,834.45 9,223.45 5,867.58 ID 763.92 725.58 716.43 720.61 for Implementation Total 17,225.27 16,256.67 15,785.05 12,219.12 of the Target Management GHG Emissions (Unit: tCO2) GHG by Scope Workplace 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total 28,506.93 28,545.87 26,220.51 25,389.60 Scope 1 18% Discharge of Wastes (Unit: ton) Workplace 2012 2013 2014 2015 Head office 0.20 0.34 0.22 4.20 Monetary 42.98 62.70 55.84 142.54 Designated Scope 2 Paper 18.64 192.26 259.34 311.67 wastes 82% ID 2.50 2.20 16.27 7.51 Total 64.32 257.50 331.67 465.92 Head office 53.00 53.90 49.00 51.00 Monetary 316.04 347.49 470.70 351.05 General wastes Paper 2,788.96 2,631.88 2,320.19 2,183.60 ID 17.00 10.00 9.77 17.04 Total 3175 3043.27 2849.66 2602.69 85 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report CSR Quantitative Social Performance Data Performances of Employees KOMSCO Category 2013 2014 2015 Incumbents 1,396 1,390 1,361 Regular retirements 50 62 72 Voluntary resignations 4 4 2 Undefined contractors (Direct employment) Non-regular incumbents 53 60 65 No. of female employees and ratio 273 (19.6%) 280 (20.1%) 286 (21.0%) Ratio out No. of female employees above 38 (7.8%) 46 (9.0%) 49 (10.0%) of total senior managers and ratio incumbents No of the disabled employee 47 (3.4%) 47 (3.4%) 50 (3.7%) and ratio New Employment Status (Excluding executives) Category 2013 2014 2015 Female 10 8 Disabled employees Local talent (Noncapital region) 14 35 28 Local talent (HQ located region) N/A N/A N/A High school graduate 12 20 10 Vocational high school graduate 11 12 10 Engineering graduate 3 7 23 Total 19 50 49 Job Creation Year Category Partnership Investment Business Outsourced Total Regular 133 29 94 256 2013 Non-regular 13 15 47 75 Regular 162 47 82 291 2014 Non-regular 7 22 39 68 Regular 188 47 81 316 2015 Non-regular 33 23 39 95 Flexible Working System Promotion Performance Achievement of Zero Accident (Based on regular employees) Target Expected Category Starting Date Target Category 2013 2014 2015 Record Achieving Date Flexible work by hour (persons) 16 21 13 Monetary 9,870,000 5 2009.09.19 2017.10 Plant hours Flexible Selecting 49 41 49 Paper work commuting hours 1 2016.06.26 416 days 2017.04 scheme Plant Selecting work (persons) 22 21 23 location ID Plant 8 2007.07.20 3,024 days 2017.09 Union Labor Membership Rate Social Contribution *‌Under Level 4 (Exceptions: Planning, Category As of the end of October, 2016 Category 2013 2014 2015 Business management, Accounting, HR, Target number of labor union No. of KOMSCO Voluntary Labor Relations, Audit, Secretaries, 1,197 2,964 3,054 2,850 Security Personnel, Drivers for executives membership* Group participants (persons) and Plant heads) No. of labor union membership 1,193 Investment amount in social **Cash donation+KOMSCO Employees Love 155,510 200,556 159,485 Fund+KOMSCO Employees fundraising Labor union registration ratio 99.6% contribution (KRW 1,000)** 86 Appendix GRI G4 Index 88 KOMSCO’s Human Rights Declaration  90 UNGC 91 Independent Assurance Statement 92 External Awards and Recognitions 94 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report GRI G4 Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE Aspect G4 Indicators Page Reporting rate Note Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to Strategy and G4-1 p2~3 ● the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Analysis G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities p8~11 ● G4-3 Report the name of the organization p6 ● G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services p10~17 ● G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters p6 ● Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization G4-6 p28~29 ● has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form p6 ● Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and p10~17, G4-8 ● beneficiaries) p28~29 G4-9 Report the scale of the organization p6 ● Organizational G4-10 Report the total number of employees p6, p86 ● Profile G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p86 ● Managed by under the categories of outsourced processing, purchasing G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain p42~45 ● vendors, related organizations and technology support Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or No significant changes happened G4-13 ● its supply chain during the reporting period G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization p67 ● List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the p88~89, G4-15 ● organization subscribes or which it endorses p91 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations G4-16 p94 ● in which the organization *List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 *Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents p80~84 ● is not covered by the report. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries and how the organization has G4-18 p22~23 ● implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content p22~23 ● Identified G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization p23 ● Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization p23 ● There were no changes in the Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such reporting period in this report G4-22 N/A restatements due to gap between the first and second reporting year No changes affecting to the Scope G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries ● and Aspect Boundaries G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization p18~19 ● G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage p18~19 ● Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Stakeholder p18~19, G4-26 stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the ● Engagement p22 report preparation process Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization G4-27 has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that p18~23 ● raised each of the key topics and concerns G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided p0 ● This is the first report since 2009 (FY2008) G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) p0 ● To be published biennially G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) p0 ● Report Profile G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents p95 ● p0, G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option of the GRI Index the organization has chosen ● p88~89 G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report p92~93 ● Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify Governance G4-34 p68~69 ● any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviors such as code of conduct and code G4-56 p70~71 ● of ethics Ethics and Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related G4-57 p70~73 ● to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines Integrity Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and G4-58 matters related to organizational integrity (escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or p71 ● hotlines) 88 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE Aspect G4 Indicators Page Reporting rate Note G4-DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach p26 ● Economic p43, 84, EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● Performance p86 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change p58, 60 ● Indirect EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported p47~51 ● Economic p47~51, Impacts EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ● p86 Procurement G4-DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach p40 ● Practices EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation p43 ● Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p62 ● EN3 Energy consumption within the organization p62, 85 ● Energy EN6 Reduction of energy consumption p62, 85 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p62 ● Water No water sources significantly EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● affected by withdrawal of water G4-DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach p58 ● EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) p62, 85 ● Emissions EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) p62, 85 ● EN21 NOx , SOx , and other significant air emissions p63, 85 ● EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination p63, 85 ● Effluents and EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p63, 85 ● Waste EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills p61 ● No leakage of hazardous substances Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Compliance EN29 p61 ● environmental laws and regulations LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region p33, 86 ● Employment LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender p36 ● Occupational Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related Health and LA6 p86 ● fatalities, by region and by gender Safety Training and G4-DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach p32 ● Education LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category p35 ● Diversity G4-DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach p32 ● and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age p33, 68, Opportunity LA12 ● group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity p86 Labor Pracitces Grievance LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices field, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms p37~39 ● Mechanisms Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses HR1 p77 ● or that underwent human rights screening Investment Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are HR2 p75 ● relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken p76 ● Freedom of Association Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining p38~39, HR4 ● and Collective may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights p76~77 Bargaining Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to p76~77, Child Labor HR5 ● contribute to the effective abolition of child labor p82 Forced and Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and p76~77, Compulsory HR6 ● measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor p82 Labor Local G4-DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach p46 ● Communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs p47~51 ● G4-DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach p70~73 ● SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified p73 ● Anti-corruption SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures p71 ● SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ● Disclosed on KOMSCO Homepage Customer Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for Health and PR1 p55 ● improvement Safety Product G4-DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach p52 ● and Service Labeling PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction p57 ● No violation of Personal Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data p55~56 ● Information Protection Law Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of No violation of the Laws and Compliance PR9 ● products and services Regulations 89 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report KOMSCO’s Human Rights Declaration KOMSCO’s Human Rights Declaration KOMSCO, as a world best minting and security technology leading company, does our social responsibilities and actively practice human rights management, which puts stress on human dignity and values across our operation. Hereupon, we declare「KOMSCO’s Human Rights Declaration」for protecting of the rights of all stakeholders, including our employees; pursuing human rights respected management; and as action standards and valuation that our employees shall comply with. One, we respect and support international standards and norms on human rights. One, we strive to prevent human rights violations which may occur physically and potentially. One, ‌we do not discriminate stakeholders, including our employees, based on their gender, religion, disability, age, education, region of origin, and etc., and establish an organizational culture of mutual respect and care. One, ‌we guarantee freedom of association and collective bargaining, and pursue trust based labormanagement relations. One, we do not allow any type of forced labor and child labor. One, we establish safe and healthy working environment and promote occupational safety and health. One, ‌we support and respect all stakeholders’ human rights protection, including our subsidiary and suppliers. One, ‌we respect and protect human rights of local community people in regions, where our domestic and overseas business activities are held. One, ‌we comply with domestic and overseas environmental laws and regulations, and lead environmental protection. One, ‌we value lives and safety of the nation and protect human rights of all consumers across our operation. 90 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance UNGC KOMSCO has complied with the UN Global Compact 10 Principles against Human rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-corruption. Category Principles Activities page 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection • Establishment of human rights system, improvement of related of internationally proclaimed human rights; and policies and regulations • Training on in-house sexual harassment prevention and human rights 74~77, Human Rights ‌• Declaration of KOMSCO’s Human Rights Management and 82, 90 announcement of the commitment 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights • Human rights self-inspection and monitoring abuses. • Strengthening human rights activities at the subsidiary level • Establishment of win-win labor-management relations and 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association guarantee of freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective • Operation of labor-management council for promoting employees’ bargaining; morale 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Monitoring labor standard law and internal labor regulations 38~39, • Compliance with the ILO standards and UNGC Principles Labour 74~77, • Sharing and pledge to Declaration of Human Rights Management 82, 90 with GKD (overseas subsidiary) 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and • Removal of discriminatory elements such as sex, education, age, 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of region of origin, and etc., according to internal regulations employment and occupation. • Provide fair opportunities and employment procedure 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Establishment and operation of ISO integrated management system • Implementation of energy target management system, strengthening 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment climate change responding activities such as GHG reduction 59~63 responsibility; and • Strengthening chemical substances management, including MSDS updates, preparation of spills, and emergency training 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Establishment of business ethics strategy and roadmap, improvement of rules and regulations 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its • Activation of reporting system and culture for protecting anonymous Anti-corruption 70~73 forms, including extortion and bribery. internal whistleblowers • Expansion of anti-corruption and uprights training, operation of participatory ethics program to proliferate upright awareness 91 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report Independent Assurance Statement Preface Korean Foundation for Quality (the “KFQ”) has been engaged by Korea Minting, Security Printing & ID Card Operating Corp. (“KOMSCO”) to perform an independent assurance in regard to the following aspects of this Sustainability Report (the “Report”). KOMSCO has responsibility to establish compilation criteria including content of this Report and KFQ’s responsibility is to provide an assurance conclusion of this Report. Independence KFQ was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, other than providing an assurance opinion, and there has been no conflict of interest between KOMSCO and KFQ. Further to this KFQ has unbiased opinion on stakeholders of KOMSCO. Assurance Standards Assurance/verification standards • AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 • AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard 2008 • GRI G4.0 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines • ISO 26000: Social Responsibility Standard Assurance Scope The followings are included in the scope of this assurance: • ‌Report contents in relation to the Head Office, three Plants (Monetary Plant, Paper Plant, ID Plant), Technology Research Institute), subsidiary of KOMSCO; • GRI G4.0 Compliance assessment regarding contents of the Report and assurance principles of reporting quality; •‌‌Application of Type 1 assurance approach according to AA1000 and AA1000AS 2008 to assess compliance with inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness principles and reliability of sustainability performance information. The term ‘Moderate Assurance’ used in AA1000AS is designed to be consistent with ‘Limited assurance’ as articulated in ISAE3000. Our assurance is a Type I assurance engagement as defined in the Guidance for AA1000AS; and • Core subjects in ISO 26000. Assurance Procedure KFQ considered the procedures to achieve reasonable assurance of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the sustainability information, as well as internal process and system of data collection to have reliability of sustainability performance information provided in the Report. • Desk review KFQ has performed GAP analysis of key issues and sustainability performance data provided in the Report against GRI Guidelines and information acquired through media survey. With regard to the financial performance data included in the Report, our procedures were limited to verifying that they were correctly derived from the audited KOMSCO’s financial date based upon K-IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standard). • Site visit KFQ visited KOMSCO Head Office to understand and assess the systems and processes in place for managing the sustainability performance data. KFQ reviewed internal process of stakeholder engagement, selecting and reporting of key issues and the procedures to manage the issues. • Resolution of findings KFQ reviewed the final report to check the errors and issues identified during above process to provide correct and reliable sustainability performance information, and conducted an independent assessment of the Report in relation to GRI Guidelines. 92 Business Stakeholders KOMSCO’s Value KOMSCO’s KOMSCO’s Overview Appendix Overview Engagement Creating for Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Sustainability Performance Consideration and Limitation Completeness and responsiveness of sustainability performance information reported in the Report are subject to inherent limitation due to their nature and the methodology used determining, calculating and estimating such data. Assurance Opinion Based on the assurance activity stated herein, KFQ confirmed that this Report meets the GRI G4.0 ‘Core’ option. According to the three principles of AA 1000 Accountability Principles Standard 2008 and AA 1000 Assurance Standard 2008, namely, inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness, sustainability performance information was assessed and KFQ could secure reasonable evidences to provide Type 1 level of assurance through followings. 1. ‌KOMSCO has subdivided stakeholders as five core stakeholder groups related to the major issues of sustainable management. To hear any concerns and opinions from them, KOMSCO has customized communication channels for each stakeholder group and convey KOMSCO’s business strategy and sustainable management activities; 2. ‌According to the materiality assessment process, KOMSCO identified most relevant and significant sustainability issues then pool it in groups. Those issues were finally grouped as 11 major issues based on stakeholder survey, media analysis, and opinion of external specialists, and it was fairly well-reported in the Report; and 3. ‌KOMSCO has included in the Report its response to the 11 material sustainability issues that were identified through material assessment process. KFQ could confirm that KOMSCO is responded condignly with coherent actions and concerned active response to their sustainability management work. Recommendation for Improvement 1. ‌It is KOMSCO’s second Sustainability Report since 2008 and we could see that KOMSCO has done a lot of work associated with stakeholder engagement, materiality assessment, responding to the major issues. Henceforth, we recommend using this valuable output in practice to establish sustainability strategy. 2. ‌Periodic updates of sustainable management issue are required in order to improve internal management system; therefore, it is recommended for KOMSCO to cyclically monitor major issues identified through material assessment. Furthermore, it is necessary to improve sustainability reporting processes in data generation, gathering and analysis. November 2016 Seoul, Korea Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) CEO Dae-hyun Nam 93 2016 KOMSCO Sustainability Report External Awards and Recognitions Category Hosted by Received Year Selected as GHG & Energy Target Management and Implementation Performance Ministry of Environment 2016.10 (for five consecutive years) Outstanding Institution in the Public Institution Category Commendation from the Minister of the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy for Small and Medium Business 2016.10 (for three consecutive years) public procurement of SMEs products Administration Small and Medium Business Commendation from the Prime Minister for Public Procurement Excellent Organization 2016.10 Administration Ministry of Trade, Industry Winning President Award at the National Quality Circle Contest 2016.09 (for fourteen consecutive years) and Energy Daejeon City Mayor Award, commendation for social contribution activities at Daejeon Metropolitan City 2016.09 Daejeon Social Welfare Contest 2016 Winning Award of the Minster of the Ministry of Environment on Environmental Ministry of Environment 2016.05 Information Disclosure Program Award 2016 Korea Occupational Safety Achievement of seven times of zero accident (ID Plant) 2016.04 and Health Agency Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Selected as Excellent Organization for Integrity Measurement in 2016 2016.03 (for five consecutive years) Commission Selected as the First grade organization on Corruption Prevention Measure Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights 2016.03 (for three consecutive years) evaluation in 2016, Commendation from the Prime Minister Commission Commendation by Deputy Prime Minister & Minister of the Ministry of Education social Ministry of Education 2016.02 contribution on Free-semester system Commendation from the Minister of the Ministry of Employment and Labor for Ministry of Employment 2015.12 Rationalization of Labor-Management Relations and Labor Ministry of Gender Equality Commendation of Excellent Organization for Creating Family-friendly Culture 2015.05 and Family Korean Intellectual Property Winning Award of Prime Minister on the 50th Invention Day 2015.05 Office Winning of Grand prize at Korea Donation for Education Award Ministry of Education 2014.12 Certified as outstanding institution of Donation for Education Ministry of Education 2014.12 2017.12 Ministry of Science, ICT Commendation of R&D Investment Excellent Public Institution 2014.12 and Future Planning Ministry of Trade, Industry 50 million-dollar Export Tower 2014.12 and Energy Korean Intellectual Property Winning First Prize of Korea Invention and Patent Contest 2014.11 Office Ministry of Trade, Industry Dedicated to the Hall of Fame, Quality Competitiveness Outstanding Company 2014.11 and Energy Female friendly Corporation 2014 Daejeon Metropolitan City 2014.11 Selected as an Excellent Institution for Customer Satisfaction in State-own Company section Ministry of Strategy and Finance 2014.03 Commendation of President for Anti-corruption at the National Shinmungo (whistleblower) Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights 2014.02 System Award Commission 94 Introduction of KOMSCO Workplaces Head Office ( Gajeong-dong) 80-67 Gwahak-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Republic of Korea Tel. +82 1577-4321 Fax. +82 (0) 70-7610-2360 Sales Development ( Changcheon-dong) 166, Dokmak-ro, Mapo-gu, Seoul, Department Republic of Korea Selling special press products, medals, etc. Gold market, TTel. +82 (0) 2-710-5220 Fax. +82 (0) 70-7610-2360 quality certification business Monetary Plant ( Gapje-dong) 140-10 Hwarang-ro, Gyeongsan-si, Banknotes, coinage Gyeongsangbuk-do, Republic of Korea Tel. +82 (0) 53-819-2900 Fax. +82 (0) 70-7610-2361 Paper Plant ( Yeomchang-ri) 180 beon-gil, 67, Yeomchang-ro, BuyeoManufacturing security papers, such as banknote eup, Buyeo-gun, Chungcheongnam-do, Republic of Korea paper, etc. Tel. +82 (0) 41-359-7400 Fax. +82 (0) 70-7610-2362 ID Plant ( Taplip-dong) 10-7 Techno, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Republic Manufacturing smart ID products such as e-Passport, of Korea electronic ID card, etc. Tel. +82 (0) 42-939-3800 Fax. +82 (0) 70-7610-2363 Technology ( Gajeong-dong) 80-67 Gwahak-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Research Institute Republic of Korea Research mintage technologies, development of forgery Tel. +82 (0) 42-820-1581 Fax. +82 (0) 70-7610-2364 and alteration prevention technologies If you have any inquiry regarding this Report, please contact as follows: Homepage www.komsco.com Addres (Gajeong-dong) 80-67 Gwahak-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 305-713, Republic of Korea E-mail blkim@komsco.com Telephone +82 (0) 42-870-1061 Contact Team KOMSCO Planning Department, Management Administration Team We used FSCⓇ (Forest Stewardship CouncilⓇ)certified paper, which is used only for timbers produced from environmental-friendly developed and managed forests, and printed at FSCⓇChain of Custody certified print house (certification number: C005448)
