C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 ∙ 15 Whether with regard to its employees, G R O UP CO MMI T MEN TS clients or suppliers, Newrest is committed to excellence in essential areas: the taste and dietary balance of meals, the quality and safety of products and services, respect for human rights and working conditions, as well as the environment, ▼ and the fight against corruption. Newrest also strictly complies with international standards REPORT INDE X and recommendations and takes all measures required to ensure conformity. NEWRESTʼS CO M M I T M E N TS … TO I T S C L I E N T S AND CONSUMERS P.02 TO I T S E M P LO Y E E S  P.08 TO I T S PA R T N E R S  P.14 TO I T S S O C I A L E N V I R O N M E N T  P.16 TO T H E P L A N E T  P. 21 Food preparation ‒ QDVC Um Al Hawaya labour community, Qatar ◀ 02 NE WRESTʼS COMMITMENTS  TO THE PL ANET 03 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2014 ∙ 15 N E W R E S T ʼ S CO M M I T M E N TS TO I TS C L IEN TS A N D CO NS U M ER S Gastronomic meal prepared at Charles de Gaulle's unit A PA SSION FOR TA S TE (CDG) – Paris, France At Newrest, meals are not just ▶ about eating. We make sure meals are delightful for the palate and a pleasant moment of sharing. G ROUP ∙ TA STING PA NEL (1 ) We have created a panel in all of our business sectors to taste the dishes we plan to offer our consumers. In partnership with our clients, these taste tests help us evaluate the organoleptic properties of our PERU ∙ G A STRONOM Y DAYS (3) dishes so we can adapt them to demand. The freOn a number of Remote sites, Newrest's team in quency of these taste tests depends on the business Peru launched the weekly “Gastronomy Days” consector: for example, for our Remote sites, each meal cept. These events allow Remote site staff to disis systematically tasted by a Chef and the Newrest cover exotic as well as local dishes. A specific decor team before being offered to employees. enhances the premises on each of these Days. 3,032 954 1,350 gastronomic meals chefs employed cooking workshops served per week by the Group in 2014∙15 FR A NCE ∙ “BOCO” ON B OA RD ALGERIA ∙ THE HYDR A SCHOOL THE TG V (2) TASTE WORKSHOP (4) A partnership with the “boco” collective has been Training the palates of children is important to teach In all of our kitchens and canteens, our employees entered into regarding catering for the SNCF trains. them good dietary habits at the earliest age. During Close to 12 Michelin-starred Chefs and Pastry Chefs the “Semaine du Goût” taste training week, children in are committed to offering consumers balanced, varied and tasty prepare new recipes every four months, which are the Petite Ecole d'Hydra (PEH) in Algiers participated in meals, while scrupulously complying with hygiene standards. then offered on board TGV trains. a taste-test workshop organised by the Newrest team in Algeria. 04 NE WRESTʼS COMMITMENTS  TO THE PL ANET 05 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2014 ∙ 15 its own educational programme, the “Healthy Living” widespread in the country: diabetes. On this occacampaign, in February 2015. This nutritional awaresion, the QHSE team facilitated a meeting to provide ness campaign is present on the 105 sites managed information, backed by communication materials. A by Newrest Wacasco and targets 1,600 employees special menu that scrupulously complied with recwho serve close to 5,000 meals per day. ommendations regarding the consumption of sugar was also provided. Newrest Wacasco's objective is to train as many people as possible to provide our employees and clients as well as the local population with healthy lifeM A DAG A SC A R ∙ style rules. This campaign focuses on five key areas: FOOD DI V ERSIFIC ATION PROJEC T choosing a sport, adopting a healthy diet, being more IN TA NJONDROA (6) HE ALTH Y NUTRITION active, eating better and taking care of one's heart. These topics are addressed through activities and Newrest in Madagascar supports a food diversification project in a school in Tanjondroa in collaboraNewrest establishes healthy contests, with prizes awarded at the end. meal plans in all of its locations tion with the Aéropartage and B’SaN Asso associations. Since June 2015, this monthly programme has OP TIM A L QUA LIT Y in partnership with its clients. PERU ∙ “ V IDA S A LUDA BLE” been offered to 294 children in collaboration with A ND H YGIENE C A MPA IGN the Bien-être Santé Nutrition association. Its objecCONDITIONS On group catering and Remote site premises, we tive is to ensure meals include the right amount of To fight pathologies caused by poor diets and lack of have implemented a nutrition campaign called “Marproteins and calcium. The subsidiary in Madagascar The Newrest Group applies very physical activity (diabetes, high blood pressure, obecel & Linda” for adults and “Madeleine” for children. participates by making a monthly donation of food A poster campaign raises personnel's awareness on sity and cardiovascular diseases), Newrest in Peru products. The programme's objective is to use the strict hygiene and quality rules, has just launched the “Vida Saludable” (“healthy lifedietary balance, the importance of physical activity, style”) campaign. This programme calls on nutritional existing structure, design projects that support the which is required in a stringent, the prevention of cardiovascular problems, etc. This experts who organise personal nutritional consultdaily well-being and health of the children, fight hundemanding and sensitive sector: communication often includes a nutritional assessger and promote better education. ment that is offered to consumers. ing, and includes training and “health and nutrition” Catering. awareness campaigns, as well as recreational and Service quality is at the heart of employee concerns. sports activities. It is already in place in 20 corporate Every day, they endeavour to satisfy the needs and canteens and will be extended to other sites next requirements of our clients. 18,500 54 86 % year. The Peruvian subsidiary offers all consumers a “light menu” composed of vegetable cream soups, Newrest has implemented a Quality Management children trained nutrition of our restaurants in 2014/15 in the school campaigns decorated with catering sector in 2014/15 “Marcel & Linda” salads, fish or white meat and a fruit. System that includes very strict processes covering all of the stages of the preparation of a meal, from menu design to service. These processes apply to all of the Newrest Group teams. In fact, the objective of G ROUP ∙ SUPPORTING OUR our Management System is to be integrated, which CLIENTS WITH THEIR HE A LTH has allowed us to achieve other certifications when ORIENTED A PPROACHES our clients so require for their markets. In most of the catering or Remote site canteens, an optional dietetic menu is offered. The calorie breakSPA IN ∙ M A DELEINE down of dishes is displayed so everyone can cusA ND SCHOOL C ATERING (7) 61 % 42.5 % ▲ + 75 % tomise a menu best suited to their dietary needs. of our turnover of our turnover of certifications certified ISO 9001 certified ISO 22000 between 2013 and 2015 On some sites, a nutritionist is available on a regular Newrest in Spain is very involved in the dietary balbasis and offers anyone who wishes a personal proance issue, in particular at kindergarten and prigramme that includes sports activities and lifestyle mary school canteens. Discussions in small groups recommendations. are organised for children with our nutritionists and TUNISI A ∙ “DIA BE TES cover subjects related to healthy diets. Educational ∙ ISO 9 0 01 Ce r tif ication PRE V ENTION” DAY but entertaining workshops focus on the “food pyrIn September 2015, for Hygiene and Quality, OM A N ∙ “HE ALTH Y LI V ING” On the World Diabetes Day, Newrest in Tunisia, amid”, and the Madeleine stuffed toy tells children ISO 9001-certified activities represented 61% of our C AMPAIGN (5) in collaboration with the “Med Diet” association, food-related stories. The Spanish subsidiary also turnover for the entire Group and 99.4% of turnover Aware of the importance of a healthy diet, Newrest organised a diabetes prevention day to raise the organises Zumba dance classes in schools to proin the rail sector. Wacasco, our joint venture in Oman, implemented awareness of consumers regarding an illness that is mote physical activity. 06 NE WRESTʼS COMMITMENTS  TO ITS CLIENTS AND CONSUMERS 07 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2014 ∙ 15 ∙ ISO 2 20 0 0 Ce r tif ication Our Austrian Newrest Wagons-Lits subsidiary, for∙ The “ W inf light ” tool merly “Compagnie des Wagons-Lits”, has been servIn September 2015, in the food safety sector For over eight years, in-house software has been ing its main client for over 85 years: the Austrian (ISO 22000 or BRC standard), certified activities developed for our inflight catering business. This rail company ÖBB. This is an optimal collaboration, represented 42.6% of our turnover. software allows for the design of menus for each based on trust. These positive commercial results airline, with the printing of related recipes. Requirewere rewarded this year in the form of an evalua∙ ISO 14 0 01 Ce r tif ication tion of our service: “ghost travellers” now assess the ments can be updated to reflect the seat occupancy rate of the flights. Inventory and the cost of In September 2015, in the environmental managequality of our services cleaning, service quality, food products can be managed and special dietary ment sector, ISO 14001-certified activities repremeal quality, information for travellers, etc. every requests of passengers (gluten-free, vegetarian, etc.) sented 14.3% of our turnover. month. The result is extremely encouraging and the can be fulfilled. incident rate is 0.7%. A NGOL A ∙ CONSUMER ∙ The “ W inre s t ” tool CUSTOMER S ATISFAC TION FOLLOWUP Winrest, formerly Unirest, is a software package speSATISFAC TION ON THE L A NCELOT cific to group and Remote site catering, and allows On the Lancelot barge hotel, satisfaction surveys Newrest's teams to better manage their business. Newrest implemented a number are regularly conducted via samples and complaint Detailed menu plans can be created to meet the of tools to identify the level forms. In 2014/15, the consumer satisfaction rate specific needs of each client, as well as recipes with reached 90%, an increase of 6% over the prior year. a list of the food products required. Food product of satisfaction of its clients. inventory is optimally managed, and the nutritional For Inflight catering, the Group created a common impact of each dish is described. Since its launch QMS database for all of the businesses, which SPA IN ∙ NE WREST ELEC TED in 2012, this software has allowed for a significant includes all incidents of which the Group has been “BEST EUROPE C ATERER 2014” optimisation of the food product inventory. Winrest informed. However, when we are in direct contact BY QATA R A IRWAYS is currently used in 60% of our countries that provide with the client, such as in canteens or corporate The production unit of Newrest in Spain, which is group and/or Remote site catering, and it should be cafeterias and on Remote sites, areas of improvelocated in Madrid, was named the “Best Europe deployed in 80% of these countries next year. ment are identified through customised satisfaction Caterer 2014” by Qatar Airways. Overall, the consurveys. tract renewal rate for Newrest in Spain with its cliOPER ATIONAL OPTIMI ents is 95%. SATION A N D I T TO O L S A LONG -TERM VISION 80 % 83 % OM A N ∙ IMPLEMENTATION Thanks to its constant search Newrest's strategic choices are of client audits score over Contract renewal rate in countries in which we have been present OF A “H A PP Y OR NOT” for innovative solutions based on an overall vision that 90% for over three years S ATISFAC TION SUR V E Y to optimise its operations includes calculated risk-taking, In all of its canteens in Oman, Newrest Wacasco has and improve its responsiveness, and favours solid opportunities installed a computer terminal to evaluate the level AUS TRI A ∙ COLL A BOR ATION of satisfaction of consumers with the quality of their Newrest has acquired specific and long-term investments. FOR THE PA ST 8 5 Y E ARS meals. They can provide their opinion by indicating expertise in catering. To promote this long-term vision of the business WITH ÖBB (8) whether they are happy or not. By reducing its costs in the procurement chain and among management, Newrest constantly ensures transparency and equity. by realising internal synergies, the Group can offer TUNISI A ∙ 97% OF CONTR AC TS its clients the best service at the best price. With A RE RENE WA L S this in mind, we have acquired specific IT tools to allow our employees to better manage their tasks on Tunisia has implemented a very sophisticated sysa daily basis: Winflight and Winrest software. tem to exchange information with its clients based on satisfaction surveys conducted every six months and regular telephone conversations. This initiative has been successful: the contract renewal rate for 2,482 85 % Newrest in Tunisia is 97%. For example, its oldest training hours on Winflight and Winrest of countries involved in the Inflight sector client is the Club Méditerranée, which it has served in 2014∙15 use Winflight for 10 years. 08 09 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2014 ∙ 15 N E W R E S T ʼ S CO M M I T M E N TS TO I TS EM PLOY EE S Employees receiving certificates ‒ EQUAL OPPORTUNIT Y & ANTI-DISCRIMINAQDVC Um Al Hawaya labour community, Qatar ▶ TION IN EMPLOY MENT Newrest is committed to ensuring all employees are treated equally. In accordance with its recruitment policy, it is attentive to the experience and dynamism of applicants while guaranA part of Santiago's teeing equal opportunity unit team ‒ Chili for everyone. ◀ AUS TRI A ∙ COLL A BOR ATION SPAIN ∙ “GENDER EQUALIT Y” PL AN WITH THE “LEBENSHILFE WIEN” A S SOCIATION Since 2011, Newrest in Spain has been highly involved in issues related to gender equality. Our Newrest Wagons-Lits in Austria has worked with the subsidiary was the first company in the catering “Lebenshilfe Wien” organisation, which offers paid sector in Spain to sign the “Plano de igualdad de work to the disabled, for a number of years. A group oportunidades entre hombres y mujeres”. In this of approximately 10 attend our Austrian subsidiary framework, Newrest in Spain also works with local at its premises in Matzleinsdorfer Platz to work for associations such as Cáritas Empleo Madrid and one day a week. They complete packaging tasks for Federación de Mujeres Progresístas, which focus on night trains. This programme allows disabled individ800,000 33 % 415 uals to find paid work and be involved in a normal access to employment for women who are excluded and beaten. This collaboration resulted in the hiring training hours of employees are 25 youth hired on apprenticeship work activity in a business environment in contact taken in 2014∙15 to 34 years of age programmes in 2014∙15 of three women in the Madrid centre. Next year, with able individuals. our Spanish subsidiary's objective is to achieve the “Distintivo de Igualdad” gender equality certification C A N A DA ∙ COLL A BOR ATION awarded by the Spanish government. WITH “CIWA” Our production unit in Calgary has worked for a numOMAN ∙ SCHOL ARSHIPS ber of years with “CIWA” (Calgary Immigrant WomOur Newrest Wacasco joint venture signed an agreeNewrest is very vigilant in terms of human resources to ensure en's Association). This association helps individuals, ment with the Ministry of Higher Education of Oman it provides quality services to its clients. The optimal management in particular women, who have immigrated to Canin September 2015 with a view to financing the studada, do not speak English and have difficulty findof employees and skill development for all personnel ing a job. The association trains these women, who ies of 44 students at the Waljat College of Applied Sciences. Scholarship beneficiaries were selected by are the cornerstone of our strategy. The Group takes the position are then found a permanent job in our production a unified admission centre. A three-year programme that respect for working conditions is a fundamental value. unit. Until 2015, our Canadian subsidiary was able to will allow the beneficiaries to graduate with diverse hire around 10 women, three of which remained for It also undertakes to motivate its teams and promote the continuous lengthy periods. university degrees. training of personnel. 10 NE WRESTʼS COMMITMENTS  TO ITS EMPLOYEES 11 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2014 ∙ 15 OPTIMAL WORKING site, supervised and monitored by Newrest in Lima. Five-minute daily meetings take place on site, and specific to aviation (aviation safety, safety procedures for aircraft access, airplane landing for the CO N D I T I O N S & O CCU our Peruvian subsidiary works hand in hand with our inflight handling business, etc.), and topics specific PAT I O N A L S A F E T Y clients on their safety campaigns. to Remote sites (HUET and BOSIET for offshore oil sites, survival at sea, etc.). This training is provided The Group is committed to strict either externally or internally by our HSE managers, compliance with labour laws and W E L LB E I N G site managers or chef trainers. to offering its employees a comO F E M PLOY E E S Increase of More than fortable, healthy and safe work Newrest is very attentive +470 % 20,000 environment. to the health and well-being in the number of training hours as comtoolbox training sessions for more than pared to 2013∙14 5,000 employees of its employees the Group ÷5 26 ‰ takes all possible measures OM A N ∙ BRE A ST MOROCCO ∙ 5 39ʼ136 TR A INING of number of occupational accidents between 2005 Occupational accident rate to offer the best access possible C A NCER SCREENING (2) HOURS and 2015 for 2014∙15 to healthcare services, in parOur joint venture in Oman, Newrest Wacasco, partNewrest in Morocco provided a total of 539,136 nered with a hospital in support of an awareness training hours to its 624 employees, regardless ticular in the developing councampaign to encourage its workers to undergo of their position within the company. The training OM A N ∙ THE SIX TH tries in which it operates. breast cancer screening. Early detection can save covered catering, human resources, safety and ACCIDENTFREE Y E A R lives, as we all know, with a recovery rate of up management. AT PE TRO G A S Through small and more extensive actions, Newrest to 98%. is also committed to making sure the daily work enviIn November 2014, Newrest Wacasco celebrated its sixth year free of incidents leading to medical ronment is more pleasant and comfortable for all of QATA R ∙ TR A INING OF 10 0 % leave on the Petrogas LLC site. On its Sahmah site, its employees. B OLI V I A ∙ PAY MENT OF NE WREST GULF EMPLOY EES (3) it organised an awareness-raising day on the topic of OF SCHOOL SUPPLIES Newrest Gulf, our joint venture in Qatar, trained all occupational health and safety. GREECE ∙ C A SH A DVA NCES In Bolivia, Newrest partially pays for the school supof its 224 employees for a total of 2,862 training FOR EMERGENCIES plies of the children of its employees who work at hours. The training covered hygiene, HACCP, safety the Minera San Cristobal. This grant allows them to and customer relations. Also, 365 toolbox sessions PERU ∙ 2,70 0,0 0 0 In a difficult economic environment, Newrest in purchase pens, notebooks and other required supwere organised. ACCIDENTFREE HOURS (1) Greece offers its employees cash advances for plies. In 2014/15, close to 230 employees were able emergencies, in particular when health problems In 2014/15, Newrest in Peru celebrated three major to take advantage of this measure. occur. This programme provides for a maximum events related to safety at work: 2,000,000 acciadvance of two months' salary, which must be reimdent-free hours at Hudbay; 500,000 accident-free bursed within a time-frame defined at the time the hours at Goldfields and 200,000 accident-free hours at Tintaya/Antapaccay. These positive results can be advance is made. Since this system has been in E M PLOY E E T R A I N I N G place, 13 employees have taken advantage of this attributed to the highly effective QHSE structure on opportunity. In a market in constant change, skills must be upgraded. Newrest ME XICO ∙ PERSONA L NUTRITION is highly committed to the proCONSULTING fessionalism of its employees and In this country, the rate of obesity is close to 30% and takes every measure required to 70% of the population is overweight. Hence, nutrition is a serious problem. In 2014/15, a full medical exam offer appropriate training regardfocused on nutrition and obesity was launched for all less of the employee's position. employees. After the exam, a personal nutrition plan This training relates to general subjects (languages, was designed to allow everyone to take preventive computers, team management, etc.); topics specific G H A N A ∙ 6,0 0 0 TR A INING HOURS and corrective measures. to catering trades (food safety, HACCP, kitchen proNewrest in Ghana provided 6,000 training hours to duction, food allergies, traceability, etc.); subjects all of its employees. The most important subjects 12 NE WRESTʼS COMMITMENTS  TO ITS EMPLOYEES 13 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2014 ∙ 15 were safety, HACCP, driving and halal cuisine. The Ghanaian subsidiary trains 10 employees every week via toolbox training: in 2014/15, close to 50 training sessions took place. A NGOL A ∙ TR AINING OF ALL EMPLOY EES In 2014/15, every Newrest employee in Angola took training. In total, close to 3,800 training hours and 6,570 toolbox sessions were provided to 500 employees. The majority of the topics related to food safety, occupational safety, hygiene and HACCP. HE A DQUA R TERS ∙ TR A INING OF 6 0 % OF THE HE AD OFFICE EMPLOY EES 60% of Newrest's head office employees in Toulouse S W ITZERL A ND ∙ PA RTICIPATION took part in training sessions in 2014/15. For the IN THE CORPOR ATE G A MES (5) most part, this training covered foreign languages, In July 2015, many employees who work at Newrest computer tools, finance, and quality and hygiene. To Canonica, our joint venture in Switzerland, particithis end, the Group allocated 1.37% of its budget (the pated in the Corporate Games at Annecy-le-Vieux in legal minimum being 0.9%). France. The competition, which has brought together employees from private companies, territorial authorities and institutions for the past 25 years, consisted SPORTS-BASED in three days of sporting challenges. Our Swiss team M OT I VAT I O N participated with a great deal of enthusiasm. G H A N A ∙ PA RTICIPATION IN THE BUSINES S All sorts of different sports OM A N ∙ NE WREST WAC A SCO'S G A MES OLY MPIC S (7) events were organised throughCRICKE T TE A M (6) In September 2015, a number of Newrest's employA number of Newrest Wacasco employees created out the Group in 2014/15. a team to play cricket. The team trains regularly ees in Ghana participated in the fourth edition of the Business Games Olympics in Accra. The Ghanaian In fact, Newrest encourages its employees to particand performs well at competitions. In June 2015, subsidiary came in second out of the 40 companies ipate in a sports activity on a regular basis, as well our team came in second at the cricket tournament that participated. Newrest Ghana's employees won a as in sports events. Sports, which are beneficial for organised each year by the “Oman Cricket Council”. gold medal in swimming. both the body and mind, boost personal energy and favour a team spirit. THE NE THERL A NDS ∙ A B OWLING TE A M G ROUP ∙ PA RTNERSHIP & T WO VOLLE Y B A LL TE A MS (8) WITH FABRICE AMEDEO (4) Newrest's and Airshop's employees in the NethThis year, the Group renewed its partnership with erlands created a bowling team and two volleyball the skipper Fabrice Amedeo. Fabrice Amedeo sails teams. The bowling team meets once per month an IMOCA bearing the “Newrest-Matmut” names. and trains for the Business League in which four of In particular, he participated in the Transat Jacques our best players represent the Group. The volleyball Vabre race in October 2015. The race was passionteams compete in an inter-company tournament in ately followed by a large number of our employees. April and October. Many messages of encouragement from Le Havre to Brazil were sent to Fabrice Amedeo. 14 15 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2014 ∙ 15 N E W R E S T ʼ S CO M M I T M E N TS TO I TS PA R T N ER S SOUTH A FRIC A ∙ freshness, transport system and a continuous cold IMPLEMENTATION OF A N “OPEN chain. Supplier audit procedures and questionnaires DOOR ” POLIC Y have been established by Newrest and are used in all countries. During invitation to tender processes, A transparency, anti-favouritism policy has been each country must receive a price quote from at implemented internally. Our dnata Newrest joint venleast three different suppliers and the process must ture maintains this transparency thanks to an open be deployed at least once per year for all the famidoor policy that allows everyone to express their lies of products purchased. Obviously, contracts are fears or report practices that do not comply with the always drafted locally to ensure there is a legal tie anti-corruption policy. between Newrest's entities and the suppliers. S W ITZERL A ND ∙ B A N ON GIF TS A NGOL A ∙ IMPLEMENTATION & IN V ITATIONS OF A PURCHA SING PROCES S No year-end gift is accepted from any supplier and inviA new team took over the management of the purtations to any event whatsoever are politely declined. chasing department this year. Its primary objective was to implement a system to better control the purchasing process. Suppliers are now invited to FA I R CO M PE T I T I O N the office and a questionnaire is filled out to better identify their capabilities and reliability. During negoFoul play is unacceptable in any tiations on potential discounts, a number of manRegardless of which country is involved, relations with the Newrest Group's agement team members are present. Then all of the invitation to tender that Newrest partners must be fully transparent and based on honesty. This requirement information is set out in the contract drafted by the applies in particular to our suppliers: unfair competition is not allowed. Group responds to. legal department. Contracts can only be won during normal tender processes involving various participants. Dumping CROATI A ∙ CHOICE OF SUPPLI practices regarding labour and prices do not comERS B A SED ON QUA LIT Y ply with market rules and are not tolerated. Prices Newrest in Croatia selects its suppliers and strucare studied independently. No agreements are made tures its client/supplier relations very carefully. with the competition. Offers proposed for all conFIGHT AGAINST hygiene standards. All of these rules apply to every country, regardless of whether corruption is comtracts are evaluated jointly by country, zone and Negotiations cover not only price and quality but also compliance with QHSE rules, the supplier's reputaCO R R U P T I O N mon or not. sales managers in the business corresponding to the invitation to tender. The process of answering and tion and its honesty. Our team has always strictly Newrest has implemented strict procedures to idencomplied with the principles adopted despite various The Group formally prohibits tify persons at risk (purchasing managers, commerawarding contracts is also closely monitored by the attempts at bribery. All fraudulent offers have been matrix organisation. its employees from making gifts cial directors) who are monitored by national direcrefused and management alerted immediately. tors, zone directors and through internal audits that or offering cash to its clients' verify the financial statements of each country every FA I R S U P P L I E R PHILIPPINE S ∙ PA RTICIPATION representatives or officials month as well as procedures when they visit on a IN THE A NNUA L “INTEGRIT Y as incentives for the signing regular basis. Finally, an overall anti-corruption polS E L EC T I O N SUMMIT” icy has been drafted and translated into a number of contracts. of languages. Suppliers are selected by exterIn September 2014, Newrest SOS participated in the annual “Integrity Summit” as an innovative comnal audit. To be approved, suppany in terms of raising awareness on corruption. ME XICO ∙ STRONGER The event was organised by the Business Centre Additionally, Newrest personnel refuse any gift A NTI CORRUPTION PROCEDURES pliers must imperatively comply of Makati. Many representatives of the public and offered by suppliers or partners that are approved or seeking approval in order to close a deal or lower Despite the high level of corruption in the country, with certain rules. private sectors, as well as youth representatives prices. The Group also prohibits all forms of pressure Newrest's operations in Cancun are transparent: no were present. The only criteria on which we base our selection or bribery towards sanitation inspection personnel member of our personnel has given in to untoward propare quality of products, inventory management, in order to have them ignore potential breaches of ositions from suppliers or administrative authorities. 16 17 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2014 ∙ 15 N E W R E S T ʼ S CO M M I T M E N TS TO I TS S O C I A L EN V IR O N M EN T Children in orphanage LO C A L of “Family Outreach” Organization – Accra, Ghana ▶ PROCUREMENT & CO L L A B O R AT I O N W I T H CO O PE R AT I V E S To support local products, Newrest has entered into partnerships with farm cooperatives throughout the world. These purchases may represent up to 12% of the MOROCCO ∙ COLL A BOR ATION amount of local purchases, as is the case, for examWITH THE “COPAG” COOPER ATI V E ple, in Morocco. Most of the products purchased Newrest in Morocco works with COPAG, an agrifrom the cooperatives are fresh produce such as cultural cooperative that includes 39 farmers in the fruits and vegetables, dairy products and eggs. Taroudant region in the central part of the country. Today, our Moroccan subsidiary purchases close to In 45% of our countries Up to 12% of its products from this cooperative: milk, dairy products and fruit juices. 100 % 12 % of purchases are of local purchases come made locally from cooperatives IN V O LV E M E N T I N C A MEROUN ∙ COLL A BOR ATION LO C A L CO M M U N I T I E S WITH LOC A L PRODUCERS & SM A LL COOPER ATI V ES Wherever the Newrest Group is To support local manufacturing and farm production, present, it is involved in the life Newrest in Cameroon has increased its partnerships of local communities and neighwith local suppliers to purchase all of its products bouring towns. locally. For example, 100% of fruit and vegetable purWe hire our personnel close to our work sites, prochases made by the subsidiary in Cameroon come 4,789 320 87 % from small producers or cooperatives. vide training and enter into partnerships to improve daily life in these communities. individuals have benefited employees of purchases from Newrest's assistance involved in social in the Group are (direct actions / donations) actions made locally PERU ∙ LOC A L PURCHA SES AT HUAG AYOC (1) 85 % 23 of our countries hire more actions were conducted To entrench its local involvement in the area of the than 95% of their personnel in 2014/15 within the local population in local communities Huagayoc mine, Newrest in Peru decided to work with families in the community for all of its purNewrest is committed to the social environment of every country chases. These families, who resell but are not producers, are organised in a “purchase-sale” structure. in which it is present. In light of our respect for the principles Each product category (meat, dry products, fruits C A MERO ON ∙ CRE ATION OF A WELL of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we support NGO activiand vegetables) is supplied by a different family, ties in countries where we work or undertake our own actions. which allows us to support as many families as we In Cameroon, a well was dug on the land surrounding can. We also work with the community for our vehiNewrest's warehouse in October 2014. The water is cle leases of pick-up trucks and lorries. used in particular for the warehouse's requirements. 18 NE WRESTʼS COMMITMENTS  TO ITS SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT 19 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2014 ∙ 15 for the communities. Located in Hudbay close to once per year, the profits of which are donated to ME XICO ∙ COLL A BOR ATION WITH the Minera Constancia, this centre provides various the ESCA association (English Speaking Cancer “DR. SONRIS A S” IN C ANCUN (4) theoretical and practical courses on cooking, food Association) in Geneva. Newrest Canonica particiNewrest in Mexico works with the local Dr. Sonrisas hygiene, and cleaning and maintenance, which are pated in this event by providing 50 lunch boxes to (“Doctor Smiles”) association. This charitable protaught in part by Newrest employees. Our Peruvian participants. ject consists in working with children in the terminal subsidiary also introduces families in the Huaylla stages of chronic diseases. The team endeavours to Huaylla community to the nutritional and medicinal alleviate their suffering with hope and happiness, in benefits of the vegetables grown in their gardens. S O C I A L AC T I O NS accordance with the association's slogan: “Our first I N FAV O U R responsibility is to be happy and then to make others happy.” The entire Newrest team participated in the SOCIAL OF CHILDREN project by preparing cakes for the 300 children in Next year, the subsidiary in Cameroon intends to RESPONSIBILIT Y In recent years, the Group the Alamo school in Cancun. distribute this water to the communities and famiIn the countries in which it is has committed to the reduction lies who live close to the New Bell neighbourhood of Douala. present, the Newrest Group parof its budget for press ads and ticipates in projects and social paid advertising, and to transfer B OLI V I A ∙ COMMITMENT actions to which it is committed. TO COMMUNITIES CLOSE these savings to social actions, TO MINER A S AN CRISTOB AL (2) FR A NCE ∙ SUPPORT in particular involving children. Newrest in Bolivia is involved in local events organFOR THE TELE THON ised by the three communities close to the San CrisIn December 2014, in support of the Telethon, a vast M A DAG A SC A R ∙ tobal mine. Via its foundation, our Bolivian subsidiary marathon was held to collect funds for research on “HE A R THE WORLD” PROJEC T participates by donating food to the communities or rare diseases. Newrest Private participated in makIN A MB ATOV Y (3) purchasing gifts for their draws. ing a 75-metre long sausage roll. The gigantic sauNewrest in Madagascar has partnered with the “Hear sage was sliced and sold in the streets of Versailles. the World” association in order to assist the children PERU ∙ TR A INING CENTRE The organisers turned over all of the proceeds to the of Madagascar. Two surgeons and two anaesthetists SOUTH A FRIC A ∙ COLL A BOR A AT MINER A CONSTANCIA Telethon held in support of the Association Française who practise in Toulouse, France provide assistance TION WITH “OLI V ER ’S HOUSE” contre les Myopathies. and use their expertise to treat children and support In February 2015, Newrest in Peru launched training the medical teams at the hospitals in Morafeno and IN JOH A NNESBURG (5) at the Training Centre for Sustainable Development Analakininina. In November 2015, the four physicians Our joint venture, dnata Newrest, worked with OliM A DAG A SC A R ∙ COLL A BOR A visited Tamatave. They examined around 30 children ver's House, an association that helps poor chilTION WITH THE CI V IL DEFENCE and operated on three. They also shared their experdren and orphans in the slums of Johannesburg. In UNIT OF TA M ATAV E tise by training medical-surgical teams and provided December 2014, the Association organised a gradIn September 2015, Newrest in Madagascar signed medical equipment. Newrest in Madagascar supuation ceremony for children in its kindergarten, fola donation agreement in favour of the Civil Defence ported this mission by making available logistical, lowed by a Christmas party. The dnata Newrest team unit of Tamatave. By contributing equipment, the financial and human resources. participated in these celebrations by providing food, Group is supporting the construction of a new camp toys and clothing for the children. An interactive digfor this army corps whose primary role is to proital board was also donated to the school to improve vide aid to the population. Construction work has its teaching environment. started and the camp should open in approximately six months. C A MERO ON ∙ INTRODUC TION S W ITZERL A ND ∙ PA RTICIPATION TO RUGBY FOR ORPH ANS IN “PA DDLE FOR C A NCER ” In collaboration with the “Foyer Saint-Nicodème” that cares for orphans, Newrest in Cameroon organIn August 2015, our joint venture in Switzerland, ised an introduction to rugby day. Sixty orphans Newrest Canonica, partnered with “Paddle for Canbetween the ages of five and twelve were able to cer”, an association that organises a sailing class participate in this sports event. 20 NE WRESTʼS COMMITMENTS  TO ITS SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT 21 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2014 ∙ 15 N E W R E S T ʼ S CO M M I T M E N TS TO T H E PL A N E T Meal distribution at the orphanage of “Family Outreach” Organization – Accra, Ghana ▶ Servicing of solar panels on Madrid's unit roof ‒ Spain ◀ 23,500 6 1/5 meals prepared every day countries certified of our subsidiaries decreased with organic products ISO 14001 their waste in 2014∙15 B OLI V I A ∙ BRE A KFA ST FOR SCHOOLCHILDREN AT MINER A S AN CRISTOB AL An ecological balance is the one and only guarantee of achieving Through its foundation, our Bolivian subsidiary proharmony between the needs of mankind and nature. vides breakfast every Monday to children who attend the school close to Minera San Cristobal. A hundred Newrest, aware of the importance of sustainable development, children benefit from this breakfast every week. has adopted essential environmental values. The use of local seasonal products, waste treatment and reduction, and the “Zero Paper” policy are just a few examples of the Group's objectives. 22 NE WRESTʼS COMMITMENTS  TO THE PL ANET 23 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2014 ∙ 15 I S O 1 4 0 01 farmed without pesticides, organic suppliers accredited by the “Consell Balear objects. When they are no longer used, they are d'Agricultura Ecologica”. The Spanish subsidiary purdonated to schools, NGOs or associations. C E R T I F I C AT I O N Newrest supports sustainable, chases pasta and rice from these suppliers in parPOLICY responsible agriculture. ticular, but also fruits and vegetables when they are in season. In 2014, the Newrest Group launched an extensive ISO 14001 23,500 44 % meals prepared ever y day with of our countries use pesticide-free W A S T E R EC YC L I N G certification campaign organic products products & REDUCTION POLICY for its units. ISO 14001 certification covers environmental CONGO ∙ PURCH A SES FROM A major endeavour to minimise management. THE “AGRO CONTAC T” POULTRY our environmental footprint COOPER ATI V E is the reduction and recycling It is based on the principle of continuous improveFor the past two years, Newrest Congo has been proment in environmental performance by managing the curing eggs from Wilfried Koutiki's (or Willy's) poulof waste. impact of the company's business. In the framework of this certification, today, 6 countries have been try project. This rural development engineer, who On all of our sites and in all of our production units, G REECE & C Y PRUS ∙ certified ISO 14001:2004: Austria, Bolivia, Greece, studied at the university in Brazzaville, manages the a waste-sorting process has been systematically RECOV ERY OF COOKING OIL Cyprus, Switzerland and Tunisia. Agro-contact cooperative in Tchibamba. Our Congocreated to reuse a large part of our waste, such as TO PRODUCE BIODIESEL lese subsidiary is pleased to support local resources cardboard, glass, paper, electronic devices, green Our subsidiaries in Greece and Cyprus have found by purchasing all of the eggs laid in Willy's cooperawaste, etc. another use for their cooking oil. The oil is collected tive, as well as all of his vegetable production. once per month by local accredited providers who take it to plants to be transformed into biodiesel. In ME XICO ∙ SUSTA INA BLE FISHING 65 % 85 % 2014/15, in Greece, 1,670 kg of oil were recycled of our of our units and sites have and, in Cyprus, 240 kg. In Mexico, 24% of Newrest's fish purchases come countries sort their waste “Fight against food waste” communication materials from sustainable fishing. The fish are farmed instead of being fished at sea. It should also be noted that S W ITZERL A ND ∙ 24% of the fish bought by Newrest Servair in Belgium WA STE-SORTING A F TER FLIGHTS is MSC-certified. GROUP ∙ FIGHT AG A INST In the framework of the application of the ISO 14001 FOOD WA STE (1) standards, Newrest Canonica in Switzerland organS W ITZERL A ND ∙ ME A L S An awareness campaign on waste, particularly food ised waste sorting for return flights as part of its PREPA RED WITH ORG A NIC waste, was launched on a broad number of sites and inflight business: dirty trolleys are recovered and PRODUC TS units the use of Winflight software for inflight caterthe waste is sorted. Reusable and recyclable mating and Winrest software for group and Remote site ter is sorted and food waste is taken to a pig-raising In the framework of its catering activities, Newrest catering allows many countries to optimally adjust industrialist. The joint venture was able to recycle 40 Canonica, our joint venture which has been accredtheir production to consumption. Winflight provides tonnes of waste in 2014. ited as “Fourchette Verte” and “Région Terre d'Avenir”, LO C A L PR O CU R Eoffers special organic meals on most of its sites. These real-time forecasts of meals to be produced, leading to optimal use of raw materials. MENT & ORGANIC balanced, organic meals are backed by awareness FRENCH P OLY NE SI A ∙ WINNER campaigns and quizzes organised to introduce conOF THE “SELEC TI V E WA STE PRODUCTS sumers to local products. It should be noted that 30% PHILIPPINE S ∙ REPA IR & REUSE SORTING PRIZE” FOR 2014 of purchases are made in cantons in which we operate. Instead of disposing of objects and machines, Newrest's Polynesian subsidiary, specifically the To minimise its environmental Newrest SOS in the Philippines attempts to repair production unit in Faa'a, won the Selective Waste impact, a major policy of the SPA IN ∙ ORG A NIC PRODUC TS them to give these objects as long a lifespan as Sorting Prize for 2014. This prize is awarded to the Group targets the management FOR SCHO OL C ATERING possible: a workshop in the company manages the company that launches the most waste management repairs and refurbishing of equipment. Objects such initiatives. Newrest in Polynesia recycles a large part In Palma de Mallorca, Newrest in Spain has included of its purchases: by reducing special menus in its school catering offer: 10% of the as chairs, tables, fans and water fountains are given of its waste by sorting cardboard, glass, steel and a second life. When an object or machine can no aluminium cans, and plastic materials, and then transport and favouring produce food products purchased are sourced from certified longer be repaired, the parts are used to repair other transporting them to local sorting units. 24 NE WRESTʼS COMMITMENTS  TO THE PL ANET 25 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2014 ∙ 15 “Recycled Christmas HE ADQUARTERS ∙ PRINTING Decorations Competition” ON 70 % REC YCLED PA PER at Newrest Peru's headquarters in Since 2012, all of the Head Office's printing uses Lima non-toxic, 100% biodegradable ink. The paper used ▶ is 70% recycled and 100% recyclable. The use of this paper to print this business report saved 396 kg of CO2. Next year, our estimates are even more encouraging: we plan on reducing our quantities of printed materials by 15% by acquiring screens and organising awareness-raising sessions for our employees and partners. We estimate approximate savings of 101 tonnes of CO2. AUSTRIA ∙ USE OF REC YCL A BLE PACK AGING ON BOA RD THE ÖBB For services on board the ÖBB trains, our Austrian FRENCH POLYNESIA ∙ INSTA Lsubsidiary has chosen 100% recycled and 100% recyL ATION OF A SOL A RPOWERED clable coffee and tea cups and 70% recycled and WATER HE ATER 100% recyclable bags. Garbage bags are also made Our Polynesian subsidiary significantly reduced its of biodegradable materials. Organic plastic glasses energy consumption: last year, gas consumed to are reusable and the packaging of cutlery is biodeproduce hot water declined by 100% in the Faa'a gradable. This initiative has allowed our subsidiary to production unit once a solar-powered water heater save 20 tonnes of waste every year. was installed. Starting this year, all units have been systematically equipped with LED lighting. FR ANCE ∙ INSTA LL ATION OF DIGITA L PL ATFORMS SWITZERL AND ∙ C A RB ON Newrest Wagons-Lits in France has put a number of FOOTPRINT REDUC TION IT tools in place to reduce the use of paper. A blog Since the beginning of 2015, our Swiss joint vencalled “SAB Ensemble” was created to communicate ture, Newrest Canonica, systematically uses an ecowith all of the subsidiary's 1,500 employees. Simifriendly courier service for its deliveries in Geneva: larly, absences have been tracked since 2015 by a a taxi-bike delivers administrative papers or files digital platform. New printers were purchased that within the city, leaving a minimal carbon footprint. provide more optimal use of ink. Also, Newrest Canonica renewed its fleet of vehicles and purchased trucks that consume and pollute less. The Swiss joint venture thereby reduced its fuel conE N E R G Y CO N S U M P sumption by 15% compared to the previous year. TION REDUCTION L E S S U S E O F PA PE R The Group's sustainable develSince the Group was founded, opment plan sets out strict rules Newrest has committed in terms of the reduction of electo a paper reduction policy. tricity and fuel. We favour digital communication while using for In prior years, simple initiatives allowed us to reduce paper copies that we cannot avoid eco-friendly our ecological footprint: systematic closing of doors materials. The basic rule in this case is black and and turning off lights, computers, heating and air white printing on both sides of a sheet. conditioning. 26 Airplane loading ‒ Rolland Garros airport (RUN), Réunion Island ◀ V IS I T OUR WEBSITE Newrest Activity Report 2014/ 15 is available on our website: www.newrest.eu E X ECU T I V E M A N AG EMEN T O F F I CE 61, boulevard Lazare Carnot 31000 Toulouse, France Phone: +33 (0)5 62 89 39 88 ∙ Fax: +33 (0)5 62 89 39 70 CO MMUNI C AT I O N Dominique PIL ATTE ∙ Communication Director 61, boulevard Lazare Carnot ‒ 31000 Toulouse, France Phone: +33 (0)5 62 89 39 79 ∙ Fax: +33 (0)5 62 89 39 70 IN V ES TO RS REL AT I O NS Matthieu JEANDEL ∙ Vice President Finances 61, boulevard Lazare Carnot ‒ 31000 Toulouse, France Phone: +33 (0)5 62 89 39 87 ∙ Fax: +33 (0)5 62 89 39 70 www.newrest.eu
