Statement of continued support The world is changing rapidly. The social and economic development of our society is challenged, as the world’s capacity to provide the services and resources we need to improve global living standards is limited and increasingly strained. New thinking and acting is needed from businesses, governments and science. As Royal HaskoningDHV we consider this to be a reality that is fundamental to the services we deliver to our clients. We are able to further increase our contribution to clients and society: Enhancing society together. Our ambition is to show leadership in sustainable development and innovation. We include corporate responsibility as an integral part of our activities: we serve our clients in making steps forward with practical solutions, we ‘walk the talk’ by reducing the footprint of our operations, and we inspire youngsters and school children to engage in the challenges of the future; sustainable development and technology. Our policies and global code of business principles incorporate and support the ten principles of UN Global Compact. This is also reflected in our CR policy, integrity management system and our HR policies and practices. Our annual report 2015 is a web-based and integrated report that summarises our achievements in 2015 (http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualreport-2015) . The report includes a CR Statement, in which we elaborate on the steps we have taken, the performance and results of 2015 and the ambitions for the future. It emphasises our commitment to the UN global Compact. For more information and examples we invite readers to visit our website, www.royalhaskoningdhv.com, and view our news, annual reports and policies. We are always interested in your feedback. Please contact us on info.CR@rhdhv.com. Erik Oostwegel Chairman of the Executive Board Amersfoort, 19 May 2016 1 Company Profile Royal HaskoningDHV is an independent, international engineering and project management consultancy with over 130 years of experience. Our professionals deliver services in the fields of aviation, buildings, energy, industry, infrastructure, maritime, mining, transport, urban and rural planning and water. Backed by expertise and experience of nearly 6,500 colleagues across the world, we work for public and private clients in more than 150 countries. We focus on delivering added value for our clients while at the same time addressing the challenges that societies are facing. These include the growing world population and the consequences for towns and cities; the demand for clean drinking water, water security and water safety; pressures on traffic and transport; resource availability and demand for energy and waste issues facing industry. Context is critical. Every project we do exists within a changing and increasingly unpredictable environment. We understand the local context and deliver appropriate local solutions. We believe in Enhancing Society Together. Stated simply, it means that in partnership with our clients and stakeholders we aim to contribute to a better world. ‘Together’ is important because we believe meaningful solutions for the future can no longer be created without collaboration. Our mission outlines what we do and who we are. We are a people-to-people company. We envisage that our client relationships will evolve into partnerships which undertake collective initiatives. In collaboration, we create solutions for the sustainable interaction between people and their environment. Our vision is to be a strong, global, independent engineering consultancy – sustainable and leading in our markets. Together we create an inspiring environment that we can be proud of and that others will want to join. Our roots are in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and South Africa. In addition, we are established in Asia and the Middle East, Africa and the Americas. Erik Oostwegel; “Society is confronted with the huge challenges in urbanisation, water, transport and industry and the increasing impact of climate change. It is our responsibility to help our clients – and their clients and stakeholders – to be truly prepared for the consequences of these challenges. We have therefore introduced a simple tool, 4 Questions, to be asked during every single project. We hope the answers to these questions will encourage our clients and partners to join us as we work together in developing responsible solutions that will last far beyond our generation. Together, we can make a world of difference, contributing to a more sustainable future for our children and our children’s children.” 2 Communications on Progress 2015 – UN Global Compact Principles (from 1-1-2015 to 31-12-2015) Report on 2015 Cross references*  Royal HaskoningDHV highly values the principles of the www.royalhaskoningdhv.com: UNGC, and integrated them in the strategy, Corporate GENERAL Our BRITE values Responsibility (incl. HR & QHSE) and Integrity policies, in Integrity management system the total global management system, and in our Global Global Code of Business Principles Code of Business Principles, as well as in our values Business principles for partners and (BrITE – Brightness, Integrity, Team spirit and Excellence). suppliers CR policy statement  The governance of CR and Integrity is described in the Our 4 Questions to Enhance Society annual report (Annual Report 2015, page 82) Together  In this CoP-report, the main events of 2015 are Integrated annual report 2015 – website: summarised, with reference to the Annual report and http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualre Corporate website for details (cross reference, at the port-2015; right). In the Annual report 2015 Highlights, we present our main achievements in 2015.  Progress highlights: In the CR Statement 2015, further o We implemented 4 Questions to improve the information is presented on CR and integrity sustainability of each projects worldwide in detail: o We implemented ISO 26000 CR Summary, page 76 and further o We implemented our new Third Party Assessment Our Approach page 77 procedure to verify the integrity of our partners Our 4 Questions to Enhance Society o We rolled-out our integrity training for all staff (eTogether, page 25 learning) Our ambitions and results, page 77 Sustainable Development Goals, page 78 Corporate Responsibility and Integrity Governance, page 82 and further Sustainable operations, page 25 and further Principle 1: Respecting human rights is a business condition to our www.royalhaskoningdhv.com: Businesses company. In our Global code and in the Business principles for Global Code of Business Principles should support partners and suppliers human rights are included. Business Principles for Partners and and respect the Suppliers protection of  Several issues have been explored related to labour Integrity management system internationally conditions (formal employment and insurance) and ETHIC Intelligence Certificate proclaimed corrective measures have been taken. CR policy statement human rights; Purchase conditions  Safety is a key value in our human resource management. QHSE management policy Partly we are OHSAS 18001 – International Health and Safety standard – certified. We have implemented OHSAS 18001 into the company worldwide in 2014. This Annual Report – website: management system includes Travel security and Crisis management. http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/en In 2015, specific attention has been paid to travel gb/annual-report-2015 security and safety by extending the Travel Tracker an enhancement to our International SOS system to all Here you can find the webbased Annual countries for worldwide business travel. In 2015 for all Report and the printable Annual Report in offices worldwide an emergency response plan has been pdf launched and implemented.  In 2015 we continued our focus on the health and safety Find the direct link to the Highlights of our staff. Our objective for 2015 was zero fatalities and Annual Report 2015 <here> 10% decrease in accidents. Our online incident and accident report form ensures staff can easily report an Find the direct link to the full Annual Report accident or incident. During the year 156 reports were 2015, including Financial and CR details submitted and no fatal accidents occurred among our <here> 3 staff. Accidents involving staff members were 129, an 8.51% reduction compared to 2014.  In 2015, In total five incidents (that resulted in at least one day off) were reported in 2015 and 112 other reportable cases. The frequency of lost time injuries (per 200,000 workable hours) was 1.10 (down from 1.28 in 2014) and the total recordable case frequency was 2.6 (0.3 less than 2014).  In addition to our own global management system, in 2015 we aimed for at least 80% of our offices to reach internationally recognised standards for quality, health and safety and environment. We surpassed this figure and, by the end of the year, 97% of the company (based on staff numbers) had been certified for ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 (environment) and OHSAS 18001 (health and safety). With our global HR management system, team, and global HR Annual Report – website: policies, systems and registration, we are well able to manage Principle 2: http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/enthis Principle. In addition, our Internal auditing and Integrity & Businesses gb/annual-report-2015 Compliance Management System ensure that we monitor our should make sure compliance closely. Here you can find the webbased Annual that they are not Report and the printable Annual Report in complicit in  In our compliance reports and through the Speak-up line, pdf human rights issues have been raised in 2015 about disrespectful abuses Find the direct link to the Highlights treatment of staff. These have been investigated and corrective measures have been taken. Annual Report 2015 <here> Find the direct link to the full Annual Report  Our HR management has been strengthened globally to 2015, including Financial and CR details ensure all staff member are well covered by our policies <here> and have access to all HR support facilities.  We continued to execute and develop our Integrity management system and reporting, and also to raise awareness on the importance of speaking-up (directly, or through our anonymous system).  We subscribe to the conventions of the International Integrated annual report 2015 – website: Labour Organisations (ILO). http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/annualre Principle 3:  We have a global HR policy and an international HR port-2015; Businesses management team and system, which enables us to In the Annual report 2015 Highlights, we should uphold the recognise labour related issues worldwide. present our main achievements in 2015. freedom of  No violations on freedom of association etc. have been association and In the CR Statement 2015, further reported in 2015. the effective information is presented on CR and integrity recognition of the  In our newly introduced e-learning on Integrity and in detail: right to collective Compliance we addressed that our Global Code of CR Summary, page 76 and further bargaining; Business Principles supports diversity and equal Our Approach page 77 opportunities in all businesses, for all staff in all functions. Our 4 Questions to Enhance Society Together page 25 Our ambitions and results, page 77 Sustainable Development Goals, page 78 Corporate Responsibility and Integrity Governance, page 82 and further www.royalhaskoningdhv.com: Global Code of Business Principles Principle 4:  This is managed and monitored with our HR management Business Principles for Partners and Businesses system as well as through our Integrity management System Suppliers ensure the (Speak up). We work in countries in which forms of forced Integrity management system elimination of all labour do occur. We do not accept any involvement in this. ETHIC Intelligence Certificate 4 forms of forced In our activities, no violations have been reported in 2015. CR policy statement and compulsory Annual Report – website: labour; http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/engb/annual-report-2015 Principle 5:  This is managed and monitored with our HR management www.royalhaskoningdhv.com: Businesses system as well as through our Integrity management System Global Code of Business Principles ensure effective (Speak up). We work in countries in which forms of child Business Principles for Partners and abolition of child labour do occur. We do not accept any involvement in this. Suppliers labour; In our activities, no violations have been reported in 2015. Integrity management system ETHIC Intelligence Certificate Speak Up Line CR policy statement Annual Report – website: http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/engb/annual-report-2015  Diversity and equality is a key value in our company. This is Annual Report – website: part of our HR management and Integrity management. No Principle 6: http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/enviolations in regard of this Principle have been reported in Businesses gb/annual-report-2015 2015. should eliminate Here you can find the webbased Annual discrimination in  In 2015 the organisational structure was streamlined to Report and the printable Annual Report in respect of improve efficiency, effectiveness and cross-expertise pdf employment and collaboration globally. All business management positions occupation Find the direct link to the Highlights were made transparent and appointments have been made with special attention from the Works Council and workers Annual Report 2015 <here> representatives. Find the direct link to the full Annual Report 2015, including Financial and CR details <here> Annual report 2015, page 13 and page 19, and 20 Principle 7: We actively promote taking a precautionary approach to Annual Report – website: Businesses environmental challenges in our projects in cooperation with http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/enshould support a clients and partners. It is part of our business approach as is gb/annual-report-2015 precautionary illustrated in our annual report (enhancing society together). approach to Here you can find the webbased Annual environmental  This is included in our ISO 14001 certificate. Report and the printable Annual Report in challenges;  In 2015, we implemented a simple approach called “The pdf Four Questions” to inspire staff to create more environmental value. Implementation is based on global Find the direct link to the Highlights training by 100 local ambassadors and “The Four Annual Report 2015 <here> Questions” are mandatory, and they have been integrated in our work procedures. Find the direct link to the full Annual Report  The 4 Questions support teams to think about impacts at the 2015, including Financial and CR details very start of the project and discuss options for <here> improvement with the client.  In our operations, we measure the ecological footprint of CO2-footprint: our offices and business travel; we set targets and carry out Annual report 2015 (full), page 6, 25, 26 action plans for the reduction of CO2 equivalent emissions. 5  We actively aim to “practice what we preach”: Our renovated Key Figures 2015 CO2-Footprint head office in Amersfoort was awarded a gold label for BREEAM in use. We recognise Four Global Challenges in which we have the Principle 8: best and most potential to add value to the development of a Four global challenges and 4 Questions: Businesses sustainable future: These are the Urban, Water, Transport and Annual report 2015 (full), page 23, 24, 25 should undertake Industry challenge. These challenges and our CR priorities initiatives to match very well with the Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goals: promote greater (SDGs) that have been defined in 2015 by the UN. Annual report 2015 (full), page 78 environmental responsibility;  The 4 Questions have been implemented to support our teams to discuss better solutions with the client.  Under the coordination of the innovation taskforce, we continuously look for new solutions and technologies, with the ambition to increase environmental efficiency and performance (e.g. water treatment) – see Annual report.  Within our businesses we employ environmental specialists that integrate environmental management in our engineering consultancy projects. They share knowledge internationally (Knowledge Management program).  As is custom, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (people, planet, profit) were included in many training modules, to develop skills and awareness, and to communicate our ambition of showing leadership in sustainability.  With our membership of ‘De Groene Zaak’ (part of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, WBCSD) and Circle Economy we engaged to develop and promote circular economy.  We were ambassador of the NL Circular hotspot initiative during the EU-Chairmanship of the Netherlands. With our businessand market position, we are very well able Principle 9: to distribute environmentally friendly technologies across the Annual Report – website: Businesses globe. You could say that this is our core business! More info http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/enshould encourage in the Highlights and full Annual Report 2015! gb/annual-report-2015 the development and diffusion of  Besides distribution, we focus on development of new Find the direct link to the Highlights environmentally solutions as well (innovation): Annual Report 2015 <here> friendly  The four challenges are an invitation to our staff and clients technologies to develop new solutions, which we actively promote. Find the direct link to the full Annual Report  Innovation is steered by the Technical Directors (tools and 2015, including Financial and CR details support for innovation across market sectors). <here>  Our cleaner technologies are shared and promoted Highlights 2015: page 16-19 (awards) internationally and implemented worldwide (e.g. Nereda, an innovative and efficient water treatment technology). Full Annual Report 2015: page 17, 18, 24,  Royal HaskoningDHV earned several awards in 2015 for 25 clean technologies, and promoted new and cleaner technologies at conferences and events. Also visit www.royalhaskoningdhv.com 6 Global Code of Business Principles Integrity and anti-corruption is key to our business and our Business Principles for Partners and Principle 10: (moral) license to operate. We have zero tolerance towards Suppliers Businesses corruption. This vision is translated in, and safeguarded by our Integrity management system should work Integrity management system, which includes clear Speak Up Line against corruption instructions and guidelines, definitions, the role of our Group in all its forms, Compliance Officer and Local Compliance Officers, reporting CR policy statement including extortion structures, anonymous speak-up line, a living reference book, and bribery training, and approach to auditing. Annual Report – website:  In 2015, we continued to work on improvements to comply http://www.royalhaskoningdhv.com/enwith the requirements of our externally provided certificate gb/annual-report-2015 for ETHIC Intelligence. (On 30 April 2014, we were awarded an extension of our Anti-corruption compliance Here you can find the webbased Annual certificate – valid for two years) Report and the printable Annual Report in  The International Integrity Council has discussed pdf. improvements (4x) and Local Compliance Officers reported on issues quarterly. Find the direct link to the Highlights  All Local Compliance Officers were trained through our Annual Report 2015 <here> internal global Integrity Academy (4 webinars) – and this will Find the direct link to the Full version of the continue in 2016. Annual Report 2015, including Financial and  The e-learning (for all staff) was further rolled-out globally. CR details <here> Participation is registered and passing the test is awarded.  We extended the ‘Integrity Moment’ in each meeting to be ETHIC Intelligence Certificate a short training and awareness raising session.  We implemented the Third Party Assessment procedure.  Several incidents of violations and non-compliances were reported by our Compliance Officers during the year. Most issues were minor concerns that have been evaluated, and appropriate measures have been taken for correction and prevention (Full Annual Report 2015, page 84) 7
