2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CEO statement Hartmann has a proud and long history of delivering sustainable ductivity. We are striving to systematically and continuously improve moulded-­fibre packaging to consumers and customers across the globe. our manufacturing and processes to be able to deliver better products In short, sustainable products form the basis of our continued growth and customer service as well as reduce costs and consumption. and success – and sustainability thus remains an integral and natural part of our business model. In short, our strategy promotes sustainable growth as well as ongoing optimisation and our ability to do more with less, thereby reducing We introduced our strategy ‘Unpacking our potential’ in 2015, focusing consumption and waste to build a stronger business and lessen our on efforts promoting growth and efficiency in the period 2015-2017. As environmental impact. We therefore maintain our climate ambition of a classic industrial company, the success of our strategic initiatives and a 25% cut in CO2 emissions by 2020 and aim to reduce the number of business as such depends on our ability to constantly enhance efficiency work-related accidents per million working hours in 2016 following an while growing our business. unsatisfactory development in 2015. Our growth initiatives include integration of our South American acWe are pleased to reaffirm our commitment and endorsement of the tivities acquired in early 2015 and construction of new manufacturing UN Global Compact and its principles. facilities as well as expansion of production capacity at existing facilities. Based on our expanded geographical footprint – and presence in South America – we have increased our focus on anti-corruption slightly, and the changes to our production footprint have entailed prudent considerations concerning manufacturing processes, raw material consumpUlrik Kolding Hartvig tion and energy consumption among other things. CEO During the year, we also launched and continued initiatives aiming to enhance efficiency, including the upcoming closure of our German factory and ongoing upgrades of machinery and production lines to tweak proHighlights 2015 4.5% CO2-e reduction 100% of paper raw 18 supplier evaluations 37 employees trained in since base year. Target of materials from FSC conducted anti-corruption 25% reduction by 2020 or recycled sources 2 0 1 5 H A RT M A N N 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Materiality assessment As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Hartmann continuously Materiality – Global Compact themes strives to improve within all four areas of the Global Compact – Environment, Anti-corruption, Human Rights and Labour Rights. And we ENVIRONMENT require our suppliers to respect and support our commitment to the 4/4 ten Global Compact principles. As a consequence of the group’s primary activities within production ANTI-CORRUPTION of moulded-fibre packaging across Europe and the Americas, we focus 3/4 mainly on Hartmann’s environmental and climate impact to ensure the greatest possible effect of our sustainability efforts. Life Cycle Assessments have shown that our products’ climate footprint constitutes the HUMAN RIGHTS group’s most significant environmental impact. We therefore remain 2/4 committed to accommodating this impact and reducing our emissions. Following the acquisition of four factories in Argentina and Brazil in LABOUR RIGHTS early 2015, Hartmann’s manufacturing is located in lowand relatively 2/4 high-risk countries in Europe, North America and South America in terms of corruption1. Additionally, there has been increased international focus on corruption and legal developments in the field in recent years, and we have intensified our focus on anti-corruption measures. We operate our business in adherence with European and international regulation and frameworks as well as expectations to companies such as Hartmann2 within the fields of Labour Rights and Human Rights, and we consider our responsibility to reach throughout our sphere of influence. 1 Transparency International, www.transparency.org/cpi2015 2 This report ensures compliance with section 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial ­Statments Act. FOCUS ON CO2 AND FSC Our ongoing sustainability efforts strengthen Hartmann’s competitiveness and allow us to meet customers’ increasing demand for responsible packaging solutions. We have thus developed and marketed egg packaging with zero carbon footprint as well as FSC-certified egg packaging, providing our customers with unique marketing opportunities. CO2 neutrality is obtained through collaboration with Climate Partner on reestablishing forest areas in Mozambique, and our FSC products are certified by the Forest Stewardship Council to meet international standards for responsible forestry. Read about our CO2 neutral concept and FSC-certified products at our website. 2 0 1 5 H A RT M A N N 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Environment and climate POLICY KPI We systematically and proactively protect, respect and safeguard the We measure and monitor CO2 equivalent (CO2-e) emissions from environment and climate in daily business activities by development electricity and heat-related energy consumption at our factories relof production methods and products, training of employees and in­ ative to the sellable product quantities on stock (kg). This KPI reflects fluencing suppliers and stakeholders. the overall progress made within our main environmental focus areas. We support a precautionary approach to environmental and climate challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmental and climate RESULTS friendly technologies in accordance with principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Actions taken in 2015 contributed to reducing CO2-e emissions by 4.5% Global Compact. compared to the base level in 2012. ISO 14000 certificates for environmental management were renewed for all European production sites. ACTION We continued our efforts to reduce the environmental and climate We renewed our Climate Partner certification in 2015. impact of Hartmann’s business activities in 2015. Our main focus areas were: In 2016, we aim to obtain ISO 50001 certification for energy management at our factory in Hungary to improve our overview of on-site • Investments in new process technology energy consumption and ensure efficient use of energy, reduce CO2 • Improvement and optimization of existing equipment emissions and provide evidence of efficient energy management to • Product development ­external stakeholders. • Waste reduction • Replacement of fossil energy with renewable energy At our Danish factory, we will complete projects with a view to identifying means for further reducing CO2 emissions. We will, among other At our Danish factory, we conducted courses for oven operators with things, complete the ongoing mapping of options for replacing fossil a view to reduce consumption in the energy-intensive drying process. energy with renewable energy by substituting natural gas with biofuel. Additionally, we took steps to improve waste handling at the factory by reducing the number of contractors collecting waste at the facility. New We maintain our group climate target for 2020 of reducing CO2-e container types were introduced, entailing a 65% decrease in combustible emissions by 25% compared to the base level in 2012. waste collections. In Hungary, we continued the construction of a combined chemical and biological wastewater treatment plant, which was initiated in 2014 to reduce wastewater loads in peak manufacturing periods and minimize Hartmann’s footprint in the area. The plant will be completed in 2016. CO2-equivalent emissions Index (2012 = 100) 100 RISKS 80 The main environmental risks related to our activities include uninten­ ded wastewater spill and excessive emissions of CO2. 60 40 Our activities are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, noise reductions, wastewater treatment 20 and waste disposal as well as CO2 emissions. Risks are monitored locally and from the head office to prevent, remedy or minimise any adverse 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 effect on the external environment. CO2-equivalent emissions 2 0 1 5 H A RT M A N N 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Anti-corruption POLICY RISKS We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and The main risks related to our activities include employees’ and supplibribery. ers’ violation of Hartmann’s anti-corruption policy and potential legal and financial consequences hereof. We enter into open dialogue with relevant business partners, and we have set up guidelines specifying how to avoid bribery and corruption, Our business activities are subject to various national laws and regulain accordance with principle 10 of the Global Compact. We contribute tions as well as legislation with an international reach. to minimizing bribery and corruption in companies forming part of the value chain to which Hartmann belongs. Our commitment is furthermore expressed in Hartmann’s anti-corKPI ruption policy. We monitor results of internal anti-corruption training and supplier audits on an ongoing basis and adapt our policies and processes if necessary. ACTION Following the completion of Hartmann’s internal anti-corruption training programme in 2014, we continued the work to identify and train RESULTS relevant new employees with a view to ensuring their awareness of In 2015, our efforts included conducting 18 audits of local and central corruption issues and preparing them to avoid violations and act in suppliers. No supplier contracts were terminated as a result of these accordance with company policy. audits. Enforcement of the anti-corruption principle is an integrated part of 37 employees completed our anti-corruption training programme in our supplier handling process, and we maintained our focus on e­ nsuring 2015. that suppliers acknowledge and respect their responsibility when ­doing business with Hartmann. In 2015, we expanded our supplier audit programme to include freight forwarders as well. 2 0 1 5 H A RT M A N N 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Human Rights POLICY RISKS We promote the conditions outlined in the UN Global Compact’s The main risks related to our activities include unintended incidents ­human rights principles at Hartmann and in companies that are part of at factories and non-compliance with the Global Compact’s principles the value chain to which the Hartmann group belongs. internally or in the value chain to which the Hartmann group belongs. In accordance with principles 1 and 2 of the Global Compact, Hartmann supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures that the group is not complicit in KPI human rights abuses. We endeavour to secure: We measure and monitor the number of work-related accidents per million working hours (LTI-FR). The KPI reflects overall developments • Health and safety in the workplace by means of cleaner technoloin safety performance at our factories. gies and improved procedures and practices as well as competency development. • Fair wages by means of a wages policy and alignment with the level RESULTS at local industrial companies. Our focus on safety did not yield satisfactory results in terms of redu­ cing the number of work-related accidents per million working hours • The well-being of employees and their families by means of local (LTI-FR) as the frequency rose in 2015. initiatives, practices and procedures in keeping with local traditions, conditions and needs. All OHSAS 18001 certificates for working environment were renewed, and ISO 22000 certificates for food safety management at our produc• Good relations with the local community by means of active parti­ tion sites in Croatia and Hungary were renewed as well. cipation in social and business-related activities at local level. In 2016, we aim to reduce the number of work-related accidents per million working hours (LTI-FR) compared to the 2015 level. ACTION In 2015, we conducted a number of activities to safeguard food safety, improve safety at the workplace and strengthen relations with employees and local communities. We continued our efforts to reduce safety incidents in 2015. We installed safety equipment in printing areas at several factories and completed educational sessions for employees concerning safety and quality, among other things. Accident statistics During the year, we also nurtured ties with local communities by Index (2012 = 100) means of educational visits by local elementary school children as well 150 as i­nternational visits by high school and university students. At our Croatian site, we furthermore supported local families with financial 125 aid for school supplies. 100 75 50 25 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 LTI-FR 2 0 1 5 H A RT M A N N 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Labour Rights POLICY RISKS We promote the conditions outlined in the UN Global Compact’s The main risks related to our activities include non-adherence to Hart­labour rights principles at Hartmann and in companies that are part of mann’s principle of preventing discriminatory practices and securing the value chain to which the Hartmann group belongs. equal opportunities and potential legal, financial and HR-related consequences hereof. In accordance with principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Global Compact, Hartmann: Our business activities are subject to various national laws and regulations. • Recognizes the right of employees to be members of a trade union and negotiate pay and working conditions. • Supports elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, KPI and does not accept use of forced labour. We monitor results of supplier audits and continuously measure developments in the gender composition at our other managerial levels and • Applies preventive procedures and practices to ensure that persons in the Board of Directors. below the minimum age are not employed. • Endeavours to prevent discriminatory practices and secure equal opportunities by means of the application of procedures and pracRESULTS tices to prevent discrimination in connection with recruitment or In 2015, we evaluated 18 suppliers under our ethical sourcing prodismissal, career development, training and education, or the grantgramme, and no supplier was de-selected on that background. ing of staff benefits. Hartmann’s Brazilian business was elected among the 150 best places Our commitment is furthermore expressed in our policy on gender to work in Brazil in 2015 in an extensive national employee survey with equality in other management, which serves to increase the number Hartmann’s employees ranking their working environment particularly of the underrepresented gender at Hartmann's other managerial high. ­levels. The policy defines and describes focus areas within recruitment, ­performance evaluation and development as well as networking. The We did not realise the target for raising the share of the underreprepolicy is available at our website. sented gender to a minimum of 40% of the shareholder-elected board members as there were no changes to the composition of the Board of Directors in 2015. We maintain our ambition to reach the target by 1 January 2017. ACTION We maintained our focus on ethical sourcing in 2015 and conducted evaluations of selected suppliers. Representation of women In support of our efforts to increase the number of the underrepresented gender at Hartmann’s other managerial levels, we introduced a Target 1 January new European master data system for monitoring HR data with a view 2014 2015 2017 to increasing internal transparency and monitoring of gender-related data. The system provides an overview of gender statistics and pay Board of Directors4 25% 25% 40% comparisons for equal work, among other things. Other managerial levels5 34% 10% As a consequence of organisational changes at Hartmann in 2015, we updated our policy on gender equality in other management and 4 Only the shareholder-elected members changed the definition of other managerial levels to include Presidents 5 Includes Presidents of Regional Business Units as well as Corporate Heads of functions and managers reporting to them. of Regional Business Units as well as Corporate Heads of functions and managers reporting to them. 2 0 1 5 H A RT M A N N 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Hartmann at a glance Hartmann is the world’s leading manufacturer of moulded-fibre egg Customers packaging, market leader within the production of fruit packaging Hartmann sells egg and fruit packaging to manufacturers, distributors in South America and one of the world’s largest manufacturers of and retail chains, which are increasingly seeking Hartmann’s marketing ­machinery for producing moulded-fibre packaging. Founded in 1917, expertise. Hartmann’s technology and related services are sold to manu­ Hartmann’s market position is based on its strong technology know-how facturers of moulded-fibre packaging. and extensive experience of moulded-fibre production since 1936. Organisation Sustainability Headquartered in Gentofte, Denmark, Hartmann has 2,100 employees. Sustainability and environmental considerations are integral elements Production takes place at Hartmann’s own factories, of which four of Hartmann’s business model and strategy. All Hartmann’s products are in Europe, one in Israel, four in South America and one in Canada. are based on recycled paper, which is a renewable, CO2-neutral and biodegradable resource. Hartmann works closely with its customers The Hartmann share to support the need for sustainable products in the retail trade and Hartmann’s shares have been listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen since 1982. was the first manufacturer to offer both FSC-certified and CO2-neutral There is one class of shares, and each share carries one vote. Interested retail packaging. parties can receive financial reports and company announcements by subscribing to Hartmann’s news service at investor.hartmann-packaging.com. Markets Hartmann’s egg packaging is sold globally. The main markets are ­Europe, South America and North America, where Hartmann has strong market positions. Hartmann is market leader in Europe and in South America, where the product portfolio also includes fruit packaging. Hartmann has a small, but growing share of the North American market. Hartmann’s technology, including machinery and services, is also sold globally outside its main markets.. Finland Denmark Denmark England Poland Germany Germany France Hungary USA Switzerland Croatia Italy Serbia Canada USA USA Israel Production Production and sales Sales Brødrene Hartmann A/S Ørnegårdsvej 18 DK-2820 Gentofte Corporate memberships • The Confederation of Danish Industry Tel (+45) 45 97 00 00 Brazil – Network for Sustainable Development Fax: (+45) 45 97 00 01 • UN Global Compact e-mail: bh@hartmann-packaging.com Brazil • UN Global Compact – Caring for Climate Web: hartmann-packaging.com • European Moulded Fibre Association (EMFA) Chile • Green Industry Platform CVR no. 63 04 96 11 Argentina
