SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 MAKING A DIFFERENCE TO OUR WORLD THROUGH GLASS TECHNOLOGY WELCOME TO OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 We are an innovative, forward-thinking glass technology company built on a foundation of many years of expertise. Our global team is committed to developing and manufacturing products that meet the needs of customers, and open up new markets through research, development and innovation. We are committed to sustainable development. Working safely and ethically, we supply high-quality glass products that make an important contribution to improving living standards, to people’s safety and wellbeing, and to energy conservation and generation. Glass manufacture is energy intensive, but our products make a major contribution to energy conservation during their life cycle. Last year we made further progress in embedding the principles of sustainable development within our Company. As members of the UN Global Compact, we consider its ten principles to be a natural extension of our Code Of Ethics, which defines our commitment to social and environmental responsibility. The benefits of our major restructuring and efficiency programs are reflected in our reduced CO2 emissions and resource consumption. The Group’s progress towards our sustainability targets is covered in this Report and on our website. Additional information, charts and tables covering our performance are shown in the Sustainability section of our website, www.nsg.com/sustainability. Watch out for the following icons Visit us online for further information http://www.nsg.com/ Cover picture The SALT sauna and amphi theater Agora, Norway, features Pilkington Insulight™ Protect and Pilkington Optilam™ Therm S3 Photo: Trond Kristiansen NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 CONTENTS ABOUT US President and CEO’s message 02 Our global operations 04 Sustainability targets 05 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our approach to sustainability 06 Corporate governance 10 OUR BUSINESS Business overview 12 Architectural 14 Automotive 16 Technical glass 18 ENVIRONMENT Environmental policies 20 and management Energy usage 22 Minimizing environmental impact 24 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Employees 28 Health and safety 30 Customers 32 Suppliers 34 Communities 36 Shareholders 38 BASIS OF REPORTING Further information 40 Our approach to reporting 41 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 01 PRESIDENT AND CEO’S MESSAGE The challenges we face in managing the world’s limited resources have shaped our vision to make a difference to our world through glass technology, and our commitment to the sustainable development of the NSG Group. Glass production is an energy intensive process and yet the application of glass can offer society opportunities to mitigate climate change. Our businesses always endeavour to make a positive social and environmental contribution to the value chains in which we operate and we can only achieve our sustainability objectives by balancing the needs of all our stakeholders. The new sustainability targets discussed in this report emphasize the long term strategic Our VA strategy priorities for the NSG Group and the progress we have made towards their attainment. By managing the environmental impact of our activities, we are able to work in harmony underlines the with our communities and we will continue to challenge ourselves to improve our energy contribution our efficiency and resource management. This year we have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by an additional one percent compared to the previous year through improved products and services utilization of our facilities and energy saving initiatives. make to society and our The health and safety of our employees, and of all our stakeholders, is fundamental to environment.” our business. The annual ‘NSG Group Safety Day’ clearly demonstrates our commitment to this principle and as members of the UN Global Compact we support the advancement of all its principles. Our Code of Ethics are a natural extension to the UN Global compact and this year they were updated to include more practical guidance on how we should conduct ourselves in our day-to-day business. Good corporate governance is a foundation for the sustainable development of the NSG Group and our newly updated Corporate Governance Guidelines fully support the principles of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Code. Working safely and ethically, we will continue to embed the principles of sustainability within the NSG Group and to make a positive contribution to our environment. Shigeki Mori Representative Executive Officer President and CEO 02 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 ABOUT US The NSG Group offers a wide range of Value Added (VA) products and services across our Architectural, Automotive and Technical Glass business units that can mitigate climate change or improve safety. VA Strategy Our strategic vision as a VA Glass Company is to engage with our customers to develop new and innovative products for our markets, and offer a greater proportion of VA products and services. The Group is also working closely with our customers to deliver products and services that support their own sustainability objectives and reduce the environmental impact throughout the product lifecycle. Our efforts are leading to significant and lasting contributions to energy conservation and to social and environmental sustainability. Good management of our people, our resources, our communities and our environment makes good business sense. Architectural Automotive Technical Glass VA products and services Glass for photovoltaics Solar control technology Battery technology Vacuum glazing HUD and camera systems Engine timing belts Insulation & solar control Lightweight glazing Anti-corrosion coatings Fire protection glass Aftermarket Glass Replacement LED print heads Social and Environmental Benefit NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 03 OUR GLOBAL OPERATIONS The NSG Group is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of glass and glazing products for the Architectural, Automotive and Technical Glass sectors. With around 27,000 permanent employees, we have principal operations in 28 countries and sales in over 130. Consolidated revenue By region By business Europe 39% NA 18% Architectural Europe 15% Architectural NA 5% Japan 25% ROW 18% Architectural Japan 11% Architectural ROW 9% Automotive Europe 23% Automotive NA 13% Automotive Japan 8% Automotive ROW 6% Technical Glass 10% Sweden Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands Russia UK Poland Canada France Romania Spain USA Hungary Japan Czech Republic China Belgium Germany Austria Italy India Mexico Vietnam Malaysia Brazil Argentina Chile 04 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 ABOUT US SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS Target 2015 target achievement New FY18 targets Sustainable value NSG did not meet its 2015 economic • Increase value-added products total sales ratio from 1/3 added products target to exceed a 10 percent operating to 1/2 profit margin. As at March 2015, • Demonstrate the added environmental or social benefit the operating profit margin (before of products amortization arising on the acquisition of Pilkington) was 4 percent. Waste NSG successfully exceeded the 50 percent • Reduce waste to landfill by 6kt landfill waste reduction target by 2015 (20 percent reduction on 2013) on a 2007 baseline in 2013. Our waste to landfill figure for 2014 was 26kt. This is a 13 percent reduction on our new 2013 baseline. Energy and CO2 Despite a 13 percent reduction in absolute • One percent year on year reduction in CO2 intensity reduction CO2 emissions (4.8M tonnes in 2010 to across glass manufacturing operations. This includes 4.1Mt CO2 in 2014) poor market conditions at least 70 percent of the NSG Group operational CO2 prevented us from demonstrating a emissions by FY18 reduction in specific energy usage for eight key products. Safety The Significant Injury Rate at the end of • Reduce Significant Injury Rate by 10 percent per year FY2015 was 0.35 which represents a 75 • No fatality percent improvement and meets the 80 percent reduction target from 2007 base of 1.38 to 0.30 (10 SI per month, compared to baseline of 50). Responsible sourcing We have communicated our Supplier Code • Continue our commitment to communicate the Supplier and transportation of Conduct to all of our suppliers and Code of Conduct to new suppliers and maintain the evaluated >280 suppliers against it. ongoing agreement of current suppliers • Extend our program of supplier sustainability evaluation by 20 percent per year • Continue to monitor suppliers that use materials with a potentially high environmental impact • Work with supply chain partners to innovate our logistics arrangements to improve environmental impact of our products Employees The Group target was achieved. • Commitment to continue to measure employee engagement: all areas to have 2014 Employee Survey In 2015, 91 percent of shop floor FT action plans, aiming for 90 percent progress in each of employees had an annual training and these plans by the end of FY16 development review. • Continue with performance management initiatives to ensure that the appraisal process is maintained at the right standard. 100 percent of appraisal plan owners attend training to improve the discussion on employee development by the end of FY16 • 75 percent of employees to have either a collective or individual employee L&D development plan by the end of FY18 • Train 100 percent of commercial managers in the Commercial Leadership Program Ethics and Compliance No 2015 targets • Relaunch Code of Ethics and maintain 100 percent completion of briefing and training • Continue communication of relaunched Ethics & Compliance Hotline and reporting of all concerns • Identify, track and report meaningful Ethics & Compliance KPI metrics • Reissue Governance and Leadership Culture Assessment NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 05 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Glass has a major part to play in society’s efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to mitigate the effects of climate change. We aim to be the global leader in innovative high-performance glass and glazing solutions, contributing to energy conservation and generation, while working safely and ethically. Our efficiency programs are continuing to deliver reductions in energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and waste production. We train and develop our people while respecting their human rights and keeping them safe from workplace injuries or occupational illness. We encourage our contractors and supply chain to take similar steps through the ongoing evaluation of our key suppliers’ sustainability practices. Risks associated with Our sustainability agenda is integral to decreasing our costs and increasing our market climate change are opportunities. Over the past year, we have continued our efforts in areas such as energy reduction and waste recycling, both of which can have a significant and swift impact an opportunity for the on the business performance of the Group. Glass markets are extremely competitive NSG Group to make a around the world and it is imperative that we can meet the ever-increasing demands of customers. positive contribution to our environment.” Shiro Kobayashi Director of Sustainability Outcome of Materiality Assessment Employee Labour Employee Energy use & conditions and safety ghg emissions Human rights VA Supply chain Concern to stakeholders products risk Landfill waste & services Anti corruption Employee and competetive retention behaviour Importance to business 06 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 70% Materiality to doing business the right way whilst For the purposes of this Report, we minimizing regulatory and reputational consider material information to be risk. that which is of greatest interest to, Operational energy use and associated and which has the potential to affect CO2 emissions have a significant the perception of, those stakeholders environmental impact combined with cost, We now have 81 ISO 14001 certified sites who wish to make informed decisions security and regulatory risks. Operational around the world, representing 70 percent and judgments about the Company’s efficiency has always been a key business of our business by turnover. commitment to environmental, social and concern but is now of particular interest economic progress. The NSG Sustainability to government, investors and customers. Committee agreed on material issues NSG’s realignment of production capacity Our stakeholders based on the Group’s key impacts and to lower levels of demand has provided an We aim to be judged as best in class by: stakeholder feedback throughout the opportunity to increase operational and year. These material issues have been product efficiency. Our customers combined into our Sustainability Targets. To be their preferred supplier for glass Requirements from regulators and products and related services. Financial issues are of the highest customers are providing opportunities for importance to stakeholders and are sustainable and innovative product design Our employees reported separately in our Annual Report. in a shift to value-added products. To be their preferred place to work. Financial health remains a critical issue to NSG and cost reductions are vital to our Supply chain risks and impacts, especially Our shareholders those related to the sustainability of To be their preferred long-term strategy and everyday activities. raw material and the environmental and investment. Achievement of the Medium Term Plan human rights performance of suppliers, (MTP) requires customer communication are important for NSG and our customers. Our suppliers that improves our understanding of To build strong mutually beneficial We assess key suppliers’ sustainability needs and concerns. We have developed relationships based on trust, practices to satisfy these concerns. a commercial leadership program to co-operation, innovation and enhance the marketing and strategic skills Our management approach sustainability. of our commercial managers. We work with local communities and governments to ensure compliance and Our communities Other leadership and development To be a good neighbor, wherever we forward thinking. We do this directly programs are ongoing to minimize the risk operate. and through our membership of trade of talent loss. Feedback from an employee associations, standards bodies and engagement survey has led to improved other organizations. We also work to learning and development plans and a influence legislation, particularly in energy healthy and motivated workforce. conservation and emission regulation. People are the NSG Group’s most Glass making is an energy-intensive important asset. The minimization of process. Significant energy is consumed in safety risks is important to all stakeholders obtaining and melting the raw materials and our management program is aimed at for the manufacture of glass. Despite this protecting the workforce. necessary resource consumption, this Our reputation is integral to the success energy can be quickly saved when our of the NSG Group. We are committed to products are in use. Our products make a demonstrating good corporate governance positive contribution to climate change and ethical business practice to satisfy efforts and to the quality of living and increasing shareholder and customer working environments. questions. We will execute the MTP in We have communicated our Supplier line with the long-term strategic vision Code of Conduct to our suppliers and within our newly established Corporate have conducted evaluations to verify the Governance Guidelines. Group policies declarations we have received. on compliance and reporting concerns have been updated to align with these guidelines. Our Group Code of Ethics has been relaunched to reflect our dedication NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 07 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED Our Vision 'Making a Difference to our World through Glass Technology' Our Mission To be the global leader in innovative high-performance glass and glazing solutions, contributing to energy conservation and generation, working safely and ethically Our Values Trust and mutual Integrity Teamwork and respect and professionalism mutual support Our people are the most Initiative and creativity Open communication important asset Individual and Sustainability Passion and resilience social responsibility Our products require raw materials that Environmental We are committed to reporting on must be extracted from the earth. We take We take our environmental responsibilities our performance, both good and bad. our responsibility to protect the natural extremely seriously. All our operations Environmental data is collected under the habitats of the affected regions seriously. are required to meet legislative broad headings of energy, emissions to standards as a minimum. We conduct air, water usage, recycling and waste. The Our Code of Ethics has been relaunched regular environmental audits to achieve data collected is based primarily on the and continues to reflect our values and continuous improvement. core environmental performance indicator principles, particularly the emphasis set of the Global Reporting Initiative on safety, taking personal ownership Our Group Environmental Policy outlines (GRI). In addition, the Airsweb™ system for actions and communicating with our management of current activity and also incorporates an incident reporting openness and involvement. The Code the legacy of past and inherited liability. system. The most senior executive with ensures we carry out these activities It reinforces our commitment to using responsibility for environmental aspects is in a safe, professional, legal and ethical scientific principles to try to predict and the Group Director of Sustainability. manner, demonstrating corporate social assess our impacts on the environment. responsibility and promoting sustainability. Society We acknowledge that our activities Wherever possible, the Code defines a We believe we have a responsibility to be affect the local and global environment fair and common sense approach to doing a good steward of the environment and but we take steps to minimize adverse business, with some elements dictated by a responsible corporate citizen. We work effects, including implementing systems strict legal requirements. hard to minimize negative effects, such to manage such impacts in a controlled as pollution, noise and traffic. We operate Our Group policies and procedures detail manner. Principal among these is our programs to assess and manage the the procedures everyone in the Group must environmental management system, impacts of our operations on communities follow to achieve sound governance, tight which is certified to ISO 14001 for the vast in entry, operational and exit stages. In controls, risk management and adherence majority of our glass manufacturing and addition to our business investments to to legal, ethical and sustainable principles. automotive manufacturing sites. sustain local operations, we also invest in the communities where we operate. 08 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 MANAGEMENT APPROACH We aim to help charities and other competitive pay and competitive benefit Product responsibility projects through cash donations, or offerings for eligible employees. We are committed to the safety of our through other resources, to benefit the products and to ensuring they can be easily We have identified specific challenges in community or tackle specific social issues. handled, fitted and used by our customers. attracting and retaining talent, particularly We also encourage our people to develop Our product risk-review procedures are in emerging markets, and we are putting community relationships. This can take designed to identify risks and provide policies in place to address these. We work the form of matching contributions raised advice to users on safe handling. We to create a culture that allows employees by employees or enabling individuals to communicate risks on safety data sheets, the opportunity to work without fear of contribute their time and effort in local labels and glazing and handling guidelines. intimidation, reprisal or harassment. We projects. The most senior position with have systems in place to permit employees Every R&D project developing new responsibility for society aspects is the to raise any concerns in a confidential and products and processes is required to have Group Director of Sustainability. timely manner. The most senior executive an Environmental Impact Assessment with responsibility for labor aspects is the completed to highlight any positive Human rights Chief Human Resources Officer. or potentially negative implications. Our Code of Ethics acknowledges We aim for a cradle-to-cradle life cycle internationally proclaimed human rights, We value the health and safety of all our management approach, incorporating which are also reflected in our employment employees above all other considerations. environmental health and protection into policies and standards, providing all Our safety programs emphasize the every step of the life cycle of our products. employees with reassurances on how they importance of appropriate safe behavior will be treated. and of individuals taking personal Our formal project management processes responsibility. include thorough intellectual property Our Equal Opportunity and Diversity searches, so our customers can be We regard all injuries at work as Policy aims to prohibit discrimination confident that new products and processes unnecessary and avoidable. No matter based on race, color, creed, religion, age, we develop can be used freely without how minor, each one must be reported gender, sexual orientation, national origin, fear of infringing third-party patents. The and investigated. Details of our progress disability, union membership, political most senior executives accountable for on safety performance are shown in the affiliation or any other status protected by product responsibility are the heads of the Health and Safety section of this Report. law, for all employment-related decisions. strategic business units. The most senior executive with responsibility for human rights aspects is the Chief Human Resources Officer. NSG achieves EcoVadis silver CSR rating Labor practice Our management philosophy values people as the most important asset of our Company. Our HR strategy aims to ensure we have the right people and that we maximize our talent management around the world. Safety and quality underpin everything we do, with open communication central to our employment policies. EcoVadis operates an independent, external platform allowing companies to assess We operate as an integrated international and benchmark their environmental and social performance on a global basis. Group, with a multinational management and 80 percent of our employees working The process assesses Company policies, implemented procedures and published outside Japan. We reflect diversity in our reports with regards to environmental, labor practices & human rights, fair business workforce and believe that the range practices and sustainable procurement issues. The assessment is conducted by CSR of nationalities, skills, qualifications experts of EcoVadis on the basis of Company answers to a survey which is dynamically and experience available in our many adapted to country, sector and size, using scorecards covering 150 industry categories operations are a positive benefit to our and 21 CSR criteria. The rating is based on supporting documentation, and public and business. Our management style is to put stakeholder (NGOs, trade unions, press) information. the best person in each job, regardless of nationality or region. To attract, motivate, The NSG Group used this assessment tool to gain a picture of the Group’s CSR develop and retain high-performing performance and understand areas for improvement. We were rated as Silver regarding employees, our approach to rewards our approach to CSR management. and retention includes market-based NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 09 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance is a key element in the sustainability activities of the NSG Group. We are committed to effective and transparent engagement with all our stakeholders. We believe that good corporate governance en/sustainability/corporategovernance/ The Audit Committee, chaired by an contributes to sustainable development approach. These actions build on initiatives independent external director, Toshikuni by enhancing the performance of taken by the Group over the past few Yamazaki, comprises four independent companies and increasing their access years to strengthen corporate governance external directors. It conducts audits to outside sources of capital. We aim to and mark our progress towards the of the execution of duties by directors maintain high levels of accountability and achievement of the advanced level of and executive officers and ensures that transparency, disclosing business goals corporate governance. adequate risk management processes and guidelines that clearly demonstrate a are followed. It also decides the details responsible management approach to all Three-committee system of agenda items to be submitted to The Group adopts a three-committee our stakeholders. the General Meeting of Shareholders structure and hence establishes the Board concerning the appointment and removal NSG Group Corporate of Directors, Nomination Committee, Audit of Accounting Auditors. Governance Guidelines Committee, Compensation Committee and In May 2015, we announced the newly office of Executive Officer. The Compensation Committee makes established NSG Group Corporate decisions on compensation of individual We believe the adoption of the model Governance Guidelines, supporting directors and executive officers. The has introduced additional safeguards for the Principles of the TSE Corporate Committee is chaired by an independent shareholders, increased transparency Governance Code, which took effect on external director, Günter Zorn, and and enhanced corporate governance by 1 June 2015. These Guidelines provide comprises six members, including four separating the functions of execution and the basic principles and framework for independent external directors. oversight, with the role of the independent the NSG Group to enhance its corporate external directors strengthened. Risk management values in a sustainable way, on a mediumThe scope of our operations introduces to-long-term basis, thus increasing the The NSG Group is governed by its Board of potential risks to our business activities, common value of the Group for our various Directors, which is appointed by resolution requiring effective risk management. stakeholders, including our shareholders. at the General Meeting of Shareholders. These include the effects of changes The Board comprises four directors, Under the corporate governance structure in debt market prices, foreign currency concurrently serving as executive officers, in the Guidelines (including the balanced exchange rates, credit risks, energy and four independent external directors. roles and membership of the Board prices, liquidity interest rates and The Board is chaired by an independent of Directors, the three committees of business disruption. Our enterprise risk external director, Seiichi Asaka. In the fiscal Nomination, Audit and Compensation, management process enables the impact year 2015, the Board of Directors met 12 and the independent external directors and likelihood of key risks to be assessed in times. The Board of Directors oversees the and executive officers), we aim to ensure a standard format. The information is used Group’s economic, social and environmental the appropriate system of check-andto assess the cumulative risk exposure of performance and compliance with internal balance and accountability. This enables the Group and promote effective global risk and internationally agreed standards, management to make decisions in an responses, thus strengthening our overall Codes of Ethics and principles. effective, efficient and ethical manner, and risk management structure. maintain good relationships and address There are three Board committees the needs of our stakeholders. (Nomination, Audit and Compensation) and Ethics and compliance Our Code of Ethics has been updated four independent external directors. Along with the Guidelines, we also and rebranded to make it more relevant published related policies such as the The Nomination Committee decides to the NSG Group and represent our Policy on Constructive Dialogue with the details of the agenda items to be behavioral commitment to the Company. Shareholders, General Criteria to Select submitted to the General Meeting of The Code has been made available in all Candidates for Director, and Policy and Shareholders concerning the appointment 19 Group languages. Ethics Champions Procedure on Appointment of Executive and removal of Directors. Chaired by an in every region have been carefully Management. The NSG Group Corporate independent external director, Hiroshi selected to provide vital communications Governance Guidelines document itself and Komiya, the Committee consists of six and promotion of the Code at the local the related policies are also available on our members, including four independent level. These Champions have attended corporate website: http://www.nsg.com/ external directors. workshops to prepare them for these 10 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Decisions on General Meeting of Shareholders election/dismissal of accounting auditor Election/dismissal Audit Report Accounting Auditor Supervision /evaluation Election/dismissal Decisions on election/dismissal Nomination Committee (Chaired by an independent external director) Recommendations on Board of Directors executive officers (EOs)/ corporate officers (COs) (Chaired by an independent external director) Decisions on compensation Compensation Committee (Chaired by an independent external director) Supervision Co-operation Election/dismissal Management Committee Report Four EOs Audit Internal Audit Audit Audit Committee Report (Chaired by an independent external director) COs Sustainability Committee Ethics and Compliance Executive function Supervisory function Independent External Director activities, including supporting line Group’s Ethics and Compliance Education to them using a standard Ethics and managers in the understanding of the Center. All are required to be familiar with Compliance report form. While employees Code and facilitating the ensuing ethical the compliance program policies, manuals are encouraged to speak to HR or line discussions. Our line managers are and procedures. Key compliance contacts management first, the Group continues responsible for promoting understanding of have been identified in each SBU and to allow employees to voice corporate the revised Code and discussing issues and Group function and are responsible for governance issues through an externally ethical behavior with their employees. ensuring that the key roles in their area of provided updated Ethics and Compliance responsibility are kept informed of program Hotline either by phone or through a Alan Graham is Group Chief Ethics and updates and are meeting the program web portal with anonymity where legally Compliance Officer. His responsibilities requirements. Group Ethics and Compliance allowed. This hotline is available in all include the development, implementation issues an ethics and compliance brief on Group languages and employees are also and maintenance of an integrated internal a regular basis to senior managers and able to ask ethicsand compliance-related ethics and compliance management and key compliance contacts. The Group’s questions through this web portal. Posters control system, as well as the creation communications team translates the brief have been updated and distributed at all and review of relevant Group policies and into all Group languages and posts the locations. A Group Concerns Investigation procedures. Group Ethics and Compliance publication on site communications boards. Procedure has been established to ensure regularly reports to the Audit and all relevant concerns are sufficiently and Management Committees. Group Ethics and Compliance has partnered consistently investigated. with Group Internal Audit to include both The NSG Group does business in 36 ABAC and competition law minimum The Group’s Ethics and Compliance percent of the countries that scored at controls in any site audit. Relationships Hotline has been made available to our least 50 or higher in the 2014 Corruption with lobbyists are covered by the Group’s commercial agents through the issuance of Perceptions Index and has commercial ABAC program as it relates to third parties. a Commercial Agents Compliance Manual. agents in 20 percent of those countries. Public policy development and lobbying Information on how to access the Ethics The Group conducts a continuous riskinformation is found in the Group’s Code of and Compliance Hotline will be made based assessment to determine which Ethics and on the website. available on NSG’s external website and employees face risks related to bribery, thus access will be extended to all. Since corruption and competition laws. Over 65 Our ‘Reporting of Concerns’ policy has inception there have been 89 reported percent of the NSG Group’s floor workforce been updated to ensure that all reported concerns managed via the Ethics and is required to complete annual compliance ethicsand compliance-related concerns Compliance Hotline case management training, via a third-party vendor, covering are brought to the attention of the Chief system. bribery/corruption, competition law and Ethics and Compliance Officer by requiring reporting unethical behaviour through the managers to submit concerns reported NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 11 BUSINESS OVERVIEW We operate in three business sectors: Architectural A leader in float glass technology and coatings Architectural, supplying glass for the world’s buildings and for solar energy applications; Automotive, producing glass and glazing systems for vehicles worldwide; and Technical Glass, operating in the display, optical 40% Contribution to Group sales* electronics and glass fiber sectors. Sales by region *All figures for financial year ending 31 March 2015 Financial year 2015 Europe 37% Japan 27% NA 13% ROW 23% 8,800 employees in 21 countries Main products • Thermal insulation glass • Solar control glass • Fire protection glazing • Glass for solar energy • Noise control glazing • Safety and security glazing Proportion of Group CO2 emissions 62 percent 12 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 OUR BUSINESS Automotive Technical Glass Supplying all major vehicle manufacturers and World leader in thin display glass and optical devices the after markets for electronics 50% Contribution to Group sales* 10% Contribution to Group sales* Sales by region Sales by region Financial year 2015 Financial year 2015 Europe 46% Thin glass 23% Japan 17% Glass cord 38% NA 26% Copier/printer 31% ROW 11% Other 8% 15,100 employees in 16 countries 2,000 employees in 5 countries Main products Main products • Solar control glass • Displays and touch panels • Glazing systems • Copier/printer lenses • Laminated glass • Glass cord • Toughened glass • Battery separators • Security glazing • Anti-corrosion coatings • Lightweight glazing • Fine crystal Proportion of Group CO2 emissions Proportion of Group CO2 emissions 33 percent 5 percent NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 13 ARCHITECTURAL Our products are at the heart of modern architecture and play a beneficial role in addressing some of the major environmental challenges of buildings. On average, buildings account for around 50 percent of the energy consumed in developed economies. The correct choice of glass can help to reduce the capital outlay, running costs and associated carbon emissions of buildings. A study undertaken by TNO for Glass for Europe concluded that up to 170 million tonnes of CO2 could be saved annually by 2020 if all Europe’s buildings were fitted with solar control or low-e insulating glass units. Our products offer advanced functionalities including fire protection, noise attenuation,security, electro chromics, self-cleaning and electrical conductivity. Thermal insulation and solar control Our products play a vital role in addressing global building energy-efficiency challenges and reducing CO2 emissions. In cold climates, low-emissivity (low-e) coated glasses like Pilkington Energy Advantage™ reflect heat back into the building and reduce heat loss through the window, while allowing high levels of valuable free passive solar energy to heat buildings without significant loss in natural light. In hot climates, the reliance on air conditioning is mitigated through the use of advanced solar control coated glass that transmits the majority of the sun’s visible light into buildings, while reflecting up to 75 percent of the solar heat and reducing glare. Pilkington Spacia™, the world’s first commercially available vacuum glazing, offers the thermal performance of conventional double glazing but with the same thickness as single glazing. Pilkington Spacia™ Cool achieves a U-value of 0.9W/m2K and is commonly used in historic buildings and special applications. 14 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 OUR BUSINESS Fire protection glass Pilkington fire-resistant glass is known for offering trusted transparent solutions all over the world for more than 30 years. Today’s range of products comprising Pilkington Pyrostop®, Pilkington Pyrodur® and Pilkington Pyroclear® are used in a variety of building, marine and rail transport applications. Independent fire tests of applications incorporating Pilkington fire-resistant glass have demonstrated the remarkable long term reliability of our products. Environmental Product Declarations for Pilkington Pyrostop® and Pilkington Pyrodur® glasses have been verified according to international standards EN and UL. Glass for photovoltaics During its life cycle, a solar panel can generate over 15 times the energy used in its manufacture. NSG’s glass is an integral part of the modules produced by leading companies in the solar energy industry. As a technology leader in glass coatings and low-iron compositions, our products are helping our customers to manufacture increasingly efficient modules. Our anti-reflective coatings help maximize solar energy transmittance and NSG TEC™, a Transparent Conductive Oxide (TCO), is part of the system that generates an electrical current. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 15 AUTOMOTIVE As a world leader in vehicle glazing, we aim to provide opportunities for vehicle manufacturers to address sustainability issues including CO2 reduction, vehicle safety and recycling. We are working across all our markets from cars to trains and tractors, to help customers develop new vehicles that are greener by design. Glass in vehicles offers more properties than simple transparency, consideration also needs to be given to acoustics, stiffness, weight, sealing, safety systems and solar control. We have also supplied glass for use in automotive photovoltaic roof systems to help reduce their reliance on conventional energy sources. Our vehicle-glazing products provide advanced solar control properties by absorbing or reflecting infra-red energy from the sun. Approximately 30 percent of the heat loading on a car’s interior comes through the windshield. Control of heat energy entering vehicles directly impacts air-conditioning usage leading to additional energy consumption and CO2 output. Windshield replacement provides an opportunity to improve the energy consumption of the vehicle by using Pilkington’s EZ-KOOL® or NSG Angelguard99 that reduce the heat loading on a vehicle’s interior and filter up to 99 percent of UV rays. Advanced glazing Advancements in vehicle technology are making glazing an integral part of protecting vehicle occupants and other road users. Cameras used in automatic emergency braking systems and HUD (Head-Up-Displays) for displaying critical driver information require a high level of component integration. The NSG Group is working closely with its partners to lead the change towards making our roads safer. The importance of environmentally friendly vehicles is growing as consumers are demanding ever more energyefficient models. Lighter-weight designs are an essential part of reducing vehicle CO2 emissions and improving their energy efficiency. Our in-house developments for glass-shaping technology make it possible for vehicle manufacturers to reduce the mass of glass components by up to 25 percent. 16 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 OUR BUSINESS Aftermarket glass replacement A vehicle’s windshield is an essential piece of safety equipment that we take for granted until it is damaged. Chipped or cracked windshields reduce visibility and can lead to loss of structural integrity over time. The NSG Group’s Automotive Glass Replacement (AGR) services provide an extensive range of OEM quality replacement glazings to auto glass replacement professionals throughout the world, ensuring consumer glazings can be replaced quickly and to the same standard as the original. Lightweight Rail The NSG Group is a leading manufacturer of glazing solutions for specialized transport vehicles including trucks, coaches, off-road, marine and lightweight rail vehicles. Our extensive R&D activities and vast experience in shaping techniques guarantee our ability to manufacture the largest and most complex windscreens. Quality and safety are vital for the driver and can require train windscreens to be impact-tested to a range of international standardsusing a 94-calibre air cannon. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 17 TECHNICAL GLASS Our glass technologies are used to improve the energy efficiency and sustainability of products across a diverse range of market segments. Glass as a high-tech material offers many opportunities being light, strong, fire retardant, non-conductive and resistant to chemicals. Our patented products are used in transmission belts to improve fuel consumption, LED printers that use less energy to operate, and coatings to protect the longevity of our buildings and equipment. Our expertise in the manufacture of ultra-thin float glass is allowing the development of the next generation of touch-screen devices. Glass cord engine timing belts NGF, who produce the Group’s advanced glass cord technology, is enabling the automotive industry to develop the next generation of energy-efficient vehicles. The technology is primarily used in engine timing belts and Electric Power Assisted Steering (EPAS) systems to reduce fuel consumption and improve CO2 emissions. NGF’s HTS (High Tensile Strength) glass cords significantly improve belt flexibility and stretch resistance. This advanced technology has been successfully incorporated into innovative ‘Belt in Oil’ systems that further improve engine refinement. The system delivers the quietness and more efficient running of a belt but with the durability of a conventional timing chain. Furthermore, the belt is capable of remaining in service for the life of the engine. The PSA EB engine range has won the 2015 Engine of the Year Award in the 1 to 1.4 litre capacity.The EB engine is an advanced 3-cylinder petrol unit that uses timing belts supplied by Dayco, NGF’s customer, that incorporate the Group’s high tensile strength glass cord technology. 18 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 OUR BUSINESS Display and touch panels We are a world-leading supplier of ultra-thin glass for small LCD applications. Our Ultra Fine Flat Glass (UFF) is produced in thicknesses as low as 0.3 to 1.1mm. These products are increasingly being used in the growing touch-panel market, particularly in mobile phones, tablets, computers and now expanding into use in buildings and vehicles. This technology helps reduce the need for additional peripheral equipment, allowing people to have a more natural interface with technology. LED print heads NSG, with the printer and scanner manufacturer Fuji Xerox, are jointly developing a new generation of Light Emitting Diode (LED) print heads to reduce power consumption in office equipment. Using our proprietary SELFOC® Lens Array (SLA®) technology, the new print head provides an image quality equal to or surpassing more conventional laser scanning units but with the added advantages of miniaturization, low power consumption and low-noise operation. This allows optical systems to be designed more compactly and manufactured at a lower cost. Battery technology NSG is leading development of advanced glass products for use in battery separators. Idling Stop and Start (ISS) system installed on modern cars to cut fuel consumption use Absorbed Glass Mat (AGM) separators to greatly increase the efficiency of the batteries. We are continuing to improve the capacity, stability, power and safety margins of customers’ products. Our Super Glass Paper (SGP) technology with a 30μm thickness and >85 percent porosity is supporting the development of the next generation of batteries. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 19 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT We take our environmental responsibilities extremely seriously. We require all of our operations to meet local legal standards but apply our own corporate standards where these are stricter than the law. Our Environmental Policy Data collection Monitoring performance Our Group Environmental Policy defines Environmental and safety performance Supplementing the routine monitoring of our approach on environmental matters. data is collected across the Group using our business, we also maintain a number In particular, it outlines our management an online electronic data reporting system of central registers used to guide our of both current activity and the legacy of known as Airsweb™. This database strategic development and maintain a past and inherited liability. It reinforces is multilingual and accessed over the high level of corporate governance in the our commitment to using good scientific corporate intranet by sites under NSG sustainability field. For example, a register principles to try to predict and assess our operational control, allowing monthly of all furnaces, their associated permits, impacts on the environment, both positive updating of relevant information. relevant legislation and abatement and negative. capabilities is maintained and used to Environmental data is collected under the support the assessment of any proposed We are in a strong position to help mitigate broad headings of energy, emissions to air, changes in operation or design. the effects of climate change by producing water usage, recycling and waste. The data products that conserve energy in buildings collected is based primarily on the core To ensure a consistent and innovative and vehicles. environmental performance indicator set approach, we operate a number of of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). multidisciplinary design panels whose task Given the nature of our business, we is to ensure full assessment and review acknowledge that our activities will In addition to the collection of of proposed changes. Our stage gate inevitably have an environmental impact, environmental emissions and resource process ensures that an appropriate level but we have taken steps to minimize the usage data, the Airsweb™ system also of information and resource is applied to an adverse nature of any impact and have incorporates an incident reporting system. issue at set points within the development put in place systems to try to ensure that This allows the timely reporting and of a project or proposal. This ensures the we manage such impacts in a controlled recording of incident data, both safety and most efficient use of our resources and manner. The use of many of our products environmental, as well as provision for encourages innovation. will lead to positive environmental impacts. tracking the progress or remedial actions and communication of learning points. For glass-manufacturing plants we Principal among the tools we use is our have defined our strategic approach to environmental management system, abatement in order to ensure that across which is certified to ISO 14001 for the vast the world we hold fast to our principles, majority of our glass manufacturing and even in parts of the world where legislative processing sites. controls are less well developed. We are committed to reporting on our performance, both good and bad. Environmental performance is monitored and reported for manufacturing operations that are under the direct control of the NSG Group. We continue to work with regulatory authorities worldwide on issues relating to historical industrial activity on and around Group premises. 20 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 ENVIRONMENT Certification We aim to certify our manufacturing facilities to the internationally recognized ISO 14001 environmental standard and now have 81 certified sites around the world, representing 70 percent of our business by turnover. Our Automotive business was one of the first in the automotive industry to achieve a corporate certificate for environmental management. A single ISO 14001 certificate from TUV SUD Management Service GmbH covers central functions and the vast majority of our Automotive plants worldwide. NSG’s Tampere and Ylojarvi plants in Finland achieved ISO 50001 certification of its energy management system for automotive glass processing in October 2015. This is in addition to our already certified German and Italian glass-melting Our Finnish automotive-processing and processing sites. sites have recently been certified to Environmental the ISO 50001 energy management system standard. Product Declarations An Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) is a verified and registered document that communicates transparent and comparable information about the life-cycle environmental impact of products. The German Institute of Building and Environment (IBU) awarded EPDs for Pilkington Profilit®, Pilkington Pyrostop® and Pilkington Pyrodur® fire-resistant glass, according to ISO 14025 and EN 15804. The Ecoprofile results allow architects and planners to access reliable environmental information and complete detailed sustainability assessments of buildings. Pilkington Germany AG now has the authorization to mark Profilit® and both fire-resistant product lines with the IBU logo in monolithic format or insulating glass. The declarations are IBU listed and can be ordered upon request. Environmental Product Declarations have been completed for NSG fire-resistant glazing and Pilkington Profilit®. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 21 ENERGY USAGE NSG Group energy usage We work continuously to minimize energy input into all our processes, so that the usage of glass 7,000 14,000 21,000 28,000 35,000 Natural 0 contributes net benefit to sustainability. gas TJ Heavy fuel oil TJ Diesel/gas Our energy usage Major projects include furnace fuel oil TJ For both environmental and financial combustion optimization, reducing LPG TJ reasons, we use natural gas as the fuel electrical requirements of motors and Electricity of choice for glass melting. In 2014, reducing the number of dryers needed TJ we reduced consumption by 1 percent for compressed air. Savings for each site 2014 2013 compared to 2013. have been monitored and resulted in total savings of 9GWh electricity and 57GWh Initiatives to reduce energy fossil fuel in 12 months. usage 2kt CO2 /year have been saved due to the Energy pilot plants installation of electricity sub-metering Allocate The concept of the energy pilot plants is resource equipment and energy-efficient lighting at Analyse to make a step change reduction in energy usage multiple sites in 2014. costs by using energy more efficiently and effectively. Four pilot sites were active for We continue to benefit from reduced Energy management three years in phase 1 and five phase 2 consumption of electricity and natural sites were launched in FY15. Further pilot gas and save 4kt CO2 /year due to the site launches are planned in Japan, Vietnam installation of waste heat recovery Verify and and Brazil this year. New and existing pilot processes. develop Plan and sites cover 63 percent of the NSG Group’s implement Management systems energy spend. Investment in energy management Cross-functional pilot site teams are systems includes the achievement of ISO led locally by the plant manager, with 50001 certification across all operations in Energy management cycle proactive support from other functions, Germany, Italy and recently Finland, with and extensive use is made of third party installation of sub-metering hardware suppliers. Over 100 projects are under and software. A high level of transparency evaluation or being implemented. in energy consumption enables a sophisticated energy-planning process Operational energy-efficiency with improvement activities, target setting projects and frequent reviews. The Operational Cost Saving program aims to reduce all operational costs in the area Energy Committee of prime and overhead costs. One of the All initiatives are monitored by the Heads largest prime costs for the Group is energy. of SBUs and Group functions at six monthly To support the cost saving activities across Energy Committee meetings, chaired by sites, a deep analysis of all of the energy the Chief Operating Officer. projects within the OCS database has been completed. Multiple projects were identified for rapid dissemination in FY15 to deliver energy and cost savings. Each manufacturing site within the Group had at least one active OCS energy project in FY15. Led by Manufacturing Excellence and assisted by other Group central functions, NSG sites identified 68 zero-investment energy-optimization opportunities, resulting in annual CO2 savings of 21kt. 22 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 ENVIRONMENT Employee energy Partnership with suppliers efficiency awareness We continue to partner with key suppliers We have continued our efforts with an to develop projects to reduce energy ongoing program of work across all sites consumption in our manufacturing sites. to increase energy awareness. This Close collaboration with leaders in specific program involves a number of teams technologies is enabling us to implement within the manufacturing organization optimum solutions to specific energy with the objective of delivering significant management challenges. Collaborative improvements in the energy efficiency of projects have also been implemented to our operations and includes a Group-wide address compressor inefficiency, to make database of energy-saving projects. better use of waste heat generated in our glass-making processes and to reduce Renewable on-site energy peaks in electricity demand. generation and alternative fuels The use of a waste-derived biofuel oil Innovation in cullet recycling instead of heavy fuel oil in a glass-melting Our Watson Street plant continues furnace has cut CO2 emissions by 8kt per to invest in plastic boxes to travel on year. floatliners with customer glass deliveries. The collected downstream processed Our Rossford technical center in North cullet is diverted from landfill and, when America produces about 7 percent of its re-melted, reduces energy consumption own electricity with on-site photovoltaic and raw material decomposition, saving generation. We have installed photovoltaic 3,000 tonnes CO2 emissions per year. panels on the roof of our German Weiherhammer plant. Recently installed factory lighting is on PIRs which dim automatically when the natural lighting reaches an acceptable level Maizuru float line A large-scale project to shift the Maizuru float line M5F from heavy fuel oil to liquid natural gas stored in two large tanks reduced overall fuel costs and provided a significant reduction in CO2 emissions. The reduced sulfur content also allowed simplification of the flue-gas desulfurization equipment. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 23 MINIMIZING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Glass manufacture is an energy-intensive process, involving the melting of raw materials at high temperatures. Principal process emissions are to air due to the combustion of fuel and decomposition of carbonate raw materials. Emissions to air Glass-melting furnaces produce various pollutants. The most significant of these are: sulfur oxides from refining agents and oil fuel contaminants; nitrogen oxides formed from the combustion air in the hot combustion process; particulate matter derived from the melting process; and carbon dioxide from both the raw material decomposition and the combusted fuels. We are tackling these emissions with a range of primary and secondary control techniques. Primary methods are designed to reduce pollutant formation at source and include techniques such as avoiding certain raw materials and heavy fuel oil types that contribute to emissions. Other primary techniques include using special burners and operating the furnace in an energy-efficient manner. There is special focus in this latter area as it will also reduce production costs. Secondary control involves employing abatement equipment to remove the emissions from the furnace waste gases before they are emitted through the chimney. Techniques such as acid scrubbers, electrostatic precipitators and selective catalytic reduction units are now widespread and are being installed at more sites around the NSG world. New pollution control plant at Maizuru A new pollution control plant has just been installed at the NSG furnace at Maizuru, on the north coast of Japan. The electrostatic precipitator for dust control is in the centre, with the acid gas scrubber to the left and the chimney base to the right. At the same time, the furnace has been converted from oil to gas fuel, which will greatly reduce CO2 emissions as well. 24 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 ENVIRONMENT Monitoring and reducing carbon emissions In 2014, the NSG Group was responsible for the direct and indirect emission of 4.2 million tonnes of CO2. Our direct emissions were 3.1 million tonnes. Direct emissions occur from our furnaces and from fuel used in bending and toughening furnaces in Automotive and Architectural Glass. In the operation of our float plants, heavy oil to natural gas conversion has helped to reduce carbon emissions by around 50 percent over the past 40 years and a combination of design and operational innovations has made further progress. NSG Group glass-melting carbon emissions 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 Total CO2 2013 emissions (million tonnes) 2014 Direct CO2 2013 emissions (million tonnes) 2014 Europe South America China and South East Asia North America Japan 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 Total mass of CO2 for site excluding electricity/1,000 tonnes Total mass of CO2 from fuel excluding electricity/1,000 tonnes Total mass of CO2 for site/1,000 tonnes SOX/10 tonnes NOX/10 tonnes 2014 2013 Recycled glass to improve efficiency and reduce emissions Glass for recycling is a valuable resource. Wherever quality allows, we recycle any glass off-cuts or cullet within our own glass-melting lines. Glass from our downstream operations and from our customers represents a potentially useful resource to us. We gain a double benefit from the use of such cullet: its use to make glass reduces the requirement for raw materials and avoids disposing of what would otherwise be a waste material and closes the recycling loop. Ten percent cullet use saves three percent furnace energy and leads to reductions in CO2 emissions. One of our sites has recently manufactured glass using 100 percent cullet. Cullet return projects are ongoing to try to minimize the need for virgin raw materials. Landfill is the least favored disposal option. If glass is produced that cannot be remelted on-site, it is sent, where practicable, for external recycling. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 25 MINIMIZING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CONTINUED NSG Group waste 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 Bought in cullet kt Glass for recycling /1,000 tonnes Products for recycling /10 tonnes Non-hazardous waste /100 tonnes Hazardous waste tonnes 2014 2013 Recycling and waste composition The glass manufacturing process itself produces very little waste material. All trimmed glass from the manufacturing processes is recycled back into the melting process. PVB is used to manufacture laminated glass. PVB trims from the edges of the laminated glass are returned to PVB suppliers to be recycled in their manufacturing processes. In 2014, around 2,000 tonnes of PVB trim was returned to our suppliers or other recyclers to be reused. Our remaining waste to landfill consists mainly of waste glass, reject batch, general waste and glass-grinding sludge. The NSG Group succeeded in reducing the waste sent to landfill by 50 percent since 2007 and set a new Sustainability target to reduce this environmental impact again by 20 percent on 2013 by the end of FY18 (see Grinding mud collection and page 5). segregation equipment Muds after grinding Waste Glass 25% Rejected Batch 23% Mixed general trash 21% Sludge from glass grinding 11% Dust from filters and EP 5% Other 15% Grinding sludge This waste stream cannot be prevented but we have been actively seeking recycling partners to divert the waste from landfill and provide a raw material for concrete products and other aggregate manufacturers. Float rejected raw material In 2015, we sought additional reduction and/or recycling opportunities for glass dust and Our Sandomierz, Chmielow, Collingwood rejected batch – occasional off-specification raw material that often cannot be blended and San Salvo sites have redirected and dust collected by the pollution abatement equipment. Automated process monitoring grinding muds to recycling and and control systems are being implemented to proactively reduce the number of reject incorporation into concrete products. batches at our Rossford plant and our plant in Ottawa is constructing a new batch plant to reduce batch spillage. 26 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 ENVIRONMENT Waste glass Water management The sites producing the highest volumes In glass-making, water is used for cooling, of waste glass reviewed their cullet and most of our plants operate with segregation and recycling practices to closed-loop systems and so only require find ways to increase the amount of top up. Water is also used for washing cullet sent for recycling in float plants and glass in plants but there the need is for to improve recycling. The Sungai Buloh very high purity, so water is treated and plant in Malaysia implemented recycling then reused. We seek to minimize our of all printed cullet and found a recycling water consumption by working with partner for laminated waste glass. All sites suppliers to recycle water and to install are reviewing recycling opportunities for advanced water treatment facilities. This contaminated cullet and glass dust. not only reduces the consumption of water General waste itself but also the chemicals used in the Waste segregation at Cacapava, Brazil Focus and support has been applied to the treatment of the water. highest volume producers to further Across the Group water consumption can improve general waste segregation and vary considerably according to process procurement have been actively involved and product demands as well as water NSG Group water use in finding local recycling partners. quality. Approximately 2 m3 are required Total water use Mm3 Automotive glazing ingredients to manufacture one tonne of float glass 25 In Automotive, all supplied glazing parts and approximately 90 liters are required to and their materials are registered in the process each square meter of automotive product. We used a total of 18.8 million 20 global IMDS (International Material Data System) to ensure we have complete cubic meters of water in 2015. 15 visibility of ingredients, confirm material Timber compliance and to identify opportunities In Europe, much of our glass is transported 10 for recycling. This data is shared with our on steel stillages without packaging, Automotive customers, to support their utilizing specialist ‘Floatliner’ vehicles. 5 own material compliance and recycling We use a significant quantity of wooden efforts. packaging in our operations and work with 0 PVB is used to manufacture laminated our suppliers to design reusable wooden glass. PVB trims from the edges of packaging. Much of the timber we use 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 the laminated glass are returned to comes from sustainable forestry. PVB suppliers to be recycled in their manufacturing processes. In 2015, around 2,000 tonnes of PVB trim was returned NSG Group timber use to our suppliers or other recyclers to be Timber km3 reused. 150 120 90 60 30 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 27 EMPLOYEES OUR MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY VALUES PEOPLE AS ‘THE MOST IMPORTANT ASSET OF OUR COMPANY’. SAFETY AND ETHICAL BEHAVIOR UNDERPIN EVERYTHING WE DO, WITH THE PRINCIPLE OF OPEN COMMUNICATION AND TRANSPARENCY BEING CENTRAL TO OUR EMPLOYMENT POLICIES. NSG Code of Ethics language. In addition to the international Our Code of Ethics reflects our values and edition of MADO, the countries with major principles and defines for all employees operations also receive a regional MADO what is expected of them. It emphasizes three times a year. We operate formal three action points that the Company mechanisms to brief and consult unions expects everyone to take: responsibility and employee representatives on the for our own ethical behavior, openness and Group’s operations and future plans, as transparency with colleagues, customers appropriate to local circumstances and and suppliers, and the understanding requirements. that unethical behavior in one part of the Employee Survey Results world can have negative consequences in The NSG Group’s 2014 Employee Survey another part of the Group. was held in September 2014 and provided Our Code of Ethics The Code acknowledges internationally a real opportunity for employees to voice proclaimed human rights and these are their concerns and influence NSG Group also reflected in our overall employment policies and the way we do things. There policies and standards, providing our was an exceptional 90 percent response employees with reassurance on how they rate – a rise of three percent on the last poll will be treated. Our Equal Opportunity held in 2011. and Diversity Policy aims to prohibit Clearly people wanted to make their voices discrimination based on race, color, creed, heard and we now have much material NSG Group employee nationality, age, marital/partnership on which to build. But, crucially for us as distribution graph status, pregnancy and maternity, gender, a business, there were satisfyingly high (as at 31 March 2015) gender reassignment, sexual orientation, scores for employee motivation and how religion or other beliefs, or any other status the NSG Group’s Medium Term Plan (MTP) protected by law. This policy operates in all has been communicated. employment related decisions. The most senior executive with responsibility for Market conditions over the last three years human rights aspects is the Chief Human have meant a Group rethink of its business Resources Officer. model and the introduction of the MTP, which is heavily dependent on employee Employee engagement commitment and focus. We operate comprehensive communication and briefing systems within all our With motivation up two percent on 2011 businesses to provide effective and almost three-quarters of NSG Group mechanisms for two-way communication. staff saying they understand the MTP and Every employee receives monthly updates how to deliver it, we feel communications Europe 43% on Group and local business objectives, in these areas are succeeding – even at the Asia 32% targets, results and best practice at early stages of the plan North America 14% Group and business-unit level, including There was also positive feedback on South America 11% monthly briefings from the regional SBU Company reputation and relationships heads. The Group’s employee magazine with immediate line managers, and overall MADO is produced three times a year and satisfaction with place of work and health is available to employees in their native and safety. 28 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 OUR STAKEHOLDERS The results painted a clear picture of how 30 percent of employees not on ETWeb to NSG Group female employees believe the Company is doing in feature on a collective development plan. employee distribution a range of areas and also uncovered areas Supporting UN Women (as at 31 March 2015) of opportunity to improve engagement. Naturally, there are areas that did not HeForShe campaign Managers come out so highly and because NSG HeForShe is a solidarity movement for Asia 3.9% has operations across four regions it is gender equality developed by UN Women Europe 20.4% really important to have countryand to engage men and boys as advocates and North America 21.7% site-specific action plans to ensure the agents of change for the achievement of South America 7% most relevant issues are addressed for gender equality and women’s rights. The NSG Group 13.3% employees. 152 plans are currently being campaign encourages them to speak out implemented locally with regular reviews and take action against inequalities faced Employees of progress planned throughout the year, by women and girls. The overall goal of Asia 18.8% with an expected completion date by the the campaign is to spread awareness and Europe 15.1% end of December 2015. spark action on the responsibility that men North America 18.5% and boys have in eliminating all forms of South America 6.5% Personal development discrimination and violence against women NSG Group 15.9% and growth and girls. A key focus for us was the results to the Employees in NSG sites across Brazil have question: ‘I believe I have the opportunity recently been involved in a number of for personal development and growth in activities to support this campaign. the NSG Group’, as analysis showed that improvements in this area would have the The Company used marketing emails highest impact on improving engagement and notice boards to post reflective right across the Group. messages on the theme using images of workers from a number of different In response to this, NSG has focused on sectors, religions and cultures to expand helping managers improve discussions on employees’ visions about the gender personal development and growth at the equality theme. annual appraisal. Our Brazilian and Chilean sites have used This focus is reflected in the Group L & D the HeForShe initiative to encourage more objectives for FY16, with a target for females to consider manufacturing as a Employees in Brazil supportUN HeForShe gender 30 percent of employees on ETWeb to have career – this initiative is specifically aimed equality campaign an individual development plan and at female engineers. Our employees NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 29 HEALTH AND SAFETY Significant Injury Rate (SIR) Our safety programs emphasize the importance 2.0 of individuals taking personal responsibility for appropriate safe behavior, with managers taking 1.5 the lead through their commitment to key safety 1.0 leadership behaviors. Safety organization and strategy 0.5 The NSG Group Sustainability Director reports to the Chief Operating Officer. Monthly safety updates are provided to the COO while more in-depth management reviews are completed every six months with the senior operations team comprising the heads of 0.0 the four SBUs and the heads of the Group functions. These reviews were held in the FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 UK in February 2015 and Brazil in September 2015. All injuries at work are regarded as avoidable. We require full reporting of all incidents, no matter how minor, and appropriate investigation to ensure we learn from all such events. The Group has a focus site approach which provides additional support and more regular reviews for sites that have more than Type of significant injury a defined number of significant injuries. Safety performance Safety improvement begins with a focused approach to the prevention of conditions and behaviors which lead to injuries. NSG drives proactive safety by Measuring Safety 4 Ways, which includes: • Safety Improvement Plans (SIP) – reducing hazards and risks through planned improvements of conditions and behaviors that lead to incidents. • Incidents of High Potential Severity (IHPS) – reviewing all incidents with a critical eye, asking what could have happened and could the incident have led to a serious injury or fatality; then taking preventative actions. • Key Safety Behaviors (KSB) – focus on how our employees complete tasks, working to reduce at-risk behaviors through frequent feedback. Glass handling cuts 30% • Significant Incident Rate (SIR) – The Significant Injury Rate (SIR) is our primary reactive Manual handling 23% indicator. The SIR records injuries requiring medical treatment or the reallocation of Slips, trips and falls 11% duties to allow an individual to continue working, expressed as a rate per 200,000 Engineering 14% hours worked. The Significant Injury Rate for the year to 31 March 2015 of 0.35 represents a 10 percent improvement in safety performance compared to FY2014 on a like-for-like basis. This is in line with the Group’s Medium Term Plan, focusing on a year on year improvement. Despite our continued focus on high-risk activities, regrettably the NSG Group has experienced its first fatal injury in three years. An employee suffered a head injury as a result of a fall from a flatbed trailer whilst preparing a load for shipment. We must acknowledge and learn from this event. We owe it to this employee and his family, along with all of our colleagues and their families, to ensure that the identified actions are communicated and that these are completed globally across all of our operations. We are committed to our high-risk reduction program and the safety tools we have in place. Following the initial communication of the event, all SBUs have implemented improvement plans which include assessing where employees work where there is a risk of falling; identifying areas where the tasks can be eliminated; and completing actions where working at height is required to prevent employees from falling. Finally, we have improved the type of PPE employees wear in particular the requirement to wear helmets with a four-point harness. 30 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 OUR STAKEHOLDERS High-risk activities We continue to focus on the following high-risk activities, tracking projects related to: • Vehicle and pedestrian safety • Machinery safety: guarding, frequent access and isolation • Contractor control, including permits • Materials handling: moving glass, load security, grabs, trolleys and pallets • Driving Moving safety to the next level The safety strategy remains the same, with a focus on improving the effectiveness of our safety tools and programs. We believe that our employees and supervisors will make the difference in moving safety to the next level through the following initiatives: • Independent audits of our safety tools to drive a more consistent approach, develop Machinery safety is still a key focus our safety skills and improve our shared learning. These audits were cross regions and area, including complete isolation. cross sites within a region for maximum impact. • Further improve our level of proactive employee involvement as a means of continuing to change our safety culture. • Further develop our first-line supervisors to improve our overall level of safety leadership. NSG Safety Day The NSG Safety Day took place on 15 October 2015 and continued to be a successful global event. All sites organized health-related activities and employees were given the opportunity to improve their first aid, firefighting and emergency response skills. Senior managers attended sites to demonstrate their personal commitment and the opportunity was taken to celebrate safety success. Safety Day poster In Mexico, Safety Day activities allowed pedestrians to sit on forklift trucks to appreciate the driver’s blind spots and recognize the need to signal for recognition. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 31 CUSTOMERS Safety quality and service standards are key features in building relationships with our industry customers and end consumers. Customer First Understanding our customers’ position and proposing solutions that work for them is critical for a VA Glass Company. The NSG Group operates a leadership program for Sales and Commercial management teams with the objective to equip our managers with the tools and skills to enable them to respond to changing market demands. The North American Architectural team are progressing their ‘Customer First’ approach which goes beyond simply improving the quality of our products and services. The objective is complete customer satisfaction that will only be achieved by defining what excellence means for each customer. Everyone across the organization has become a part of the solution to provide our customers with consistently positive customer experiences before, during and after their purchases across every point of contact in the NSG Group. Product responsibility We are committed to the safe use of our products, ensuring they can be effectively handled, fitted and used by our customers. We aim to provide customers with products and services that offer social, environmental and safety benefits. Our training and support helps our customers to identify and mitigate risks or to raise awareness of sustainability issues. We are committed to the safety of our products and to ensuring they can be Blindex Safety Glass effectively handled, fitted and used by our customers. This includes the safe handling of sheet glass or the correct fitment of windshields in vehicles to maintain their quality and strength. In order to improve its product safety performance, Blindex offers an exclusive shower safety glazing. A survey conducted by Blindex showed that most accidents with injury risks occur as a result of shower door breakages. From this data, it was decided that safety films must be applied to the doors to offer more security to consumers. The safety film is applied to the surface of the glass on the production line for the film to become a part of the glass. Blindex in Brazil were responsible for equipping all its franchisees with the necessary manufacturing equipment. Before the product launch there were reports in the media of shower doors breaking and the impact on people’s lives. For the product launch, a national campaign was run to raise awareness of the safety issues with shower doors and the available solution to eliminate these injuries. Highest quality Quality is a key feature in building successful relationships with our industry customers and end customers. It is also a key factor in sustainability, because high quality can reduce waste throughout the supply chain, while improving production efficiencies. Quality encompasses design, development, manufacture, delivery, assembly and price of glass, as well as customer support. In the NSG Group, the achievement of high quality is supported by the use of rigorous quality management systems and standards. In the Architectural Glass business, the Group has ISO 9000:2000 quality management certification in Europe, Japan, North America and South America. Our European Architectural Glass business has been a leading player in the development of new glass product standards for the European building industry. These standards have provided a route for glass manufacturers to meet the European Construction Products Directive and apply to virtually all NSG Group products used in buildings. 32 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Product innovation The NSG Group is a global leader in manufacturing excellence and innovation, notably in the areas of glass melting, glass forming by the float process, online coating and complex shaping technology, especially for automotive windshields and backlights. The Group invested ¥8,212 million in R&D in FY2015. The Group owns or controls approximately 4,000 patents and patent applications, predominantly in the fields of float glass production and processing, automotive glazing and also in the information technology field. It also has access under license to patents held by third parties. The Group is active in selective licensing of its patents and technology, in the areas of online coating, encapsulation (of automotive glazing) and rain sensors for automotive glazing. Metashine products In the Cosmetics sector, innovation is vital to developing business opportunities. It is not sufficient to simply meet the current customer specification, the NSG Group must work closely with its customers to anticipate future trends. The recently launched range of vivid Metashine grades for cosmetics applications extend the range of bright, vivid colours for our customers so they can develop desirable cosmetics that provide a feeling of well-being for their consumers. Vacuum double glazing NSG’s Spacia technology is the world’s first commercially available ‘vacuum glazing’ that provides a similar level of energy efficiency as modern double glazing but with the thickness and weight of a single sheet of glass. Spacia 21 extends this concept into a double glazed unit to offer high thermal transmittance of 0.7 W/ m2K, which is equivalent to 50mm of glass wool and is approximately 2.3 times better than low-e IGU of equal thickness. With Solar control coatings it can also reduce solar heat gain through the window by 54 percent. Spacia 21® was certified ‘L2-Tech 2015 Summer’ by the Ministry of Environment in Japan as a measure against global warming, the highest standard for leading technologies that reduce energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions. Architectural Spacia 21 Certification NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 33 SUPPLIERS Achievement against target We purchase materials, goods and services from by end of 2015 over 20,000 suppliers worldwide. Our Supplier Code 300 of Conduct and related evaluations help ensure 250 that our suppliers understand and comply with our standards. 200 Our Supplier Code of Conduct Insisting that our suppliers agree to 150 As part of our Sustainable Procurement adhere to our Code has influenced who we Program, we operate a Supplier Code develop longer-term relationships with as 100 of Conduct. It outlines behaviors, part of our category strategies and who processes and procedures — in short, the we do not. It has also prioritized which 50 standards we expect from our suppliers. suppliers we need to develop and improve Engagement with suppliers may be via further to ensure full compliance. 0 appropriate category account managers Supplier sustainability and the Procurement function has the  Completed & Prioritised for further development evaluation responsibility to ensure that suitable  Completed & meeting minimum expected criteria Between 2011 and December 2015 we  Completed & Fully Compliant engagement arrangements are in place aimed to evaluate circa 300 suppliers  Targeted Total and communicated. against our Supplier Code of Conduct. Our manufacturing processes use In order to meet this challenge and to By the end of 2015 we have completed materials, products and services procured carry out additional due diligence on our an evaluation on over 280 companies of from a wide range of regional and global suppliers of high environmental impact, which over half are fully compliant and a suppliers. Our suppliers are therefore NSG has engaged in the services of an further third meet our minimum criteria. crucial to the achievement of our external service provider. The remainder have been prioritized for sustainability objectives. To manufacture further development. and supply superior quality glass products Process and methodology The methodology applied is at the core to our customers, we aim to build strong of the CSR analysis system; covering relationships with suppliers that are based 21 criteria across four themes i.e. on a framework of trust, co-operation and Environment, Fair Labor Practices, Ethics/ sustainability. Fair Business Practices and Supply Chain. The wide range of issues addressed The methodology is built on international in the Code reflect the many and CSR standards including the Global diverse activities in which our suppliers Reporting Initiative, the United Nations are involved. Wherever possible, the Global Compact, and the ISO 26000, Code defines a fair and commoncovering 150 spend categories and 140 sense approach to doing business, countries. while incorporating all relevant legal requirements. The content of the Code also takes into account our values and principles, particularly the emphasis on safety, taking personal ownership for our actions and communicating with openness and involvement. It is the responsibility of all of our suppliers to follow the principles of this Code to ensure compliance with our requirements. 34 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Ranking supplier risk in The Democratic Republic of the Congo We leverage our Global Procurement (DRC) or an adjoining country as defined function to achieve this spread of good on the environment in the Act. practice effectively and efficiently. We In recent years we have implemented continue to work with key suppliers to a program of identifying suppliers that Identifying suppliers who provide develop projects to reduce energy and have a potentially high impact on the materials that could potentially include water consumption in our manufacturing environment (categorized as HEI). Our aim these minerals is now a very important sites, utilizing their expertise in various is to ensure that our suppliers minimize part of our procedures and due diligence technologies to develop solutions to their potentially negative impacts and work continues to be completed via an online specific energy management challenges. positively on environmental initiatives. The questionnaire. For example, in one of our major plants in scope covers 13 of our material categories which we now categorize as being of Anti Bribery Anti Corruption Italy, both the consumption of incoming (ABAC) fresh water and the discharge of waste ‘High Environmental Impact’, including By tracking to identify unethical owners water have been reduced significantly wooden packaging, batch materials, wasteand directors of companies, we have through application of additional management contractors and chemicals. identified a number of Procurement sophisticated water treatment processes. We expect that all suppliers in these categories have a recognized Material Categories which may pose a In Japan, one of our furnaces has been environmental certification such as ISO higher bribery or corruption risk due to the able to switch to a more environmentally 14001 or equivalent. In the case of wooden nature of supply within them. We monitor friendly fuel as a result of extensive packaging, paper and cardboard, we look these suppliers through a third-party due collaboration between technical experts for a recognized chain of custody (e.g. diligence platform and will investigate any from NSG and the fuel supplier. FSC or PEFC) in regard to the raw material indication of unethical behavior by any supplier or associated directors. In addition In one of our plants in Poland, more supply. to this, our supplier implementation advanced refrigeration control systems We continue to make progress on process now contains risk indicators; these have enabled greater cooling capability compliance levels and currently an average are designed to highlight any potential whilst reducing electricity consumption. >70 percent in these categories fully suppliers that are at heightened bribery meet our requirements. Those who do Communication and or corruption risk, regardless of Material not will undergo further evaluation and Category, allowing us to assess their co-operation development. Any suppliers unwilling to In line with our Sustainability Policy, ethical integrity through the due accept this may be phased out. we communicate with and work diligence platform. constructively with our suppliers and Conflict minerals Working with suppliers governments, regulatory agencies, the The NSG Group supports the goals and scientific community and other relevant to save energy objectives of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street stakeholders to develop and encourage Our procurement activities and projects Reform and Consumer Protection Act’s business and community practices that demonstrate our commitment to Section 1502, which aims to prevent the make progress towards the common aim of sustainability. Good practice is shared use of conflict minerals that directly or sustainable development. through Global Procurement Category indirectly finance or benefit armed groups teams and spread throughout the Group. 100% Compliant Non-Compliant 75% 50% 25% 0% y 20 20 12 Ba tc h M ng m er 1 s 5 20 12 W at ate ria ls at e r ia 01 2 ls 5 er Tr Se 20 stes Ex tru si ea tm en tC he co nd 2 2a ry 5 20 1 01 12 Prim on & m ica 20ls 15 Pa te er s, rla Cl ea ne En rs ca p su la 20 2 tio 1 20 1 Si & Ac tiv n 20 125 lve In BP at 20 or 1s 5 20 r Se al an 20 12 & ck ag Te Fu el 2 2 ts 15 Oi 01 20 1 ks i W ch ni ca lG as 20 ls 5 20 12 In Pa as te Co nt ra es 15 20 12 Ba Su rfa ce c t or 01 2 s 5 20 tc h M at Co a tin 201 12 er ia ls Pr g 5 20 1 im 20 2 ar 1 y2 5 20012 15 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 35 COMMUNITIES The local communities throughout the world in Blindex which the NSG Group operates are the foundation Safety Glass of our business and the lives of employees. Without a relationship of mutual benefit with these communities, the Group as a whole could not sustain its operation. We have around 27,000 permanent employees, with principal operations in 28 countries throughout Europe, Japan, North and South America, China and South and South East Asia. We do this in over 500 separate facilities worldwide — some large and some small. Each has an impact on the community in which it is based, by providing employment, investment and other benefits, but also having an impact on the environment. The effects of necessary investments on our communities are generally beneficial, Bristol employees’ design a safety bringing additional employment and economic benefits. For every investment we make, poster campaign an impact assessment is conducted to ensure we understand and manage the likely effects on the community, the environment and the local economy. As a responsible and often prominent member of the communities in which we operate, we believe it is important to be involved actively by leveraging our core business and management resources to help to address local issues. Aims and objectives We want our operations to function in healthy, thriving communities and to be seen as a good neighbor to those communities. We know that if we want to operate effectively and to be able to expand or change when the time is right, we need the goodwill that comes from being an active supporter of the community. In addition to our business investments helping to sustain local operations, we also invest in the communities in which we operate. We aim to help – through direct cash donations to charities and other projects or through in-kind resources — to improve the health of the community or tackle specific social issues. We operate programs that assess and manage the impacts of our operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting. San Salvo employees train employees’ We also involve our staff in providing a lead in developing our relationships with the children in the basics of fire prevention communities in which we operate. This can take the form of matching contributions and firefighting as part of a Safety Day raised by staff or allowing staff time to make personal contributions of time and effort in family activity. local projects. In FY2015, we made contributions worth around ¥70 million to our local communities. Our grants helped the arts, medicine, welfare, job creation and urban renewal. 36 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Local community action initiatives Brazil promotes UN diversity compaign NSG sites across Brazil have recently been disseminating the reflection on gender equality in communities where the Company has manufacturing plants, using its employees as propagation agents. The Company used marketing email messages and notice boards to disseminate reflective messages on the theme. It also offered two lectures about the theme delivered by the Company’s president and directors, with employees’ participation. Employees build emergency housing in Argentina VASA´s employees, retired employees and their families worked together to build doors and windows for emergency houses. This project was completed with an organization called “TECHO” who identify communities that need help and organize social projects: houses, food and education etc. NSG sponsored the Sustainable Sustainable School Award School Award at the St Helens Reporter Education Awards 2014. This category recognizes schools that have developed environmental awareness and sustainable development education across all the curriculum areas and the life of the school. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 37 SHAREHOLDERS We aim to keep our shareholders informed through a focused international investor relations program. This encompasses regular communications throughout the financial year, through meetings, publications, plant visits and our websites. In communicating with our shareholders, Where information does not fall under Medium Term Plan investors, the financial community the category of timely disclosure rules, The period through to FY2018 is critical regulatory authorities and the media, our our policy is to communicate it swiftly and to the establishment of the Group as a aim is to report in a transparent, timely and fairly, once it has been determined that the ‘VA Glass Company’, the priority being accurate manner. disclosure of such information is beneficial to enhance our financial and operational to investors. performance while we shift to selling Our overriding objective is to provide as much information as possible to help our Communicating our strategy more value-added products as described shareholders and potential shareholders In May 2014, we announced the Group’s in our Long-term Vision. Operational understand our strategy and performance, Long-term Strategic Vision and Medium performance will focus on our shift to to enable them to take investment Term Plan (MTP). The information is selling a greater proportion of valuedecisions. available in both English and Japanese on added products, fully utilizing our existing our website. capacity and consolidating our reputation Annual reports are produced in both for manufacturing excellence. Japanese and English and widely Long-term Strategic Vision distributed to stakeholders who may have We are executing our strategy through We announced that our new Strategic an interest in our performance. These a market-facing regionally organized Vision is to transform the Group into a ‘VA documents are also made available on our business, based on three business areas: Glass Company’. ‘VA’ comes from ‘valuewebsites. Architectural, Automotive and Technical added’ and our aim is to: Glass. A good balance between regional The CEO makes regular reports to the • consolidate our trusted reputation as a and global organizational structures will Board on investor relations and on specific glass specialist; drive efficiency and allow us to react discussions with major shareholders. quickly to market developments. In parallel, • work closely with our customers in a The Board receives copies of all research we are strengthening our market-driven range of global industries to deliver published on the Group. Shareholders have culture, creating a passion for revenue unique value through our products and an opportunity at the General Meeting growth, to fully utilize our assets. services; and of Shareholders to ask questions of the Chairman and the Board. • transform our float glass business, We are aiming to lower the break-even moving from a traditional business point of our business by reducing Our Investor Relations (IR) Policy reflects model towards one increasingly focused overheads, improving manufacturing our aims to be open and fair and to comply on VA. efficiency and controlling our input cost with corporate ethics. The NSG Group is through best-in-class procurement and Through this shift in focus, to become listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) shared services. We aim to ensure that we more of a ‘VA Glass Company’ the Group and we disclose information in line with spend our limited resources wisely and aims to become a more profitable and the TSE ‘Rules on Timely Disclosure of generate capacity at much lower capital financially stronger business, with a lighter Corporate Information by Issuers of Listed costs. asset base, while reducing the cyclical Securities’. nature of the business at the same time. 38 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 OUR STAKEHOLDERS We believe that ‘people are our most Shareholder composition Distribution of important asset’ and that effective use of The acquisition of Pilkington plc in 2006 NSG Group shareholders our people is the main driver to surmount transformed NSG from a regional Japanese (as at 30 September 2015) the current challenges we face. We are glass company to an international group determined that we will not lose sight of headquartered in Tokyo. Following our core values and principles, with safety the acquisition, the proportion of nonand quality remaining top priorities. We resident foreign corporations and foreign aim to be a sustainable company, believing individuals owning NSG Group shares rose, that good management of our people, but has since droppedForeign back,companies/individuals with a higher our resources, our communities and our proportion of individual shareholders environment also makes good business now based in Japan. Nevertheless, as an sense. international group based in Japan, we Communicating our have expanded our global IR effort to meet the requirements of shareholders performance and potential investors around the world. We report our results on a quarterly Most of our publications are produced in basis. We hold half-year and year-end Financial institutions 19.6% both Japanese and English. Details can be financial results briefings for securities found on page [•• ] of this Report and on Securities companies 5.7% analysts and investors in Japan, with our website. We organize ‘road shows’ for further communications in the intervening Other corporate entities 4.7% analysts, investors and potential investors quarters. The CEO, COO and CFO personally Foreign companies/individuals 17.8% outside Japan, when appropriate. present and discuss financial results, Other individual investors 52.2% charting our progress against our strategy Treasury stock 0.0% and the future outlook for the Group. Supplementing this, the top management and IR team give background briefings to analysts and investors following the release of financial results. From time to time we arrange plant visits to enable analysts to see our operations at first hand. Over the past years, we have increased our focus on non-financial aspects of our performance relating to sustainability. This Sustainability Report is an important channel for communicating our progress. It is made available to shareholders in both English and Japanese versions, with additional data available on our website. Shigeki Mori at a press conference NSG Group executive officers present at an analysts meeting NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 39 FURTHER INFORMATION We produce a regular flow of publications intended to provide current and potential investors with as much information as possible about the group, the industries in which we operate and the organization, strategy, targets and progress of the group. Publications Company information Websites The range of these publications is shown (as at 31 March 2015) NSG Group corporate website below. (English) Company name: www.nsg.com Annual Report Nippon Sheet Glass Co., Ltd. In order to obtain a full understanding NSG Group corporate website Unified global brand: of the performance of the Group, this (Japanese) NSG Group document should be consulted. www.nsg.co.jp Head office: To Our Shareholders Commercial website 5-27, Mita 3-Chome, Minato-ku, Published twice a year, in June and (Architectural and Automotive) Tokyo 108-6321 Japan December, designed to keep shareholders www.pilkington.com informed of progress against our strategy. Established: Sustainability contact Editions in both English and Japanese. 22 November 1918 www.nsg.com/en/contact-us The Way we do Business Paid-in capital: ¥116,449 million For information about our GRI index visit Produced for Group employees in all of the Total assets: ¥920,106 million http://www.nsg.com/en/sustainability languages in which the Group operates, /griindex summarizing the main points of the Net sales: ¥626,713 million (consolidated) Group’s Code of Conduct. Employees: 27,371 NSG Group companies: 233 Web: www.nsg.com 40 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 BASIS OF REPORTING OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING This Report forms part of our non-financial Committee to direct, coordinate and performance communications and reflects monitor our efforts to improve our Group, regional and site-level reporting. approach to sustainability. In 2010, the Unless otherwise stated, the Report Board agreed specific sustainability covers those businesses over which the targets for the Group. New targets are NSG Group has management control. Data shown on page 5 of this Report, along with relating to the environmental performance an account of our progress towards them. of Group operations covers 28 float and In 2012, Shiro Kobayashi was appointed as five rolled-glass sites. Joint venture sites the Group’s director of sustainability. Shiro where we do not have operational control chairs the Sustainability Committee, which are excluded. All Architectural, Automotive is leading our efforts to ensure that the and Technical Glass downstream principles of sustainable development are processing are also included in the embedded in all of the Group’s activities. reporting. Safety statistics shown cover We will report further on our progress in our ‘workforce’ (employees and permanent our 2016 Sustainability Report, which will contractors). be published in early 2017. Our environmental and social performance This Sustainability Report has been is of interest to our stakeholders and prepared using the the Global important to our business success and Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability we have been reporting on these matters Reporting Guidelines as a globally since 2002, in successive environmental, recognized framework for reporting social activity or CSR reports. We on an organization’s economic, social published our first Sustainability Report and environmental performance and in 2009, when we decided to widen responsiveness. our reporting to cover all aspects of sustainability. In June 2009, we published our Group Sustainability Policy, setting our For detailed GRI and UNGC index, sustainability agenda, and in December please visit www.nsg.com/ 2009 established a Group Sustainability sustainability NSG Group Sustainability Report 2015 41
