UN Global Compact Communication on Progress for the 2015/16 financial year Dear Readers, In recent years, the Otto Group has invested in the digital transformation of its ongoing activities and in establishing new business models. We focused on our strengths, triggered change processes and gained new momentum. With our initiated “Kulturwandel 4.0”, we encourage a new openness and communication to our customers as well as within our company. In this rapidly changing business environment, we continue to uphold our values and long-term sustainability goals. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact we actively support its principles for responsible business. Respon­ sible and sustainable business practice is deeply embedded within our Group’s organisational structures and is of paramount importance for our success. With our award-winning ‘impACT’ management process we are putting the spotlight on those topics which pose the biggest environmental and social challenges leading our way for positive impact. In the past year we progressed on each of our key indicators of our CR Strategy 2020 – while being aware that considerable effort is still needed to achieve our defined goals. As a globally active retail and services group, many of our existing sustainabilHamburg, August 2016 ity challenges lie in complex supply chains. It is with such complexity that on behalf of the Otto Group Executive Board individual solutions often lack long-term effectiveness. This is why, since 2015, we are actively involved in the multi-stakeholder Partnership for Sustainable Textiles. In various working groups, Otto Group representatives are collaboratively focusing on issues such as social responsibility or the use of chemicals. Hans-Otto Schrader Chairman of the Executive Board and The digital transformation not only leads to a reflection of one’s own values but Chief Executive Officer Otto Group (CEO) opens up new forms of transparency, accountability and collaboration. It is in this regard that we have set the compass for a successful and sustainable future. Progress made by the Otto Group Multichannel Retail segment contributed a activities along the whole value chain. It sidered to be integrated if all its factories in in the implementation of the Ten share of 79.2% to Group sales in the 2015/16 forms the basis of the CR Strategy 2020 comrisk countries which produce goods for the Principles of the UN Global Comfinancial year. The share in sales from the prising five sub-strategies, each with a prioriOtto Group can provide a valid and recogpact in the 2015/16 financial year Financial Services and Services sectors were ty objective to be achieved by 2020: Only nized assessment, certificate or audit result. 5.6% and 15.2% respectively. sustainably produced cotton is to be used in Founded in Germany in 1949, today the the textile assortment of own and licenced To secure the implementation of the CR Otto Group’s companies and approximately Taking responsibility towards people and brands, while under the Furniture Strategy Strategy, the CR Board headed by the Chair50,000 employees are present in over 20 nature has been a guiding principle for the only FSC® -certified wood types will be used. man of the Executive Board was established countries in Europe, North and South America Otto Group in all its business activities since The objective of the Climate Strategy is to in 2012. Since the 2014/15 financial year the and Asia. The business activities of the glob1986. This self-understanding is anchored in halve location, shipment and mobility-relatdegree of achievement of the CR Strategy ally active retail and services group comprise the Group through systematic and data-drived COc emissions, while the Paper Strategy objectives is an integral factor in the calculathe three segments of Multichannel Retail, en sustainability management. This ‘impACT’ aims to increase the share of FSC®-certified tion of Group Executive Board Members’ perServices and Financial Services. In the 2015/16 sustainability management process of the paper in catalogues and advertising materiformance-related bonus. The most imporfinancial year the Otto Group increased its Otto Group is based on a quantitative and als to 50%. The Social Programme targets tant non-financial key figures are also sales by 5.4% compared to the previous year qualitative evaluation of the ecological and the complete integration of all suppliers for published in Otto Group’s Annual Report to reach approximately 12 billion euros. The social impacts of the company’s business own and licenced brands. A supplier is consince the 2013/14 financial year. Principles Systems1 Measures Results2 Human rights and labour standards Principle 1 • O tto Group Vision and Mission • Execution of the modelling and management method impACT • Training of employees active in purchasing Supporting • Code of Conduct (Merchandise, and Services and to capture and evaluate the environmental impacts and social • Supplier-qualification processes for compliance with human rights Non-Merchandising Goods) risks caused by the business activities of the Otto Group along Social Programme standards implemented • Code of Conduct of Hermes Germany the value chain •6  2% of suppliers are integrated in the Social ProgrammeD Principle 2 • A Social Programme for checking compliance with • Active role in the management of the Partnership for Sustain• Approximately 400 factories took part in the Qualification Exclusion of any and improving labour standards and human rights able Textiles as one of four business representatives from the Programme training human rights abuses in factories in risk countries textile industry to be elected to the Steering Committee as • A uniform Group Guideline Sustainability in well as participation in all working groups Procurement • Implementation of qualification measures in factories to achieve compliance with the Code of Conduct • Training to create internal employee awareness for the implementation of the Social Programme 2 Communication on Progress for the 2015/16 financial year Principles Systems1 Measures Results2 Human rights and labour standards Principle 3 • Enlargement of the scope (international Group Companies) for • Transparency regarding production-facility structures and Upholding freedom the roll-out of the Social Programme with the objective of their status, compliance with social standards (Social Proof association integrating all suppliers with production facilities for own and gramme), fire-protection and building safety regulations licenced brands in risk countries (factory audits) and to and active support in the implementation of possible corPrinciple 4 expand qualification measures rective-action plans (Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Elimination of all forms • Implementation of the supply-chain databaseD in order to gain Bangladesh) of forced labour transparency regarding working conditions • 93% of Otto Group employees covered by collective • Continuous supporter of the Accord on Fire and Building bargaining agreements Principle 5 Safety in Bangladesh Abolition of child labour • Member and vice chair of the Steering Committee of the sector initiative Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) Discrimination Principle 6 • Group Agreement to strengthen diversity and protection • Carrying-out of training on the German General Law on • Training of all new employees on the AGG Elimination of against discrimination Equal Treatment (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz, • Workplaces individually equipped for handicapped discrimination • Diversity Charter AGG) employees • In accordance with the German law on equal participa• Group-wide Diversity Controlling • 140 participants at the Diversity Conference tion of men and women in managerial roles, the Otto • Group-wide Diversity Management under the banner of (the majority of whom were female executives) Group has set itself the following goals regarding ‘Diversity first!’ • With a current quota of 20% of women in upper managewomen in leadership to be met by 30 June 2017: The • Holding of the second Otto Group Diversity Conference in ment (previous year 19%) the Otto Group is moving Group’s Supervisory Board is aiming to reach a target 2016 towards its self-defined quota target of 23% for June 30 th, quota of 25% and the Executive Board is aiming to reach • Presentation of a Diversity Award 2017. The goal not to let the share of women in middle a target quota of 28% • Initiative ‘Power of Diversity’ undertaken by female top management fall below a quota of 30% is preserved with • In terms of top-level management, the Group companies managers a current quota of 32% (previous year 32%). have set themselves the objective of achieving a target • Carrying-out of the programme ‘Boost your Career’ to • Three programme cycles of ‘Boost your Career’ completed quota of 23% and aim not to fall below a quota of 30% promote the careers of young female managers since autumn 2013 and two cycles of “Boost Your Netfor the second management tier • Realization of the “Boost Your Network” event to provide a work” event • Code of Conduct for Merchandise, and for Services and platform that allows participants of different “women and Non-Merchandising Goods (for specific measures and leadership” initiatives across the individual Otto Group comresults see the section ‘Human Rights and Labour’) panies to come together • The Social Programme for improving compliance with • Network meetings of female managers labour standards and human rights in risk countries • Project-related integration of former employees in retirement (for specific measures and results see the section ‘Human Rights and Labour’) 3 Communication on Progress for the 2015/16 financial year Principles Systems1 Measures Results2 Environmental protection Principle 7 • Code of Conduct • Execution of the modelling and management method impACT • Overall electrical energy consumption at locations Precautionary • Group Guideline Sustainability in Procurement to capture the environmental impacts and social risks caused reduced in the 2015/16 financial year by 4.5% vs. the environmental • Group Risk and Crisis Management Guideline by the business activities of the Otto Group along the entire previous year to 144,700 MWh protection • CR Board Meetings held three times a year for strategic value chain • AdjustedE COc emissions vs. previous year reduced from planning and further development of the CR Strategy • Shift from air freight to maritime and rail transport in procure225,000 t to 216.000F t Principle 8 • Climate Protection Strategy with the objective of ment, which produce fewer COc emission • Adjusted COc emissions reduced by 28% vs. the benchInitiatives to promote reducing relative COc emissions in the areas of shipping, • Increased energy efficiency at the Group’s own sites and in mark year 2006/07 greater environmental location and mobility by 50% by 2020 goods-distribution transport contributed to the reduction in • Share of sustainable cotton (organic cotton, Cotton made protection • Textile Strategy with the objective of progressively COc emissions in Africa) in the whole textile assortment increased to increasing the share of sustainable cotton in the cotton • Use of cotton produced under the initiative Cotton made 27% (previous year: 11%) Principle 9 assortment of own brands to 100% by 2020 in Africa, which has significantly lower environmental and • Share of FSC®-certified paper used in catalogues increased Diffusion of • Paper Strategy with the objective of increasing the share social impacts than conventional cotton thanks to resourceto 28% (previous year: 18%) environmentally of FSC®-certified paper in catalogues and advertising conscious smallholder cultivation methods and rainwater • Share of FSC-certified wood as a percentage of the friendly technologies materials by 50% by 2020 irrigation total wooden furniture product range increased to 43% • Furniture Strategy with the objective of raising the share • Extension of the scope of the Paper Strategy to include paper (previous year: 33%) of FSC®-certified furniture products to 100% by 2020 used in catalogues printed using the offset process Anti-corruption measures Principle 10 • Code of Conduct • Standard requirement for all employees to take an e-learning • E-learning course passed by all employees on how to Measures to • Group Anti-Corruption Guideline course on handling business gifts handle gifts and other benefits combat corruption • Group Gifts Guideline • The Group Data Protection Officer has been a permanent • All employees of the German Group companies trained • Group Guideline Sustainability in Procurement member of the Compliance Committee since 2010 on anti-trust law • Group Risk and Crisis Management Guideline • Group-wide IT Security Officer network • Embargo measures • Group IT Security Guideline • Global Compliance Management System B For exact data on the Group companies integrated in the sub-strategies of the CR Strategy 2020 see the CR Report 2015, p. 33-35, 41, 48, 53. C Quantitative figures relate to the 2015/16 financial year and unless otherwise indicated refer to the 13 reporting companies: baumarkt direkt, Baur, bonprix, EOS, Frankonia, Heine, Hermes, myToys, OTTO, Schwab, SportScheck, UNITO and Witt. D Scope: see Otto Group Sustainability Report 2015, p. 41, www.ottogroup.com/sustainabilityreport. E COc-emissions are performance-unit adjusted, thus enabling comparison with the benchmark year 2006/07. For details on the adjustment method see the CR Report 2015, p. 48. F Key figures relate to the 2015 calendar year. 4 Communication on Progress for the 2015/16 financial year
