GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS: 2nd Report, 2015 ShiftIN Partners – Consulting Firm Strategy & Innovation from withIN CONFIDENTIAL This report is solely for the use of client organisation’s personnel. No part of it may be circulated, quoted, or reproduced for distribution outside the client organization without prior written approval from ShiftIN Partners Statement of Continuous Support It is our pleasure to confirm, for third year in a row, ShiftIN Partners’ continuous commitment to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication ShiftIN Partners conveys and manuscripts its determination in evolving those principles within its sphere of impact. ShiftIN Partners has embedded Global Compact’s principles within the company’s Strategy, Culture and day to day operations. Furthermore, we have engaged in collaborative projects that advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. ShiftIN Partners has announced to its stakeholders and general public adhering to this commitment statement. In recognition of the key requirement, being part of the Global Compact, ShiftIN Partners submits this second Communication on Progress (COP) illustrating its efforts in implementing the Ten Principals. Moreover, as per our original commitment and according to the Global Compact COP Policy, ShiftIN Partners commits through its culture of public transparency and submits this report on yearly basis. Sincerely, Mr. Amancio Torres CEO, ShiftIN Partners COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 2 1. Our CSR Policy 2. Communication on Progress 2nd Report 3. Our Next Steps COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 3 About ShiftIN Our team accumulates a combined experience of advising +150 organisations across 5 continents • 15+ years experience making strategy and innovation happen • Offices in Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Riyadh, Lisbon • ShiftIN Learning Solutions, our training arm, has trained more than 800 managers across 150+ organisations worldwide • Middle East Partners of Jeroen De Flander, Solucom, and the IXL Chicago, USA Center for Innovation Associated Office Bahrain | China | Egypt | Jordan | Kuwait | KSA | Netherlands | Nigeria | Portugal | Poland | Qatar | UAE | USA | Venezuela | Brazil| Mexico | Haiti | Mozambique | Spain COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 4 Our Values These values are what makes ShiftIN’s professionals the people they are. They unite us and inspire us to go above and beyond... Putting the Client First Creativity Our clients’ challenges are our obsession. We constantly Talent, versatility, and the insights derived from widestrive to do what is best for them. First and foremost, that ranging experience are a given. To that mix of ShiftIN’s means ensuring that they obtain the greatest possible return qualities, we add creativity. Among our professionals, we on their investment. Where appropriate, we demonstrate encourage the free flow of knowledge and ideas, encourage our conviction by linking our compensation to clients’ our people to challenge existing paradigms, and believe in performance. Putting the client first also means having the approaching issues with a fresh perspective and new ideas. flexibility to be able to adapt our direction to our clients’ We believe this fresh approach is what makes us successful changing needs and realities, because a rapidly changing as individuals, and also collectively, as a firm. environment is a great challenge in every business. Fellowship Transparency ShiftIN’s partnership approach imbues every facet of our We prize transparency at all levels, and believe our working environment and working relationships, not only transparency helps us establish a level of trust and with our clients but also internally within our team. We communication with our clients that facilitates problem believe that achievement requires an environment of solving and progress. By pursuing a climate of openness, we cooperation, collaboration, camaraderie and strong personal can more readily get to the root of a problem, address any and professional relationships. All are critical to success, and weaknesses, and correct any mistakes. A problem is only a make work rewarding for everyone. problem if we do not solve it. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 5 Our Stakeholders Our shared values are the basis of our relationships with all our stakeholders… Our Society Business Our Partners Community Our Clients Our Our Employees Environment Our Values Creativity Putting the Client First Fellowship Transparency COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 6 Our CSR Policy Working towards a positive shift for all… Our Clients Our Employees We are committed to ‘Put the Client First’ and provide the best level We offer our employees a unique opportunity to enhance their of service to our clients, with high flexibility, helping them achieve professional development and accelerate their career advancement. better performance which in turn reflects on their communities. They work in a highly challenging, non-hierarchical environment. We We also promote ethical best practices and CSR to our clients, believe in making the most out of their capabilities, and make it a support their initiatives, and engage their stakeholders towards a priority to mentor and guide them all along the way. positive impact whilst creating shared value. Our Partners Business Community At ShiftIN, partnership is our guiding philosophy: it is how we As we are an entrepreneurial company within the business assemble the finest expertise available to deliver optimal solutions. community we also support entrepreneurship as a main block in any And as we forge strategic partnerships and relationships with the country’s economy. We value creativity and innovation and we are foremost experts in specific disciplines, we always base our committed to building capabilities as well as continuously generating partnerships on respect, transparency ensuring ethical practices. and sharing knowledge. Our Society Our Environment We are responsible towards the society we live in, and we are We act responsibly towards our environment, within our facilities committed to contributing to this society and to creating a positive and team. Moreover, we promote environmentally responsible impact, whether through our clients and promoting CSR within their behaviours with our stakeholders and work with others to enhance strategies, always advising on ethical practices, or directly through innovation in sustainability. our own social initiatives and engagements. Our Values Creativity Putting the Client First Fellowship Transparency COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 7 Our CSR Policy Working towards a positive shift for all… Our Clients Our Employees Build Capabilities Our Partners Instil Commitment Business Community Our Society Create Value Our Environment Our Values Creativity Putting the Client First Fellowship Transparency COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 8 1. Our CSR Policy 2. Communication on Progress 2nd Report 3. Our Next Steps COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 9 Human Rights Principles: Our Approach Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ShiftIN Partners’ Approach to P1 & P2: Policies and Goals • To illustrate our utmost commitment and support of the Global Compact principles, ShiftIN’s Code of Conduct clearly states that principles concerned with human rights are major sources of policy making in our company. Therefore, a directive our Code of Conduct clearly states that consultants, contractors and/or suppliers should immediately report any case of human rights violation, internally or at clients’ premises, to their partner-in-charge. And after further investigation, proper action must be taken to rectify and prevent future occurrences of such violations. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 10 Human Rights Principles: Activities (1/2) ShiftIN Partners has taken an active role of building capabilities and empowering NGOs, through offering Pro Bono Consulting and Training Programs… Activities ShiftIN is committed to the development of Education as a basic Human Right; therefore, we have employed our skillsets to assist an organization that specializes on such causes with a 6-month pro bono engagement. We have also took part in the world’s largest volunteer Pro Bono consulting program, offering Pro Bono services to African Consulting Entrepreneurs, allocating a network of 12 consultants, who spend 40 consulting hours each, on providing tailor made advice and solutions. In addition, we have provided coaching services for young Dubai based entrepreneurs as part of our collaboration with in5, the incubation program of TECOM. ShiftIN has been an avid supporter of Human Rights issues and has worked closely with NGO’s and International Organizations in support Pro Bono of its mission to support and care for refugees around the globe. Capabilities ShiftIN has provided the following Organizations with complimentary Building seats on their management courses: UNHCR and Dubai Cares plus multiple entrepreneurs of Dubai. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 11 Human Rights Principles: Activities (2/2) Examples Probono seats in our learning solutions Consulting services for Entrepreneurs in Uganda Trainings for Dubai based entrepreneurs COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 12 Human Rights Principles: Measurements & Results Measures & Results Achieved • Number of consulting hours allocated to Pro Bono engagements: Pro Bono • 480 hours (vs 187 hours in 2014) Consulting • Total in-kind contribution: Measurements • 500,000 AED (vs 275,000 AED in 2014) Pro Bono • Number of training seats allocated pro-bono: 30 (vs 20 in 2014) Capabilities • Number of students trained: 30 (vs 20 in 2014) Building • Number of organizations benefited from training programs: 10 Measurements • Total in-kind contribution: 300,000 AED Other • Total amount of monetary contributions to international organizations: Measurements 10,000 AED (vs 6,000 AED in 2014) COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 13 Labour: Our Approach (1/2) Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ShiftIN Partners’ Approach to P3, P4, P5 & P6 • ShiftIN is determined to avoid any form of benefiting from forced or child labor or any tactic to limit employees’ rights to collective bargaining and freedom of association. Our code of conduct states clearly that our employees’ rights and responsibilities, in the context of their clear and concise employment contracts, and the process they can report any violation of their rights to our management. In addition to that, our Code of Conduct emphasizes that our partners must ensure our suppliers’ and clients’ proper and fair labor practices, and the Code further prohibits them from benefiting from any form of violation of labor rights directly or indirectly. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 14 Labour: Our Approach (2/2) & Activities Description of our processes • ShiftIN Partners is a truly global work environment where more than 12 nationalities co-exist under the same roof, adding important values to our cultural diversity. • All employees are actively encouraged to maximize their potential and develop long term careers within the firm. • In addition, our recruitment policies clearly establish an environment with no discrimination on gender, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, or disability. • In addition, we have implemented a performance based culture, where all employees are assessed based on performance and promotions are given meritoriously. • Finally, we have established an internal academy to develop our own staff. Activities Internal Activities: • Established Performance Management System for all ShiftIN Partners and employees • Established communication and engagement sessions on fortnightly basis Engagement • Established a monthly Academy sessions for internal staff for career development within and External Activities: outside ShiftIN • Continued running volunteering sessions with Adopt-a-camp initiatives to pack gift boxes during Ramadan • Continued sponsoring labor initiatives through crowdfunding such as “Champ of the camp” COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 15 Environment: Our Approach (1/2) Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ShiftIN Partners’ Approach to P7, P8, P9 • We, at ShiftIN, dedicate a serious amount of thought to Environmental factors while we develop and work on clients’ strategies. This is clearly evident in our clients’ direction towards sustainability in general and towards environmental causes specifically. We have helped to developed and create several Sustainability Strategies as well as to support organizations in introducing CSR scorecards. • We have implemented policies that aim to reduce our carbon footprint through promoting car pooling and reduce the daily commuting between Dubai and Abu Dhabi. In addition, we are in the process of selecting an offsetting mechanism that could cover our carbon footprint when it comes to travel. • Further, an aggressive expansion in virtual consulting is stemming from our strategy that highlights sustainability. Virtual consulting entails video conferencing, virtual online classrooms, and publications that minimize travel, which is directly reflected on our carbon footprint. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 16 Environment: Our Approach (2/2) & Measurement Our approach to measuring our environmental impact ShiftIN’s business, like most consulting firms’, is asset-light and travel-intensive. Therefore, our measurements are focused on travel and we believe it is the main factor that we can improve on. The following are carefully watched indicators that, due to the nature of the consulting business, are not expected to decrease with increasing business volume. We have done our carbon inventory based on the following energy consumption of our head office in Abu Dhabi and our serviced offices in Dubai, Riyadh, and Lisbon. The inventory is based on consumption of the following items: electricity of consultants’ electronic devices; business related travel (for both road and air) in terms of domestic, medium, and long-haul; hotel accommodation; and the emissions of the several training courses and other events that we hold at hotels’ premises. Measures & Results Achieved • Total number of miles travelled by road = 15,836 miles travelled • Total number of miles travelled by air = 104,549 miles travelled • Total number of CO2 emissions by road transport = 18.92 metric tons Carbon • Total number of CO2 emissions by air transport = 27.22 metric tons Inventory • Total number of hotel nights: 210 nights • Total number of CO2 emissions by hotel accommodation = 7 metric tons • Total number of CO2 emissions by events = 0.12 metric tons Total number of CO2 emissions by offices = 9 metric tons COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 17 Anti-Corruption: Our Approach Principle 10: Business Should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ShiftIN Partners Approach to P10 • ShiftIN works on this principle in many different dimensions. Clear guidelines of ethics and conduct are contained in our “Code of Conduct”, which establishes the expected behavior of all our employees, contractors and suppliers. • It is the policy of ShiftIN Partners that no employee, representative or agent of the firm shall do business for or on behalf of ShiftIN Partners in any manner that could violate either the UAE law (or such law in any other country where we operate) or our Code of Conduct. • In addition, ShiftIN Partners engages with auditors on annual basis to review that all its financial practices are within international standards. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 18 Anti-Corruption: Measurements & Results Measures & Results Achieved • Number of corruption complaints involving ShiftIN employees: 0 Anti-corruption • Number of minor observations detected by auditors: 0 Measurements • Number of major observations detected by auditors: 0 COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 19 1. Our CSR Policy 2. Communication on Progress 2nd Report 3. Our Next Steps COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 20 Next Steps As a company committed to sustainability and advocating it through our practice, we intend to develop our CSR framework around the following 4 points Formalize our commitment to CSR through evolving our report to 1 the GRI standards. Formalize an internal role of The UN Global Compact Custodian, ensuring ShiftIN Partners’ compliance with The 10 Principles and 2 adherence to its goals and commitments in 2015 and will continue to do so with The UN’s 17 Global Goals. Continuous development of our approach of CSR and sustainability 3 offering to our clients within our framework Developed a strategic framework, Carbon Neutral Initiatives, to offset our annum’s worth of carbon footprint, the purpose of which is to identify and invest in high quality projects throughout 4 the world. We are currently in the scoping and evaluation stage for projects, after which comes the approval and purchase of credits. Sample of insofar identified projects: Kitambar Renewable Biomass Fuel Switch, Lower Zambezi Community Forest, etc. COP report © ShiftIN Partners | 2015 21 www.shiftinpartners.com Abu Dhabi Dubai Riyadh Europe USA abudhabi@shiftinpartners.com dubai@shiftinpartners.com riyadh@shiftinpartners.com europe@shiftinpartners.com usa@shiftinpartners.com T +971 2 656 5866 T +971 4 319 9343 T +966 11 215 4442 T +351 211 212 198 T +1 312 803 0135 P.O. Box 46400 P.O. Box 31303 P.O. Box 19970 Lisbon, Portugal Chicago
