Corporate Social Responsibility Report Communication on Progress 2015 CONTENTS PART I ABOUT TRADECORP Letter of commitment from the CEO.............................................................................................. 4 Description of the company........................................................................................................... 5 Tradecorp............................................................................................................................ 5 Tradecorp: a Sapec Group company................................................................................... 5 Sapec Agro-Business: Crop nutrition and protection.......................................................... 5 Tradecorp’s strategy........................................................................................................... 6 Our catalogue of products.................................................................................................. 8 SCOPE OF THE REPORT PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Scope of the report........................................................................................................................ 11 Our perception of Corporate Social Responsibility........................................................................ 11 Our groups of interest.................................................................................................................... 11 Corporate Social Responsibility actions in 2015 This report includes the actions carried out by Tradecorp in 2015. This report is Corporate Social Responsibility Working Group............................................................................ 12 divided into three parts: Donations to NGO and institutions................................................................................................. 14 Analysis of the company’s diversity indicators............................................................................. 16 Part I includes the letter of renewal of Tradecorp’s commitment presented by the CEO Human Resources Programme and Ghrowing............................................................................... 18 to the Global Compact together with a descriptive profile of the company. Working climate survey...................................................................................................... 19 Occupational risk analysis............................................................................................................. 20 Part II includes a description of Tradecorp’s philosophy regarding Corporate Social “Live Healthy” programme................................................................................................. 20 Responsibility and an in-depth analysis is made of the actions carried out in 2015 in Everyone safe at Tradecorp................................................................................................ 19 relation with the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Classification of products based on hazardousness..................................................................... 22 Safety data sheets......................................................................................................................... 23 Part III measures the results obtained during 2014 using the Global Reporting REACH............................................................................................................................................ 25 Development and sales of products for Organic Agriculture......................................................... 26 Initiative (GRI) indicators, their relation with Global Compact principles and Tradecorp Water use and recycling................................................................................................................ 28 internal indicators. Actions for the optimisation of energy and reduction of emissions.............................................. 30 Waste management....................................................................................................................... 32 Container recycling............................................................................................................. 32 Protection and restoration of habitats........................................................................................... 34 Anti-corruption policy.................................................................................................................... 36 PART III MEASUREMENTS, GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS Letter of commitment from the CEO Description of the company Dear stakeholders, Tradecorp Once again this year we comply with the commitment that we took on when joining the Global Compact and we present our Tradecorp is a Spanish company, which, since it was founded in 1985, has been Communication on Progress 2015, which explains the main actions carried out in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility during developing its activities in the agricultural sector. Thanks to our long history, we have this year. And, once again, as the executive director of Tradecorp, I am pleased to express our interest and our commitment to the gained broad experience in the field of crop nutrition, particularly in the segment of United Nations Global Compact and its 10 principles. We are interested in continuing to renew our commitment year after year and micronutrients and special fertilisers. to progress with the application and enacting of these 10 principles within our area of influence. MISSION: In 2015, Tradecorp celebrated its 30th anniversary. Since its foundation in 1985 in Spain, Tradecorp has focused on the development To be a leading example to both distributors and growers as a producer of innovative of innovative, high quality and efficiency products, as well as offered a professional, personalized and approachable technical speciality products. This is achieved through the commercialisation of high quality, service. Now, sustainability and the corporate social responsibility are completely integrated in the strategy of the company and speciality products and services, which maximize value for its customers, employees they occupy a key place. and shareholders. With regard to Corporate Social Responsibility, 2015 has been a year of transition. At the beginning of 2015, we created a VISION: Corporate Social Responsibility Working Group with members from different countries, and which counted on the support of other To be a quality and professional reference in the micronutrient and speciality fertiliser departments to advise in the most specialized topics. This Working Group analyzed the current situation of the company and global market, achieving excellence in service and increasing added value for our proposed improvements in terms of policies and actions, which are currently in process. customers. In addition, we have started working on a new Code of Conduct that will be presented in 2016. The new document will be more specific because it describes in detail the most usual situations that the Tradecorp team encounters and explains how to proceed Tradecorp: a Sapec group company in each case. We are also working on the implementation of a solid Complaints System in order to prevent and detect any possible crimes and breaches of the Code of Conduct that may take place within the company scope. In the year 2000, Tradecorp integrated into the Sapec group, a company established Thus, following on from the work started in 2015, we trust that 2016 will be a year full of challenges in Corporate Social in 1926 in the chemical and mining sector. Since its foundation, the group has been Responsibility. I am confident that the implementation of these new policies and actions will prove to be a great success for our expanding its activities into various industrial and services sectors within the Iberian performance in the CSR area and we are eager to continue the hard work to keep improving year after year. Peninsula. The incorporation into the Belgian group broadened Tradecorp’s perspective even Yours faithfully, more by combining the enterprising spirit of the group with our know how within the agricultural sector. Today Sapec is an industrial holding company with a large portfolio of activities: Nicolas Lindemann Agro-business: crop nutrition and crop protection Executive Director Industrial chemicals and environment Agro-commodities distribution Logistics Others Sapec Agro-business: Crop nutrition and protection Tradecorp forms part of Sapec Agro-business, the business unit overseeing crop protection and nutrition. Four pillars constitute the basis of the corporate strategy where plant protection and nutrition are concerned: International and highly qualified personnel Priority of R&D, innovation and registrations Distinct, high quality products and services International expansion Service and proximity to the market are key elements of the company’s strategy. The group is present worldwide through subsidiaries, offices, factories and in particular through its experienced personnel adapted to local markets. 04 PART I ABOUT TRADECORP PART I ABOUT TRADECORP 05 Tradecorp’s strategy To comply with our mission and our vision we have developed a work model which is based on 5 different cornerstones to help us become a point of reference regarding quality and professionalism within our sector and to ensure we offer an excellent service. Our team Versatility and technology of our factories One of the main values and one of the most differentiating elements in In our line of continuous technological Tradecorp is its team. improvement, we implement ever more efficient technologies which respect the Consisting of more than 200 environment and which have allowed us professionals from different countries to increase our production capacity. and cultures, the technical and local teams in each area offer farmers and distributors a close, professional and customised service. Our focus on sustainability We are concerned with complying with human and labour rights, with the Our R&D policy conservation of the environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. The development of sustainable and effective products permitting an increase Therefore, among our maximum in yield and quality of harvests is one of priorities is compliance with REACH, we Tradecorp’s priority objectives. respect and promote the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, we Therefore, research and development of are ISO 14001:2004 certified, many of new products has always been one of our main products have been approved Tradecorp’s characteristic features. for Organic Agriculture and we are members of Globalgap. Our continuous work for quality & efficacy We undertake to offer the highest quality in our products and services. To do this, we implemented a Quality & Environmental Management System, certified according to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 by DNV. 06 PART I ABOUT TRADECORP PART I ABOUT TRADECORP 07 Our catalogue of products Our catalogue consists of products of the highest quality with formulas for all kinds of crop and adapted to local agricultural conditions. As a result of our commitment to sustainability, many of these have been approved for Organic Agriculture. Our solutions are grouped in the following ranges: chelates humic bio foliar NPK & special acids stimulants fertilizers starters correctors The most efficient solution Integral improvement Stimulation of the plant’s Differentiated formulas State-of-the-art NPK Innovative solutions to prevent and correct of soil fertility natural processes for foliar application to correct specific problems micronutrient deficiencies Tradecorp’s chelates guarantee Range formulated with an The products in this range Range of differentiated formulas, NPK Innovative and differentiated proper absorption and assimilation optimum balance between humic stimulate the plant’s natural highly concentrated in micro and Range of formulas adapted to the solutions for specific needs such of micronutrients by crops, thus and fulvic acids. It provides a processes to improve the macronutrients. It is developed nutritional requirements of crops as problems: avoiding possible precipitation or complete improvement of soil absorption of nutrients and their to meet specific needs of crops in different stages of development related with salinity and sodicity forming of insoluble products that fertility. effectiveness, favouring the plant’s which influence quality and yield, for any fertigation system or foliar in soils could decrease their effectiveness. tolerance to abiotic stress. such as the protein content, sugar application. pH regulation for the correct Positive effect on its physical level, fruit size, photosynthetic conditioning of spray solutions and Protection of the element from characteristics (structure); Its specific mode of action activity, etc. Sources of high purity irrigation water interactions with other charges chemical characteristics (greater encourages the physiological Exclusive production processes from soil or water availability of nutrients) and processes in plants in critical Foliar application benefits: High solubility Some of our trademarks: Saltrad, Maximum level of chelation biological characteristics (increase periods of crop development, such Foliar is sometimes an Free of chloride and sodium Lower 7, Spray Plus. Micronutrients richness in microbial life) as budding, rooting, flowering or alternative but it is always an ideal Acid pH, Low electrical guaranteed Improved root development maturing. complement conductivity (EC) and low salt Easily assimilated by the plant Greater availability of nutrients Optimize the supply of each index (IS) Greater versatility in application Increased nutrients’ uptake This range includes biostimulants nutrient correcting and preventing Balanced concentration of and compatibility Maximum quality of raw material: based on Gentle Extraction of deficiencies macronutrients, enriched with Greater efficiency and maximum American Leonardite, to mantain seaweeds and/or L-α free amino Ready to use and to spray micro nutrients chelated by EDTA security always the same guaranteed acids enriched with essential Quick penetration into leaves No problems of phytotoxicity, nor contents nutrients. High translocation of nutrients Starters burns or damage Small split specific and special High quality raw materials with Optimum stability in a wide range Some of our trademarks: Some of our trademarks: Delfan application on target organs the highest concentration of of pH Humistar-Humifirst range, range, Aton range, Ruter AA, phosphorus and potassium 100% Easy to use: soluble Humical, Turbo Root. Boramin Ca, Phylgreen range. Some of our trademarks: Final available for crops microgranules (WG) K-Fainal K, Folur, Tradebor, Application at sowing or Rapid and instantaneous Calitech, Magnitech, Twintech transplanting solubility in any kind of water Zn+Mn, Phostrade range, Trafos Phosphorus: to boost root growth without forming lumps or range. improving the potential final yield sediments Potassium: to increase resistance Possibility of developing and to water and cold stress and to manufacturing custom made enhance plant strength solutions Some of our trademarks: Some of our trademarks: Nutricomplex range, Pumma Ultraferro, Tradecorp range and range, Turbo Seed Zn, Seed Sprint. Tradecorp AZ range. 08 PART I ABOUT TRADECORP PART I ABOUT TRADECORP 09 Scope of the report This report includes the main actions carried out during the year 2015, with special emphasis on the actions carried out from headquarters and factories. In the latter, we have paid special attention to environmental issues. The actions in the following part are identified with the principle and area of the Global Compact they represent. The following symbols are used to identify the area in the principles of the Global Compact: Human Rights Labor Rights The Environment Anti-corruption Our perception of Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility in Tradecorp can be seen in all we do and in the day to day running of the company and it is an essential part of the company’s strategy. We comply with the laws of the countries where we operate, together with international norms such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Human and Labour Rights established by the International Labour Organisation. Furthermore, we analyse and carry out actions that allow us to improve the safety and quality of life within the company, and we comply with our commitments to the communities where we operate and with society as a whole. The establishment of a Code of Conduct has likewise allowed us to organise and regulate our ethical principles, converting them into obligatory standards within the company. Our groups of interest In order to select Tradecorp’s groups of interest, we have chosen those groups where the company’s activity has the greatest repercussions. The following groups of interest have been defined: Suppliers and partners Employees Clients Society in general 10 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Working Group APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: All Diagnosis Over recent years we identified the need for better coordination between the head office and regions of Tradecorp in various aspects, so as to optimise efforts and costs on different projects. Within the Corporate Marketing area, the Corporate Marketing Committee has been set up, with representatives from each Tradecorp region. This group has identified the need to address Corporate Social Responsibility with greater coordination, and has so decided to set up a global working group for the international management of Corporate Social Responsibility. Policy This group is governed by the policies already defined at the company, the Roadbook, Code of Conduct and other policies within the field of Corporate Social Responsibility applied at Tradecorp. Actions The creation of the Corporate Social Responsibility working group represents a debate forum to discuss policies and actions within the context of Corporate Social Responsibility, which will subsequently be referred to the Marketing Committee and to the CEO for approval. The working group includes representatives of different offices, with extensive experience in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility. For individual actions or projects, the group also draws on the collaboration of guest members, either completely external to Tradecorp, or from other departments. These guest members are experts providing the group with consultancy regarding more specialised matters. The creation of this group has allowed for the development of CSR actions included within this progress report. New needs and opportunities have likewise been detected in the Corporate Social Responsibility area, and work has begun to address these new actions and policies. The group’s activities likewise include the coordination of CSR actions of the global level. Monitoring In 2015, two meetings of the Marketing Committee were held, along with periodic meetings of the new Corporate Social Responsibility working group. 12 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 Donations to NGO and institutions APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 1, 2, 4, 5 & 6 In 2015, Tradecorp continued to support the educational project undertaken by the Kanchay charity in Bolivia. The organisation works to provide the children of farmers in the Altiplano uplands with access to comprehensive education. Through its donation, Tradecorp will be supporting the university studies of 8 youngsters from the Altiplano region. Diagnosis For the third year running, Tradecorp is staging its Operation Kilo, inviting the team to donate non-perishable foodstuffs to be handed over to Cáritas, the official confederation of charitable and social initiative entities of the Catholic Church in Spain. For Corporate Social Responsibility ties in with Tradecorp’s corporate strategy, and so is linked to all the actions we undertake. every kilogram donated by the team, Tradecorp undertakes to donate another, so as to double the aid received. Thanks to this We comply with the laws of the countries where we are present, in addition to such international standards as the Universal initiative, in 2015 Cáritas received 1528 kg of food to be distributed among needy families. Declaration of Human Rights and the Employment Rights established by the International Labour Organization. In 2015 it was decided to invest less in the New Year greeting, and instead to stage a campaign with a cause linked to a donation to We likewise aim to extend this responsibility within our sphere of influence, and so have developed actions involving suppliers and UNICEF. To mark the 30th anniversary of Tradecorp, representing our growth in the marketplace, we decided to help underprivileged the community at large. children to grow. This was the concept behind a campaign with the slogan “Tradecorp wants to help less fortunate children grow”. For each individual registering Tradecorp donates €2 which will allow integral treatment for severe malnutrition for 2 children for 1 day. In addition, Tradecorp donated a fixed amount of €1,000. The campaign, comprising an e-mailing, landing page and Policy announcement on the corporate websites, is rolled out in 6 languages: Spanish, English, French, Italian, Portuguese and Arabic. Donations to charities and institutions are based on the values conveyed in our Code of Conduct. Monitoring Actions €3,000 donation to CANICA (Support Centre for Children with Cancer), a Mexican organisation providing comprehensive support for children and young people with cancer and offering advice to their families. In addition to our internal actions to respect the principles of the Global Compact, we have developed initiatives allowing us to €4,000 donation to the Kanchay charity to sponsor an educational project in Bolivia. publicise these principles among our suppliers, along with initiatives addressing the community to which we belong. Tradecorp Donation of 1,528 kg of non-perishable foodstuffs to Cáritas, distributed as follows: has in this regard chosen to support institutions that safeguard human rights and employment rights. Cáritas, Nuestra Señora de las Angustias Parish, Albacete: 300 kg, 150 kg donated by the team and 150 kg donated by Tradecorp. Each year Tradecorp stages the Tradecorp Fitness Challenge, motivating the team to exercise and stay healthy. The Tradecorp Cáritas, El Salvador de Arévalo Parish: 988 kg, 494 kg donated by the team and 494 kg donated by Tradecorp. Fitness Challenge is also linked to a charitable purpose, since for every kilometre that the participants cover, Tradecorp donates €1 Cáritas, Santa María Josefa del Corazón de Jesús Parish, Vallecas (Madrid): 240 kg, 120 kg donated by the team and 120 to the charity or institution chosen by the members of the winning team. In 2015 the donation amounted to €3000, allocated to the kg donated by Tradecorp. Mexican non-profit civil association CANICA (Support Centre for Children with Cancer), an organisation that provides comprehensive €1,000 donation to UNICEF, within the context of the New Year campaign entitled “Tradecorp wants to help less fortunate children support for children and young people with cancer, and offers advice to their families. grow”. The donation corresponding to the number of people registering for the campaign will be made in 2016. 14 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 Analysis of the company’s diversity indicators APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 6 Diagnosis In the processes of selecting its personnel, Tradecorp employs objective criteria, such as training and experience. Nonetheless, in According to gender According to age order to ensure our compliance with Principle 6 of the Global Compact, each year we analyse the company’s diversity indicators. 84% Males 0% employees under the age of 30 Asia Pacific 16% Females 84% employees aged 30-50 Policy 16% employees above the age of 50 This initiative is based on Principle 6 of the Global Compact, and on the policy established in our Code of Conduct, which clearly states that “discrimination will not be tolerated under any circumstances, whether based on race, gender, religion, creed, national origin, age, sexual orientation, physical or mental disability, family situation, political opinion or any other aspect that could entail According to gender According to age discrimination”. 72% Males 14% employees under the age of 30 South-East Europe 28% Females 72% employees aged 30-50 Actions 14% employees above the age of 50 Our study of diversity indicators analyses two factors: gender and age. According to gender According to age Monitoring 68% Males 14% employees under the age of 30 Brazil We analysed the entire workforce of Tradecorp, considering all its global offices and factories. 32% Females 78% employees aged 30-50 8% employees above the age of 50 According to gender According to age According to gender According to age 78% Males 10% employees under the age of 30 80% Males 0% employees under the age of 30 Global result Europe, Sub22% Females 79% employees aged 30-50 Saharan Africa 20% Females 77%employees aged 30-50 11% employees above the age of 50 23% employees above the age of 50 According to gender According to age According to gender According to age 93% Males 7% employees under the age of 30 69% Males 19% employees under the age of 30 Middle East and Mexico North Africa 7% Females 93% employees aged 30-50 31% Females 76% entre 30-50 años 0% employees above the age of 50 5% employees above the age of 50 According to gender According to age 72% Males 20% employees under the age of 30 Spain 28% Females 68% employees aged 30-50 12% employees above the age of 50 16 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 17 Human Resources Programme and Ghrowing APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 3, 4, 5 & 6 Diagnosis Tradecorp is a company committed to respect for human and employment rights. The Human Resources programme launched workplace. In 2014 the knowledge generated during 2012 and 2013 was expressed in Ghrowing, a programme helping to breathe by Tradecorp goes beyond respect for these rights, aiming to understand the working environment in the workplace and how the life into our corporate values, promoting a results-focused culture and a style of management focused on personal development. people belonging to the team feel, and to implement personalised programmes allowing each individual to develop professionally. The system provides us with the tools to evaluate both qualitative performance and quantitative objectives, allowing us to establish clear communication as to the goals and objectives established for the whole organisation. Policy The Ghrowing programme was consolidated in 2015, with the participants beginning to work on the different phases of the These actions are based on the Tradecorp employment policy, as laid down in the Code of Conduct and in the Roadbook. programme so as to achieve the objectives set. Actions Monitoring The programme aims better to understand the company’s human resources, providing an insight into strengths and weaknesses, The number of participants in the Ghrowing programme was maintained in 2015 (75 people) in Colombia, Mexico, Spain, Italy motivations and expectations at work, allowing this knowledge to be interlinked with the strategic objectives of the company, by and ESA (Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa) region. The programme is advancing in the different phases established, with an initial fostering the professional development of every individual at Tradecorp. review being performed in 2015 as to the progress towards the objectives set in early 2015. The HR programme was launched in 2012 with a series of personal interviews. It continued in 2013 with the planning of interviews along with the launch of a new project, the “Performance Management Programme”, developing a model to analyse the performance of each individual at work in a qualitative and quantitative manner, promoting professional development in the More good practices 91% feel that their boss or a colleague in their area takes an interest in them Working climate survey individually 91% know that their opinion is Continuing the work begun in 2014, in important addition to the Ghrowing programme, Tradecorp Mexico performed a quick survey to evaluate the working climate at the company. The survey involved 100% of the Tradecorp Mexico team, the key results being as follows: 93% of employees know what is expected of them in their work 93% believe that the company offers them the equipment and material they need to perform their work 93% trust in the leadership in place at the company 18 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 Occupational risk analysis APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 4 Monitoring Diagnosis This study covered 100% of employees at our production plants in Albacete and Sanchidrián in Spain. The study covered only employees at the factories, as the tasks they perform entail a greater risk of occupational accident. In line with our Code of Conduct, safety at work is a priority for Tradecorp. Constant work is therefore undertaken to evaluate occupational risks at our factories, in order to reduce risk, and ultimately the possibility of accident and injury. The figures registered for 2015 were: -Minor accidents: 7.7% -Major accidents: 1.4% Policy This figure reveals the evolution of risks compared with previous years: Safety at work is established in the Tradecorp Code of Conduct, which indicates that Tradecorp “guarantees respect for human 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 rights and places a particular emphasis on the working conditions of its employees and the inherent health and safety conditions Minor accidents (%) 16.3 5.8 8.94 4.8 7.7 of their professional activity”. Major accidents (%) 2.9 0 2.44 0 1.4 Actions A study into occupational accidents was conducted in 2015, analysing in detail those occupational accidents that occurred during the year. The aspects of each accident analysed included whether the accident was serious or minor, the reasons behind the accident, and other data of interest in order to reduce occupational accidents. With the aim of reducing occupational accidents, employee training initiatives were staged during 2015, focusing on occupational risks at the Sanchidrián and Albacete factories in Spain. More good practices “Live Healthy” Programme The programme also includes fortnightly responsibility for a vehicle. visits by a nutritional specialist, providing Training delivered to 100% of workers In 2015, Tradecorp, Mexico launched the the team with access to nutritional advice with responsibility for a vehicle: “Live Healthy” programme, comprising at an affordable cost. “Defensive Driving”. three different sections focused on looking after our health: Active Breaks: This comprises a series of exercises and stretches taking just a Prevenimss: This initiative brings the brief moment, to reduce physical and IMSS (Mexican Social Security Institute) mental fatigue by caring for workers’ programme to the premises of Tradecorp health and well-being. Mexico. The programme comprises a health check-up for the team, including vaccinations, weight and triglyceride Everyone Safe at Tradecorp checks, and general education about sexual and dental health. The initiative The main aim of this programme is to involved 87% of the team. raise awareness as to the importance of road safety. This covers various actions: Learning to feed my body: The aim of this initiative is to educate the team Road safety education campaign, sent through nutritional and psychological out to 100% of the team. talks and workshops connected with Development of a responsible driving the impact of dietary habits on health. policy, signed by 100% of the team with 20 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 Classification of products based on hazardousness Safety data sheets APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 1, 8 APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 1, 8 Diagnosis Diagnosis Product information is no longer simply based on recommendations for usage, efficacy or composition. Today, product safety Safety data Sheets (SDS) have become one of the most dynamic and significant documents in terms of compliance with the chemical information has acquired vital importance. safety standards in force worldwide. The SDS is a true reflection of the level of commitment by companies to environmental and occupational safety laws. In order to standardise criteria as to the hazardousness of chemical products, in 2002 the United Nations set up the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. Implementation of the GHS in all member states of the Following on the work begun with product hazardousness classification, Tradecorp, complying with its commitment to transparency, United Nations is being performed over various phases. embarked on a project to develop safety data sheets for its entire product portfolio, and not only those required by law. Policy Policy The Tradecorp Code of Conduct establishes our commitment to comply with all regulations and laws governing chemical products This action is based on the guidelines set out in the company’s Code of Conduct, establishing an undertaking to work towards safe that apply in the different countries. In this same document, Tradecorp declares its commitment to work with clients, suppliers and and efficient usage of products, and to provide effective and transparent notification of any possible risks associated with their colleagues to foster safe and efficient use of its products. We likewise undertake to provide effective and transparent notification usage. of any possible risks associated with the use of our products. Actions Actions To ensure that all products marketed by Tradecorp are used safely, both at work and in environmental terms, as with the “Product Various actions have been undertaken for product classification at Tradecorp: hazardousness classification” initiative, this action is also being performed in two stages: Analysis of the inventory of available products and their composition so as to verify in the European databases whether the An initial stage analysing the entire Tradecorp product portfolio and developing the SDS for all products in the catalogue. substances in the products have any established hazardousness. In those cases where it is not possible to establish hazardousness A continuation stage in which, the SDS generation is included within the new product development procedure, so that we can by means of the standard process, a specific study is undertaken in order to perform the relevant evaluations. guarantee that all the products in Tradecorp catalogue have the corresponding safety data sheet in place. So as to ensure the hazardousness analysis of all products, this process is also included within the development procedure for new products. Monitoring So as to ensure that information on the hazardousness of our products is kept up-to-date, a review of the databases is also undertaken periodically. At present all products marketed by Tradecorp, including hazardous and non-hazardous products, have their corresponding safety data sheets. Monitoring Meanwhile, a series of actions undertaken continuously serve to keep this information up to date: The incorporation of the analysis and SDS development within the new products procedure guarantees that all products launched Following the analysis of the inventory and the incorporation of the process within our new product development procedure, all in the future will have their SDS. products launched on the market by Tradecorp have now their hazardousness analysis completed in accordance with the CLP So as to guarantee the accuracy of the information, continuous monitoring is conducted of the applicable laws regarding safety regulation. Meanwhile, in order to keep the information updated, reviews of the European scientific databases are periodically data sheets. conducted. In addition to adaptation of the SDS to those markets where we have a presence, we are working on the generation of versions in different languages for those new markets we are breaking into. Tradecorp has also begun work on the next step, by studying other legislations within the common GHS framework, so as to adapt information on product hazardousness to destination countries. The implementation of this second stage is planned for 2016. 22 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 REACH APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 1, 8 Diagnosis The REACH regulation governs the usage of chemical products in Europe, with the aim of guaranteeing a high level of human health and environmental protection. The presentation of registration dossiers is the main REACH implementation task, for which 3 milestone dates have been established: 2010, 2013 and 2018. Those products affected by this Regulation and which have not been duly registered may no longer be manufactured or marketed in Europe. Policy The Tradecorp Code of Conduct establishes our commitment to comply with all regulations and laws applicable in the different countries. Meanwhile, as signatories to the Global Compact, we are committed to performing actions to support environmental protection. As a result, compliance with REACH is one of Tradecorp’s main priorities. Actions Work connected with REACH at Tradecorp has been conducted in various stages: In 2008 an analysis was performed of the entire Tradecorp product portfolio, so as to define which products would be affected by REACH. This information and the number of tonnes manufactured served to define the date of registration for each product affected. In 2010 those affected products manufactured in quantities greater than 1,000 tonnes per year were registered. In 2013, registration was then performed of products manufactured in quantities of more than 100 tonnes per year. We are now working towards compliance with the 2018 deadline, when all products marketed in volumes of more than 1 tonne per year must be registered. Monitoring Following successful compliance with the 2010 and 2013 deadlines, we are currently working on compliance with the next deadline, set for 2018, along with the registrations that occasionally arise through new products of which we market more than 100 tonnes per year. 24 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 Development and sales of products for Organic Agriculture APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 7, 8 & 9 usage in Organic Agriculture. So as to ensure that our products are suitable for organic agriculture not only globally but also locally, the number of organizations we work with and which have approved our products for organic agriculture is increasing year by year. Diagnosis In 2015, many of our main products were authorised for organic agriculture by Ecocert Ibérica, which performed a technical verification of our products, a complete audit of our production plants and a comprehensive and in situ analysis of our production Given our commitment to protecting the environment and the sustainable use of natural resources, Tradecorp works on the processes. development and manufacture of products that comply with our quality and efficacy criteria, but which are also environmentally friendly. We also have organic products registered in accordance with local legislation in Italy and Korea, and have obtained approval for Organic Agriculture products issued by such other entities as the OMRI (Organic Materials Review Institute) and Australian Certified As a result, the formulation and development of products suitable for Organic Agriculture represents an important part of our work, Organic. resulting in a high percentage of sales of our products suitable for Organic Agriculture. Policy Monitoring In 2015, Ecocert authorised: This initiative corresponds to the guidelines laid down in our Code of Conduct and is consistent with the principles of the Global 95 of our brands for use in Organic Agriculture, complying with European standards Compact connected with environmental protection. -19 of our brands for use in Organic Agriculture, complying with NOP standards -38 of our brands for use in Organic Agriculture, complying with European and NOP standards Actions The importance of our portfolio of products for Organic Agriculture can also be seen in our sales. In 2015, 53.41% of our sales corresponded to brands authorised for Organic Agriculture. In 2006, Tradecorp began to work to achieve approval of products suitable for organic agriculture by recognised entities. This recognition would provide farmers with the additional guarantee that the products they use comply with the requirements for 26 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 Water use and recycling APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 7 & 9 Actions Diagnosis In 2015, we began to see the results of the new treatment system installed during 2014. This new treatment system entails a series of benefits: Analysis of consumption, reuse and recycling of water is of vital importance for Tradecorp, when analysing our impact on the It guarantees that water discharges are fully clean and treated, and free of manufacturing waste. environment. Due to the nature of our activity, the highest water consumption occurs at our factories, where we work to optimise The concentrate resulting from the treatment process is used as fertiliser, exploiting its agricultural value and eliminating waste. the use of this natural resource and guarantee that discharges of water are not harmful to the environment. The new system also gives us the capacity to adapt to future expansions in production, regardless of the products manufactured. In addition to the above benefits, in 2015 we likewise began to note a considerable reduction in water consumption and discharges, Policy figures that may be observed in the “Monitoring” section. This action is performed in accordance with our Code of Conduct, our Environmental Management System, certified under ISO 14001:2004, and the principles related to environmental protection in the Global Compact. Monitoring Water consumption 2013 Factory in Albacete 2014 -25% compared to 2014 2015 -38% compared to 2013 Water spills 2013 Factory in Albacete 2014 -41% compared to 2014 2015 -56% compared to 2013 2013 2015 Water optimization % of water use Factory in Albacete % of water % of water used in processes used in processes % of water % of water used in products used in products 28 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 Actions for the optimisation of energy and reduction of emissions APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 7 Energy optimisation actions at the Albacete factory: The new cooling system for the reactors installed at the Albacete factory allows us to optimise product manufacturing times, thus Diagnosis being more efficient in energy consumption. The detailed analysis of our manufacturing processes showed an area for improvement with regard to the efficiency of the Each year, Tradecorp performs periodic internal studies and audits connected with energy optimisation and emissions reduction. manufacturing process of some of our products. Process improvements in the Albacete drying tower allow us to optimise gas The conclusions drawn from these studies allow us to implement constant improvements which help to protect the environment. consumption. Policy Monitoring The actions described in this section are in line with our ISO 14001:2004 certification and the environmental principles set out in The initiatives undertaken during 2014 and 2015 have served to reduce energy consumption levels at both factories. There has our Code of Conduct. nonetheless been an increase in electricity consumption at the Albacete factory, due to the increase in the production of certain formulations. Actions Electricity consumption Natural gas consumption In order to optimise energy use, we conduct energy audits of our production plants. On the basis of the conclusions drawn from these studies, various initiatives have been undertaken to allow us to reduce our energy use and emissions. Factory in Sanchidrián -2.5% -6% Decrease of electricity consumption Decrease of natural gas consumption by kg manufactured by kg manufactured Energy optimisation initiatives at the Sanchidrián factory: An aspiration machine was installed in 2015, to reduce diffuse emissions. This new system absorbs the emissions and applies +5% -35% Factory in Albacete Increase of electricity consumption Decrease of natural gas consumption appropriate waste management to them. by kg/L manufactured by kg/L manufactured Renewal of the sleeve filter chimney to avoid accidental emissions. In 2015 the cooling system at Sanchidrián was optimised to increase the capacity for EDDHA synthesis, while optimising energy consumption. This investment allows us to increase our output of EDDHA by around 10%, while scarcely increasing energy consumption. Also, the improvements in the drying cycle management have allowed us to process larger product batches, minimising changeovers and reducing energy consumption. 30 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 Waste management APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 7 Diagnosis Monitoring Thanks to the conclusions drawn from the various internal studies and audits we conduct each year, we can improve control and In 2015, we began to calculate figures for the manufacturing waste being reused: management of the waste generated at our production plants. Identification of different areas for improvement has allowed us to 18,040 kg of waste generated in the synthesis of EDDHA, reused as fuel. reduce the waste we generate at both factories, and provide a new use to concentrates that were previously managed as waste. 1,100 tonnes of waste from the Albacete treatment facility reused as fertiliser. Regarding the waste management figures, the following were processed in 2015: Policy 105,772 kg of hazardous waste, including the 18,040 kg of waste generated in EDDHA synthesis, which, although it is reused as fuel, requires appropriate management. Likewise included are products that have been reclassified from non-hazardous to The control and management of waste is undertaken in accordance with our ISO 14001:2004 certification, and is aligned with our hazardous. Code of Conduct. 209,550 kg of non-hazardous waste. Approximately €134,000 were invested in proper waste management. Actions For proper management of the waste generated at our production plants, we work with outside companies specialising in the treatment of this type of waste. Management of 2014 hazardous waste 2015 The analyses performed in previous years have allowed us to: Utilise the waste generated in EDDHA synthesis as fuel for an external plant, designed to work with this type of hazardous waste. This initiative gives a new use to what was previously a large volume and high environmental impact waste. Following the installation of the new treatment facility, the concentrate resulting from treatment can be used as fertiliser on farms Management of 2014 close to the Albacete factory. non-hazardous waste 2015 More good practices Container recycling European countries, including Germany encourages and provides education in (Pamira), France (Adivalor) and Belgium the practice and culture of the technique To facilitate recycling, the boxes (Agrirecover). of triple washing, collecting, compacting containing our solid products, and also and sending empty product containers our shipment cases, are 100% recyclable, The labelling of our products in these to their final destination, to protect crops as indicated on our packaging. countries includes the logo of the and related aspects. recycling programme to which we have They also indicate the percentage of signed up, so as to facilitate recycling of recycled fibres used to produce the box. packaging by end consumers. Tradecorp has likewise signed up In Mexico, Tradecorp is involved in to recycling programmes in various the Campo Limpio association, which 32 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 Protection and restoration of habitats APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 8 Diagnosis Although Tradecorp aims to maintain a preventive focus to support the environment, it is likewise committed to initiatives helping to protect and restore habitats that have been damaged in the past, and to raise environmental awareness. Policy This action is aligned with our Code of Conduct. Actions In August, the Tradecorp Mexico team, in collaboration with partners, friends, relatives and local residents at the Huentitán Nature Park, undertook the initiative “Transforming a Space 2015”. Through this project nearly 200 participants worked together to restore the park, reforesting 110 trees and 150 ornamental plants, while also restoring and painting 36 areas of the recreational section of the park. The participants likewise attended an urban garden workshop. Monitoring The reforestation undertaken in Mexico involved 192 people, including the team of Tradecorp Mexico, partners, friends, relatives and local residents at the Huentitán Nature Park. The initiative concluded with the planting of 110 trees and 150 ornamental plants, with an investment of 43,000 MXN. During December, the Reforesta charity provided us with data on the survival of the trees planted in the Sierra de Guadarrama in Madrid, Spain, in 2012 and 2013. 51.6% of the trees have survived. 34 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 Anti-corruption policy APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 10 Has there been in your region or department any legal action resulting from behaviour in violation of competition laws and/or monopolistic practices? In which country or countries? Diagnosis Total amount Although Tradecorp performs periodic independent audits and complies with anti-corruption laws and standards, a project is Has your region or department had any fine or non-monetary penalty imposed as a result of a breach of laws and regulations? undertaken each year to involve internal managers in the company’s anti-corruption policy. In which country or countries? Monetary value of significant fines Policy Number of non-monetary penalties This initiative is performed in accordance with our commitment to the Global Compact and our Code of Conduct. Monitoring Actions The form was completed and returned by all the Area Managers, Department Directors and the Executive Director. In order to commit internal audiences to anti-corruption, a form was devised to be signed by Area Managers, Department Directors and the Executive Director, asking them three questions about anti-corruption initiatives: In 2015: There were no contributions in money or in kind to political parties, politicians or related institutions. Have you in your region or department made any contribution in money and/or in kind to political parties, politicians or related We were subject to no legal action as a result of behaviour in violation of competition laws and/or monopolistic practices. institutions? We received no significant fines or non-monetary penalties as a result of a breach of laws or regulations. In which country or countries? Total value of the contribution in money and/or in kind 36 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 Global Compact principles related to Global Reporting Initiative indicators, Tradecorp indicators and measurement of outcomes GLOBAL TRADECORP MEASUREMENT GLOBAL TRADECORP MEASUREMENT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE COMPACT TRADECORP INTERNAL INDICATOR COMPACT TRADECORP INTERNAL INDICATOR INDICATOR INDICATOR PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE 2014 2015 2014 2015 Rate of minor accidents in the factories EN28 Monetary value of significant fines for nonLA7 4.8% 7.7% 0 0 (no. of accidents/100 employees/year) Monetary value of significant fines compliance with environmental laws and regulations Rates of injury, occupational diseases, and total number of non-monetary 8 lost days, and absenteeism, and total 1 Non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance sanctions for non compliance with 0 0 number of work-related fatalities, by Rate of major accidents in the factories with environmental laws and regulations 0% 1.4% environmental laws and regulations. region and by gender. (no. of accidents/100 employees/year) € invested in habitats protection 1,950€ 2,196€ % of men in the company 72% 78% € invested in the correct management of hazardous (total of employees in the company 60,000€ 102,000€ waste % of women in the company LA13 28% 22% € invested in the correct management of non (total of employees in the company) 30,000€ 32,000€ Composition of governance bodies and EN30 hazardous waste 7,8 breakdown of employees per employee % of employees under 30 Total environmental protection 1, 6 14% 10% € invested in the optimization of natural resources 90,000€ 20,000€ category according to gender, age (total of employees in the company) expenditures and investments by type. group, minority group membership, and € invested in control of spills 400,000€ 10,000€ % of employees between 30 and 50 other indicators of diversity. 72% 79% € invested in control and decrease of emissions 20,000€ 34,000€ (total of employees in the company % of employees over 50 € invested in controlling noise pollution 1,500€ 3,000€ 13% 11% (total of employees in the company) SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to EN6 S*: 3.411 kg/kwh S*: 3.731 kg/kwh contributions to political 10 political parties, politicians, and related institutions 0 0 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or Electric energy kg/kwh y l/kwh A*: 21.4 L-kg/kwh A*: 23.4 L-kg/kwh parties, politicians, and related by country renewable energy based products and institutions by country. 8, 9 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these S*: 0.263 kg/kwh S*: 0.81 kg/kwh SO7 Natural gas kg/kwh y l/kwh Total number of legal actions for Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive initiatives. A*: 0.141 kg/kwh A*: 0.221 kg/kwh anticompetitive behavior, 10 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their 0 0 Sanchidrián: 100% Sanchidrián: 100% anti-trust, and monopoly practices and outcomes EN10 % of water that is reused their outcomes. Albacete: 25% Albacete: 25% Percentage and total volume of water 8, 9 SO7 Monetary value of significant fines for recycled and reused. % of water that is recycled Albacete: 100% Albacete: 100% Monetary value of significant fines 0 0 non-compliance with laws and regulations and total No. of reforested trees 80 110 10 number of non-monetary sanctions for Total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN13 0 0 8 No. of people involved in the restoration or non-compliance non-compliance with laws and regulations Protected or restored habitats. 111 192 protection of habitats with laws and regulations. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse 8 CO2 emissions in kg S*: 14.153.430,5 S*: 5,366,669 gas emissions by weight. A*: 557.483,14 A*: 756,900 EN18 No. of iniciatives to reduce greenhouse gas Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 8, 9 3 2 emissions emissions and reductions achieved. EN23 Total number and volume of significant 8 Total number of significant spills 0 0 spills. Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for 14 19 Organic Agriculture under NOP standards Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for EN26 67 95 Organic Agriculture under European standards Initiatives to mitigate environmental 7, 8, 9 Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. for Organic Agriculture under European and NOP 50 38 standards % of total sales that are sales of brands approved for 54.63% 53.41% Organic Agriculture S*: Factory in Sanchidrián, Ávila (Spain) A*: Fsctory in Albacete (Spain) 38 PART III MEASUREMENTS, GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS PART III MEASUREMENTS, GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS 39 I-14-04-16-V1 TRADE CORPORATION INTERNATIONAL S.A.U. C/ Alcalá, 498. 2ª Planta 28027 Madrid (Spain) Tel.: +34 913273200 Fax: +34 913047172 www.tradecorp.com.es
