149.0 Sustainability Report 2015 Company Profile Aurubis is one of the world’s leading integrated copper groups and the biggest copper recycler in the world, with production facilities in Europe and the US, as well as an extensive service and sales network in Europe, Asia and North America. It has larger production sites in Germany, Belgium and Bulgaria. On September 30, 2015, the Group employed 6,321 people (previous year: 6,359), of whom 56 % worked in the German plants and 44 % worked abroad. Aurubis shares are part of the Prime Standard segment of the Deutsche Börse stock exchange and are also listed in the MDAX and the Global Challenges Index (GCX). o T 01 in accordance with IFRS 2014/15 2013/14 Economy Revenues € million 10,995 11,241 EBT € million 170 58 Operating EBT 1) € million 343 137 Consolidated net income € million 134 44 Operating consolidated net income € million 257 99 Net cash flow € million 365 401 Operating ROCE 1) in % 18.7 8.5 Capital expenditure € million 112 128 of which for environmental protection 2) € million 34.4 51.6 R&D expenses € million 11 10 Environment Total energy usage in TWh 3.793 3.651 CO2 emissions (direct and indirect within the Group) million t 1.9 1.9 in MWh/t copper Specific energy consumption 2) ­output 1.9 1.9 Specific CO2 emissions from fuels 2) t/t copper ­output 0.20 0.20 Specific SO2 emissions in primary copper production 2) kg/t copper ­output 4.7 5.6 Specific dust emissions 2) g/t copper ­output 55 52 Metal emissions in bodies of water 2) g/t copper ­output 1.3 1.8 People Total employees Number 6,321 6,359 Women Number 754 749 Men Number 5,567 5,610 Total apprentices in Germany Number 274 269 Apprenticeship ratio in Germany in % 7.8 7.7 Average period of employment in years 13 16 Labor turnover rate in % 5.9 7.3 4) Injury rate LTIFR LTIFR 3) 6.3 7.8 1) Corporate control parameters. 2) In copper production in the Aurubis Group, calculated by calendar year. 3) LTIFR – injuries causing an employee to miss at least one full shift. 4) Mainly due to the closure of the Finspång facility. Business Model In our business model, the divisions of copper production it one of the top producers in the world. The ­copper cathodes and copper processing are very closely linked, resulting in high are used for manufacturing other copper ­products but can also ­potential for efficiency and flexibility when managing the be sold directly. With regard to further processing, Aurubis has ­procurement of raw materials, production and sales, as well as manufacturing capacities for continuous cast copper wire rod, a strong market focus. shapes, rolled products, strip, specialty wire and profiles made from copper and copper alloys. A broad raw material base enables us to make use of market opportunities and to hedge against supply risks. On the one Other elements found in copper raw materials are processed hand, we use copper concentrates derived from ore from all into additional products, in particular precious metals, sulfuric over the world. On the other hand, Aurubis processes large acid and iron silicate. amounts of intermediates, copper scrap and other metal-­bearing recycling materials. The product range primarily covers standard Aurubis’ customers include companies in the copper and specialist products made from copper and copper alloys. semis industry, the electrical and electronics sector and the chemical industry, as well as suppliers in renewable energies, Our core product is the copper cathode, the product format ­construction and the automotive business. The Aurubis Group used for copper trading on the international metal exchanges. is managed ­centrally from the corporate and administrative Aurubis produces around 1.1 million t of these every year, making headquarters in Hamburg. Group Structure The organizational structure of the Aurubis Group is based on continuous cast copper wire rod, shapes, rolled products its business model. In fiscal year 2014/15, its activities, which and specialty products. were previously grouped into three operative business units (BUs) were grouped into two: Primary Copper and Copper In organizational terms, the product business is divided into Products. the business lines (BLs) Rod and Shapes, Flat Rolled Products, Bars and Profiles and Marketing Cathodes. The primary BU Primary Copper largely comprises the ­production facilities ­production facilities are located in Hamburg, Stolberg and for processing copper concentrates and the production of ­Emmerich (­ Germany), Olen (Belgium), Zutphen (Netherlands), copper cathodes in Hamburg and Pirdop. In a­ ddition, there is Pori (Finland), Avellino (Italy) and Buffalo (USA). Service also a new centralized precious metals area for the Group in ­centers in the UK, ­Slovakia and Italy, as well as a global sales Hamburg. network, round off our service profile. BU Copper Products includes the Lünen recycling facility and Group-wide functions support the operative business units. the Olen production facility. This meant the organization of The newly established Supply Chain Management team is the recycling business took a step towards a stronger focus on tasked with group-wide raw material management and the customer business. In addition, the company also manufacsale of sulfuric acid and other specialty products. tures and sells products from the copper product families of Executive Board Corporate Functions Business Units Primary Copper Copper Products »» Procuring and processing copper concentrates »» Procuring and processing recycling raw materials »» Producing exchange-traded copper cathodes »» Producing and marketing exchange-traded copper cathodes »» Producing and marketing sulfuric acid, precious metals and »» Producing and marketing wire rod, shapes, pre-rolled strip, specialty products rolled products and specialty products Supply Chain Management Sustainability as an Integral Aspect of Our Corporate Strategy Our strategy predominantly focuses on generating the highest value In all our activities, sustainability plays a crucial role. This is why we from various, increasingly complex raw materials by drawing on the treat the environment and its limited natural resources with care. Group’s expertise in smelting, refining, metal recovery, recycling and We also adopt a responsible approach to our employees, suppliers, processing. We want to continue to expand on our market leadership ­customers and neighbors. The same goes for the areas surrounding as an integrated copper manufacturer and create added value for our our plants in order to keep any potential negative effects of our suppliers and customers. ­business on the environment, staff and society as minimal as ­possible. Our strategy is based on the metal copper, which is key to our Our Sustainability Strategy establishes the major areas of activity ­success, and on expanding the recovery of additional metals by for the coming years. Based on this, we have developed targets and ­extending the raw material base and broadening production ­action plans for individual areas of activity. We make our sustainable ­expertise. We want to better understand the requirements of our development both quantifiable and evaluable. Aurubis’ strategy has customers and suppliers and to develop new solutions. We will been proven over time and we will continue to pursue it. ­expand the activities in the value chain and work together more closely on this, both ­internally and externally. Business Model / Business Development / Group Structure / Sustainability Aurubis AG – Creating the Future for 150 Years 2015: Hamburg facility for the extraction of 2011: Takeover of rolled products precious metals from anode slimes goes into business from Luvata, USA – the first operation production facility outside of Europe 2009: Name changed to Aurubis – comprising the Latin words for gold, “aurum”, and red, “rubrum” – “red gold” 2008: Takeover of the Belgian company Cumerio – the start of our international strategy. Inauguration of the new ­tankhouse in Pirdop 2002: Launch of the Kayser Recycling System (KRS) – we become the biggest copper recycler in the world 1999: We become majority shareholder < of Hüttenwerken Kayser in Lünen 1998: Listed on the stock exchange 1989: Completion and commissioning of the copper tankhouse at Werk Ost 1985: Launch of a major modernization 1979: Development of the energy-saving and environmental protection program ­Contimelt process to use blister copper, to secure the company’s future ­copper scrap and spent anodes for the ­production of copper anodes 1936: Commissioning of the reverberatory­ ­furnace for the processing of copper ­ 1876: Major breakthrough in technical development concentrates and the construction of the with Emil Wohlwill’s innovation – the launch of world’s first sulfuric acid plant ­electrolytic copper recovery 1866: Founding of Norddeutsche Affinerie as a stock corporation on April 28 1 149.0 Copper is the constant in our business. It doesn’t lose quality and can be reused nearly an infinite number of times. All the other aspects of our business, however, are always changing: We receive raw materials and recycling materials in varying qualities. Production technologies are constantly updated. Prices on the copper exchange fluctuate. Technical progress opens up new options for using copper all the time. We don’t just react to these shifts; we address them actively with ongoing development and, from time to time, with a fundamental upgrade. In year 149 of the company’s history, we’re working on Version 149.0. It corres­ ponds to the demands of changing markets and redefines our relationships with suppliers and customers. It offers a comprehensive network in the expanded Group and targets improved operational and production processes with perfectly optimized technologies and organizational structures. It reinforces the principle of sustainability across all areas of business within the Group. ­Furthermore, it focuses on personal development and the changing profiles of employment, as well as the way that staff view their roles. The development of the upgrade 149.0 has made significant progress but has so far only been tested in part. This report provides more information about what Aurubis is striving for with Version 149.0 and which features are already in use. Table of Contents 2 Foreword 25 Performance Report 6 Magazine 26 Sustainability Management 6 Economy 38 Product Responsibility 12 Environment 46 Industrial Environmental Protection 18 People 58 Human Resources 68 Social Commitment 71 About This Report 73 GRI G4 Content Index 78 List of Graphics 78 List of Tables U3 Imprint Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 2 Foreword Erwin Faust (Executive Board Spokesman) Dr. Stefan Boel (Executive Board Member) Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Foreword 3 Aurubis is celebrating a milestone anniversary in 2016. Founded in 1866, the Group is a major player in the global copper industry with its 150-year history. Based on its Hamburg roots, Aurubis has a solid, international foundation across broad swathes of the copper value chain and a continual openness to new opportunities and the changes they entail thanks to its integrated business model. We are part of the companies we work with: Aurubis is an appealing employer and makes a significant contribution towards tailoring the copper supply to demand in Europe and beyond. It’s no secret: The recovery and use of non-ferrous metals are the principal requirement for technological advancement and thus higher standards of living – around the world. It is important for us to conduct our business with responsibility – in the economic setting, when dealing with the environment and resources, and with respect to our employees. All of this makes us part of the social fabric. Our company has grown significantly over the past decade. We’ve expanded and have become bigger and more global – resulting in a continued increase in our sustainable business practices. We are happy to face this challenge, and a sustainable approach and practices are integral elements of our corporate strategy. At the same time, we are aware that the various aspects of sustainability can sometimes have a direct impact on our employees and their work, as they can on the relationship with our business partners, the environment and resources. We know that cutting-edge technologies are the fundamental requirement for an effective, sustainable approach to environmental protection. By continually investing in our facilities – and we have invested around € 530 million since 2000 in environmental protection for our copper production business – we have assumed a leading position worldwide when it comes to the environment. And we’re proud of it. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 4 Foreword As an element of innovative technologies, our copper makes a significant contribution towards the energy revolution and towards i­mproving people’s carbon footprint in their everyday lives. Without copper, the ­energy revolution would not be possible. And that’s not all: We also take a leading position internationally when it comes to energy efficiency, too. We’re not ready to rest on our laurels when it comes to energy efficiency, the efficient use of ­resources and reducing CO2 emissions. Doing this, however, will require further regulatory conditions that will guarantee companies engaged in international competition long-term planning and investment security. For Aurubis, the efficient use of resources is a key topic. We want to make even better use of those things that are available to us. This means, for e­ xample, getting even more out of increasingly complex raw materials. Our new Supply Chain Management (SCM) division, which was founded in 2015 by uniting the purchasing departments for primary raw materials, recycling materials and production planning, is making a contribution towards improving the management of the supply chain. The team is tasked with group-wide raw material ­management and the sale of sulfuric acid, as well as other specialty products such as iron silicate. A fundamental test instrument for sustainable standards within our supply chain is the Business Partner Screening process carried out by our Group, which we use to check the credentials of all of our suppliers. With our multi-metal recycling, we can ensure that the recovered material cycle for copper and other metals can be closed. It is becoming increasingly important to recycle products after the end of their lifecycle. Valuable raw materials can be used again, resources protected and the environmental impact minimized. Here, too, Aurubis has created a new function: Customer Recycling Solutions combines the sale of our copper products with the procurement of recycling raw materials – turning customers into suppliers. The perfect example of a circular economy. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Foreword 5 Our Sustainability Report 2015, like the years before it, is based on the inter­ nationally recognized standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and also serves as a progress report for the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Aurubis has been part of the Global Compact since the end of 2014 and supports its ­principles. This report documents the measures and activities we implement in order to live up to our requirements for responsible business practices, and how we are driving sustainability forward in the fields of labor practices, human rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. As part of society ourselves, we see our dialogue with society as very important. We want to exchange opinions and gauge the expectations placed on us so that we can better understand the dialogue and be better understood. We engage in particularly intensive discussions at visitor days, shareholder meetings, capital market conferences, with suppliers and at customer meetings, or in dialogue with NGOs, representatives of civil society, associations, policymakers, unions and other multipliers. The new C ­ orporate Communications and External Affairs Department, formed in 2015, is responsible for enabling us to live up to our corporate sustainability credentials and communicating them appropriately. In fall 2015, as part of a materiality ­analysis, we asked 29 stakeholders whose opinions were very important to us whether the sustainability topics identified by Aurubis were really relevant to us and to society. We would also like to invite you to enter into a dialogue with us, to find out more online anytime at www.aurubis.com and to contact us if you have any inquiries or comments. Sincerely, Erwin Faust Dr. Stefan Boel Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 6 Economy | Responsibility within the Supply Chain ECONOMY Our expertise when it comes to smelting, refining and recycling, and the ­responsible and trusting cooperation with our business partners and stakeholder groups are the basis for our company’s success – and we want to boost this success over the long term. Our process and product innovations, along with our responsible corporate management style, help us to achieve this. Responsibility within the Supply Chain The ten principles of the Global Compact ACTING SUSTAINABLY: Human Rights WE SUPPORT FROM START TO FINISH 1. B usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. B usinesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Recently, Aurubis has increased its commitment to adhering to 3. B usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. major guidelines for sustainable business from international 4. B usinesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced ­organizations. This includes the OECD’s Due Diligence Guidance. and compulsory labor. 5. B usinesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. These guidelines outline a responsible, global supply chain 6. B usinesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in management system for the processing of conflict-free raw respect of employment and occupation. ­materials. Environment 7. B usinesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. The core labor practices of the International Labor Organization 8. B usinesses should undertake initiatives to promote from 1998 are also a major focus for Aurubis. They help to greater environmental responsibility. 9. B usinesses should encourage the development and ­guarantee dignified working conditions and safety at work around diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. the world. The standards comprise various conventions dealing Anti-Corruption with forced labor, equal pay, discrimination in the workplace and 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. child labor, for example. And Aurubis has been committed to the United Nations’ Global Compact since 2014. This calls on companies to do business in line One example of the Group’s Global with the ten principles of social and environmental responsibility. ­Compact commitment: Aurubis Bulgaria also belongs to the local Bulgarian network (Global Compact Network Bulgaria) and is thus committed to working in compliance with the ten principles. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Responsibility within the Supply Chain | Economy 7 Business Partner Screening: Another Test Instrument for Sustainable Standards The careful selection of its suppliers has always been a defining Business Partner Screening: Risk Assessment Method characteristic of Aurubis. This process has been supported through­ out the Group since 2015 with the Business Partner Screening method, which ­analyzes business partners’ integrity with regard to Recording the basic data social and environmental aspects in an even more structured ­manner. In practice, this is done with specially ­configured software. Automatic risk assessment The software evaluates financial, m ­ anagement, legal and sustain­ No risk Risk ability-based risks, among other aspects. It automatically generates a risk profile that indicates if there is a necessity for further Data collector in the relevant research. department Certified Conflict-Free Gold Recording detailed data Recording questions on sustainability We had initial experience with the ­Business Partner Screening process in 2013 in the field of precious metals. C ­ hecking sources Automatic risk assessment of precious metal-bearing and particularly gold-bearing raw mate­ rials resulted in the fact that Aurubis now does not use any raw Vote Vote materials containing conflict gold. The early adoption of the screening program was due to the Gold S­ upply Policy imple­ mented in the same year. This guideline reflects the requirements Compliance Sustainability of the Gold Guidance of the London Bullion Market Association, or LBMA, and is based on the OECD’s Due Diligence Guidance with regard to conflict minerals, as well as the standards of the UN Global Compact. It’s a path that has really paid off: Aurubis’ Vote/decision gold production has been c­ ertified as conflict-free according to LBMA standards since December 2013. Department/management Aurubis also monitors the suppliers of its gold-­ bearing raw materials. Jürgen Schachler, future CEO New Company Management Starting Summer 2016 On July 1, 2016, Jürgen Schachler will start in his function as Executive Board Chairman. He is aware of the significance of sustainable activities, due in large part to his professional path: He studied economics and began his career in the ­chemical industry, including at Solvey & Cie, before he ­switched to the steel group ArcelorMittal in 1993. His career took him to a number of countries, such as the US, Mexico, Thailand, Germany and Canada, where he managed and ­sustainably a­ ligned different group companies. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 8 Economy | Responsibility within the Supply Chain QUESTIONS & ANSWERS Four Questions for Christophe Koenig, Senior Vice President Supply Chain Management: How high is the proportion of contracts with primary raw material suppliers that contain clauses on human rights? Since 2013, new supplier contracts, which are generally valid for many years, have all included THE NEW SUPPLY CHAIN relevant clauses on the topic. A good 75 % of our contracts now contain such clauses. MANAGEMENT DIVISION Are the mines that supply Aurubis with copper concentrate audited for compliance with human rights and environmental standards? Successful, sustainable business requires two perspectives: an overview of the Yes, this is done by our raw material procure­ ­bigger picture and a focus on the details. Since 2015, the new Supply Chain ment team on the one hand. They are in ­Management division, or SCM, has been responsible for constant contact with suppliers and conduct 2015 regular visits to the mines. On the other hand, this at Aurubis. It is the result of uniting the purchasing we also systematically investigate our suppliers departments for primary raw materials, recycling via our Business Partner Screening method. ­materials and production planning. After reducing the SCM was created in 2015 Are contracts terminated if infractions for optimized management. number of interfaces, the SCM aims to optimize the are discovered? ­supply chain and processing within the Group – from We’re in a difficult situation here because we purchasing the copper concentrates and recycling would not have any way to apply pressure on ­materials from mines and industry, the sale of precious metals, by-metals and the mining companies if infractions occurred. You would think that a company of our size by-products such as sulfuric acid and slag, to production planning for the entire could at least apply financial pressure, i.e. Group. with the threat of no longer using them as a subcontractor. But this is not the case because it is very easy for the mining groups to sell the Most of the hundred employees working in this field are distributed between concentrate to other buyers. The only tool we four locations in three countries: Hamburg, Lünen, Pirdop and Olen. In addition, can use is our power of persuasion – and we do. there are sales staff based in Hanau, Istanbul, Buffalo, Singapore and Shanghai. The What does transparency mean in the ­individual departments in the new division are managed centrally and report Aurubis supply chain? directly to the Chairman of the Executive Board. For us, transparency means ensuring that the sustainability and transparency obligations In addition to increased transparency, the SCM team can also better manage the are maintained on all sides upon arranging a contract and for the duration of the supply chain. This applies in particular to costs, revenues and processing times. business relationship. This includes addressing We do this to the benefit of Aurubis customers so that we can offer them tailored and remedying differing points of view or solutions in an increasingly complex market. shortcomings, provided they fall under our scope of influence. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Local Responsibility | Economy 9 Local Responsibility VISITING PERU AND CHILE Aurubis is in constant “ Aurubis requires around contact with its sub­ 2.3 million t of copper concontracted mining centrate every year for its companies. As part of smelting ­facilities in Pirdop this, regular mine visits and Hamburg. Providing 19 % of this, Peru is a major supplier and a particular are conducted, such as focus when it comes to the potential for companies the one in September to influence the supply chain.” 2015, where a team Kirsten Kück, Sustainability Manager from Aurubis visited the Toromocho mine in Peru. The Toromocho mine extracts 1 million t of copper concentrate every year. Around 2,500 Aurubis in the German/Peruvian Dialogue people work in the mine itself, with others based around Because the dialogue with local politicians and associations the region. is helpful, staff from the Group took part in the 2015 German/Peruvian Raw Materials Forum in Arequipa. Representatives from politics, business, research institutes and education discussed various topics, including “Transparency as a Key to the Success of Mining Projects”. In this context, transparency primarily means demanding clarity about the long-term impact of a mining project, focusing on environmental issues such as emissions and water quality, but also social aspects, such as the creation of jobs by the mines, education and training for the staff and the local population. The upshot was the realization that Aurubis’ exemplary and proven path based on dialogue with the communities around the mines is just as essential On the other hand, an entire town is to be relocated to to the Group as its high environmental standards. make way for the mine. Around 900 families have accepted the offer of moving to the newly established town of Nueva Aurubis in the German/Chilean Dialogue Morococha. However, about 10 % of the original inhabitants Additionally, in order to expand the dialogue with have chosen to stay in the old settlement. As with other major stakeholders of the company, institutions, the new kindergarten and community center discuss current development and to in Nueva Morococha are available for use by the staff from present Aurubis as a responsible surrounding mining companies. The citizens of the city partner for the mining and smelting will be responsible for its independent administration, will sector in South America, employees TOROMOCHO MINE be educated in various professions and receive additional from the Group accompanied the PERU training. There are five churches, restaurants, a hotel, a delegation under Hannelore Kraft, clinic, a police station and agricultural areas. The concept Minister-President of the State of of responsibility and dialogue preferred by Aurubis appears North Rhine-Westphalia, on her journey to have worked well, for the most part. Visits such as these as part of the German/Chilean Business SANTIAGO help to give Aurubis as objective a viewpoint as possible of Forum. DE CHILE CHILE the situation in the supplying country and to remedy any issues. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 10 Economy | Valuable Dialogue Valuable Dialogue EXCHANGING IDEAS, INSIGHTS AND SHARED GOALS The public is more aware now than ever before as to whether a company engages in responsible business practices. In order to better understand this angle and explain our own position, Aurubis exchanges ideas with numerous advocacy groups such as customers and suppliers, as well as representatives from the worlds of ­politics, the capital market and media. One good example of this is the series of talks with various non-governmental organizations (NGOs) initiated by Aurubis in 2014. The conversation partners, including the member of the Aurubis Executive Board responsible for sustainability, employee representatives and the Sustainability Management Department, all learned from one another. On the Eight stakeholder groups are of particular relevance one hand, the NGOs have plenty of “ Transparency underpins our aim to for Aurubis: suppliers, environmental and social expertise, successfully manage Aurubis as a customers, employees, ­society, the media, for example, with regard to the company that lives by its sustainabili­science, the ­capital ­situation in emerging economies, or ty credentials and communicates this ­market, and NGOs. (G4–24) the supply chain management of stance appropriately. This includes other industries. On the other hand, the diverse aspects of our supply Aurubis representatives are able to chains, our strategy with regard present the company’s own Sustain­ to the environment, resources, the ability Strategy, the complex ­corporate and market structure and people at the heart of our daily work the opportunities for the Group to influence the industry. Both sides benefited at Aurubis and our partners. Transgreatly from the discussion. One thing that Aurubis took from the discussion was parency helps us both in terms of that it needed to further intensify local dialogue near the mines. Other mutual our business and our sustainability goals were identified, too, such as the procedure for dealing with criminal exports targets. Transparent communication in the scrap sector. makes this possible – for customers, suppliers, investors, the people living M  ore on the topic of the near our facilities and, last but not Performance Report on page 30 least, for us – the people at Aurubis.” Ulf Bauer, Vice President Corporate Dialogue on the Aurubis Communications and External Affairs Sustainability Day – for a circular economy and against illegal waste transports Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project | Economy 11 Aurubis was named Best Newcomer 2015. Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project 2015 BEST NEWCOMER IN GERMANY: AURUBIS “ This award is proof of our innovative ­prowess and also gives us the impetus to Since 2000, product-based CO2 Aurubis took part in the survey by the investor keep up the pace when it comes to the ­topics emissions have been reduced initiative known as the Carbon Disclosure Project of minimizing CO2 emissions, ­boosting 36% in 2015. The CDP, which asks companies about energy efficiency and the efficient use of risks and opportunities with regard to the by environment as well as the potential for reducing resources. However, to do this, the relevant CO2 emissions, is of increasing importance to regulatory framework must be created in customers, suppliers and investors. the future to guarantee companies engaged in international competition ­long-term CDP named Aurubis the Best Newcomer in Germany in 2015. This excellent ­planning and investment security.” result was largely due to the Aurubis Sustainability Strategy and the transparent Ulf Gehrckens, Senior Vice President presentation of how the company deals with the opportunities and risks Corporate Energy and Climate Affairs presented by climate change. The award comprises the copper products that contribute to boosting efficiency of applications, as well as the effective production processes, the energy management strategy and investments in Helping the Climate for 13 Years: boosting energy and CO2 efficiency. the Carbon Disclosure Project Over 800 major investors are involved in the Despite the elation at the award, the Group is aware that further significant CDP around the world, some of whom are progress in terms of CO2 reductions will become harder and harder to achieve. The also key players for Aurubis. Together, these reason for this is simple: With the increasing number of energy efficiency measures investors manage assets amounting to around implemented, the number of opportunities for making further optimizations will US$ 95 trillion. decrease. Even today, Aurubis is constrained by the limits resulting from its processes in terms of boosting efficiency and there is already a conflict between The CDP was founded in London in 2002 and the two aims of increasing energy efficiency and making progress in protecting assesses companies and organizations listed resources. A growing proportion of electricity consumption is now accounted for on stock exchanges around the world as a nonby measures to protect the environment. This goes for the 30 % energy reduction profit organization. Data on CO2 emissions, in the production and primary processing of copper, for example. At the same time, climate risks and reduction targets and the amount of complex recycling raw materials with comparatively low copper strategies are collected by way of a very content, whose use requires a higher specific energy consumption than standard complex survey. In recent years, the CDP has scrap metal, is increasing. And in order to make better use of renewable energies, a expanded its activities and now also collects volatile production process is desirable, but this tends to reduce energy efficiency. data on water usage, the protection of forests In summary, it can be said that much has been achieved and yet much still remains and woodlands and on the management of to be done when it comes to reducing CO2 emissions. environmental risks in the supply chain. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 12 Environment | Closing the Loop ENVIRONMENT The efficient use of resources, recycling, energy, water and air – these are the environmental topics of particular relevance to Aurubis. And even if our environmental production standards are already very high, the Group wants to keep improving on this with higher efficiency and lower emissions. Closing the Loop A ONE-STOP SHOP FOR CLOSED-LOOP RECYCLING There are many ways of protecting valuable resources. As an production waste and by-products resulting from production expert in multi-metal recycling, Aurubis closes the recovered along the entire copper value chain. This may include material cycle for copper and other metals. In other words, materials with a very high copper content, such as Millberry you could also say that Aurubis makes its customers into scrap, which can be used again immediately in copper suppliers with its “closing the loop” approach. The goal is for production. However, materials from high-copper and at least five more customers to introduce this closed cycle precious metal-bearing stamping waste to alloyed scrap, slag system for recovered materials by 2018. Partnerships of this from foundries and other industrial waste can all also be kind are already in existence – for example, with Grillo Werke reintegrated into the recovered material cycle. AG and Deutsche Telekom AG. The focus of interest includes Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Closing the Loop | Environment 13 CLOSING THE LOOP – THE RECYCLING SYSTEM OF THE FUTURE Production A multi-stage purification process is used to create top-quality marketable cathode copper from copper scrap and metal-­ bearing manufacturing by-products. This cathode copper is then used to manufacture various copper products. Recycling Application Metals are accrued during processing and at the end of a … from cathodes and semifinished products to the product life that can all be reintegrated into the recovered ­finished product. Copper is used in countless ways – material cycle as a result of their excellent recyclability ­especially when it comes to conducting electricity and and the processing technology available. This is where heat. It is also characterized by its corrosion resistance Aurubis offers customized solutions … and e­ xcellent ability to form alloys. From electronic scrap to industrial by-products, environmentally friendly and energy-saving recycling from Aurubis makes a contribution towards ensuring sustainability. At Aurubis, recycling takes place The use of ever more complex raw using various methods depending on materials, the increasing amount the composition of the raw materials. of metal recovered, particularly for This enables the cost-efficient and by-metals, as well as the flexible environmentally friendly processing use of raw materials, all define the of a particularly broad range of strategy behind Aurubis’ multi“We invest in innovative procedures and materials in a material-specific way. metal recycling approach and unites state-of-the-art facilities for our multi-metal In addition to copper, precious resource and energy efficiency. recycling. In this way, we make an important metals, nickel, tin, lead and zinc are contribution to conserving natural resources also recovered as by-products. beyond our core expertise in copper ­recycling.” Dr. Thomas Bünger, ­C hief Representative for Primary Copper 29 28 30 46 47 50 78 79 82 Cu Ni Zn Pd Ag Sn Pt Au Pb Copper Nickel Zinc Paladium Silver Tin Platinum Gold Lead Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 14 Environment | Closing the Loop A MUTUAL Cl F Cd S GIVE AND TAKE Br Fe KR S oxide Zn The Aurubis recycling center in Lünen is home to the Kayser Zinc sulfa te 50 Recycling System (KRS), which produces converter copper as 29 Sn 82 well as a complex, zinc-bearing residue. Our long-term partner Cu Pb for this so-called KRS oxide is Grillo Werke AG, which guaran­ tees environmentally sound recycling and produces zinc sulfate from the KRS oxide. The zinc sulfate is used in the fiber, feed and fertilizer industries. Other elements are separated at Grillo and disposed of appropriately. Aurubis takes back the resulting residue, which contains copper, tin and lead, thus closing the Aurubis and Grillo’s partnership recovered material cycle. shares state-of-the-art technology for a traceable, seamless recovered material cycle. OLD CABLES AS A RESOURCE: OUR PARTNERSHIP WITH DEUTSCHE TELEKOM In addition to the raw materials recovered in production, the close cooperation with our customers enables the logical recycling of products that have served their purpose. Copper granules The long partnership between Deutsche ­recovered from cable Telekom AG and Aurubis’ subsidiary CABLO waste by Aurubis’ ­subsidiary Cablo Metall-Recycling und Handel GmbH is testament to this. Aurubis receives old cables with a copper content of around 50 % as waste from one of Deutsche Telekom’s partners, TEQPORT Services GmbH, and processes them using green, expert methods. Following the preparation – i.e. the separation of the products with a high finish quality that are very dimensionally stable, such as copper core from the plastic parts – the bases for road traffic signs. components are then processed into highpurity copper granules and marketable Both Aurubis itself and Deutsche Telekom have very high standards of cable plastics. The copper granules are used by recycling. In 2014 alone, over 8,000 t of copper cable were removed from the Aurubis to make copper products such as ground in Germany and approximately 4,400 t of copper and 750 t of lead continuous cast copper wire rod, which is used were recovered from it. To ensure green disposal, only certified disposal experts to make new cables, for example, thus closing such as Aurubis are commissioned with dismantling and recycling the cable. the copper material cycle. The plastics are Compliance with high environmental standards is audited throughout the entire processed using injection molding to make process. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Environmental Footprint for Products and Organizations | Improving Water Quality | Environment 15 Environmental Footprint for Products and Organizations METHODICALLY MEASURING ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINTS What characterizes a product or company that is referred to as environmen­ tally friendly? Lifecycle analyses and ecological assessments deal with this very question. To answer it, there is a whole range of methods and approaches available, and a broad variety of environmental certifications to testify to the results. With the development of the environmental footprint, the EU Commission wants to create a consistent method for calculating the environmental performance of products and organizations throughout “ It’s important to us to make Europe, assess them and facilitate comparisons. The method was presented in 2013 and can be divided into two areas requiring different approaches: the the environmental perforenvironmental footprint for products (Product Environmental Footprint, PEF) mance of Aurubis and its and the environmental footprint for organizations (Organisational Environ­ mental Footprint, OEF). In order to make the results of the analyses compara­ products measurable in order ble, products are divided into categories and organizations into industries. to discover potential for ­improvements and to highAurubis is active in both areas. Aurubis took part in the OEF pilot phase with the “Copper Production” project, which is coordinated by the research center light our environmentally of the EU Commission (Joint Research Center, JRC). For the PEF pilot phase, friendly copper production Aurubis­worked together with the overarching European organization Euro­ metaux, the European Copper Institute and other companies from the process. That’s why we are non-ferrous metals and steel industries on the project entitled “Sheet Metal involved in the environmenfor Various Applications”. The aim now is to test and develop the method in tal footprint projects. We are order to determine the environmental footprint. The testing and develop­ ment phase will continue until the end of 2016 and also comprises various ­actively shaping the process ways of communicating the results to stakeholders. This aims to highlight and contributing our experhow ­information can be communicated in a clear and understandable way tise to the development and for the user. implementation – all to the benefit of the environment.” Dr. Karin Hinrichs-Petersen, Head of Group Environmental Protection Improving Water Quality PIRDOP PUTS WATER TREATMENT FACILITY INTO OPERATION The new water treatment plant, which went into operation in November 2014, will further minimize emissions into the water at our Bulgarian facility in ­Pirdop. With a capacity of 250 m3/h and several catch basins, rainwater and runoff water from the 4 km² facility will be treated and the water quality thus further improved. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 » 16 Environment | New Electronic Equipment Directive Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE Directive) A PIONEER IN THE MATERIAL CYCLE » A Look to the Future: The EU has commissioned CENELEC (European Committee for Electrotechnical ­Standardization) with translating the EERA standard into an EU norm from the ISO 50625 series. This means we can The EU’s WEEE Directive for Electrical and Electronic expect that the entire processing chain – from electrical Waste aims to counter the increasing amounts of and electronic waste to the collection, initial treatment, electronic waste in a responsible way. The processes preparation, and final processing – will have to fulfill an involved are varied – from measures to prevent the illegal EU-wide quality standard. Aurubis Lünen has already proven export of electronic waste and keeping raw materials in the this processing quality by acquiring the certification. material cycle, to developing treatment standards for copper and precious metal-bearing secondary raw materials, and research projects looking at metal recovery. Under the auspices of the European Electronics Recyclers New ElektroG German Electronic Waste Directive Association and Eurometaux, therefore, there has arisen a voluntary standard for the treatment or processing of ELECTRONIC DEVICES precious metal-bearing WEEE components such as printed circuit boards. This WEEE End Processor Standard aims to MUST BE DISPOSED OF ensure global competition for the recycling of electronic IN AN ENVIRONMEN­ waste using state-of-the art technology. TALLY FRIENDLY WAY – Aurubis and three other companies signed up to the FOR EXAMPLE, BY standard in September 2014. This means that the Group has agreed to implement all of the requirements at its AURUBIS facilities processing electronic waste and to have this process audited by an independent auditor. The European WEEE Directive has been picked up by the German In its Sustainability Strategy, Aurubis also gave itself the government, which has now adapted the German ElektroG aim of becoming audited and certified according to the Electronic Waste Directive to reflect it. As a specialist in ­ WEEE End Processor Standard by 2016 – but had already multi-metal recycling, Aurubis is well prepared to take on the achieved this target in 2015. This means that Aurubis is responsible processing of electronic waste. making a major contribution towards the circular economy and towards The new law, which entered into force on October 24, 2015, aims establishing to reduce the amount of electronic products ending up in internationally household waste. In addition to the manufacturers, the import approved and export business, as well as retailers of electrical and recycling and electronic products, are also responsible for the entire lifecycle disposal of electronic products. The consumers are also obliged to dispose processes. of their old electrical and electronic goods separately from the rest of the household waste. Returning such items has been made easier: The devices can either be handed in at local collection points for free or consumers can make use of the manufacturer’s or retailer’s return system for electrical and electronic products. Retailers can then have the old devices recycled via recycling specialists such as Aurubis, the manufacturer or public recycling companies – a major contribution towards improving the circular economy. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Energy Efficiency Award | Environment 17 Energy Efficiency Award SETTING AN EXAMPLE: AWARD FOR THE LÜNEN FACILITY The efficient use of energy is an environmental and economic imperative for Aurubis. One of the innovative projects for boosting efficiency at the Lünen facility is its highly efficient, flexible electricity generation system. The basis for this is the waste heat resulting from the smelting processes at the recycling plant, which is used to create steam. To be able to make best use of 14 % the steam, a t­ wo-stage condensing turbine system was installed. The plant, which was designed specifically to meet Aurubis’ requirements, and is characterized by its highly innovative design, is in a position to be able to track the of Aurubis’ electricity requirements are generated irregular waste heat/steam profile from production flexibly from waste heat at the and fully automatically as a result of the intelligent company’s Lünen plant. measurement and control systems. In doing so, the waste heat from production is converted into electricity, while the residual heat is used for other processes, making the most efficient use of the energy possible. The facility generates around 23 million kWh of electricity every year, which corresponds to about 14 % of the energy requirements of the Lünen facility, and the average power consumption of about 6,500 three-person households. In addition, this equals a CO2 reduction of about 14,000 t every year. The Energy Efficiency Initiative of the German Energy Agency (dena) classed the project as exemplary and awarded it with the Best Practice in Energy Efficiency label in 2015. Aurubis was also nominated for the international 2015 Energy Efficiency Award for the project, putting Aurubis in the top 15 of about 100 applicants. THE NORTHERN GERMAN ENERGY REVOLUTION The increasing and, above all, fluctuating amounts of energy generated from digitalization of industry, in which the renewable sources as a result of the German energy revolution is also forcing intelligent networking of systems – including industry to accept a more flexible approach to purchasing and generating with regard to the energy revolution – is energy. In order to identify the relevant limits and potentials involved, Aurubis playing an increasingly decisive role. NEW 4.0 is taking part in NEW 4.0, a Germany-wide project involving more than wants to act as a showcase for northern 50 partners from the states of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein. Through Germany’s ability to supply 4.5 million NEW 4.0, the Group is contending for the “Schaufenster Intelligente Energie – citizens with 100 % safe and reliable energy Digitale Agenda für die Energiewende” (Showcase for Intelligent Energy – from purely renewable sources by 2035. Digital Agenda for the Energy Revolution) funding program offered by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy. “NEW” stands for “Norddeutsche EnergieWende” (Northern German Energy Revolution) and  ore on the topic M www.new4-0.de the “4.0” indicates the threshold to the fourth industrial revolution, i.e. the Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 18 People | Corporate Health Management PEOPLE The safety and health of our employees takes top priority for us – and always has. As such, we carry out various programs at all of our facilities in order to minimize the risk of accidents and to support the health of our staff. We get young people enthusiastic about technical jobs and our industry, thus securing the workforce of tomorrow. This includes bearing responsibility for the people in the local areas around our facilities. And we also support social initiatives that provide education or protect the environment. Corporate Health Management STILL NEW AND YET FOR GOOD ABSOLUTELY ESSENTIAL HEALTH The corporate health management The Aurubis corporate health management strategy strategy was introduced in 2013 and is constantly being developed. Currently, it focuses on is now a fixed aspect of working life three areas of action above all else: that the Hamburg and Lünen sites cannot imagine life without. Two 1. Improving each individual’s awareness of his or her health: members of staff take care of the This includes implementing measures for a healthy back planning and implementation of and also providing help. tailored projects and draw on the expertise of internal and external 2. Reconciling work with a home life: We are working on specialists. The corporate health several agreements to make it easier to reconcile work management strategy is anchored in with having a home life. This includes flextime and our overall strategy, takes a long-term view and pursues clearly working from home. defined aims. Due to the success and great feedback resulting from the strategy, it is to be further expanded and implemented 3. Age-appropriate workplaces: Aurubis helped to work on a in everyday working life. This includes involving corporate health study that highlighted ways in which employees in very management in management training. physical jobs can reach retirement age in good health while maintaining good performance. This led to the creation of guidelines for management and staff that will be implemented within the company. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Safety Comes First | Commitment to the Local Area | People 19 Safety Comes First “LOOK AFTER YOUR SAFETY!” – A NEW PROGRAM IN BULGARIA It is a matter of course for the Aurubis Group to protect its staff as effectively as possible against injuries and illness. As a result, we create a working environment at all of our locations that is as safe as possible. Safety simply comes first – and that is something that the team at our Bulgarian facility in Pirdop agrees on. The department for Health and Occupational Safety continued its effort to improve safety in the workplace during the reporting period. The activities have been supplemented since 2015 with the new Pirdop program “Safety for Your Life”, which aims to reduce accidents in the workplace and injuries at Aurubis Bulgaria to zero. The program starts by asking the staff at the location to complete a survey in order to gauge the efficacy of existing safety practices and to understand the local safety culture in order to make any appropriate adjustments. This all strengthens people’s awareness of the issue and improves safety in the workplace in Pirdop over the long term. Commitment to the Local Area THIS INVOLVES CULTURAL, SOCIAL, EDUCATIONAL, SPORTS AND SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Aurubis assumes responsibility for its own staff, for the environment, for its customers and, last but not least, for its neighbors at the various sites. This is something the Group does gladly with its support for various local initiatives, only a few of which are presented below. CULTURE, FOR EXAMPLE ... BallinStadt: Aurubis has been supporting the BallinStadt Emigration Museum, which is just a few hundred meters from the Aurubis site in Hamburg, since 2007. The museum is a testament to the nearly five million people from Germany and Europe who left Europe from this port for a new life abroad between 1850 It’s a subject that’s more current than ever: and 1939. The concept behind the exhibition is to be revised and BallinStadt is a place that tells the stories of people who were ready to leave Europe to Aurubis will be involved in this over the next few years. seek a fresh start in the New World. Aurubis’ copper dragon is not only a landmark of the Hamburg site but also the striking symbol of the CHINA TIME Hamburg events, which take place in Hamburg every two years, showcasing the city’s ties with China. The dragon, which was based on a sculpture from the Summer Palace in Beijing, brought a little Chinese flair to the heart of Hamburg outside the Hamburg City Hall. In 2014, Aurubis not only supplied the dragon on loan but also paid for the overnight transportation of the sculpture, which weighs several tons, into the city center. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 20 People | Commitment to the Local Area SOCIAL INITIATIVES, FOR EXAMPLE ... Aurubis’ Schwermetall shareholding has supported the “Hospiz­ stiftung Region Aachen” (Aachen Region Hospice Foundation) ­several times over the past few years. The focus was primarily on the construction and operation of the “Hospiz am Iterbach” ­(Iterbach Hospice). For the artistic design of the entrance to the hospice, Schwermetall provided artists with the necessary metals for free in 2015. In Bulgaria, the Group worked together with the NGO Bulgarian Charities Aid Foundation to develop a donations platform. In this way, employees of Aurubis Bulgaria can now support social ­projects The entry to the hospice completely voluntarily by opting for a flexible percentage of their salary to be donated to the employ­ was designed to include a copper donation from ee’s chosen charity by the HR Department. Until now, employees have supported children from the Aurubis. “Home for Medical and Social Care” in Zlatitsa. In the future, other projects will be offered, too. EDUCATION, FOR EXAMPLE ... To celebrate the 150th anniversary of Aurubis’ founding in 2016, something special was planned during the company’s 149th year: The Group will support the “Sport ohne Grenzen” (Sports Without Borders) association’s Learn4Life project with Aurubis as the main sponsor. As part of their physical education during the fifth and sixth grades, children are taught basic values such as respect and team spirit, as well as good communication and how to deal with conflict as part of a special sports education program. The project has already been successfully implemented at local schools in Wilhelmsburg and is now set to be rolled out to other schools in Hamburg. 62 % This year, Aurubis supported the very first “Festival Ambacht21” in Zutphen, the Netherlands, which of the money allocated to social commitment was aims to encourage young people to used for the area “Education take an interest in modern trades and Social Issues” in fiscal year 2014/15. and technology. With plenty of enthusiasm, children tried their hand at chemical tests, programming Lego robots, woodwork, carrying out technical experiments, drawing cartoons, but also setting up a drainage channel and building a wall. On the other side of the Atlantic, at Aurubis Buffalo, the Group supported the “Teacher’s Desk” project. The donated funds were used by a Buffalo public school to buy pencils, paper, notebooks and school bags for needy schoolchildren. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Commitment to the Local Area | People 21 SPORTS, FOR EXAMPLE ... In 2015, Aurubis Bulgaria was the main sponsor for the charity bike ride men visited a total of eight countries, cycled “SOS European Bike Tour”, which was organized by SOS Children’s Villages in around 100 kilometers a day and met lots of ­Bulgaria. The tour was also special because the idea for it was the brainchild of children at each SOS Children’s Village along Daniel Milenov (fifth from left in the photo) and Lyupcho Krastev, who them­ their route. Lots of Aurubis staff and their selves grew up in SOS Children’s Villages. Their aim is to boost awareness of ­families took part at the start of the tour at neglected or orphaned children and the SOS Children’s Villages – partly due to the end of May, accompanying the group to their own experiences. As part of the SOS European Bike Tour, the two young the Serbian border. NEW ENERGIES, FOR EXAMPLE ... An energetic approach to new energy: After the huge with the distribution of solar-powered systems for homes; earthquake in Nepal in May 2015, the organization atmosfair secondly, with the repair of damaged small-scale biogas set up the “Neue Energie für Nepal” (New Energy for Nepal) systems; and thirdly, by re-establishing the electricity networks campaign in order to provide practical help on the ground. of six severely damaged villages. Aurubis provides the project The campaign rests on three pillars: Firstly, emergency aid with financial support in repairing the energy facilities. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 22 People | Sustainability in Training Sustainability in Training SUSTAINABLE, RIGHT FROM THE START “The Environmentally Friendly Circular Economy and the Avoidance of Illegal Waste Transports” – these were two major topics on the agenda at the second Sustainability Day held by Aurubis in Hamburg in November 2015. The event was attended by guests from the worlds of politics, business and associations, who were able to see from the exhibition presented by the Aurubis apprentices the journey that copper makes through the Group – from the concentrate to the finished product, and from the finished product to the new product once more. “ I just started my apprentice­ Prior to the event, over the period of a week, the trainees were divided into four ship in September and teams and worked on the topics of transportation, copper production, copper learned so much about the processing and final finishing, as well as sustainability. They engaged in intensive dialogue with various experts from the Aurubis Environment, Energy & Climate company and its context in Affairs, Logistics, Supply Chain Management and Sustainability departments. this one week!” Everyone was very happy with the results: Both the apprentices and the Vedat Akpinar, Process Mechanic in the departments found the discussions very beneficial and want to establish a metallurgical and semifinished goods industry, Sustainability Week by the apprentices as a fixed part of the training program. 1st year apprentice Each profession was able to contribute its point of view and expertise in order to complete the picture of the journey of copper through our company. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability in Training | People 23 FIRST ENERGY QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS DAY AT THE HAMBURG PLANT Five Questions for Henning Michaelsen, Chief Compliance Officer at Aurubis WHEN INFRINGEMENTS BECOME CRIMINAL OFFENSES As the Chief Compliance Officer at Aurubis, Henning Michaelsen is responsible for ensur­ ing that all the key laws, guidelines and the Code of Conduct are anchored in the corporate ­culture at Aurubis, and that all employees are aware of them and comply with them. Mr. Michaelsen, compliance means sticking to the rules. When is leniency appropriate for an infringement, and when does it become a criminal offense? Anyone can help to protect the environment. Each member of staff should be aware of and There were plenty of ideas at Aurubis’ comply with the rules in his or her area of Energy Day. responsibility. Of course, anyone can make a Over 500 members of staff used this mistake from time to time. When it comes to opportunity to find out about the issues at infringements on rules that were inadvertent, or do not represent an administrative or hand during the first Energy Day at the ­criminal offense, a solution can always be Hamburg site in July 2014 in the Alte found. However, it becomes more problematic Schlosserei event hall. In addition to major if a criminal context becomes clear, such as in Employees should provide notification of projects to boost energy efficiency, such the case of theft, the acceptance or payment legal infractions. Isn’t this a fast-track to an as the use of waste heat, energy-saving of bribes, or the embezzlement of company informer culture? funds. No, because the aim of our whistleblower behavior and employee commitment to ­hotline is to recognize criminal behavior in good the topic were also central themes. What consequences do such criminal time. If there are grounds for suspicion, such offenses have? notifications may prevent Aurubis from becom­ Opportunities for saving energy in the In the case of criminal behavior, immediate ing liable for significant amounts in damages. workplace were also highlighted using models dismissal from the company and reporting of We can only speak of an informer culture if false constructed by the Hamburg apprentices. For the crime to the relevant authorities, which suspicions are registered as fact and this very may result in a fine or a prison sentence. rarely happens. Additionally, we also check example, how badly insulated or uninsulated ­Aurubis also asserts claims for damages – notifications of suspicions very carefully for pipes can lead to high energy losses: One this is a consistent approach by the company. plausibility and traceability. four-meter-long, uninsulated steam pipeline loses enough energy to power a three-person Why does Aurubis need a whistleblower hotline? Have there been infractions of compliance household for one year. There was also Our compliance portal, the whistleblower rules at Aurubis? hotline, aims to enable all staff and business In every large group of people, there are always information about saving energy at home, partners to inform external, independent a few who do not stick to the rules. On average, which was supplemented by extra ­lawyers of any legal infractions in confidence or a small percentage of any given segment of the information from the Energy Advisor from anonymously. Reports can then be processed population is more susceptible to committing the Hamburg Chamber of Trade and internally. Without an internal notification offenses. The same goes for a company. Aurubis Commerce, for example. system, the only other option is to make the has also experienced such compliance issues in case public. the past that have led to financial damages. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 24 Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 25 Performance Report 26 Sustainability Management 58 Human Resources 26 Responsible corporate governance 58 Our approach 27 Organization 60 Employees in figures 27 Compliance and policies 60 Apprenticeships and continuing 29 Risk and opportunity management education 29 Human rights 63 Diversity and equal opportunity 30 Stakeholder dialogues 64 Work-life balance 31 Dialogue with policymakers 64 Co-determination and employee 31 Dialogue with the capital market ­dialogue 32 Dialogue with customers 65 Compensation and benefits 32 Dialogue with NGOs 65 Occupational safety and health 32 Dialogue with employees 68 Social Commitment 32 Materiality analysis 68 Our approach 34 Sustainability Strategy and 68 Responsibility and organization ­sustainability targets 69 Social efforts 38 Product Responsibility 69 Art, culture and architecture 38 Our approach 69 Supporting young people 39 Research, Development and 69 Sports sponsoring ­Innovation 71 About This Report 41 Quality and quality management 73 GRI G4 Content Index 42 Product safety 78 List of Graphics 42 Recycling 78 List of Tables 44 Supply chain U3 Imprint 46 Industrial Environmental Protection 46 Our approach 51 Resources and material input 51 Energy and climate protection 53 Emissions 55 Water use and water pollution control 56 Waste 56 Biodiversity 56 Transport and employee mobility Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 26 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management Sustainable conduct and economic activities are among the We also adhere to the German Corporate Governance central components of Aurubis’ company strategy. This is Code. Accordingly, we value close cooperation between the why we treat the environment and limited natural resources Executive Board and the Supervisory Board as well as conwith care. We exhibit responsibility towards our employees, sideration of shareholders’ interests. We rely on open comsuppliers, customers and neighbors. The same is true for the munication, a responsible approach to risks and proper areas surrounding our plants and for the communities in accounting and auditing. Furthermore: responsible entreprewhich we do business. neurial conduct doesn’t end at our sites’ gates but extends along the entire supply chain. Aurubis’ active prevention principle is a basic component of Read more about human responsible business activities. We act conscientiously in We respect human rights and advocate for their protection. rights and the UN Global Compact on pages 6 our operating business and are growing to a sensible and Because they are of fundamental significance to us, we and 29 healthy extent. Both of these factors form the basis of our adhere to the internationally recognized core labor stansustainable economic success and secure Aurubis’ future. dards of the International Labor Organization (ILO). We have been a part of the United Nations Global Compact We integrate sustainable conduct and economic activities since December 2014 and are thus committed to working into the corporate culture – at the individual sites and on implementing its ten principles related to human rights, across business processes. We have initiated a variety of labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The progress measures to minimize possible negative effects of our busimade in the year the Global Compact was signed was pubThe Communication on ness activities on the environment, employees and society lished in the Communication on Progress 2014. Because the Progress can be found at www.unglobalcompact. as much as possible from the beginning. Global Compact participants can also take part in national org/ networks, the German sites have belonged to the German Responsible corporate governance Global Compact Network and Aurubis Bulgaria has Responsible corporate governance requires common values belonged to the Global Compact Network Bulgaria since and rules to point the way in everyday business. At Aurubis, October 2015. Read more about the legal framework, corporate values and internal policies, ­compliance and policies on pages 23 and 27 ensure that our conduct is legally sound and that our comThe foundation of our work is our Sustainability Strategy, munication with colleagues and business partners is fair and which we developed in 2012/13. The Sustainability Strategy Read more about the trusting. These guidelines also ensure a responsible attitude establishes the main areas of activity for the coming years, ­Sustainability Strategy on page 35 towards resources within our company. Aurubis’ Code of which are supplemented by targets in the categories of Conduct prescribes correct conduct within the meaning of economy, environment and people. In addition, action plans our responsible corporate governance to all of the employwere also developed for individual areas of activity. ees across the Group. Read more about our We are in close contact with our stakeholders through a stakeholders, the survey and the Together with employees and employer representatives, we ­variety of channels. For example, we carried out a stakemateriality analysis identified five values that are important to us: Performance, holder survey in 2015. We updated our materiality analysis on pages 32 and 33 Responsibility, Integrity, Mutability and Appreciation. on the basis of the results. This analysis confirms our areas PRIMA, which means “great” in German, is derived from the of activity and targets. first letter of each value. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Management 27 Organization externally with our stakeholders. Every employee should live Sustainability is organized within the company in the Corpothe Sustainability Strategy each day and contribute to implerate Communications & External Affairs (CCEA) Department. menting the agreed measures and targets. In our communicaThe Vice President Corporate Communications & External tion with our external stakeholders, our Group representative Affairs reports directly to the Executive Board. Sustainability offices in Berlin and Brussels are key interfaces to policymakManagement serves as the interface between the headquarers, administrative bodies, associations and other institutions. ters and the sites and coordinates all of the processes related to this topic. It is also responsible for continuously reviewing Compliance and policies and developing the Sustainability Strategy at the same time. We consistently follow all legal regulations because violating In the process, Sustainability Management cooperates with the law can have serious consequences – for our employees, the respective divisions and departments in the Aurubis for our partners and for Aurubis as a whole. For us, compliGroup and assists with the operative implementation of susance also means that we act in accordance with our own tainability measures. ethical principles and values as well as the internal corporate policies. The central document is our Code of Conduct, The Code of Conduct is published on our website. The targets and measures are monitored and reviewed in which is valid for all employees across the Group. It is available in six close coordination among CCEA, the relevant departments languages: www.aurubis. com/code_of_conduct and the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board is informed The Executive Board and Compliance Management together monthly about current sustainability developments. promote a compliance culture in which awareness is raised for following rules and laws. Compliance Management also One of Sustainability Management’s important tasks is to establishes the main targets, develops the corresponding establish our Sustainability Strategy in our employees’ awareorganization and identifies, analyzes and communicates ness, in the operating processes of everyday work and ­significant compliance risks. It develops a compliance Corporate Communications & External Affairs o G 01 Fall 2015 CEO Vice President Corporate Communications & External Affairs Corporate ­ Event & External Affairs­ External Affairs Sustainability Communications Sponsoring Berlin Brussels Sites Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 28 Sustainability Management program by introducing principles and measures to limit risks Aurubis is committed to fair competition; competitive agreeand prevent violations. Furthermore, Compliance Managements are prohibited. The Bulgarian anti-trust authorities are ment ensures that the targets and measures are communicurrently carrying out proceedings against Aurubis Bulgaria cated. In addition, it reports to the Executive Board and the and Aurubis AG due to alleged abuse of the company’s domiAudit Committee regularly and as warranted about the develnant position in the sulfuric acid market. Aurubis views the opment of the compliance management system as well as allegations as unfounded. The anti-trust authorities will likely about violations and initiated measures. Compliance Managemake a decision in 2016. ment works together closely with Risk Management and Internal Audit. Because compliance is very important to us, we offer regular training sessions on this topic. During the reporting period, The compliance management system is documented in a about 400 participants took part in events focused on anti­corporate policy and is overseen by the Chief Compliance trust and anti-corruption law. These training sessions concenOfficer (CCO). Apart from the CCO, there are local complitrate on the corruption risk in relation to each respective ance representatives at the larger Group sites that assist employee and not in relation to the management level. employees with compliance issues. Employees and business partners can contact the Aurubis Compliance Portal (“whisOur policies are binding for our employees. They cover all of tleblower hotline”) anonymously if they have a grounded susthe important areas across the Group – from labor conditions picion of criminal activity (e.g. corruption, fraud, dishonesty). to environmental protection, safety and health, competition, This hotline is operated by external, independent attorneys. If procurement, corruption, company property, conduct with offenses are actually proven, the corresponding employees – authorities and the media, confidentiality, insider trading to depending on the offense – are given a warning, are dissecurity and documentation. We have developed especially charged and/or damages are claimed. There was one case of detailed policies for areas with increased risks, for example corruption at Aurubis during the reporting period, which was the Corporate Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy. Furtherreviewed and rectified accordingly. more, detailed, site-specific rules have been derived from the Code of Conduct. We require other companies with which we We do not tolerate discrimination. We have firmly established work together to follow our policies. the principles of equal opportunity and mutual respect in the Aurubis corporate culture. We call on all employees to report The Responsible Care Global Charter and guidelines adopted Find more information cases of discrimination to their HR departments or the CCO. by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) is about the International Council of Chemical All reports are investigated immediately and steps are initiespecially significant for us. The Charter’s objective is to ­A ssociations (ICCA) and ated to remedy any injustices. There were no instances of disimprove the chemical industry’s performance in product Responsible Care at www.icca-­chem.org/en/ crimination during the reporting period. safety, environmental protection, health and equipment Home/Responsible­-care/ safety continuously. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Management 29 While developing the Sustainability Strategy, we identified Risk and opportunity management Read more about risk and opportunity management our responsibility in the supply chain as an important issue. Risks and opportunities are key elements of our business in the Annual Report activities and are essential to the company’s success. As starting on page 89 We therefore seek out a dialogue with our partners to propart of our operating business activities and our strategic mote adherence to environmental and social standards and management, we weigh opportunities and risks against one to avoid violations. A meaningful step in this regard is Busianother and ensure that they remain balanced. We try to ness Partner Screening, a process to assess raw material supidentify and evaluate opportunities as early as possible. We Read more about Business ­Partner Screening on pliers more systematically. only accept risks when they provide an opportunity for page 7 commensurate economic success. Aurubis has developed this screening system since 2013 in addition to the valid group-wide policy on processing Human rights ­conflict-free gold raw materials. The screening system has Aurubis respects human rights and advocates for their proRead more about our Gold P­ olicy on page 7 been used since 2015 to review the identity and integrity of tection. We reject any form of discrimination, forced labor or Aurubis AG’s business partners before entering into conchild labor and respect the rights of indigenous populations. tracts. Business Partner Screening is based on a software and Compliance with the internationally recognized core labor relies on multiple steps. The plan is to implement it across the standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO) are Group. It is based on a questionnaire that analyzes possible of fundamental significance. Furthermore, we have been financial, tax law, criminal law and sustainability risks, among committed to the UN Global Compact since December other factors. If any risks are discovered, the Compliance and 2014. The Executive Board bears responsibility for the issue Sustainability Departments follow up on them. of human rights. Contracts will not be entered into with new business partners Aurubis purchases most of its copper concentrates under before they are screened. For existing business partners, the long-term contracts with large, global mining companies screening will be repeated regularly – depending on the origithat regularly publish their environmental standards and nal risk. Our Business Partner Screening is continuously are committed to sustainable economic activities. They all developed and adjusted to changes in requirements. ­operate in accordance with the OECD Due Diligence ­Guidance. Most of these mining companies are organized in the I­nternational Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Read more about the International Council on and commit to sustainable raw material mining. Mining and Metals at www.icmm.com We communicate with various stakeholders such as mining companies, policymakers, NGOs and the media about the conditions in the individual supplier countries. One example from 2014 was the discussion with representatives of Misereor and a Peruvian human rights representative at Aurubis in Hamburg. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 30 Sustainability Management We expect our business partners to follow not only local Stakeholder dialogues (G4-24, G4-26, G4-27) laws but also UN sanctions and trade restrictions as well as Communicating with stakeholders is exceedingly important UN conventions related to human rights, environmental for Aurubis. Our most important stakeholders include protection and safety. If the supplier doesn’t have its own employees, the capital market, customers and suppliers, the declaration in this regard, a corresponding clause is included scientific community, the media, NGOs and society. in the new supply contracts. These contracts generally extend over many years. During the open dialogue that we conduct, we exchange information and opinions and find out about the expectaWe consider violations of international human rights tions that are placed on us. At the same time, we identify ­standards to be a fundamental breach of contract. Our societal trends, political developments, internal and external raw material purchasers are in constant contact with the risks and potential for our business early on. Due to the persuppliers. Furthermore, we review our suppliers syste­ sonal nature of this dialogue, we also create trust and matically with our Business Partner Screening. receive suggestions for improvements. Both are crucial for the achievement of our goals. From a practical standpoint, If there is any suspicion of violations of environmental or this dialogue with our stakeholders takes place in the form social standards, we seek out a dialogue with the respective of talks, forums and events. The discussions we have during business partner. If we find anything conspicuous, we comvisitor days, shareholder events, capital market conferences municate this and call on the supplier to remedy the issue. and supplier and customer meetings are especially intensive. We are confident that we can achieve more through dialogue and persuasion than through withdrawal from the Through our Group representative offices in Berlin and relationship. We want to ensure that both we and our busiBrussels, we find out early on about new legislative proness partners uphold the various aspects of sustainability. ceedings and other initiatives that could decisively influence Differing views and possible grievances must be able to be our work. Our employees therefore serve as contacts for mutually addressed and broached if the limited influence a the relevant actors in the European Parliament, the German company like Aurubis has allows for it. We are aware that Bundestag, federal ministries and federal state offices. They we can and must assume responsibility. However, the clarify the consequences of possible resolutions for Aurubis, responsibility rests first and foremost in the hands of the for the non-ferrous metals sector and for German industry. respective country and the mining companies on site. The decision-makers are generally not industry experts, so they are not always aware of the extent of the possible effects of new regulations. A list of our memberships We are an active member of the main economic, industry can be found at www.aurubis.com/ and specialist associations in the copper and chemical memberships industries. For example, these include: »» the Federal Association of German Industry, »» the German Association of the Chemical Industry, »» the German Federation of the Metal Industry, Eurometaux Vision 2050: »» Eurometaux www.ourmetalsfuture.eu Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Management 31 Dialogue with policymakers (G4-26, G4-27) At the European level, we take part in projects that put a Our objective is to help shape the legal conditions for envistop to the illegal shipment of scrap to developing counronmentally sound copper production in Europe with our tries. This type of shipping leads to a loss of valuable raw knowledge and many years of experience. materials for the domestic industry and to environmental and health risks in the regions concerned, as they don’t The areas of raw materials, energy and environmental proalways have the appropriate recycling and disposal tection and the reduction of trade restrictions are at the ­methods. forefront of our dialogue with policymakers. Other important topics for us are transport and logistics, finance and Dialogue with the capital market (G4-26, G4-27) taxes as well as Corporate Social Responsibility. Our diaAurubis communicates actively and openly with all market logue partners are members of the European Parliament, participants. We inform private shareholders, institutional the German Bundestag, representatives of the European investors and financial analysts alike. Our goal is to achieve Aurubis is listed in the European Commission's Commission, federal and state ministries and civil society suitable ratings for Aurubis shares promptly and compretransparency register: groups. hensively. http://ec.europa.eu/ transparencyregister/ The topics we discuss include the German Renewable EnerThe Annual General Meeting is the main event for direct gies Act (EEG) and the National Action Plan for Business and communication with our shareholders and retail investors. www.auswaertiges-amt. de/EN/Aussenpolitik/ Human Rights, which is to be developed in Germany in 2016 In addition to the Annual General Meeting, Aurubis also Aussenwirtschaft/ under the leadership of the German Ministry of Foreign offers private shareholders an information and discussion Wirtschaft-undMenschenrechte/ Affairs. Another important issue for us is the European platform in its dialogue events at the Hamburg and Lünen Wirtschaft-undCommission’s draft regulation on so-called conflict raw Menschenrechte_node. sites. During fiscal year 2014/15, a total of 380 private sharehtml materials, which is intended to contribute to fulfilling due holders (previous year: 440) participated in two (previous diligence requirements in the supply chain. year: three) dialogue events. The visitor days provide another communication opportunity. Overall, 596 people Aurubis regularly participates in public consultations, either (previous year: 510) took part in the five (previous year: six) directly or indirectly through associations. During the visitor days that were held in fiscal year 2014/15. reporting period, this took place via the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy (BMWi) on the We inform our institutional investors and analysts in electricity market law, on the European Commission’s ­personal discussions – in Germany and around the world. ­Circular Economy Package and on the planned reform of the EU Emissions Trading System (ETS), which is intended to We also utilize different external events for private shareprevent the outsourcing of CO2-intensive processes to holders to present our company and to initiate a dialogue regions outside of the EU. with this group. Furthermore, the employees of the Investor Relations Department can be contacted for information by Aurubis also actively takes part in the political dialogue to phone at any time – an option that is used by many invescounter the challenges that regularly arise from changes to tors. regulatory requirements. For example, in Germany we participate in the Energy Efficiency Platform led by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 32 Sustainability Management Dialogue with customers (G4-26, G4-27) Another form of dialogue with our employees is Energy Day, We communicate with our customers via a number of which took place for the first time in July 2014. Under the ­channels. This includes close cooperation in joint projects, motto “100 % Energy-Efficient at Work and at Home”, Read more about for example “closing the loop” projects. Customer events more than 500 employees at the Hamburg plant gathered “closing the loop” on pages 12 and 13 such as the fourth “Aurubis Customer Dialogue” in 2014 in information about the efficient use of energy – in the ­Belgium are another way to gather customer opinions and plant and at home. Subscribe to the Copper suggestions. Our stakeholder survey and the “Copper Mail” Mail at www.aurubis.com newsletter are examples of the communication channels Materiality analysis (G4-18, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27) we use. In September and October 2015, we carried out our internal materiality analysis based on the one from 2013, as well as Dialogue with NGOs (G4-26, G4-27) an external stakeholder survey. The topics identified two Non-governmental organizations – NGOs for short – are years ago and new topics served as the foundation for priorimportant stakeholders for us. Since spring 2014, seven itizing the issues in the 2015 materiality process. The goals meetings have taken place with NGOs active in environwere to determine Aurubis’ central sustainability topics for mental and social issues: Germanwatch, Deutsche the company’s long-term success, to focus the Sustainability Umwelthilfe, WWF, Rettet die Elbe, Transparency Inter­ Strategy and to develop the areas of activity and objectives national, Südwind and Misereor. Topics such as resource related to sustainability further. efficiency and recycling, responsibility in the supply chain, but also energy consumption, environmental impacts and Fifteen managers from all of the company’s divisions carried the Sustainability Strategy were discussed constructively. out the internal materiality analysis. We included all eight We would like to continue this d­ ialogue. of the stakeholder groups relevant to Aurubis in the external stakeholder survey. Significant stakeholders were then Dialogue with employees (G4-26, G4-27) selected from each stakeholder group. For the purpose of mutual understanding, Aurubis promotes dialogue with its employees as well as between employees Overall, 29 participants were personally interviewed by an and the management through employee talks. We also external service provider. Aurubis is therefore in the same ­support communication among employees. This is the case range as the EURO STOXX 50 and the DAX 30 companies for the work of Aurubis’ European Works Council (EWC), with regards to the number of stakeholders interviewed which meets twice a year. Employees are informed regularly over the phone. About 60 % of the participants came from through the magazine “CU” and the intranet. Germany, while the others came from other European countries, Chile and Canada. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Management 33 Materiality Aspects 2015 (G4-19) o G 02 The graphic below shows the upper right quadrant of the materiality matrix. It illustrates the issues that are important for both the stakeholders and Aurubis. The matrix is the result of our materiality analysis c­ arried out in September 2015. Economy People Environment Very important Health and occupational safety Economic stability Relevance for stakeholders Energy Suppliers' adherence to environmental ­protection standards Suppliers' anti-corruption management Resource efficiency/material input Labor and social standards Emissions to air/water/soil Product quality Compliance Suppliers' respect for human rights Adherence to environmental protection standards Apprenticeships and training Waste Water Plant security Corporate governance Suppliers' occupational safety Use of best available techniques and processes Fairly important Transport Innovative production processes Work-life balance Diversity/equal opportunity Fairly important Relevance for Aurubis Very important Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 34 Sustainability Management Stakeholder survey  ustainability Strategy and sustainability targets S o G 03 Number of survey participants We utilize a number of measures to minimize the negative impacts of our business activities on the environment, our 2 employees and society. The basis of our targets and our 3 NGOs 6 activities is our Sustainability Strategy, which we developed Capital market Suppliers participants in 2012 and 2013. The materiality analysis updated in 2015 confirms our selected areas of activitiy and targets. 3 Scientific organizations 4 The core of the Sustainability Strategy is the alignment of Customers “Economy – Environment – People” along the individual 3 Media phases of the Aurubis value chain, “Raw materials – Processes – Products”. This Sustainability Strategy establishes 4 4 Social organizations Employees the main areas of activity for the coming years. Based on these areas, 15 targets in the categories of the economy, the environment and people as well as action plans for individMore than 80 % of the survey participants perceive Aurubis ual areas have been developed. When implementing the as a company that acts sustainably within the non-ferrous ­targets, we clearly state the planned measures, responsibilimetals industry. Important focuses that were identified ties and deadlines. This makes our sustainable company included: development measurable and manageable. »» Resource efficiency The central goals include continuing the generation and »» Energy execution of ideas from Innovation Management, reducing »» Health and occupational safety our emissions further, expanding the recycling of complex »» Economic stability materials, increasing occupational safety and dealing more »» Emissions intensively with our responsibility in the supply chain. The rise in questions and demands from relevant, diverse Overall, our cooperation with our stakeholders is viewed ­interest groups validates this approach. positively. One key insight from the stakeholder survey was that our stakeholders – especially our customers – would like more information from us on the topic of sustainability. Another issue in which more transparency is called for is our Read more about Supply supply chain. Our new Supply Chain Management division – Chain Management on page 8 SCM for short – will contribute to this. (G4-18, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27) Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Management 35 The Aurubis Sustainability Strategy o G 04 PEOPLE – Occupational safety and health ECONOMY – Training and education – Responsibility in the supply chain ECONOMY – Economic stability – Innovation ENVIRONMENT ucts Proce – Resource efficiency and recycling sse od – Energy s Pr – Water and air PEOPLE Our Copper for your Life At Aurubis, the economy, the ­environment and people are the Ra three key aspects along the value w m a t er i al s chain comprising raw materials, ­processes and products. ENVIRONMENT Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 36 Sustainability Management Sustainability targets and degree of achievement Areas of activity Targets and measures 1) Date 2015 status ECONOMY Economic stability »» A  chieve a return on capital employed (ROCE) 2018 The target was achieved in fiscal year 2014/15; due to improved of at least 15 % operating earnings, Aurubis achieved an ROCE of 18.7 %, a s­ ignificant increase over the previous year (8.5 %). Innovation »» I ncrease efficiency of copper in applications 2018 One example of an increase in copper’s efficiency that corresponds by 15 % to the target is at Aurubis Belgium, where CAD tools are being ­developed together with universities and customers to optimize the current load capacity of various conductors based on copper. An example of one of the results is a hollow profile that is now used in place of a massive conductor. »» C  onduct 15 projects with original equipment manu2018 Since 2012/13, we have developed various copper-based materials facturers (OEMs) with new applications of copper and innovations for a broad range of different applications and have »» Generate and implement 18 developed ideas from 2018 achieved about 50 % of both targets. Innovation Management ENVIRONMENT Resource efficiency and »» I ncrease the quantity of processed complex 2018 In fiscal year 2014/15, we processed about 730,000 t of recycling recycling ­recycling materials (e. g. electronic scrap) by 20 % raw materials (around 680,000 t in fiscal year 2012/13) and the ­proportion of complex materials rose considerably compared to fiscal year 2012/13. »»  udit and certify Aurubis pursuant to the A 2016 The first audit in 2015 was successful and Aurubis received the WEEE End Processor Standard (WEEE: Waste ­corresponding certificate. Electrical and Electronic Equipment) »» E stablish a closing the loop system with a 2018 Aurubis customers are becoming suppliers as part of the minimum of five customers “closing the loop” project. Partnerships of this type already exist; others will follow in the medium term. Energy »» Reduce CO2 emissions by 100,000 t of 2018 We have commissioned turbines to produce electricity from waste CO2 through energy efficiency projects and heat at the sites in Hamburg and Lünen, with which we reduce CO2 internal electricity projects by about 20,000 t per year. In the first half of 2016, we will start up an additional turbine at the Pirdop site. Furthermore, we are currently investigating efficiency potential. For example, over 100,000 t of CO2 per year could be reduced through heat extraction for the district heating supply. Aurubis leads an official working group that is supervising the process of the technical and economic feasibility study. Water and air 2) »» Reduce metal emissions to water by 10 % 2018 A reduction of 41 % was achieved in 2014. The target is being continued in order to secure the low emission level in the long term as well. »» Reduce dust emissions to air by 10 % 2018 A reduction of 26 % was achieved in 2014. The target is being continued in order to secure the low emission level in the long term as well. »» Reduce SO2 emissions in primary copper 2015 A reduction of 86 % was achieved in 2014. It is necessary for this production by over 80 % compared to 2000 ­success to be confirmed for 2015 as well. 1) The base fiscal year is 2012/13 if not otherwise stated. 2) Base year: 2012 Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Management 37 o T 02 Areas of activity Targets and measures 1) Date 2015 status PEOPLE Occupational safety »»  educe work-related accidents with lost time R 2018 With an LTIFR(1-n) of 6.3 as at September 30, 2015, we came one and health (LTIFR) to 4.3 step closer to our target and to our “Vision Zero”. »» I ntroduce measures to make working times more 2018 As part of company health management in Hamburg, work is being flexible with respect to different life phases carried out on several company agreements related to better ­work-life balance. Moreover, Aurubis participated in a ZEIT-Stiftung study that shows how employees in high-stress occupations can stay healthy and productive. The result was a set of guidelines that will likely be applied in the company. Training and education »» D  evelop measures to increase interest among girls 2018 For example, Aurubis is involved in the project mint:pink, whose and women for technical education and professions ­purpose is to increase the number of girls in scientific and technical school courses and thus to increase the proportion of young women in the corresponding degree programs and occupations. Another example: At the Lünen site, we support female future leaders in the Unna region of Germany within the framework of an EU project. During this project, targets and measures were agreed on that are intended to increase the number of female employees until 2020. Responsibility in the »» Develop and expand systematic supplier screening 2016 The screening has been developed; since 2015 the identity and supply chain ­integrity of Aurubis AG’s business partners have been reviewed before entering into contracts. 1) The base fiscal year is 2012/13 if not otherwise stated. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 38 Product Responsibility Product Responsibility With our nearly 150 years of experience, modern use our own copper cathodes to produce semi-finished production processes, high efficiency and close products, which are processed by our customers. Because cooperation with our customers, we provide we produce most of these copper cathodes ourselves, we excellent copper products. We set standards in achieve two things: the high value added previously menrecycling and generate copper of the highest tioned and consistently high quality for all copper products. quality from various and often complex raw At the same time, we work on ensuring that our production materials. and our products have a declining impact on people and the environment. This applies to the development, manufacturGlobal copper demand by sectors ing and transport of our products as well as during and after o G 05 for 2014 in % the usage phase. We also contribute to overcoming global challenges such as climate change with our products, as 11 Industrial machines and copper is ­distinguished by its high conductivity. This feature equipment plays a decisive role in facilities used to produce renewable 30 12 Construction energies, in energy transport, in electric cars and in smart Transport grids. As an expert in multi-metal recycling, we help close the 19 material cycle for copper and other metals. For this purpose, Electricity supply the new function Business Development Customer 28 ­Recycling Solutions was created in Business Unit Copper Consumer goods Products. This function links copper product sales with the sourcing of recycling raw material – thus turning customers Source: Wood Mackenzie, Copper, December 2015 into suppliers as well. Our customers’ requirements and opinions are very Our approach important to us. Consequently, we carry out customer With our products and presence in Europe, America and surveys and record key figures for customer satisfaction, such Asia, we are one of the leading integrated groups in the as delivery reliability and quality – in order to maintain our global copper industry. We have also achieved this position classification as a grade A supplier, among other things. If we because we pursue a strategy as part of our responsibility discover any errors through the routine feedback our key for our products: We utilize our expertise in smelting, customers offer in supplier evaluations, corresponding ­refining, metal recovery, recycling and copper processing measures are initiated to correct these issues. Claims and to generate the highest added value from various raw complaints are processed promptly to offer customers ­materials along the entire value chain. For example, we solutions to their problems. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Product Responsibility 39 We comply with all applicable standards and regulations and respected international universities and institutes plays a communicate closely with our customers about these topics. ­significant role in this regard. One example: Utilizing Their inquiries concern our adherence to REACH (Registra­electricity as efficiently as possible is one of the central goals tion, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals), of business and science. Because the transport of electricity SVHC (substances of very high concern), ELV (end-of-life is always connected with losses due to the resistance of vehicles), RoHS (restriction of hazardous substances) and the ­electrical mains, the European project “Ultrawire” is attemptRead more about “Ultrawire” on page 15 avoidance of conflict minerals. One of these is gold, for ing to create a material with the lowest possible electrical of the Annual Report example. In 2013 we developed a Gold Supply Policy that is resistance by combining copper and carbon. We are taking valid in the entire Group, is oriented to the requirements of part in this project together with other partners. the Gold Guidance of the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) and is based on the OECD Due Diligence Guidance R&D employees Read more about o G 06 our LMBA status on for conflict minerals. With the successful external audit in Number as at September 30 ­pages 7 and 29 2015, we received “Good Delivery” status from the LBMA, 80 69 which confirms the conflict-free nature of our gold. Read more about the LBMA at 60 56 www.lbma.org.uk  esearch, Development and I­ nnovation R 47 38 40 Innovations from our Research, Development and Innovation 40 division are very significant for us, as they help to secure our economic future. Our international team of 56 highly quali20 fied employees from different fields develops s­ uccessful innovations – together with internal and external partners. The 0 number of employees in R&D and Innovation is therefore 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 higher than the 47 employees in fiscal year 2012/13. Our expenditures for R&D and Innovation were € 11 million in fiscal year 2014/15 (€ 10 million in 2013/14). Environmental protection is a key driver of our R&D stratR&D and Innovation reports directly to the CEO, is organized egy. The consideration of current and future environmental across the Group and works across disciplines and departstandards, a resource-efficient approach to raw materials, ments. Cooperation is especially close with the divisions water and energy and the continuous reduction of emisoverseeing environmental protection, production, quality, sions are important targets in this respect. One example of process technology, ­marketing, sales and strategy. a reaction to future environmental demands is the research in primary and secondary metallurgical slags, which we We reinforced the strategic orientation of our R&D activities ­continued. during the reporting period. Our research network with Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 40 Product Responsibility When developing innovations, we also utilize our close System integration, modeling and optimization will be a ­contact with our customers to orient our R&D work to the new R&D field within our Group in the future. This is the demands of the market. One example can be found at case for SCOPE, for example, which will be utilized in the Read more about Aurubis Stolberg. The site has developed the “BlueBrass 42” Supply Chain Management division to support production “BlueBrass 42” at www.bluebrass.com family of alloys, which combines the current standards of planning and purchasing decisions. With SCOPE, which is an the electrical and automotive industries in terms of conducabbreviation for Supply Chain Optimization and Excellence, Read more about tivity, machinability and formability with the increasing we want to depict procurement and production in their SCOPE on page 10 of the Annual Report demand for lead-free products. There was a breakthrough entirety with close involvement of the suppliers. The pilot towards series fabrication for key customers during the ­project was started in the primary copper division, in which reporting period. we have modeled the supply chain from concentrate to cathode, taking commercial and technical aspects into In the “Alloyed Wire” project, we made progress in the account. ­fabrication of high-performance alloys made of wire with high copper contents. This top-quality wire is exceedingly stable We try to identify future research and development topics with high electrical conductivity. It is used as a base material early on. We increasingly use cross-sector approaches such for connectors, press-in contacts and electrical conductors as industry workshops. For example, 13 employees from with special demands. These materials are also used in safety ­different sites and two international experts met at Aurubis applications in cars, e.g. airbags and ABS. Nevertheless, Belgium in October 2014 to discuss the opportunities and ­additional process developments are necessary before a risks of “additive manufacturing” – better known as 3D ­stable series production is possible. In the strip sector, the printing – for the Aurubis Group. introduction of a high-performance alloy which is used to produce connectors was successfully concluded. The special In 2015, we held the Innovation Days for the second time. feature is once again the good combination of strength and This group-wide and cross-departmental event provides a conductivity, paired with above-average resistance to forum for presentations by internal and external experts, ­softening at higher temperatures. The alloy is used in the introduces our key R&D and Innovation projects and is a automotive sector, among others. In addition to casting the platform for d­ iscussion about concrete issues. The plan is to alloy, production trials up to the initial sampling stage were continue this successful format annually. successfully carried out with key automotive suppliers. In August 2015, an Open Innovation Workshop on the topic Global copper demand is growing, while raw materials are of mechanical pre-treatment of recycling materials was becoming more complex. This is true for the composition held together with suppliers, universities and equipment of both copper concentrates and recycling material, and manufacturers. challenges in production are rising accordingly. For this ­reason, projects and issues related to complex metallurgy were a significant focus of R&D work during the reporting period. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Product Responsibility 41 Quality and quality management time in summer 2015 in order to ease the integration of the Exceptional quality is the foundation of our long history management systems for the environment, energy and and our success. This is why we are bound to the highest quality. TÜV Nord also confirmed the fulfillment of all of the standards and strive for the production of flawless products DIN EN ISO 9001:2008 requirements. A new certificate with consistently high process and service quality in all valid until 2018 was issued. ­company divisions around the world. For instance, our copper cathodes have an outstanding chemical quality that The cathode brands NA-ESN, HK, Olen and Pirdop are exceeds the requirements of the metal exchanges. listed as Grade A cathodes on the London Metal Exchange. ­State-of-the-art process management ensures consistent The quality policy is prescribed by the Executive Board and cathode quality. The cathodes’ chemical analyses and implemented by quality management in the individual recrystallization processes are continuously reviewed in ­divisions. All products are subject to comprehensive quality order to be able to initiate corrective measures promptly inspections. Quality management at the sites is coordinated in the case of even the smallest quality fluctuations. in alignment with the standards issued by the responsible Executive Board member and is monitored with quality Our own quality standards are expressed in outstanding KPIs. From an organizational perspective, quality manageproduct and service quality. In addition to excellent ment is part of Business Line Rod & Shapes. We utilize mod­products, we offer our customers high-quality services, ern process management and quality assurance systems to for example in logistics and commercial and technical fulfill international standards and customer requirements. ­customer service. Our engineers support our customers on site. ­Training, seminars and workshops round off our The quality management systems at all of the production ­service offering. sites are certified in accordance with ISO 9001:2008. Read more about our certifications on Manufacturers, for instance of electrical appliances, must pages 16 and 49 The Business Line Flat Rolled Products sites in Buffalo, ensure and prove that their used appliances are recycled in ­Stolberg and Zutphen have also been certified in accoran environmentally sound, legal manner with verifiable dance with the stricter rules of the standard ISO TS 16949. recycling rates. This is why five to ten audits are carried out This standard applies first and foremost to suppliers of the annually at our site in Lünen by companies such as Apple, automotive industry. Adherence to all of the norms is Daimler, DOW and Flextronics. They have their used appli­regularly reviewed by external audits carried out by the ances directly or indirectly delivered to the Lünen recycling ­certifying body or by our customers themselves. The center, where they are processed. Each of these audits is ­recertification of the quality management system in the also a test of the Aurubis management systems and helps to Hamburg plant was carried out by TÜV Nord for the first improve the quality of our work. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 42 Product Responsibility Product safety Recycling Copper as an element is not dangerous to the environment Copper is an ideal raw material for reprocessing, as it isn’t or to people. This is also true for our high-purity copper fully used up but can be returned to the cycle as often products and their processing if the processes of hot and as desired without a loss of quality. It therefore fulfills cold forming are carried out correctly. Copper’s harmless­sustainability and resource efficiency requirements to a ness was also confirmed by a voluntary risk analysis of the large extent. copper industry in 2008. Furthermore, copper is used in the health sector. For example, doorknobs made of copper Due to a higher level of consumption and shorter product Read more about copper's alloys have antimicrobial properties. Related studies show lifecycles, the supply of recycling raw materials is also antimicrobial properties at www.antimicrobialcopper. how hygiene-relevant field tests in hospitals demonstrate ­growing more quickly. In order to utilize the rising volume of org that copper and copper alloys reduce the hazards of so-called secondary raw materials from the IT and telecommulti-resistant pathogens. munications sectors, for instance, we are expanding the ­processing capacities for these types of scrap and investing Safety data sheets are available for copper and a number of in state-of-the-art facilities. These materials are very diverse other products. We can also issue an inspection certificate and include copper tube, electronic scrap and casting slags, for every delivery which shows the precise chemical compofor example. But we don’t rely on the circular economy for sition of the products and other physical parameters. We copper alone. Nearly all of the other metals from the recyprevent hazards during the transport of our products to the cling materials are converted into marketable products at greatest possible extent by strictly observing the applicable Aurubis. load securing regulations and the maximum permitted loads. In fiscal year 2014/15, we processed about 730,000 t of ­recycling raw materials (around 680,000 t in fiscal year 2012/13) and the proportion of complex materials rose ­considerably compared to fiscal year 2012/13. While we obtain our primary raw materials from South ­America, North America and Europe in particular, we ­currently source more than 65 % of our recycling materials from Western Europe. We are working on further diversifying secondary raw material sourcing as well, as distributing the purchasing volume among many suppliers protects us against regional fluctuations on the markets. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Product Responsibility 43 Secondary raw materials include complex end-of-life was successful and Aurubis received the corresponding ­materials. Among other things, these come from electronic ­certificate for “Standard on End-Processing of WEEE devices, vehicles and other items used daily that are made ­Fractions Part I: ­Copper and precious metal containing of materials such as plastic, ceramic, glass and wood. They ­fractions”. can be mechanically attached, i.e. screwed together, glued or plugged, or they can arise by alloying multiple metals. Aurubis’ customers include the processing industry, in ­Separating them into material and product streams by type which production residues accumulate which also have a in order to reuse them is a significant challenge. We usually high copper content. One of the targets we set in our utilize highly developed mechanical, physical and metallur­Sustainability Strategy was to establish a circular system gical separating and refining processes in different combinawith at least five additional customers by 2018. We already tions for this purpose as part of our multi-metal recycling. have partnerships like this; as part of the “closing Read more about “closing the loop” on In this way, we recover a wide range of additional elements the loop” project, we take back valuable materials from pages 12 and 13 besides copper: non-ferrous metals such as tin, zinc, lead ­customer companies. Additional partnerships are planned and nickel as well as precious metals such as gold and silver. in the medium term. Roughly 50 % of our precious metal output comes from ­recycling. We have set the goal of increasing the v­ olume Apart from the extensive use of secondary raw materials for of complex recycling materials by 20 % between 2013 and metal extraction, a number of consumable materials such 2018. as iron, sand and fuels are currently replaced with materials from recycling when this is possible from a technical We can only achieve our goals with modern recycling ­standpoint. ­processes. The same is true for the current requirements related to material preparation, metallurgy, stricter legis­ We believe we are in good company with our commitment lation and growing environmental protection demands. For to recycling. The European Commission is promoting the Read more about the European Commission's this and other reasons, a voluntary standard was developed ­circular economy with its new action plan from December action plan at under the European Electronics Recyclers Association and 2015: The more that growth and progress are based on innoec.europa.eu/ environment/circular-­ Eurometaux. It centers on the treatment and processing of vations in the circular economy, the more sustainable the economy/index_en.htm WEEE fractions (under the Waste Electrical and Electronic use of primary resources will be. Read more about WEEE on page 16 Equipment Directive). We signed this standard in September 2014. We are therefore one of the companies that has pledged to implement all of the corresponding specifications at its electronic scrap processing sites and to have this audited by an independent expert. The first audit in 2015 Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 44 Product Responsibility Supply chain protection and safety. We have included a corresponding Raw materials clause in our – usually long-term – supply contracts since We source our primary and secondary raw materials from 2013. In the meantime, this clause is a component of about a number of different suppliers, which protects us from 75 % of our supply contracts for primary raw materials. becoming too dependent on individual major suppliers and shields us from regional fluctuations on the global market. Our raw material purchasers are in constant contact with our suppliers, including regular meetings and on-site Read more about Our suppliers of primary raw materials are the established visits. We have implemented Business Partner Screening for Business ­Partner ­Screening on page 7 companies in the industry. On the one hand, we value all raw material deliveries made to Aurubis AG, a system in ­long-term relationships and strategic cooperation with our which observance of human rights and environmental prosuppliers. On the other hand, we require them to produce tection play a role. The screening is currently being Read more about human and/or export the purchased material in compliance with expanded to other divisions and subsidiaries. rights on page 29 ­applicable laws, regulations, statues and requirements of the country of origin. We also expect our business partners We consider non-compliance with these agreements by to follow UN sanctions and trade restrictions as well as our suppliers to be a fundamental breach of contract. The UN conventions related to human rights, environmental strictest sanction in the case of a violation would be ending Sources of primary raw materials Sources of recycling materials o G 07 o G 08 for the Aurubis Group in 2014/15 (in %) for the Aurubis Group in 2014/15 (in %) 13 4 Others* Others 21 12 Chile Eastern Europe 4 Australia 4 Georgia Concentrate throughput 18 Recycling materials 40 Aurubis Group North America Total volume of Germany 14 Bulgaria 2.3 million t about 730,000 t 19 Peru 6 Canada 12 7 26 Brazil Argentina Western Europe * Countries supplying < 2 % Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Product Responsibility 45 the business relationship. We generally don’t go this route, When it comes to environmentally relevant purchases at our however, as it takes away the possibility of having a positive German sites, we carry out an authorization process related influence in a cooperative relationship. We focus on to the purchases’ environmental compatibility. This is used ­persuasion and intensify direct dialogue along the supply for waste disposal services, for example. We take a catachain to strengthen compliance with environmental and logue of questions about environmental protection and social standards and to avoid violations, among other occupational safety into account when selecting suppliers. ­reasons. We collect information about supplier countries It is updated regularly and has to be answered by all new and suppliers through various stakeholders and media. suppliers as well. Suppliers that do not complete the questionnaire or that provide insufficient answers to individual Compliance with national and international laws is superquestions are not considered in the rest of the tendering vised by the responsible authorities of the respective counprocedure. We annually review the documents from our try. Most of our suppliers are organized in the International suppliers whose work is environmentally relevant to ensure Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and thus commit to that they are complete. Read more about the ICMM at www.icmm.com sustainable raw material mining. Investment goods We source most of our secondary raw materials from When sourcing investment goods, additional detailed ­Germany and other EU countries. Compared to primary raw ­environmental protection and safety requirements for the materials, secondary raw materials are largely purchased on product and the supplier are defined and taken into the basis of short-term supply contracts. ­consideration. The criteria include energy consumption, emissions, material input, prescribed disposal methods, the Operating supplies expected lifecycle and whether important test certificates In addition to primary and secondary raw materials, we are available, for example for material quality or employee source various operating supplies, investment goods and qualifications. services from about 2,500 active suppliers. At Aurubis AG, which includes the Hamburg and Lünen sites, 44 % of the Broad material and product knowledge in the Corporate purchasing volume is covered locally, i.e. within a radius of Procurement & Logistics division o G 09 100 km. The sites’ procurement departments are responsiSourcing of operating supplies, investment goods and services ble for this. All materials and services are purchased on the basis of a Corporate Procurement Policy, which is adjusted Furnace construction to each individual site. Software and Laboratory hardware equipment Our Corporate Procurement Department, which works Chemicals group-wide, is responsible for concluding framework Copper casting Gray cast iron and technical and cast steel gases ­contracts, for process and organizational adjustments and Wood for overarching supplier management. Higher-level topics packaging Cathode sheets are coordinated in regular meetings of the sites’ procurePersonal Cathode side ment managers. Electric drives safety strips equipment Measuring Packing devices material Vehicles Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 46 Industrial Environmental Protection Industrial Environmental Protection Environmental protection, resource efficiency our corporate policy together with our targets. Corporate and climate protection are established targets Environmental Protection is responsible for ensuring in the Aurubis strategy and the company adherence to these policies and the corresponding laws guidelines and are binding throughout the and regulations, for coordinating all measures in industrial Group. They are also important components environmental protection and for reporting. We rely on of our corporate culture that reflect our open dialogue and are involved in a number of projects. orientation: Copper is made by people for These include international investor initiatives such as the people. Carbon Disclosure Project and our local environmental partnership with the city of Hamburg, in which we are Our approach involved in issues like raw material efficiency, the circular Challenges, strategy, targets economy, air pollution control and climate protection. Environmental protection, resource efficiency and climate protection have been a central component of our corporate Another example is our cooperation with Eurometaux culture for many years. Our goal is to conserve natural and the European Copper Institute in the three-year test resources and to maintain a clean environment for future and development phase of the European Commission’s Read more abut the generations, which is why production at Aurubis is carried Product Environmental Footprint and Organizational ­Environmental Footprint on page 15 out using state-of-the-art, energy-efficient plant technolo­Environmental Footprint. In the future, the Environmental gies with very high environmental standards. Footprint is supposed to enable the environmental performance of products and companies throughout Europe to In the process, we pursue our strategy, which is enshrined be uniformly determined, evaluated and possibly easier to in the Corporate Environmental Protection Guidelines and compare. Corporate Environmental Protection issues until 2015 o G 10 Climate protection Air »» Target: Continuous reduction in CO2 emissions »» Targets until 2015: »» Constructing turbines to use waste heat in Hamburg »» Reducing SO2 emissions in primary copper and Lünen production by over 80 % compared to 2000 (86 % reduction achieved in 2014) »» Reducing dust emissions in copper production by over 90 % compared to 2000 Climate protection Air (96 % reduction achieved in 2014) Noise Water »» Target: Reducing noise emissions »» Target until 2015: »» E xample: Erecting a noise barrier in Olen »» Reducing metal emissions to water in Noise Water copper production by about 70 % compared to 2000 (83 % reduction achieved in 2014) »» E xamples: Operating new water treatment plants in Pirdop and Lünen Waste Soil Waste Soil »» Target: Increasing recycling rates »» Target: Reducing the discharge of harmful »» E xamples: Stronger marketing of fayalite in Pirdop ­substances into the soil »» Optimizing the separation plant at E.R.N. »» E xample: Paving large parts of the plant premises in Lünen and collecting rainwater Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Industrial Environmental Protection 47 Policies Apart from observing our own policies, we are oriented to A uniform environmental protection standard has been voluntary obligations from initiatives such as the chemical ­created for the Aurubis Group that is laid out in corporate industry’s “Responsible Care” and the non-ferrous metal policies and implemented across the Group within the industry’s “Metals pro Climate”. scope of environmental management systems. Responsibility and organization The corporate policies “Environmental Protection” and The chief representative for Primary Copper and the head of “Energy”, which are applicable throughout the Group, form Corporate Environmental Protection are responsible for the the foundation of our strategy, organizational structure and strategic positioning of environmental protection in the reporting in industrial environmental protection, energy and Group. Corporate Environmental Protection reports directly CO2. They define the responsibilities in the Group and the to the chief representative for Primary Copper. The standuties of Corporate Environmental Protection and Energy & dards are implemented by the head of Corporate EnvironClimate Affairs while also regulating the cooperation with mental Protection together with the plant managers at the the local environmental protection and energy officers as sites. Together with the sites’ environmental officers, Corpowell as the managing directors/plant managers. The policies rate Environmental Protection supervises adherence to the are supplemented by emergency, alarm and hazard prevenlegal environmental requirements, ­regulatory provisions, tion plans. standards and business demands. The Corporate Environmental Protection Policy also includes Environmental performance is monitored and controlled with the tasks to implement the European chemical regulation, the help of key environmental parameters. We ­regularly record REACH. The goal of the regulation is to collect information the environmentally relevant data at all of the sites and Read more about REACH at echa.europa.eu about all of the materials available on the market in the EU, ­consolidate it in Corporate Environmental P ­ rotection. Based to evaluate them and to protect people and the environment on the Corporate Environmental P ­ rotection strategy, targets with suitable measures. The environmental indicators outare defined on site at the Aurubis plants. The planning and lined in the Corporate Environmental Protection Policy are implementation of the individual measures are also the sites’ reviewed and verified annually. responsibility, though the plant managers and environmental Responsibility for industrial environmental protection o G 11 Executive Board/ Plant managers/managing directors at the sites Chief Representative for Primary Copper Head of Corporate Environmental Protection Environmental officers at the sites Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 48 Industrial Environmental Protection officers at the sites consult with Corporate Environmental Highest environmental protection standard ­Protection. The set targets are reviewed and updated annually. worldwide o G 12 SO2 emissions of copper smelters in kg SO2/t copper output The development and implementation of the group-wide 174 energy strategy is the central responsibility of the head of 42 Corporate Energy & Climate Affairs, who reports directly to 6 4 the Executive Board. This includes the local energy supply and purchasing strategy, CO2 management and the coordination of the local energy management systems and the energy efficiency network. Planned local investments with effects on energy consumption, energy efficiency and Ø International Ø European Aurubis Aurubis CO2 emissions are coordinated together with the plant copper smelters copper smelters Pirdop Hamburg ­managers and/or energy officers. When compared internationally, Aurubis has a top position in decreasing specific sulfur dioxide emissions, which are formed when copper is produced from copper concentrates. Environmental management in the Aurubis Group o G 13 Legal evironmental requirements and standards Group environmental policy ISO 14001 Environmental management EMAS Formulating standards by means of Management handbook Process and operating instructions Process descriptions ISO 14001 Environmental management system EMAS Implementing standards by means of Environmental inspections Planning Implementation (e.g. process changes or training) (environmental targets/measures) Corrections, adjustments Monitoring (e.g. environmental audits) Publishing the environmental performance Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Industrial Environmental Protection 49 Management systems m ­ anagement system is reviewed annually with internal We have implemented environmental management systems and external audits pursuant to the EMAS regulation or in accordance with ISO 14001 or EMAS at our sites. On the ISO 14001. We use the annual external audit to identify one hand, these systems fulfill the applicable legal environimprovement potential and to have our effective imple­ mental protection requirements. Furthermore, we also want mentation of environmental protection and the resulting to improve our environmental performance first and foresuccesses verified by an external third party. most: by designing economically reasonable, environmentally sound products and processes that fulfill occupational In order to identify and implement energy optimization safety standards and by implementing targets in environpotential, we introduced an energy management/energy mental and climate protection. monitoring system and had it certified at the main sites by TÜV Nord during the reporting period. All sites without an The goals are recorded, deviations are evaluated and energy management system are planning an energy audit, ­corrective measures are initiated and monitored for their for example in accordance with DIN EN 16247-1, or have effectiveness. The effectiveness of the environmental already carried one out. Certifications by site o T 03 ISO ISO ISO TS EMAS 14001 50001 9001 16949 Efb Hamburg, headquarters (DE) EMAS: system with guidelines for ­environmental management systems Lünen (DE) and environmental audits Pirdop (BG) Olen (BE) ISO 14001: standard for environmental Fehrbellin, CABLO (DE) management system guidelines Nersingen, Strass, CABLO (DE) EN ISO 50001: standard for energy Hamburg, E.R.N. (DE) ­management system guidelines Buffalo (USA) Pori (FI) EN ISO 9001: standard for quality ­management system guidelines Avellino (IT) Zutphen (NL) TS 16949: standard for quality Stolberg (DE) ­management system guidelines for the Emmerich, Deutsche Giessdraht (DE) automotive industry, based on ISO 9001 Stolberg, Schwermetall (DE) Efb: Waste Management Company Röthenbach, RETORTE (DE) ­(certificate in DE) Hamburg, Peute Baustoff (DE) 1) certified in development 1) For the sale of iron silicate granules used to produce blasting abrasives. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 50 Industrial Environmental Protection Training Capital expenditure Our employees’ attitude and motivation have a considerable State-of-the-art technologies are the basic condition for influence on the achievement of our environmental targets effective and sustainable environmental protection, which and on the enhancement of energy efficiency. This is why is why we invest in our facilities continuously: An average of they are continuously informed about all environmental and about one-third of the Aurubis Group’s total capital expenenergy-related topics. Moreover, we hold a quality meeting diture has gone to environmental protection measures in several times a year and provide annual environmental and the past several years. energy training sessions. We also carry out routine accident and emergency drills in coordination with the relevant Capital expenditure for environmental protection o G 14 authorities. in € million in Aurubis Group copper production 100 The environmental officers of all of the Group’s production 81.5 sites have met with the Executive Board or chief representa75 tive to exchange information twice a year since 2008. One 51.6 example of a group-wide result of this exchange is the 50 ­continued reduction in fugitive emissions by increasing the 33.3 34.4 29.6 27.4 use of fog guns, which serve as sprinklers. The fog guns 25 were first deployed in Hamburg and are now used at other sites as well. 0 2000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In the energy sector, a discourse among the German energy management officers was initiated in 2013 with the goal of further increasing energy efficiency (best practice exchange). This also demonstrates that we have a leading position in The plant managers and energy officers within the Group climate and environmental protection in copper production have met once a year since 2010 to discuss c­ urrent European worldwide. The same applies to processing copper into and national energy policy changes and the sites’ energy products such as rolled sheet, wire and shapes products. In projects. figures, this means that more than € 500 million has been invested in environmental protection measures in primary and secondary copper production since 2000. Following € 51.6 million in 2013, expenditures in 2014 amounted to about € 34.4 million. During the reporting period, we made investments of Aurubis Bulgaria received € 44.2 million with the “Bulgaria 2014” project. About the distinction of “Investor of the Year in € 26 million of this amount was spent on environmental Environ­mental Protection” protection measures. These include process improvefrom the Bulgarian Investment Agency for its ments, the expansion of the filter capacity for the conceninvestments in environtrate ­drying facility, the replacement of the concentrate mental ­measures. burner, an expansion of the smelting furnace’s cooling equipment and the modification and increase of the waste heat boiler’s heat exchange capacity. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Industrial Environmental Protection 51 Resources and material input This includes the execution of energy audits by DecemWe produce our main product, copper, from copper ber 5, 2015, which we are also obligated to carry out. You can find information about the sources of our ­concentrates and recycling materials. It is an ideal metal for primary raw materials and reprocessing, as it isn’t fully used up but can be returned The main German sites in the Aurubis Group have develrecycling materials on page 44 to the cycle as often as desired without a loss of quality. oped an energy management system, carry out energy ­Copper therefore fulfills sustainability and resource audits and are certified in accordance with DIN EN Read more about our ­certifications on page 49 ­efficiency requirements to a large extent. ISO 50001 in the meantime. On this basis, we are operating our facilities in an increasingly energy-efficient manner The proportion of recycling materials has increased for because we can optimally control energy consumption and years, but recycling alone won’t be sufficient to cover rising identify and implement additional measures to save energy. global copper demand in the future. To benefit from others’ experiences and to pass on our knowledge, we are an active part of the German Metal In addition to copper concentrates and recycling materials, Industry Association’s energy efficiency network. Furtheradditional resources such as energy, water and operating more, we plan on participating in the Hamburg Industrial supplies are necessary for copper production. The sparing Association’s energy efficiency network. We communicate use of these valuable resources not only reflects Aurubis’ the insights from these networks within the Group. responsibility but is also a decisive competitive factor in light of increasingly scarce and expensive energy sources When compared within the global industry, our efforts have and raw materials. been successful and we hold a leading position in energy efficiency. However, as we increase productivity and Energy and climate protection ­efficiency, we also reach our technical limits. Efficiency The individual production steps in our value chain are comenhancements that have already been achieved don’t serve plex and very energy-intensive overall. For us, the efficient as a blueprint for future development because the more use of energy is an issue of ecological and economic steps that have already been taken in energy efficiency, the responsibility. As a result, all of our sites utilize energy as more difficult it is to optimize energy demand further. sparingly as possible. Increasing productivity and efficiency Because there are technological limits to reducing energy is part of our everyday work in the Aurubis Group. The consumption and emissions, a continued high level of Energy & Climate Affairs Department oversees the correinvestment leads to only marginal improvements c­ ompared sponding coordination of the measures across the Group. to past years. In October 2014, the European Commission agreed on an Environmental protection already accounts for a large proenergy efficiency target of 27 % for 2030. This means that portion of energy consumption at Aurubis, as the rising use primary energy consumption is to be reduced by 27 % by of complex recycling raw materials with comparatively low Read more about ­multi-metal recycling 2030 compared to 2005. At the same time, emissions of copper content requires a higher amount of energy. Howon page 13 greenhouse gases are to be lowered by 40 % and the proever, since materials other than copper are also recovered, portion of renewable energies is to be increased to 27 %. primary energy demand is decreasing steadily when the Furthermore, the EU Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) went total input is considered. We therefore work to harmonize into effect on December 4, 2012. It comprises a broad environmental protection, resource conservation and ­spectrum of different sectors and outlines activities to energy efficiency optimally across the raw material specEU Energy Efficiency Directive: directive strengthen energy efficiency that are to be implemented by trum. on energy efficiency the Member States. passed by the European ­Parliament and European ­Commission on October 25, 2012 Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 52 Industrial Environmental Protection Read more about We are participating in NEW 4.0 to identify potential for With the facility to extract precious metals from anode slimes NEW 4.0 on page 17 electricity flexibility for our plants. This large-scale project at the Hamburg site, Aurubis is able to process all of the Read more about the brings together more than 50 partners in the German precious metal-bearing anode slimes from the Group optimembrane filter press at www.umwelt­innovations ­federal states of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein. mally and to recover high-purity silver and fine gold. The programm.de/projekte/ capacity was expanded and the process technology was abgeschlossenes-­projektaurubis-ag In fiscal year 2013/14, the bulk of the energy input was improved during the reporting period. The anode slime is about 3.651 TWh. It stayed at around the same level in fiscal now dried in a one-step filter press process, which saves up year 2014/15 at 3.793 TWh. Aurubis has reduced its specific to 35 % of the necessary energy and reduces CO2 ­emissions energy input in copper production by 16 % since 2000. At by about 460 t per year. 1.9 MWh per ton of copper output, the company was also at a very good level during the reporting period. The main The work processes in the basic materials industry always energy sources are electricity and natural gas. include a physically defined volume of process-related raw material or energy emissions that can't be reduced. Because Individual measures were implemented to save energy and of this and other reasons, emissions trading with artificial achieve the described reductions in the entire Aurubis tightening and reduction of the allocated CO2 certificates Group during the reporting period. For example, all of the impacts competitiveness. In addition, it must be ensured sites are working on using accumulated waste heat. The that future CO2 potential, such as industrial waste heat heat and process steam supply at the Pirdop, Lünen and recovery for the district heat supply, generates additional Hamburg sites can largely be covered by waste heat. The allocations. To protect European industry from competitive increase in internal electricity production by using process disadvantages due to local additional CO2 costs, so-called waste heat leads to a reduction of about 40,000 t of CO2 carbon leakage sectors were established, including the annually. ­copper industry. The announced readjustments of emissions trading nevertheless affect our ability to plan. The EU For the turbine project in Lünen, we were awarded the reacted and permitted a limited compensation of electricity Read more about the Best Practice in Energy Efficiency 2015 label and were price increases related to CO2 emissions trading. A correBest Practice in Energy Efficiency 2015 label on ­nominated for the German Energy Agency’s international sponding funding guideline was passed for Germany, the page 17 Energy ­Efficiency Award 2015. Netherlands and Belgium. Similar guidelines are being planned in Finland and discussed in Bulgaria. However, the Other examples of increases in energy efficiency in Hamfull compensation in the copper industry that was agreed burg include equipping the cooling water supply system on for Germany will only be about 50 % effective. with frequency-controlled pumps and optimizing the compressed air network. There are other examples, for instance Energy consumption is the main source of CO2 emissions in at Aurubis in Stolberg and at Deutsche Giessdraht in the Aurubis Group. The biggest CO2 emitters in the Group Emmerich, where energy has also been reduced with the air are the German sites in Hamburg and Lünen. Currently, compressors’ waste heat use, modern control technology in Aurubis systematically records the direct CO2 emissions at the production facilities and the use of LED lighting. the sites as well as the energy-related indirect emissions, for example from purchased electricity. We were able to further reduce emissions in the reporting period. Direct and indirect CO2 emissions within the Group amounted to about Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Industrial Environmental Protection 53 1.9 million t of CO2 during fiscal year 2014/15. At 0.20 t of concept. This also contributes to the group-wide climate CO2 per ton of copper output, specific emissions from fuels protection target – to reduce CO2 emissions by 100,000 t in copper production are at a low level. Product-related of CO2 by 2018 through energy efficiency projects and emissions have even been reduced by 36 % since 2000. internal electricity production. There isn’t a complete recording system for the rest of the Over 100,000 t of CO2 per year was reduced in the Hamenergy-related emissions yet, for example those resulting burg plant through heat extraction for the district heating from the transport of our products and purchased prelimisupply. Initiated by Hamburg's mayor, Olaf Scholz, an offinary services. However, we carried out the first qualified cial working group led by Aurubis assists in the process of estimate in 2015 as part of the Carbon Disclosure Project. the technical and economic feasibility analysis. CO2 emissions in the Aurubis Group – estimate Fuel-related CO2 emissions in Aurubis Group o G 15 copper production o G 16 Scope 1 (15 %) CO2 emissions in t/t of copper output Direct Energy Scope 3 (50 %) 0.4 Company & Supply 0.32 Chain Activities 0.3 0.22 0.21 0.21 0.20 0.20 Scope 2 (35 %) 0.2 Purchased Energy (location-based) 0.1 0 2000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Aurubis reports the emissions that are directly produced from burning fuels in its own facilities (Scope 1) and emissions that are connected to purchased energy, e.g. electricity (Scope 2). Furthermore, partially aggregated data was used to estimate emissions from services performed by third parties, for example transport, and purchased preliminary services (Scope 3). Emissions Apart from copper and iron, sulfur is one of the main components of the copper concentrates used as input material. The estimate indicates that at least half of the CO2 The gaseous sulfur dioxide produced when concentrates are ­emissions arise from services performed by third parties. smelted is converted into sulfuric acid in the sulfuric acid Of these Scope 3 emissions, about 70 % originate from the plant using the modern double catalysis process. activities of mining companies. The transport of the ­materials to and from our sites causes about 10 % in each When compared internationally, Aurubis is a forerunner in direction. Smaller variables in this case include emissions reducing sulfur dioxide emissions: Emissions per ton of that arise from our investments in new or modernized ­copper output have been reduced by 86 % since 2000. ­facilities as well as from the production of our fuel-related and energy-­related input materials that are not covered by The construction of the new off-gas treatment plant in Scope 1 and 2. Another small-scale factor is employee ­Bulgaria makes a considerable contribution to environmen­commuting. tal protection. It utilizes a modern procedure, a technology called Sulfacid, which is unique for Bulgaria and for the Aurubis Hamburg pledged to reduce an additional 12,000 t entire copper smelting industry. This facility also helps of CO2 per year as part of the Hamburg climate protection reduce so-called fugitive emissions even further. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 54 Industrial Environmental Protection Ozone-depleting substances don't play a significant role in and when storing and shipping materials. We have already copper production. achieved a great deal in reducing directed dust emissions with technical measures and have nearly exhausted the Specific sulfuric dioxide emissions in the Aurubis technical possibilities. Further developments related to Group’s primary copper production non-directed emissions pose additional challenges for the o G 17 SO2 emissions in kg/t of copper output future. In particular, it will be necessary to develop innova40 tive technologies and break new technical ground. 34.8 30 In 2012 about € 7.5 million was invested in connecting a new crusher and conveyor to the warehouse in secondary 20 ­copper production in Hamburg. This achieved the target of reducing fugitive emissions by more than 70 % in this area. 10 6.7 In addition, a sprinkler system was installed in the area 5.5 5.6 5.6 4.7 between the crusher and the entrance to the bulk material 0 warehouse in the following year, which will reduce fugitive 2000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 emissions even further, especially in the case of dry weather. During the reporting period, we carried out a feasibility Dust emissions that arise in copper production can contain study about closing the ridge turrets in the Hamburg metals and metal compounds. The consistent use of the ­primary smelter to reduce fugitive emissions in the future. best available plant techniques at a very high level of enviIn the course of the investigations, potential for improving ronmental protection has led to a 96 % decline in specific the air flow within the hall was also identified. The concept dust emissions in primary and secondary copper production has already been agreed on with the responsible authorities. since 2000. The first measures have been implemented and their effectiveness has been demonstrated in measuring campaigns. One of the main focuses in the 1990s was the use of ­state-of-the-art filter technologies for all directed emission Furthermore, we reduce our sites' noise emissions. We sources, i.e. chimneys. Today, projects to reduce fugitive ­regularly take measurements at all production sites and emissions have high priority. Fugitive emissions can arise evaluate the effectiveness of measures implemented for around hall openings, e.g. gates, doors and ridge turrets, this purpose. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Industrial Environmental Protection 55 Successful reduction of dust emissions in In November 2014, a new rainwater treatment plant was Aurubis Group copper production commissioned at our Bulgarian site in Pirdop. With a capaco G 18 Dust emissions in g/t of copper output ity of 250 m3/h and multiple catch basins, this plant cleans 1,500 the rain and drainage water from the 4 km² premises to 1,291 reduce metal emissions to water. Where possible, some of 1,200 the cleaned water is used in the production processes. This reduces potable water consumption and helps the environ900 ment. State-of-the-art technologies are used in the facility, 600 in which we invested about € 6.3 million. 300 80 89 72 52 55 Potable water consumption in Aurubis Group 0 copper production o G 19 2000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Potable water consumption in m3/t of copper output 1.5 1.4 Water use and water pollution control 1.2 We use water for the production processes and for cooling 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 purposes. The sparing use of water resources is one of our corporate environmental protection targets. Apart from 0.6 conserving water, treating wastewater and thus avoiding environmental pollution is one of our fundamental responsi0.3 bilities in industrial environmental protection since water 0 may contain metals after use. 2000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Aurubis used a total of 72.2 million m3 of water in 2013 and 77.2 million m3 in 2014 in copper production, mainly indirectly as cooling water. We use river water wherever possiTo reduce the use of city water in Lünen, a facility for rainble to conserve the natural potable water resources. The water retention, preparation and utilization was commisabsolute potable water consumption in 2013 and 2014 was sioned in 2014. The retained water is already being used as 1.2 million m3. We have reduced our specific potable water process water. The next step will be to review which other consumption in copper production by 39 % since 2000. We possibilities there are to use the water in the site’s different achieved this reduction with more efficient facilities and processes. Later, the process wastewater, sanitary water and the use of rainwater. We have also further reduced metal precipitation will be fully separated in the course of the ­emissions to water to 1.3 g per ton of copper output. project. There are also plans to modernize the site’s sewer system further. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 56 Industrial Environmental Protection Specific metal emissions to water in Aurubis Group When transporting our products, we generally use pallets copper production that are used to avoid waste in the cycle. We select recyclao G 20 in € million in Aurubis Group copper production ble material for packaging foil and straps. 10 Biodiversity 8 7.2 As a matter of principle, we do not use any land in protected areas with high biodiversity. Furthermore, we con6 4.6 serve the habitats of animals and plants with our water 4 2.9 preparation and waste treatment measures. We protect the 2.2 1.8 soil at our sites, for instance with technical measures to 2 1.3 combat the discharge of substances and liquids that are 0 harmful to water. Due to long-time industrial use, soil con2000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 tamination typical for industrial areas can appear on our plant premises, which we prevent from mobilizing and spreading with technical measures. If additional areas on our plant premises are used, we choose those that naturally Waste exhibit limited biodiversity. Effective waste management is one of the central pillars of industrial environmental protection for a resource-intensive We maintain green areas on our plant grounds and develop company such as Aurubis. them if possible. With campaigns like “Let’s Make Our Plant Greener” in Hamburg, in which we planted trees and bushes This excludes slag A total of about 80,000 t of waste accumulated in Aurubis’ on about 5,000 m² of the plant premises, and the “Green that is used as landfill building material, as well copper production processes in 2014. Roughly one-third of Project” campaign in Pirdop, in which we contributed to as fayalite. this amount, 29,000 t, originated from various construction reforestation in the region, we also improve the habitats of projects. A total of 41 % of the remaining production-related animal and plant species. waste – 51,000 t overall, comprising 37,000 t classified as hazardous waste and 14,000 t classified as non-hazardous Transport and employee mobility waste – was recycled. Furthermore, a fine-grained material Our primary raw material suppliers, chiefly from South called fayalite is produced at the Pirdop site from the flotaAmerica and Asia, process mined copper ore with a copper tion process used there to recover the copper contained in content of 0.5 to 4 % into copper concentrate, mainly on the copper smelter slag. Fayalite is used as an additive for site. Transport routes are therefore insignificant for the ore. cement production, for example. Moreover, we are investiThe concentrate, which has a typical copper content of up gating possibilities to reuse fayalite and are working on to 30 %, is then shipped to Europe. We make sure that our ­marketing it more strongly. logistics partners only use ships that fulfill the highest Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Industrial Environmental Protection 57 safety standards and are classified by a reputable classifier. Our vehicle fleet includes trucks, ground conveyors, In Europe, we use inland vessels or trains for transport. We ­construction machines and forklifts. Diesel engines and source about 90 % of our secondary raw materials from ancillary units are being optimized in terms of energy as Europe. part of the tightening of international exhaust regulations in 2014. Moreover, existing forklifts in Hamburg are currently We select our transport service providers using established being switched to lower-consumption drive concepts. The criteria. Economic and scheduling aspects take priority. Avellino site has already reduced fuel consumption by 20 % Where possible, Aurubis selects the most environmentally compared to 2012 by replacing the forklift fleet. friendly method of transport. Waterways are preferred over railways, and roads are the last alternative we choose. As a In September 2012, the “Partnership for Air Quality and result of this process, about 50 % of the freight/transport Low-emission Mobility” initiated by the city of Hamburg services for which we are responsible take place by rail, 25 % was signed by Aurubis and 11 other companies. The by water and 25 % by road. Air freight is only used in excep­objective of the partnership is to reduce nitrogen dioxide tional cases, for instance to avoid plant downtime. ­emissions, which are caused by private transport in ­particular. Transportation mix in 2015 o G 21 Transports from Aurubis (group-wide) As part of the air quality partnership, an action week was held with the employees at the Hamburg site, during which a Water (container ships and inland vessels) number of ideas were developed and steps were c­ oordinated. 50 % The newly developed concepts whose ­implementation is Rail Road 25 % 25 % being reviewed include an offer for e-bike leasing, the construction of a bike shelter at the nearby ­Veddel train station and better access to the plant with ­public transportation options or a company bus shuttle. Another area in which we try to minimize transports is interplant traffic. We therefore continuously review how loads and return trips can be optimized. Furthermore, we maintain a dialogue with suppliers and customers to tap additional logistics synergies. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 58 Human Resources Human Resources Qualified, dedicated and satisfied employees Furthermore, as part of the targeted support and developare the basis of our success. In line with our ment for managers and experts, we established assessment corporate values, we promote a corporate centers that are used to fill key positions and to identify talculture of appreciation, performance, integrity, ents. mutability and responsibility. The production of copper strip at the Swedish site in Our approach ­Finspång ceased on September 30, 2013 and was relocated We maintain an open and trusting dialogue with our to Buffalo, USA and Zutphen, the Netherlands. A total of 6,300 employees worldwide. At the same time, we call on 190 employees were affected by the closure of the plant. them to orient their work to the group-wide corporate In order to support them as well as possible, a social plan ­values and our Code of Conduct. With these two docuwas constructively developed together with the unions ments, we commit to adhering to fundamental work and and a number of activities were initiated, for example social standards. We view ourselves as a responsible ­applicant training, outplacement, production bonuses, employer and maintain good relationships with employee ­personal support in the professional orientation process, representatives. marketing for the Zutphen and Buffalo sites as potential job locations and contact with companies to transfer our Our human resources strategy supports the successful employees to them. Of the 190 former Finspång employees, implementation of the Aurubis strategy. We therefore lay 40 are now in retirement or pre-retirement, about 90 have the foundation for successfully confronting all of the a new job and three switched to the Zutphen site. About ­challenges of human resources policy. For example, these Thirty are employed via temporary contracts and 20 to 30 include a lack of qualified workers due to the demographic are still currently without employment. Thirty employees shift as well as the search for suitable apprentices, which is from ­Finspång were on site in Zutphen for three to six becoming more and more difficult. The HR strategy is months to support the move and train colleagues. Three applied across the Group and is implemented in modern employees from Finspång provided support in Buffalo over management work. The overarching goal is to provide the course of six months as well. ­qualifications to our employees and to promote their ­development – to ensure mutual success and motivation. About 90 new staff were employed at the Zutphen site The implementation of the HR strategy focuses in order to operate the new facilities of the copper line on strategically aligned HR instruments and services from Sweden in addition to the brass line; about 20 new as well as individual development tools for our employees. employees were added at the Buffalo site. A new organizational structure was implemented at Aurubis Responsibility and organization in 2015 which is based on two segments, primary copper All group-wide activities related to our employees are and copper products. We are therefore orienting ourselves ­managed at group level by the HR Corporate division, which is more strongly to our customers’ requirements, strategically particularly involved with implementing and monitoring Read more about embedding the increasing “closing the loop” projects better. ­strategic HR instruments, supporting the internationalization “closing the loop” on pages 12 and 13 In this context, the HR Department also revised the comof the management, assisting with change processes and pensation system for managers on the basis of success overseeing upper management individually in the Group. ­indicators and target agreements. Direct supervisors, the management and the local HR Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Human Resources 59 Sites and employees Entire Aurubis Group 6,321 employees USA EUROPE ASIA 653 employees 5,645 employees 23 employees o T 04 EUROPE EUROPE St. Petersburg (RU) 2 0 Hamburg, headquarters (DE) 253 2,043 Dolný Kubín (SK) 4 11 Pirdop (BG) 174 651 Hamburg, E.R.N. (DE) 0 11 Istanbul (TR) 0 2 Hamburg, Peute Baustoff (DE) 4 8 Total employees 5,645 Lünen (DE) 46 547 Fehrbellin, CABLO (DE) 4 42 USA Emmerich, Deutsche Giessdraht (DE)1) 11 111 Chicago (USA) 5 1 Röthenbach, RETORTE (DE) 11 30 Buffalo (USA) 57 590 Total employees 653 Stolberg (DE)2) 35 366 Nersingen, Strass, CABLO (DE) 1 16 ASIA Pori (FI) 38 175 Dubai (VAE) 1 2 Västerås (SE) 3 11 Bangkok (TH) 1 2 Finspång (SE) 1 8 Ho Chi Minh City (VN) 0 1 Zutphen (NL) 19 311 Singapore (SG) 1 2 Brussels (BE) 12 14 Seoul (KR) 1 1 Olen (BE) 49 458 Tokyo (JP) 1 1 Yverdon-Ies-Bains (CH) 0 2 Shanghai (CN) 4 3 Smethwick/Brimingham (UK) 2 25 Hong Kong (CN) 0 1 Avellino (IT) 5 101 Peking (CN) 0 1 Mortara (IT) 8 16 Total employees 23 Lyon/Septème (FR) 0 3 1) 60 % holding. Madrid (ES) 0 1 2) Schwermetall: not consolidated, Stolberg, (DE) 150 employees. Status: September 30, 2015. Raw Materials Products Sales and distribution ­network Slitting centers Concentrates and recycling materials The copper is processed into products. An international sales and Service centers located near our are the raw materials from which Some products are already the result of copper distribution network markets customers slit strip to the desi­copper is produced. production. our products. red dimensions. Cathodes Other metals Specialty wire, Iron silicate drawn products Wire rod Precious metals Sulfuric acid Strip/foil Shapes Nickel sulfate Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 60 Human Resources departments at the sites are responsible for employees’ supera­ verage age of our employees is 43.6 years and the average vision, performance assessments and development planning. period of employment is about 13 years. Their on-site HR work is oriented towards the standards of the central HR division. In the course of the reorientation of the Because we have to be able to react flexibly to significant HR division, a new organization was implemented in October peak production times and other work periods, work con2014 that ensures stronger cooperation between the central tracts via third parties are issued and temporary workers are HR division and the local HR departments. The strategic HR utilized (pursuant to the Temporary Employment Act) in additopics are pushed forward across the Group thanks to the tion to permanent contracts. In fiscal year 2014/15 about 250 close connection between the local entities and the central temporary workers were employed across the Group on a HR division. This is especially true for the areas of leadership, monthly average. We maintain a dialogue with the social talent development, international mobility, job rotation and partners on this topic – including with regards to the public organizational development. In this way, the same standards discussion on temporary employment. In the process, we apply to the entire Group. review whether our current approach fits with changing social standards and see how it can be optimized. This includes A routine discussion takes place between HR Corporate, local improving working conditions by adjusting contracts and HR management and the Works Council when it comes to including temporary workers in company arrangements. especially significant topics such as demographic change. We contractually require companies that work for us to follow our policies. As a matter of course, we only work with Employees in figures ­reputable, certified service providers when it comes to A total of 334 new employees and apprentices were hired in work contracts and temporary workers. fiscal year 2014/15 (59 women and 275 men). Overall, the Group employs 6,321 personnel (754 women and 5,567 men).  pprenticeships and continuing education A At 96 % (excluding apprentices), the proportion of staff with High-quality training and targeted investments in employee unlimited contracts is very high. 98 % of our employees work qualifications secure our company’s long-term success. full-time. The fluctuation rate was 5.9 % overall in fiscal year Apprenticeships and continuing education are therefore 2014/15. Of this number, the employer side was responsible central components of our HR policy. The HR division is for 1.6 %, the employee side was responsible for 1.8 % and responsible for strategic measures in training and continuretirement from the company accounted for 2.5 %. The ing education. The sites implement the measures in the next step. Human Resources in the Group o G 22 Director of Labor Relations HR Corporate Compensation & HR Aurubis HR HR HR HR Benefits Development Campus Aurubis AG Aurubis Bulgaria Aurubis Belgium Flat Rolled Products Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Human Resources 61 Within this framework, a comprehensive re-orientation of multiple burdens that young mothers sometimes have training and qualifications took place on October 1, 2015 during their training due to a lack of child care options, in close cooperation with the Research, Development and we offer our female apprentices with children part-time Innovation Department. The spectrum extends from the apprenticeships or enable an additional child care period ­German dual vocational education system to qualifications with a corresponding extension of the apprenticeship for university graduates. The goal is to create an Aurubis period. We also provide e-learning modules that can be Campus in connection with a new R&D Technology Center ­completed at work or at home. as a center for training and qualifications in the Group. In addition, we want to expand our international cooperation We also respond to the demographic shift with our active with colleges and universities with a view to recruitment, personnel recruitment. Of the 28 participants who have so qualification measures and innovations in the Group. far completed our internal program for talented young employees, EXPLORE!, over 90 % of the graduates have Apprenticeships and young employees taken on new positions in the meantime. We will continue Competition for talented and well qualified employees is to pursue this path. increasing due to the demographic shift. This is why we ­provide training ourselves and rely on a holistic approach for In order to attract apprentices and create prospects for training and qualifications, from the dual apprenticeship ­disadvantaged youths, we carry out a Practical Learning Day ­program to further development of our specialists and (for eighth graders) and the apprenticeship preparation ­university graduates. Together with the Research, Develop­project “AV Plus” in Hamburg. “AV 10-Plus” focuses on the ment and Innovation Department, we are establishing a ­transition from school to work. The project includes a onedynamic learning culture and are concentrating on future year internship for young people who have their first school topics, for example Industry 4.0. In this area, too, our certificate. They receive training in the plant in parallel to ­cooperation with universities and the development of an school lessons in German, math and English. In the appreninternational education network in the Aurubis Group is ticeship year 2015/16, 12 young people are participating in becoming especially important. We present our company at the AV 10-Plus project. Since 2007, a total of 100 interns corporate and career fairs to raise interest among graduates (20 girls and 80 boys) have taken part in the AV 10-Plus and young potential employees. The objective is to raise project (since 2015) and in the forerunner project 9-Plus. interest and recruit young people for technical vocations in Overall, 62 of the interns have had an immigrant backthe so-called MINT subjects – mathematics, informatics, ground. Aurubis has taken on 88 % of the project graduates ­natural sciences and technology. as apprentices. A total of 95 % of the participants who successfully passed the AV test received an apprenticeship at Due to our high apprenticeship and retention rate (apprentice­ Aurubis or another company or are now receiving continued As a Fair Company, Aurubis has pledged to ship rate at the German sites in 2014/15 e­ xcluding Schwer­ schooling. The later final exam results following their vocapay students, train them metall: 7.8 %), we ensure that we have a sufficient number of tional apprenticeships have generally been above-average. and provide them with offers that serve the qualified employees. During the reporting period, 101 young Two former participants are studying in the meantime. ­purpose of occupational people completed an apprenticeship, 97 of whom were taken orientation. Adherence to these principles is monion afterward as employees in Hamburg, Lünen, Bulgaria and A total of 450 young people visited our fourth career infortored by the Fair Company Initiative. Stolberg. We are pleased that we have also recorded an mation day “Your Future Starts Here” in April 2015, collecting www.faircompany.de increase in female apprentices in industrial/technical fields. information about apprenticeships and career opportunities To improve the balance of work and family and to reduce the at Aurubis. Our sites in Lünen and Stolberg participated once Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 62 Human Resources again in the “Night of Apprenticeships”. Many interested Staff structure o G 24 young people were able to receive information about our for the Aurubis Group as at September 30, 2015 trades and apprenticeship options from the exhibits and 39 249 information stands and to participate in plant tours. male female 547 female Our activities in university marketing for technical and ­commercial professions were focused and expanded, and the cooperation projects with our partner universities 1,482 3,836 ­continue to be intensive. Moreover, we increased the male male ­number of internships again during the reporting period, so we were able to provide about 50 internships during the year to Hamburg students alone. The offerings for young 168 potential employees are rounded off with scholarships and female supervised thesis papers. Blue collar White collar Apprentices It is important to us that apprentices already be able to ­contribute to the agreed measures and targets of the Aurubis Sustainability Strategy. As a result, sustainability Employee development and continuing education will become a fixed element of the apprenticeship program. Our employees’ development and continuing education are Read more about the Hamburg apprentices kicked this off in 2015 with a Sustainan investment in the future of our Group. We secure the ­Sustainability Week on page 22 ability Week. As part of the Sustainability Week, they anafoundation of our company’s success by maintaining our lyzed the path of copper at Aurubis under the aspect of staff’s employability, among other things. During the report­sustainability and presented the results of their work during ing period, we harmonized the local qualification offers so an organized event. that all employees have the opportunity to participate in the programs offered internally based on their goals. The proApprentices and apprenticeship rate in Germany gram focuses on leadership as well as personal and business o G 23 at the German Aurubis Group sites as at September 30, 2015 skills. Furthermore, extensive specialized qualification 350 ­measures are offered at site level. 288 283 274 269 274 280 Every Aurubis Group employee has an annual talk with his or her manager. Apart from a review and a performance assess8.1 ment, the talk helps the participants identify development 210 7.7 7.7 7.8 7.4 potential, provide feedback and coordinate targets. We take 140 the results of the employee talks into consideration in our annual personnel development planning and the correspond0 ing budgets. 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 We evaluate our managers based on their individually agreed targets with so-called Performance Management. To support our managers, the professional development programs were expanded to specific target groups up to the foreman level. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Human Resources 63 During the reporting period, we successfully introduced generally correspond to the current situation. Unfortunately, Leadership Feedback in the form of a structured dialogue the number of qualified female managers is still low, espewith an intensive exchange between the respective super­ cially in the key technical areas of our industry. Overall, the visor and his or her employees. Because of the positive percentage of female employees rose slightly compared to ­experiences with this instrument, Leadership Feedback the previous year (11.6 %) and is now 11.9 % across the Group. will be continued for the next management level across the The proportion of females in the first two management Group as well. ­levels at Aurubis AG is higher than the overall average: The first level currently includes 30 managers, six of whom are Furthermore, we initiated a mentoring initiative for managers. women. This is a proportion of 20 %. The second level The mentors and mentees both benefit from this professional ­comprises another 46 managers, eight of whom are women, exchange of knowledge and experience. The mentoring for a proportion of 17.4 %. ­initiative serves to develop the participants’ personal and professional skills, utilizing the experience and expertise within Aurubis continues to pursue the goal of raising interest the company. The networking of managers in the Group also among female applicants for the work in our Group, strengthens corporate identity. ­especially in our university marketing but also in our cooperation with schools. Because of our industry – smelting Diversity and equal opportunity and production – many of our jobs are associated with high The diversity of the people who work for us is an enrichphysical demands and shift work. The result is that women ment because it reinforces the entire company’s innovation generally tend to apply for these jobs less frequently and and problem-solving expertise. As a result, we want to be an the number of female applicants in technical fields relevant attractive employer for every individual – regardless of their to us remains low. background, gender, religion or sexual orientation. The Group Code of Conduct and our corporate values serve as At the Lünen site, we support future female managers as Aurubis Lünen was distinguished as a family-­ the basis for respectful cooperation. Open positions are part of an EU project in the Unna region. During this friendly company in the filled exclusively according to the applicant’s qualifications ­project, targets and measures were arranged to increase Unna region of Germany with the prize Pluspunkt and the requirements of the position. the number of female employees until 2020. Familie by the Alliance for Families in 2015. We provide different contact points for claims of discriminaAurubis contributes to the integration of severely disabled tion, investigate any reported suspicions individually and individuals and their employment. The proportion of clarify them. If we determine that there are violations of the severely disabled individuals in the Group is 6.5 % and thus prohibition of discrimination, we employ labor law measures exceeds the statutory quota of 5 %. such as warnings or dismissal. Those who are affected can contact the Compliance Officer, HR or the Works Councils. Aurubis’ Code of Conduct establishes the principle of equal Read more about our employees starting on opportunities for women and men. Within the scope of the page 53 of the Annual German law for equal participation of men and women in Report management positions in the private sector and in public service, targets have been set for increasing the proportion of women in the first two management levels under the Executive Board. These targets each amount to 20 % and Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 64 Human Resources Age structure Length of employment o G 25 o G 25 for the Aurubis Group as at September 30, 2015 (in %) for the Aurubis Group in years as at September 30, 2015 (in %) 20 40 34 16 15 15 30 11 11 10 10 10 10 20 8 6 13 10 9 9 10 5 10 8 3 5 2 0 0 < 21 21–25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 > 60 <6 6-10 11-15 16-20 21-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 > 40 Work-life balance C  o-determination and employee ­dialogue Work isn’t everything in life: Only those who have enough Good cooperation between our employees and the comtime for family, friends and personal interests will remain pany management contributes to the success of our Group. motivated over the long term. A balance between work and Openness, honesty and trust are the main components of free time is therefore very important. Moreover, as a family-­ this cooperation, as is routine, prompt communication to all friendly company, we are an attractive employer. We assist employees about current developments. our employees in coordinating child care, provide offers for better compatibility between work and caring for family We are committed to co-determination because we know members and strive to make flexible working time arrangethat we can only be successful with employees who stand ments if desired, as long as this is consistent with the behind our decisions. On the corporate level, the Executive ­individual work area. Board and Supervisory Board, in which the staff is represented, work closely together as the highest governing Since 2012, the Aurubis Family Service has helped all of the ­bodies. On the plant level, the employees’ interests at all of employees at the German sites to better combine work and the sites are represented by the Works Councils/unions family in a practical way. The offer includes the arrangement according to country-specific regulations. An elected of child care options and advice on financing nursing care ­European Works Council has been in place since 2009 and and applying for nursing care insurance. The Family Service is includes all of the European sites in the meantime. well received, and the vacation program was also used for the first time. One important feedback instrument for us is the groupwide employee survey, which was last carried out in 2013. The Lünen site is certified as a family-friendly company. With a participation rate of 67.5 %, more than two-thirds of all employees took part and thus contributed to a solid basis of data for meaningful results. The majority of the employees are satisfied with their jobs overall, trust the Aurubis strategy, have a positive stance towards change and feel that they are treated fairly on the whole. On the other hand, there are also several weaknesses that we are working on. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Human Resources 65 They revolve around issues related to the topics of Once again, we gave staff in Germany the opportunity to ­leadership, attitudes towards new ideas and the flow of purchase shares at a discount during fiscal years 2013/14 information. Measures were introduced at all of the and 2014/15. This offer was taken up yet again. In fiscal year sites to make improvements in these areas. 2014/15, a total of 1,470 employees (1,612 in the previous year) purchased 28,670 shares (previous year: 31,270). The Compensation and benefits decrease is a result of the Aurubis share price, which has Competitive salaries independent of gender, which are increased significantly in the meantime. ­oriented to performance and qualifications, and comprehensive social services enhance our attractiveness as an Aurubis has a uniform compensation system for its manageemployer – in the recruitment process and with our employment. This compensation system is based on an analytical ees. Furthermore, they enhance employee motivation. job evaluation, clearly established income brackets and a A collective agreement related to working life and demotarget bonus model with defined levels of performance graphic change applies to Aurubis AG and includes a variety measurement and weighting. These factors allow our manof implementation activities. agers to assess what performance is required on the Group level, in the different departments and on an individual level Extensive legal regulations are applied when it comes to and how they are evaluated. During the past fiscal year, the social safeguards because our sites are mainly located in structure of the target base model was adjusted, replacing Europe and the US. Furthermore, the valid wage agreements the performance measurement at the Business Unit level in and company agreements ensure minimum standards. particular with a stronger results-focused orientation to success indicators starting in fiscal year 2015/16. In the course In addition to the base salary, we also offer performance-­ of this change, the topic of occupational safety was also related components and various additional company established as a key component of the variable compensa­benefits as performance incentives. Performance and tion for managers in the Group. Fair compensation that ­success-oriented compensation is a central element of ­corresponds to performance is a matter of course for the remuneration system. Additional benefits can amount Aurubis. This is based on achievement and qualifications, to up to 8 % of the salary. The performance of the individual thus ruling out any gender-specific discrepancies. is always viewed in connection with the ­performance of the team, the department or the production sector. Occupational safety and health It is a matter of principle for us to maintain our employees’ All employees in Hamburg and Lünen have additional productivity and to protect them from accidents and illness. ­disability insurance, and all employees with an unlimited Accordingly, we create a work environment that is as safe as contract have a company pension. The options of a pension possible. We don’t distinguish between our own employees, plan through the Pension Fund of the Chemical Industry external employees or visitors in this respect. We comply and a long-term working hours account are becoming with all of the locally applicable legal stipulations. In many increasingly popular. More than 90 % of eligible employees cases, our internal standards extend beyond these legal under the wage agreement take advantage of the pension requirements. At the same time, this helps us avoid ecoallowance offered. The long-term working hours account nomic damages that arise when employees are absent due agreed on with the employee representatives has been to accidents or illness. introduced at all of the larger German sites. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 66 Human Resources The non-work-related illness rate in the Group was 5.11 % in With our comprehensive risk management, we recognize fiscal year 2013/14 and 5.09 % in fiscal year 2014/15. and assess hazards and improve occupational safety and health on this basis. Process safety analyses, risk assessThe Corporate Occupational Health and Safety Department ments, work area reviews – e.g. regarding noise or hazard(C-OHS) manages occupational safety and health in the ous ­substances – or related analyses of process disruptions Group using a management system. The individual sites are help us understand and control potential hazards. To functionally managed in the form of a moderated network. ensure that our employees can work under the intended In addition to a central, binding policy, C-OHS establishes conditions, we carry out health check-ups in the hiring minimum standards regarding procedural instructions process, routine medical screenings and evaluations of across the Group. These are implemented in detail at the potential effects. Training and safety talks guarantee that sites. The responsibility rests with the site managers. C-OHS new ­information is used safely in practice and help sensiand the sites discuss with one another within the network, tize employees to the topic of occupational safety at the as do the sites among one another. same time. Accident frequency Protecting our employees’ health is important to us. This o G 27 LTIFR = Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate is especially true because we utilize materials in our 15 ­production processes that can influence health. New legal 13.3 ­regulations and limit values have been developed due to 11.7 new scientific and medical insights. This applies to the level 10 9.1 of lead that can be present in an employee’s bloodstream, 7.8 7.2 7.2 6.7 for example. The limit value was reduced in the past from 6.5 6.3 5.3 700 µg/l of blood to 400 µg/l. We achieved this level with 5 process changes and hygienic measures, for instance with newly constructed social rooms: Today, no employee 0 exceeds the level of 400 µg/l. As a member of the ILA 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 (International Lead Association), we communicate openly LTIFR (1-n) LTIFR (4-n) with other companies about this topic to continue improvLTIFR (1-n) – accidents with lost time of at least one whole shift ing this area. The members of the ILA entered into a LTIFR (4-n) – accidents with lost time of more than three whole shifts ­voluntary commitment to ensure that no employee in the participating companies has a lead level of more than It is important to us that we involve employees and their 300 µg/l in their blood by the end of 2016. representatives at all levels and utilize their experiences. In the past, safety steering committees were installed for this Furthermore, we make a targeted contribution to our purpose at the Group and site levels. Each site has one of employees’ preventive health care with a number of health these committees, which are also included in the Corporate promotion programs at the individual sites. Our offerings Occupational Health and Safety Policy. The committee extend from flu vaccinations to addiction prevention and ­representatives represent the entire staff. treatment as well as intensive training for the stomach and Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Human Resources 67 back muscles based on analyses. These also include the Vision Zero ­preventive prostate and skin cancer screenings; moreover, Our objective is to reduce work-related accidents, injuries in 2015 the employees were able to participate in a program and illnesses to zero. As a member of the “German Zero for colon cancer prevention over a period of four months. Accident Forum”, we discuss incidents and improvement The company health management project started in 2013 is approaches with other members of the industry with now an established component of the plant strategy in the the goal of learning from one another through practical meantime. Two employees take care of the planning and ­examples. In order to come closer to this “Vision Zero”, implementation of suitable measures, utilizing the expertise we set an intermediate target for the year 2022 in 2012: a of internal and external specialists in the process, for exam­maximum LTIFR (1-n) of 3.0. As part of the Sustainability Stratple that of the company doctor. In this way, the topic of egy, we derived an LTIFR (1-n) of less than or equal to 4.3 from health management will be integrated in the development this as a milestone for 2018. On this basis, each site is develof leadership skills among our company’s management in oping individual strategies with the participation of manag2016. In addition, several health promotion measures are ers and employee representatives. The strategies will be planned to raise awareness of back health among our ­monitored regularly and adjusted as needed. With an employees and to provide assistance in this area. FurtherLTIFR (1-n) of 6.3 as of September 30, 2015, we came one step more, work is being carried out on several company agreecloser to these goals. ments relating to better work-life balance, including topics such as a more flexible flextime model, working at home In the past few fiscal years, the positive development in and rules regarding the use of cell phones and e-mail during the area of industrial accidents has continued uninterrupted. and outside of working hours. ­However, this positive trend was overshadowed by a fatal work accident on October 1, 2015: An employee of an Our work in preventive health management also includes ­external company was hit by a forklift and died at the scene our participation in a study by the ZEIT-Stiftung Ebelin und of the accident. Gerd Bucerius, the Hamburg Chamber of Commerce and the German Statutory Accident Insurance. Under the title “New Number of industrial accidents in the Group o G 28 Paths to 67 – Healthy and Productive at Work”, which was LTI = Lost Time Injury Rate initiated by former chancellor Helmut Schmidt, this study 150 aimed to find new ways for employees to stay healthy and 116 productive until they reach retirement age. The result was a 101 93 set of guidelines for supervisors and employees that is to be 100 80 applied in the company. 64 50 0 20010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 LTI (1-n) = accidents with lost time of at least one day Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 68 Social Commitment Social Commitment Social commitment is a fixed component of We continue to plan our social involvement with foresight, our company identity. We are aware of the taking a regional focus. We kept the budget at a high level responsibility we assume with the business during the reporting period. We therefore demonstrate that activities at our sites: as an employer, as a we are a reliable, predictable partner. This is important for business partner and as a neighbor. our regional partners, who often have to think in the long term in their financial planning. Our approach Our involvement follows a clear strategy. We take on the Responsibility and organization responsibility that arises due to our business activities and Social commitment is part of our company identity. Within want to be an attractive employer. It is important to us that the corporate structure, the Event & Sponsoring Departwe stay focused on our core business in everything we do. ment has been responsible for Aurubis’ sponsoring activities This is true with regards to the content of our actual busisince 2015. This department falls under the supervision of Read more about ness activities as well as to our involvement in the neighborthe Vice President Corporate Communications & External Corporate ­Communications & hoods surrounding our sites. We are familiar with these Affairs from an organizational perspective. The budget for ­E xternal Affairs areas and can achieve a great deal in cooperation with our our social involvement is closely coordinated with the (CCEA) on page 27 stakeholders. At the same time, this allows us to strengthen Aurubis Executive Board. our networks on site. Ideally, we can also utilize our copper expertise, for example when it comes to restoring cultural A corresponding team made up of employees from Corpomonuments or supporting the arts. In this way, we are also rate Communications, Event Management and Sustaina­ able to promote copper as a raw material as well as its bility Management make decisions about the sponsoring impressive features – for instance its good conductivity. requests. To ensure especially high and sustainable added We pursue four objectives with our activities: value for our company and the regions, our subsidiaries choose their projects themselves based on their experience »» W  e want to be viewed as a responsible and and regional knowledge. They cover the costs with their committed company. own budgets. If sponsoring requests exceed a specified »» We want to motivate our employees. amount, the team that evaluates the sponsoring requests is »» We want to raise interest for our company and our included in the decision. work, attracting qualified young employees. »» We want to be a good neighbor and increase The sites report about their regional involvement at the awareness of Aurubis at the sites. annual Global Corporate Communications & External Affairs Team Meeting. This meeting includes the relevant Read more about our In our everyday work, our commitment is evident in the employees from Communications, Event Management and social commitment on pages 19 to 21 financial and logistical support of social, ecological and External Affairs. ­cultural projects. In the process, we involve the people at our sites in the company’s success beyond the economic We have established criteria for the selection of projects aspect, and we enrich daily life on site. We know that which serve as a guide for those making the sponsoring Aurubis as a company, as well as our employees, benefit decisions at the individual sites. We support projects that: from a lively environment in which everyone feels at ease. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Social Commitment 69 »» have a social and ecological focus, donated copper to renovate the approximately 700 m2 roof »» promote culture, of the two towers of the St. Petri Church in Altona. »» are connected to education, science and teaching, »» promote sports and youth activities, Supporting young people »» are near our sites Like many other companies, we face the considerable »» and are related to copper. ­challenge of recruiting qualified young employees, especially in technical jobs. Young people with a preliminary Social efforts school certificate in particular often have difficulties when Because we would like to be an active part of a thriving starting their careers. Furthermore, having an immigrant society, one of our goals is to help disadvantaged individuals background makes a successful start to the world of work gain new perspectives and improve their life situation. To be even more challenging. For this reason, many of our sites as effective as possible in this endeavor, we work together cooperate with schools and universities, offering internships with local organizations directly on site. We are pleased that and c­ ompany tours, for example. As ambassadors of our our employees are also actively dedicated to their regions in company, employees provide exciting insights into working many ways. at Aurubis by giving talks at schools. With these activities, we hope to offer new perspectives to disadvantaged youths Art, culture and architecture in particular, to ease their transition from school to work By supporting cultural institutions and events, art and and to increase their interest in an apprenticeship or an ­architecture, we contribute to an appealing, varied and entry-level job at Aurubis. enduring cultural landscape. Hamburg’s emigration museum “BallinStadt” and the “48h Wilhelmsburg” festival are just Sports sponsoring two of the many projects that Aurubis supported financially Fairness and teamwork guide us in our daily work. With our during the reporting period. We are involved in maintaining involvement in amateur and professional sports, we extend significant copper architecture and are pleased that this these values beyond the boundaries of our company. We increases awareness of our product. In the past few years, traditionally sponsor various sports clubs as well as different all of Hamburg’s main churches have received new roofs kinds of sports – in particular, to establish team spirit and with our support. As part of this project, we recently social skills. Our largest project has been supporting the VT Expenditures for social commitment broken down by region o G 29 Fiscal year 2014/15 in % 7 0.3 Americas Others 10.3 Americas 13.4 76 46 Eastern Europe Western Europe Eastern Europe Expenditures Employees by region by region 47 Western Europe incl. Germany Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 70 Social Commitment Aurubis Hamburg volleyball teams over the past several years. We continue to be the main sponsor of the club, which is named after the company. We are also assisting TV Fischbek Sportmarketing, the associated marketing company, in finding additional co-sponsors, since we decided in 2014 to end our sponsorship of professional sports in 2016. We will focus instead on supporting amateur sports and youth activities. We of course fulfilled all of our agreements during the reporting period and will continue to do so in 2016. Expenditures for social commitment broken down by focus o G 30 Fiscal year 2014/15 in % 7 Science and teaching 14 Sports 62 Expenditures Education and by focus social issues 17 Culture Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 About This Report 71 About This Report (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23) The key indicators are recorded at Aurubis in IT systems in the individual divisions relevant to sustainability, consoliThis report is the fifth Aurubis AG Sustainability Report. It is dated at the Group level where necessary and evaluated. oriented to the internationally recognized guidelines of the There is no group-wide data for a few of the key indicators. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 as well as the Mining This is stated for the relevant indicators. The environmental and Metals Sector Disclosures. It is in accordance with the protection indicators are harmonized across all sites in all Core option. In order to fulfill rating agencies’ and other divisions. When the report mentions copper production, stakeholders’ need for information, we report beyond these this refers to primary and secondary copper production at requirements and publish a more extensive GRI Content the Hamburg, Lünen, Olen and Pirdop sites. The goal is to Index. continuously improve and expand data recording. There are comparable figures from the previous years for most of the The GRI confirmed the placement of the standard discloindicators. sures G4-17 to G4-27 in both the GRI Content Index and the report text by means of a Materiality Disclosures Service. To determine the content of the report, the first step was to establish topics, then to prioritize them and finally to valiThe report is based on the principles of Sustainability date the completeness of these established topics. This took ­Context, Materiality, Completeness and Stakeholder place in the materiality analysis (see p. 32 of the report) ­Inclusiveness. ­carried out in September and October 2015. When not stated otherwise, the report relates to fiscal years The male pronoun is used for better readability. 2013/14 and 2014/15 and to the entire Aurubis Group (see the map on p. 59 of the report). Activities with special releAurubis publishes Sustainability Reports every two years. vance were included up to the editorial deadline of January These are supplemented by environmental reports from all 2016. The Aurubis fiscal year starts on October 1 and ends of the sites. Furthermore, information relevant to sustainon September 30. Our Sustainability Report 2015 simultaneability is published on the website throughout the year. ously serves as the Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact (UNGC). This report contains forward-looking statements based on current assumptions and forecasts. Various factors, risks and uncertainties could have the impact that the actual future results differ from the estimates given here. Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 72 About This Report Material Aspects (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20) o T 05 Internal External Material Aspect ­relevance ­relevance Related GRI Aspect Economy Economic stability Economic Performance Corporate governance Customer Privacy Compliance (Environmental, Society, Product Responsibility) Anti-corruption Anti-competitive Behavior Human Rights Compliance (Investment, Non-discrimination, Freedom of Assocation and Collective Bargaining, (adherence to laws, Child Labor, Forced or Compulsory Labor, Security Practices, Indigenous Rights, Assessment, anti-corruption, etc.) ­Supplier Human Rights Assessment, Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms) C  ustomer Health and Safety Product and Service Labeling Product quality Materials Stewardship (Mining and Metals Sector Disclosures) People Occupational health and safety Occupational Health and Safety Training and education Training and Education Labor/Management Relations Labor and social standards Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Work-life balance Employment Diversity and Equal Opportunity Diversity/equal opportunity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Adherence to environmental ­protection standards (at supplier c­ ompanies) Supplier Environmental Assessment Occupational safety (at supplier c­ ompanies) Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Respect for human rights (at supplier c­ ompanies) Supplier Human Rights Assessment Anti-corruption ­management (at supplier c­ ompanies) Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Environment Energy Energy Resource efficiency/material input Materials Water Water Waste Effluents and Waste Emissions to air/water/soil Emissions Transport Transport Innovative production processes No related GRI Aspect Plant security No related GRI Aspect Compliance with environmental ­protection standards Compliance (Environmental category) Use of best available techniques No related GRI Aspect Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index 73 GRI G4 Content Index This Sustainability Report is oriented to the internationally recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 as well as the Mining & Metals Sector Disclosures. It has been prepared in accordance with the Core option. The report was submitted for the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service, and GRI confirmed the correctness of the locations of the General Standard Disclosures G4-17 to G4-27 in both the GRI Content Index and the report text. The page numbers provided in the Reference column are related to this Sustainability Report if not otherwise specified. A reference to other publications is indicated with the following abbreviations: AR Annual Report 2014/15 at www.aurubis.com/annual-report2014-15 ER Environmental Report 2015 at www.aurubis.com/environmental-report2015 ES Environmental Statement 2015 at www.aurubis.com/environmental-statement2015 o T 06 G4 Indicator and Management Approach Reference Remarks UNGC Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 3–5 G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 29, AR 89–93 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Aurubis AG G4-4 Primary brands, products and services K2, AR 48–49, 69 G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters Hamburg, Germany G4-6 Countries with significant operations 59 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 116 G4-8 Markets served K2, 38, AR 69 G4-9 Scale of the organization K1, 59, AR 69, 77–83, 112–113 G4-10 Employee structure K1, 59, 62 6 Employees covered by collective bargaining G4-11 agreements 100 % 3 G4-12 Description of organization's supply chain 6–9, 44–45, AR 48 Significant changes regarding the organization's G4-13 size, structure or ownership K2, AR 115 Precautionary approach or principle in the G4-14 ­organization 26–30 Externally developed charters, principles or G4-15 other initiatives 6–7, 11, 15, 17 Memberships of associations and advocacy G4-16 ­organizations 30 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List of consolidated companies AR 194–195 G4-18 Process for defining report content 32, 34, 71, 72 G4-19 Material Aspects 33, 71, 72 G4-20 Material Aspects within the organization 71, 72 G4-21 Material Aspects outside the organization 71 G4-22 Restatements of information 71 Changes from prevoius reporting periods in G4-23 the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 71 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 10, 30 G4-25 Basis for selection of stakeholders 32, 34 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 30–32, 34 Key topics and concerns raised through G4-27 ­stakeholder engagement 30–32, 34 Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 74 GRI G4 Content Index G4 Indicator and Management Approach Reference Remarks UNGC Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 71 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle 71 G4-31 Contact point U3 G4-32 GRI G4 Content Index 73–77 G4-33 External assurance None Governance G4-34 Governance structure 26–29, AR 29–35 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles and norms of behavior 6–7, 23, 26, 27, 58, 63 10 Economic Management approach 34–36 Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed K1, AR 110 G4-EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations AR 155–160 Indirect Economic Impacts Infrastructure investments and services G4-EC7 ­supported 19–20, 69–70 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts 9, 69 Environmental Management approach 26–30, 36–39, 46–49 Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 44–45, 51, ES 34, 51 7, 8 Percentage of materials used that are G4-EN2 recycled input materials 12–14, 42–44, ES 34, 51 8 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization K1, 51–52 7, 8 G4-EN5 Energy intensity K1, 52 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 17, 50–53 8, 9 Reductions in energy requirements of G4-EN7 products and services 39–40 8, 9 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal 55 7, 8 Water sources significantly affected by G4-EN9 ­withdrawal of water None 8 G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused 15, 55 8 As a matter of principle, we do not utilize any Biodiversity 56 land in ­protected areas with high biodiversity. Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 52–53 7, 8 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions G4-EN16 (Scope 2) 52–53 7, 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 53 7, 8 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 53 8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 52–53 8, 9 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and and other significant air emissions 54–55 7, 8 Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge 55, ES 34, 51, ER 40, 42, 44, 46, 50, 54, 58, 60, 62, 66 8 G4-EN23 Total waste 56 8 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills None 8 Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index 75 G4 Indicator and Management Approach Reference Remarks UNGC Products and Services G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts 12–14, 38–43 7, 8, 9 Many products do not have any packaging; transport G4-EN28 Packaging materials that are reclaimed ­packaging is reclaimed and reused in some cases. 8 Compliance Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-­ G4-EN29 compliance with environmental regulations None 8 Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products, materials and G4-EN30 members of the workforce 53, 56–57 8 Overall G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures K1, 50 7, 8, 9 Supplier Environmental Assessment Screening of new suppliers using G4-EN32 environmental criteria 6 –8, 29–30, 44–45 8 Labor Practices and Decent Work Management approach 26–30, 34, 37, 58, 60 Employment G4-LA1 Employee turnover K1, 60 6 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 65 Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding G4-LA4 operational changes All legal requirements are fulfilled. 3 G4-MM4 Strikes and lock-outs None Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of workforce represented in G4-LA5 health and safety committees 100 % Injuries, occupational diseases, G4-LA6 lost days and work-related fatalities 67 Workers with high incidence or high risk of G4-LA7 ­diseases related to their occupation 66 There are no formal agreements with trade unions. The European Works Council and the Group Works Council are represented in the Group Safety Steering Committee. Employee representatives and the Executive Board ­consistently pursue the same objective in occupational G4-LA8 Health and safety agreements with trade unions safety and health protection. Training and Education G4-LA10 Skills management and lifelong learning 18–19, 62–63 G4-LA11 Performance and career development reviews 62–63 6 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and ­breakdown of employees according to G4-LA12 indicators of diversity 62–64, AR 20–21 6 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men The job performed, the quality of the work and the level of professional experience determine the remuneration at G4-LA13 Ratio of remuneration of women to men Aurubis. No other distinctions are made. Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Screening of new suppliers using G4-LA14 labor practices criteria 6–8, 29–30, 44–45 Human Rights Management approach 26–30 Investment Significant investment agreements that At least 75 % of our contracts with primary raw material G4-HR1 include human rights clauses suppliers include a corresponding clause. 2 No training sessions took place during the reporting period. G4-HR2 Human rights training Each new employee receives the Code of Conduct. 1 Non-discrimination Incidents of discrimination and corrective G4-HR3 actions taken None 6 Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 76 GRI G4 Content Index G4 Indicator and Management Approach Reference Remarks UNGC Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Aurubis is committed to the ILO core labor standards. None of Aurubis AG’s business activities put the right to exercise freedom of association or the right to collective bargaining Operations in which the right to exercise freedom at risk. On the raw material supplier side, we require our of association and collective bargaining may be at business partners to comply with UN conventions related G4-HR4 risk, and measures taken to human rights, environmental protection and safety. 3 Child Labor Aurubis is committed to the ILO core labor standards. None of Aurubis AG’s business activities have a risk of child labor. On the raw material supplier side, we require our Operations identified as having a risk for child business partners to comply with UN conventions related G4-HR5 labor, and measures taken to human rights, environmental protection and safety. 5 Forced or Compulsory Labor Aurubis is committed to the ILO core labor standards. None of Aurubis AG’s business activities have a risk of forced or compulsory labor. On the raw material supplier side, we require our business partners to comply with Operations identified as having a risk for UN conventions related to human rights, environmental G4-HR6 forced labor, and measures taken protection and safety. 4 Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's human rights policies or G4-HR7 ­procedures 100 % 1 Indigenous Rights Incidents of violations involving rights of Members of indigenous groups are not affected by G4-HR8 ­indigenous peoples and actions taken ­company activities at our production sites. 1 Assessment Operations that have been subject to G4-HR9 human rights reviews 100 % 1 Supplier Human Rights Assessment New suppliers that were screened using G4-HR10 human rights criteria 6–8, 29–30, 44–45 2 Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms No tips regarding possible human rights violations were reported via our Aurubis Compliance Portal ( whistleblower G4-HR12 Formal grievances about human rights impacts hotline ). 1 Society Management approach 26–30, 68–69 Local Communities Number and percentage of operations with G4-MM10 ­closure plans 58 Anti-corruption Operations assessed for risks related to G4-SO3 ­corruption 27–29 10 Communication and training on anti-corruption G4-SO4 policies and procedures 28 10 G4-SO5 Incidents of corruption and actions taken 28 10 Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior None Compliance Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-­ G4-SO8 compliance with laws and regulations None Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Screening of new suppliers using criteria for G4-SO9 impacts on society 6–8, 29–30, 44–45 Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index 77 G4 Indicator and Management Approach Reference Remarks UNGC Product Responsibility Management approach 38–39 Customer Health and Safety Product and service categories for which G4-PR1 health and safety impacts are assessed 38–43 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations G4-PR2 concerning health and safety None Product and Service Labeling Product and service information required G4-PR3 by the organization's procedures 42, 47 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations G4-PR4 concerning product and service information None Results of surveys measuring customer G4-PR5 ­satisfaction 32, 38 Customer Privacy Complaints regarding breaches of G4-PR8 customer privacy None Compliance Fines for non-compliance with product G4-PR9 and service laws and regulations None Materials Stewardship DMA MM Management approach 12–14, 39–40, 51 Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 78 List of Graphics / List of Tables List of Graphics Page Page Page Performance Report Sustainability Management Industrial Environmental Protection Human Resources G 01 Corporate Communications & External Affairs 27 G 10 Corporate Environmental Protection G 22 Human Resources in the Group 60 G 02 Material Aspects 2015 (G4-19) 33 issues until 2015 46 G 23 Apprentices and apprenticeship rate G 03 Stakeholder survey 34 G 11 Responsibility for industrial environmental in Germany 62 G 04 The Aurubis Sustainability Strategy 35 protection 47 G 24 Staff structure 62 G 12 Highest environmental protection standard G 25 Age structure 64 Product Responsibility worldwide 48 G 26 Length of employment 64 G 13 Environmental management in the G 27 Accident frequency 66 G 05 Global copper demand by sectors 38 Aurubis Group 48 G 28 Number of industrial accidents in the Group 67 G 06 R&D employees 39 G 14 Capital expenditure for environmental G 07 Sources of primary raw material 44 protection 50 Social Commitment G 08 Sources of recycling materials 44 G 15 CO2 emissions in the Aurubis Group – G 09 Broad material and product knowledge in estimate 53 G 29 Expenditures for social commitment ­Corporate Procurement & Logistics division 45 G 16 Fuel-related CO2 emissions in Aurubis Group broken down by region 69 copper production 53 G 30 Expenditures for social commitment G 17 Specific sulfuric dioxide emissions in the broken down by focus 70 Aurubis Group’s primary copper production 54 G 18 Successful reduction of dust emissions in Aurubis Group copper production 55 G 19 Potable water consumption in Aurubis Group copper production 55 G 20 Specific metal emissions to water in Aurubis Group copper production 56 G 21 Transportation mix in 2015 57 List of Tables Page Page Company Profile Human Resources T 01 The Group in figures K1 T 03 Sites and employees 59 About This Report Performance Report Sustainability Management T 04 Material Aspects (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20) 72 T 02 Sustainability targets and degree of GRI G4 Content Index achievement 36 T 05 GRI G4 Content Index 73 Industrial Environmental Protection T 03 Certifications by site 49 Aurubis ⋅ Sustainability Report 2015 Imprint U3 Imprint If you would like more information, please contact: Aurubis AG, Hovestrasse 50, 20539 Hamburg Phone +49 40 7883-0; info@aurubis.com www.aurubis.com Corporate Communications & External Affairs Concept, text, consulting and design Ulf Bauer, Vice President Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg Phone +49 40 7883-2387; u.bauer@aurubis.com Print omb2 Print GmbH, Munich Kirsten Kück, Sustainability Manager Phone +49 40 7883-3270; Photos k.kueck@aurubis.com Thies Rätzke (p. 2, p. 8 top right, p. 10 top right, p. 15 top, p. 23 top right) Marie-Christine von Hahn, Head of External Affairs Berlin Studio Patrick Raddatz (p. 11 top left) Phone +49 30 20 61 67 151; Andreas Nolte (p. 12) m.hahn@aurubis.com dena (p. 17 bottom) Sven Jacobsen (p. 19 center) Rolf Kuby, Head of External Affairs Brussels Aurubis AG (all other photos) Phone +32 2 227 12 24; r.kuby@aurubis.com Paper Printed on FSC-certified paper. By using FSC paper, we Michaela Hessling, Head of Corporate Communications are actively supporting the preservation of our forests, Telefon: +49 40 7883-3053; promoting plant and w ­ ildlife protection and are taking a m.hessling@aurubis.com stand against human exploitation of forest resources. Investor Relations Angela Seidler, Head of Investor Relations Phone +49 40 7883-3178; a.seidler@aurubis.com Corporate Environmental Protection Dr. Karin Hinrichs-Petersen, Head of Corporate Environmental ­Protection Phone +49 40 7883-3609; k.hinrichs-petersen@aurubis.com Energy & Climate Affairs Ulf Gehrckens, Senior Vice President Phone +49 40 7883-3955; u.gehrckens@aurubis.com Human Resources Thorsten Selmaier, Head of Corporate HR Phone +49 40 7883-3983; t.selmaier@aurubis.com Our Copper for your Life Successfully Creating the Future. More Responsibly, Every Day. EN_16/03 aurubis.com Aurubis AG Hovestrasse 50 D-20539 Hamburg Phone +49 40 7883-0 Fax +49 40 7883-2255 info@aurubis.com
