CSR 2016 CEO Message 2 Nissha’ s CSR 4 Approach to CSR ／ CSR Management ／ Nissha’ s CSR Materiality Nissha’ s Stakeholders ／ United Nations Global Compact Corporate Philosophy and Brand 13 Organizational Governance 15 Corporate Governance 16 Corporate Ethics and Compliance 24 Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders 26 Human Rights 27 Human Rights 28 Labor Practices 32 Human Resources Development 33 Respect for Diversity 36 Support for Diverse Work Styles 41 Safety and Health 47 The Environment 51 Environmental Policy and Management Structures 52 Environmental Objectives and Status of Achievement 55 Environmental Impact as a Result of Business Operations 59 Prevention of Further Global Warming 61 Waste Management 65 Monitoring and Prevention of Pollution 67 Status of Waste Generation at Bases 71 Fair Operating Practices 74 Initiatives Related to Information Security 75 Trade Management 77 Initiatives Related to Intellectual Property 79 Partnership with Our Suppliers 80 Initiatives Related to Conﬂict Minerals 84 Initiatives Related to Anti-corruption 85 Consumer Issues 86 Consumer Issues 87 Along with Local Communities 91 Along with Local Communities 92 Company Outline 96 Company Outline 97 What’ s Nissha? 99 Editorial Policy 105 GRI Content Index 108 Sustainability 1 CSR Report 2016 CEO Message Status of Nissha Business Since our founding in Kyoto in 1929, we at Nissha have embraced the spirit of engaging in “monozukuri,” or manufacturing, no others can compete with. Armed with our printing technology, we pushed beyond the boundaries of traditional printing on paper to decorate the surface of plastic products and venture into the field of touch panels. The 1990s into the 2000s, in particular, saw Nissha achieve growth in global markets. In recent years, however, the Devices business, which has developed into our mainstay, requires an optimized portfolio of target markets, as it relies heavily on the consumer electronics industry prone to sharp fluctuations in demand. The Industrial Materials business and the Information and Communication business have not yet achieved a full recovery of performance and need to improve profitability through an accelerated reorganization of business structure. Recognizing these challenges, in April 2015 we started operation of the Fifth Medium­term Business Plan spanning a three­year period. “We will acquire and merge new core technologies into printing technologies and completely reorganize our business portfolio in global growth markets”—in line with this medium­term vision, a reorganization strategy went underway for rebuilding well­balanced business and product portfolios. In fiscal year 2016, we made progress through overseas M&A activity in the metallized paper business, the raising of growth funds in the capital market, and improved profitability in the Information and Communication business. Nissha’s CSR The Nissha corporate mission states “We are committed to pursuing a mutually trustful Co­existence with society through our business activities utilizing a unique technology development, based on Printing as a core.” Any company that seeks to establish a presence must achieve financial growth for itself and at the same time create value for society. We at Nissha believe that realizing the “Co­existence” articulated in our corporate mission is the very corporate social responsibility (CSR) we are required to fulfill. Our brand statement “Empowering Your Vision” expresses the relationship of co­existence between Nissha— we who aim to realize our corporate mission—and our stakeholders. That is, both we and our stakeholders have a vision, and by mutually affecting each other toward realizing it, together we hope to create value for the future. Promoting CSR from a Global Perspective In April 2012, we joined the United Nations Global Compact and declared our commitment in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti­corruption. In April 2015, we established a CSR Committee and defined the target areas of our activities as basic CSR and strategic CSR. In basic CSR, we work to conform to standards based on the global code of conduct provided by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). The EICC requires the building and operation of management systems in the areas of labor, safety and health, the environment, and ethics. Through these efforts, we aim to strengthen our foundation as a corporation with respect to environment, social, and governance (ESG), and be a company trusted by global society and chosen by our customers. In 2014, some of our factories in Japan submitted to CSR auditing by our customers, who are major players in the electronics industry. Based on standards more stringent than those of the EICC, the auditors made many suggestions. Through company­wide efforts, however, we completed corrective action. Similar auditing conducted at another factory in 2016 uncovered far fewer instances of noncompliance, testifying to a steady reduction in CSR risks. In strategic CSR, we work to identify material issues related to CSR toward enhancing our corporate value over the longer term. Material issues include eradication of discrimination and forced labor, respect for diversity, CEO Message 2 CSR Report 2016 promotion of safety and health, protection of the environment, and anti­corruption. While we address these challenges faced by global society in response to customer demand, our efforts in strategic CSR endeavor to go further and recognize global CSR challenges. We believe this initiative will help us grow into a company that our stakeholders will feel safe in choosing, and that it will help us create even more business opportunities. Strengthening Corporate Governance Recognizing corporate governance as a top management priority, we strive to ensure transparency and fairness in our business activities, thereby promoting prompt and resolute decision­making and enhancing our corporate value over the long term. In 2008, we adopted the corporate officer system to segregate the strategy formulation and management oversight functions of the Board of Directors from the business execution function of corporate officers. And since 2007, we make active efforts to appoint independent directors to ensure transparency and fairness in our business activities, and formulate strategies and practice management oversight drawing on the insight of the independent directors. Following the election of one additional outside director in June 2016, independent directors account for 50% of our Board of Directors. In October 2015, we formulated and disclosed a Corporate Governance Policy, presenting our approach to improving management transparency and fortifying corporate governance toward achieving sustainable growth and enhancing our corporate value. In a follow­up to this move, we established a Nomination and Remuneration Committee for drawing on the insight of independent directors to ensure objectivity and fairness in the nomination and remuneration of directors. Further, we launched efforts to evaluate the effectiveness of our Board of Directors once a year with the aim of improving its functions. In Closing From the 1990s onward, since Nissha operations expanded into the global arena, we have continued in our pursuit of customer satisfaction while aspiring to be a truly global company. Moving forward, we recognize that facing up to the challenges of global society is vital to our efforts in sustainable management. The United Nations adopted a set of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in September 2015, calling for all sectors around the world to contribute to the achievement of sustainability. In addition to this, we at Nissha believe it is important to listen to our stakeholders at all times and reflect your voice in our business activities. We hope you will give CSR Report 2016 a read and offer us your candid views and advice. We look forward to your continued guidance and encouragement in the future. June 2016 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board CEO Message 3 CSR Report 2016 Nissha’s CSR Approach to CSR Toward Realizing Our Corporate Mission The Nissha Group’s CSR is to realize our corporate mission of “pursuing a mutually trustful Co­existence with society through our business activities utilizing a unique technology development, based on Printing as a core.” As a specific means to realize this corporate mission, our brand statement “Empowering Your Vision” expresses the ideal relationship of co­existence between Nissha and our stakeholders—a relationship in which we mutually affect each other toward realizing our respective visions. Basic CSR and Strategic CSR We define the target areas of our CSR activities as basic CSR and strategic CSR. In basic CSR, we strive to reduce CSR risks by promoting compliance with the global code of conduct provided by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) as well as with customer demand. In strategic CSR, we work to enhance our corporate value over the medium to long term by determining material issues and promoting initiatives to resolve them. Management by CSR Committee In April 2015 we organized a CSR Committee, chaired by the president, with eight subcommittees dedicated to areas such as labor and human rights, the environment, safety and health, and corporate ethics and compliance. In addition to convening once a year, the CSR Committee conducts management reviews, and reports and offers suggestions to the Board of Directors. Each subcommittee operates a management system and works on its respective basic CSR topics and strategic CSR topics. The progress of activities is reported as needed to its secretariat. Initiatives related to strategic CSR topics, in particular, are included in Monthly Business Review (MBR) reports for steady execution as more pertinent management issues. The CSR Committee convenes once a year in the presence of the president, and members centering on the secretariat conduct management reviews. Activities for Stakeholders We identify the stakeholders that support Nissha operations as our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, and society. Toward realizing our corporate mission, we incorporate the voice of our stakeholders into business activities that contribute to a sustainable society. Both we and our stakeholders have a clear vision, and we mutually affect each other toward realizing it. Our aim is to work together and create value for the future. ＊Nissha’s corporate mission and brand statement can be viewed here. Corporate Philosophy and Nissha Brand http://www.nissha.com/english/company/philosophy.html Nissha’s CSR 4 CSR Report 2016 CSR Management The CSR Committee convenes once a year in the presence of the president. Members centering on the secretariat conduct management reviews, reporting important matters and offering suggestions to the Board of Directors. In fiscal year 2016, having approved the initiatives of each subcommittee, the CSR Committee identified material issues, deliberated on matters such as expansion of women’s participation in business and business continuity plan (BCP) in MBR throughout the year, and managed the progress of activities. The results of the year­end MBR were reported to the Board of Directors. The individual subcommittees of the CSR Committee, as a rule, build and operate a management system. Quality, Environmental, Information Security, and other subcommittees that already have ISO certification are working to make continuous improvements and enhance performance. Following a CSR audit conducted by our customers in fiscal year 2015, the Corporate Ethics and Compliance, and Labor and Human Rights subcommittees started operating a management system in fiscal year 2016. In the three years from fiscal year 2016 covered by the Fifth Medium­term Business Plan, we will build and operate management systems based on the EICC Code of Conduct throughout the Nissha Group including overseas bases and at major suppliers. CSR Committee Organization Chart (Fiscal Year 2017) CSR Committee Members Committee Chair: President and CEO Vice Chair: Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Vice President, Senior Director of Human Resources, General Affairs and Legal Affairs Committee members: Heads of subcommittees, general managers of business units, and heads of subcommittee secretariats Secretary General: Senior Director of Corporate Communications Secretariat: Corporate Social Responsibility Subcommittee Secretariats Corporate Ethics and Compliance Subcommittee: Corporate Legal Affairs Business Continuity Planning Subcommittee: Corporate General Affairs Labor and Human Rights Subcommittee: Corporate Human Resources and Employee Benefits Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee: Corporate General Affairs Information Security Subcommittee: Corporate Information Technology and Management Trade Administration and Control Subcommittee: Corporate Supply Chain Management Quality Subcommittee: Total Quality Management Office Customer Satisfaction Improvement Subcommittee: Total Quality Management Office Nissha’s CSR 5 CSR Report 2016 Nissha’s CSR Materiality In order to realize co­existence with society and enhance our corporate value over the medium to long term, we strive to identify and prioritize material issues related to CSR. Individual topics are measured for impact on our stakeholders and impact on Nissha, those with high impact on both are identified as material issues, and initiatives are led by the relevant subcommittee of the CSR Committee. Identification of Material Issues We use as reference the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which requires identification of material issues with impact on the company and its stakeholders, and reporting on the process of identification and the status of initiatives. At Nissha, the CSR Committee led efforts to identify material issues in fiscal year 2016, and each subcommittee set targets and started working toward them since fiscal year 2017. The process of identifying material issues is given in the table below. Process for Identification of Material Issues Step 1 Topics with an impact on Nissha and on our supply chain are extracted, Identify topics consulting the 46 Aspects of the GRI G4 guidelines. Individual topics from Step 1 are measured for impact on our stakeholders and Step 2 impact on Nissha, and plotted on an analysis map. Topics are prioritized based Prioritize on the degree of impact. Topics are validated from the standpoint of our stakeholders based on Step 3 evaluation by outside experts as well as interviews with three independent Validate directors. Materiality is determined with approval from the CSR Committee. For priority Step 4 initiatives, key performance indicators (KPI) are set for each subcommittee. Determine materiality Material issues will be reviewed in management reviews in FY2017, and the results will be reflected in initiatives in the following year onward. Assessment of 46 Aspects Nissha’s CSR 6 CSR Report 2016 Boundaries of Material Aspects Boundaries Categories Aspects Inside of Suppliers Nissha Group Energy ● Emissions ● ● Effluents and Waste ● ● Environmental Compliance (Environmental) ● ● Transport ● Supplier Environmental ● ● Assessment Employment ● ● Occupational Health and Safety ● ● Labor Practices and Training and Education ● ● Decent Work Diversity and Equal Opportunity ● ● Supplier Assessment for Labor ● ● Practices Non­discrimination ● ● Forced or Compulsory Labor ● ● Human Rights Social Supplier Human Rights ● ● Assessment Anti­corruption ● ● Compliance (Society) ● ● Society Supplier Assessment for Impacts ● ● on Society Customer Privacy ● ● Product Responsibility Compliance (Product ● ● Responsibility) Material Issues and Subcommittee Responsible Material Issues Subcommittee Compliance *1 Corporate Ethics and Compliance Subcommittee Non­discrimination Forced or Compulsory Labor Diversity and Equal Opportunity Labor and Human Rights Subcommittee Training and Education Employment Occupational Health and Safety Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee Effluents and Waste Energy Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee Emissions Transport Nissha’s CSR 7 CSR Report 2016 Customer Privacy Information Security Subcommittee Anti­corruption CSR Committee Secretariat (cross­sectoral Supplier Assessment *2 approach) *1 Compliance (Environmental), Compliance (Society) and Compliance (Product Responsibility) are summarized in Compliance. *2 Supplier Environmental Assessment, Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices, Supplier Human Rights Assessment and Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society are summarized in Supplier Assessment. Nissha's Stakeholders We identify the stakeholders that support Nissha operations as our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, and society. Toward realizing our corporate mission, we incorporate the voice of our stakeholders into business activities that contribute to a sustainable society. Both we and our stakeholders have a clear vision, and we mutually affect each other toward realizing it. Our aim is to work together and create value for the future. Nissha’s Circle of Trust Customers Nissha’s businesses—Industrial Materials, Devices, Life Innovation, and Information and Communication—serve customers, centering on companies, spanning a broad range of fields. We approach challenges seriously from the standpoint of our customers, resolve issues together, and offer optimal solutions. With a quality control system in place, we seek to produce quality products and services that win our customers’ satisfaction. ◆Communication channels Marketing activities in daily operations Activities to enhance customer satisfaction Information provided about CSR reviews Information provided about conflict minerals Products and services provided by website Supplier responsibility (SR) audits by customers Shareholders We have a total of 45,029,493 outstanding shares and 8,048 shareholders. In a breakdown of shareholders by type, 30.7% are Japanese financial institutions and securities firms, 23.7% other Japanese corporations, 15.8% Japanese individuals and others, 25.1% foreign institutions and individuals, and 4.7% treasury stock (as of the end of March 2016). In addition to disclosing information, we create opportunities to meet directly and exchange dialogue with our shareholders and investors through IR events and one­on­one briefings. Feedback and comments are reported regularly from IR representatives to management as well as at Board of Nissha’s CSR 8 CSR Report 2016 Directors meetings, and used as a valuable resource for enhancing our corporate value. ◆Communication channels Shareholders’ meetings Management briefings following shareholders’ meetings Financial results presentations and teleconferences for institutional investors One­on­one briefings for institutional investors Response to individual inquiries Various materials (reports) published for shareholders and investors IR information provided via the Nissha website Information for socially responsible investment (SRI) screening companies Employees The Nissha Group has 4,034 employees. In a breakdown by region, 64.6% work in Japan, 15.0% in Asia, 12.0% in North America, 5.0% in Europe, and 3.4% in South America (as of the end of March 2016). We promote the creation of safe, comfortable workplaces and offer support for diverse work styles, respecting our employees’ human rights diversity from a global perspective. We at Nissha believe our employees are our most important management resources, and aim to achieve growth for both the company and our employees. ◆Communication channels Labor­management meetings Safety and health committees Workplace improvement committee Education and training Personnel evaluation and interviews Hotline (for reporting to within and outside the company) Harassment and mental health counseling Awareness questionnaires and interviews Suppliers Nissha’s global operations revolve around procurement activities and engagement with a large number of suppliers. We strive to build partnerships of co­existence and co­prosperity with our suppliers, and create corporate value founded on integrity. We seek to evaluate our suppliers fairly, impartially, and comprehensively at all times, and promote CSR procurement. ◆Communication channels Procurement activities in daily operations CSR procurement briefings ESG check sheets CSR procurement and auditing In­house exhibitions and seminars themed around supplier products and technologies Society The Nissha Group has 14 bases in Japan and 27 overseas, each of which carries out business activities with respect for the culture and climate of the region in which it operates. We aim for widespread co­existence based on relationships of mutual trust with society. We promote communication with local communities not only to fulfill our basic responsibilities as a corporation but also to be a company that is needed by society. We strive to be aware of global social issues and play a role in resolving them. ◆Communication channels Exchange events with community councils and community people Factory and facility tours Cleanup activities in factory areas Next­generation support activities Support and promotion of arts and culture Social contribution activities in collaboration with NPOs Employees’ participation in volunteer activities Nissha’s CSR 9 CSR Report 2016 External Assessment Major examples of external assessment in fiscal year 2016 are given below (Nissha Group in Japan). Date Certification/award Company/base Details Awards are presented by Kyoto Prefecture annually since 1957 to “promote the significance of invention and ingenuity, encourage developments in science and technology, and increase motivation for invention and 59th Kyoto Prefectural Award for Distinguished ingenuity.” Apr. 2015 Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Services in Invention Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. received the award for the invention of transfer foil used in simultaneous plastic injection molding and decoration that eliminates the need to remove soil and metal from the decorated surface and repair the mold. To reinforce our trade management system, Nissha obtained approval from Osaka Customs as an AEO June 2015 AEO Importer approval Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Importer, under the Authorized Economic Operator program. The convention is held annually to raise awareness of FY2016 Hyogo Prefectural Convention for Safety of safety concerning hazardous materials, promote Hazardous Materials Nitec Precision and voluntary establishment of safety systems, and prevent June 2015 Hyogo Association for Safety of Hazardous Materials Technologies, Inc. (NPT) accidents involving hazardous materials. NPT Himeji Representative Director’s Award (Excellent Place of Himeji Factory Factory won recognition for safety management at Business) facilities that handle hazardous materials and activities to prevent accidents. Aerial Switch, a wireless device developed by Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. that can be positioned freely without a power line, won a Good Design Award 2015, hosted by the Japan Institute for Design Promotion. Oct. 2015 Good Design Award Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Aerial Switch functions on minimum electricity such as that generated by solar panels. It won recognition for eliminating the need for residential wiring and thus enabling placement on glass walls. Awards are presented by the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation annually since 1921 to “honor engineers and researchers responsible for excellent inventions, ideas, or designs.” Oct. 2015 FY2016 Kinki Regional Award for Invention Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. received the award for the invention of transfer foil used in simultaneous plastic injection molding and decoration that eliminates the need to remove soil and metal from the decorated surface and repair the mold. Medals are presented by the Japanese Red Cross Society to individuals and organizations that are long­ term contributors to blood donation activities. Nissha Nov. 2015 Japanese Red Cross Society Gold Medal for Merit Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Printing Co., Ltd. was recognized for organizing in­ house blood drives once a year as well as providing donations on a continuous basis. The convention is held annually to promote traffic safety, enhance community comfort, and eradicate FY2016 Ishikawa Prefectural Residents’ Traffic Safety Nitec Precision and traffic accidents. NPT Kaga Factory was recognized for Nov. 2015 Convention Technologies, Inc. (NPT) volunteering services as crossing guards at Kaga City Excellent Traffic Safety Place of Business Kaga Factory Miki Elementary School during the spring and autumn national traffic safety campaigns. Kurumin certification is granted to companies that meet Kurumin certification as next­generation supportive Nissha Business Service Co., certain requirements and that formulate and implement Nissha’s CSR 10 CSR Report 2016 Jan. 2016 company Ltd. (NBS) an action plan for supporting employees engaged in child­rearing. NBS was recognized for efforts to support balance between work and child­rearing. 57th National Catalog Contest: 7 awards including • Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry—Commerce and Information Policy Bureau Director­General’s Award (Gold Prize, Category 1) A total of 10 catalogs and calendars printed by Nissha • Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry Printing Co., Ltd. won awards in the 57th National Jan. 2016 Chairman’s Award (Silver Prize, Category 1) Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Catalog Contest and the 67th National Calendar • Fuji Sankei Business­i Award (Silver Prize, Category Contest, co­hosted by the Japan Federation of Printing 2) Industries and Japan Printing News Co., Ltd. 67th National Calendar Contest: 3 awards including • Japan Federation of Printing Industries Award (Gold Prize, Category 2) A list of ISO certificates obtained is given below (Nissha Group in Japan as of the end of March 2015). ISO Standards Subject Areas ISO9001 ISO/TS16949 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 ISO27001 Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Global Headquarters ○ *1 ○ *2 ○ Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Tokyo Division Headquarters ○ *1 ○ Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Kameoka Logistics Center ○ ○ Nitec Industries, Inc. Koka Factory ○ ○ ○ Nitec Industries, Inc. Tsu Factory ○ Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. Himeji Factory ○ ○ ○ Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. Kaga Factory ○ ○ ○ Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. Kyoto Factory ○ ○ FIS Inc. ○ ○ Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. Headquarters / Kyoto ○ *1 ○ Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. Tokyo Division ○ *1 ○ Headquarters Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. Osaka Division ○ *1 ○ Headquarters Nissha F8, Inc. ○ *3 ○ Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. Headquarters / Kyoto Factory ○ ○ Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. Yachiyo Factory ○ ○ ○ Nissha Business Service Co., Ltd. ○ ○ ○ Eimo Technologies, Inc. ○ ○ PMX Technologies, S.A. de C.V. ○ AR Metallizing N.V. – Genk, Belgium ○ AR Metallizing Srl. ­ Casalgrasso, Italy ○ Málaga Produtos Metalizados Ltda.­ Osasco, Brazil ○ ○ ○ Nissha (Kunshan) Precision IMD Mold Co., Ltd. ○ ○ Guangzhou Nissha High Precision Plastics Co., Ltd. ○ ○ Nissha’s CSR 11 CSR Report 2016 Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd. ○ ○ ○ *1. Management divisions are excluded from the scope of certification. *2. Only management divisions and engineering and development divisions have obtained certification. *3. Only the Kyoto site has obtained certification. United Nations Global Compact On April 3, 2012, Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. joined the United Nations Global Compact. The Global Compact is a voluntary initiative based on 10 principles in the area of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti­corruption. Its purpose is to have various companies show responsible and creative leadership, and thereby act as good members of society and participate in creating a global framework for sustainable growth. Signatory companies are required to express within and outside the company the commitment of top management, establish a CSR framework, make continuous improvements aiming for higher levels of management and CSR, and submit annual reports on the status and results of activities in the format of a Communication on Progress (COP). At Nissha, we have in place various targets based on the 10 principles of the Global Compact and work daily toward achieving them with an eye to meeting the needs of global society. We disclose information about our activities in CSR reports, published on the Nissha website. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti­Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Website: United Nations Global Compact http://www.unglobalcompact.org Nissha’s CSR 12 CSR Report 2016 Corporate Philosophy and Brand Corporate Philosophy Nissha has integrated our standards of thought, rules of conduct, and corporate mission—positioned at the apex—into a Corporate Philosophy for disseminating across the Nissha Group. Corporate Mission We are committed to pursuing a mutually trustful Co­existence with society through our business activities utilizing a unique technology development, based on Printing as a core. Nissha Brand Corporate Logo NISSHA is our corporate logo and core visual symbol. Our corporate color is a vivid blue, and expresses strength, leadership, and innovation. Nissha Group All Nissha Group companies share the same Nissha Brand. Corporate Philosophy and Brand 13 CSR Report 2016 Brand Statement “Empowering Your Vision” expresses the relationship of Co­existence between Nissha and our stakeholders. Both we and our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, and society have visions, and we mutually affect each other toward realizing it. We maximize our capabilities driven by our technology, passion, and leadership, and with the energy infused in us by our stakeholders, together create value for the future. Brand Chart The “Empowering Your Vision” brand symbol is inspired by the ubiquitous presence of the Fibonacci sequence in nature, such as the spiral patterns of flowers and shells. The design represents the expansion of Nissha capabilities, of the visions we realize, of the new values we create. This chart expresses our ideals of Co­ existence between Nissha and our stakeholders—a relationship in which each draws the other nearer while together we unlock a world of possibilities. Shared Values Growth Based on Customer Satisfaction We create new value for our customers and transform it into a driver of growth. Commitment to Results We set challenging goals for ourselves and deliver results. Magnify Leadership We exhibit leadership and resolve difficulties regardless of division or position. Diverse Capabilities We respect diversity that enhances our organizational capabilities and drives growth. Sustainability Through Integrity We value individual dignity and conduct fair business as a global corporate citizen. Corporate Philosophy and Brand 14 CSR Report 2016 Organizational Governance We established a Corporate Governance Policy toward fulﬁlling our social responsibility, achieving sustainable growth, and enhancing our corporate value. We make continuous eﬀorts to improve management transparency and fortify corporate governance. Organizational Governance 15 CSR Report 2016 Corporate Governance Strengthening corporate governance is a key management priority. We are working to build and improve a structure for enhancing transparency and ensuring fairness in our business activities, and promoting the reinforcement of internal controls. Basic Approach to Corporate Governance Since the company’s founding, Nissha continues to execute strategies that accurately address changes in the business environment under the leadership of a strong management. We believe that fortifying corporate governance under this strong leadership promotes swift, bold decision­making and ensures transparency and fairness in our business activities. We recognize corporate governance as a top management priority and strive to maintain and improve our structure toward realizing sustainable growth and enhancing our corporate value over the medium to long term. In an effort to clarify the Nissha Group’s basic approach to and policy for implementing corporate governance, in October 2015 we established a Corporate Governance Policy. Corporate Governance Policy (October 30, 2015)[156.5KB] Corporate Governance 16 CSR Report 2016 Overview of Corporate Governance We have established a corporate governance structure as shown in the figure below. Corporate Governance Structure The Company's Board of Directors makes major business judgments and oversees the execution of the duties of the Directors, and as a company with an Audit and Supervisory Board, will strive to maintain and improve the oversight and checking functions by Audit and Supervisory Board Members and an Audit and Supervisory Board which are independent from the Board of Directors. The Company adopts a corporate officer system in an effort to clarify the powers and authority in the speedy decision making and the implementation of decisions, under which the Board of Directors will be in charge of the formulation of strategies and business oversight, and the Corporate Officers will be in charge of the execution of business. In addition, the Company establishes a Nomination and Remuneration Committee as an advisory panel for the Board of Directors. The President and CEO organize three meetings, namely the Management Meetings, Monthly Business Review (MBR), and Investment Committee, in order to implement appropriate and effective business execution. The Management Meetings include Inside Directors as core members and deliberate on matters relating to the direction of important managerial issues within the scope of the President’s authority. The MBR is a meeting to determine the progress of business strategies based on KPI (Key Performance Indicators) and what actions to take over the short term. The purpose of the MBR is to oversee business execution by the Corporate Officers and to quickly respond to changes in the business environment. The Investment Committee reviews particularly important investment matters prior to submitting to the Board of Directors for approval. The Board of Directors has formulated the Policy for Internal Control and supervises establishment and operation of the internal control system based on this Policy to enhance management oversight functions and ensure effective business execution. We have in place a CSR Committee and a Disclosure Control Committee, both chaired by the President, as organizations for demonstrating leadership in dealing with risks to legal and appropriate business execution. Internal Audit, under the direct control of the President, conducts audits to ensure that activities of the Nissha Group including these committees are carried out appropriately and efficiently. Directors and the Board of Directors Our Board of Directors, currently consisting of eight members, makes important management decisions and receives reporting on and oversees the execution of business activities. The Board of Directors convenes for regular meetings once a month and for extraordinary meetings as needed. The meetings are chaired by the President and kept dynamic through brisk, substantive discussions. To ensure that the Board of Directors fulfills its role of making important management decisions and overseeing Corporate Governance 17 CSR Report 2016 business execution by directors and corporate officers, we nominate directors taking into consideration diversity and balance between the knowledge, experience, and skills of the individual. Of our eight directors, four are independent directors with one being a woman (independent director account for 50% of the board, and women 12.5%). These independent directors draw on their insight into the fields of corporate management, corporate governance, management strategy, business strategy, IT, and macroeconomics to provide accurate advice and opinions, contributing to the enhancement of management transparency as well as of the board’s oversight functions. We consider that the four Independent Directors satisfy Standards for Independence Standards for Independent Directors and Audit and Supervisory Board Members prescribed by us and standards for independence of outside officers stipulated in the “Guidelines concerning Listed Company Compliance, etc.” by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, hence they have sufficient independence and there is no risk of conflict of interest with general shareholders. Therefore, we have designated them as Independent Officers. To respond flexibly to changes in the management environment and to promote the clarification of management responsibility for each fiscal year, the term of office of a Director has been set at one year. In April 2016, we launched efforts to evaluate the effectiveness of our Board of Directors. A questionnaire covering board meetings held in FY2016 was distributed to all directors and audit and supervisory board members. The Board of Directors then analyzed and assessed the results, identified issues, and set out to address these issues toward further improving the effectiveness of the board of directors. We have established a policy to check for transactions between the company and interested parties such as directors, audit and supervisory board members, corporate officers, and their relatives. In the event any material fact exists, the Board of Directors duly deliberate on the justifiability of the transaction and resolve the matter. The company is required to obtain approval from the Board of Directors when engaging in transactions with a director that present a conflict of interest as prescribed by laws and regulations. Nomination and Remuneration Committee We have in place a Nomination and Remuneration Committee as an advisory panel for the Board of Directors to ensure objectivity and fairness in the nomination of directors and audit and supervisory board members, and in determining remuneration of directors. The chairman and at least half of the members are selected from independent directors. With consultation from the Board of Directors, the committee deliberates on and provides a response regarding 1) criteria for nominating directors and audit and supervisory board members as well as policies for determining remuneration of directors, and 2) proposals for director and audit and supervisory board member candidates as well as remuneration of directors. Audit and Supervisory Board Members and the Audit and Supervisory Board Our Audit and Supervisory Board, currently consisting of four members, determines the duties of Audit and Supervisory Board Members, the audit structure, and the audit standards that describe the evaluation basis for audits and the action guidelines. In accordance with these, the Board develops auditing policies and Nissha Group's Corporate Governance auditing plans. Complying with these, each member attends the meetings of the Board of Directors and other important meetings, reviews approval documents and other important documents, performs visiting audits at major offices and affiliated companies, and conducts audits by exchanging opinions regularly with the President and CEO, Directors, and General Managers. The Board holds regular meetings with the Accounting Auditor, Internal Audit, and corporate division including the Corporate Finance and Corporate Legal Affairs to closely cooperate with each other and increase the audits’ efficiency. In addition, the Board regularly holds the Group Meeting of Audit and Supervisory Board Members, consisting of full­time Audit and Supervisory Board Members of the Company and Audit and Supervisory Board Members of its affiliated companies, in order to strengthen and enhance audits throughout the whole Nissha Group. We nominate Audit and Supervisory Board Members taking into consideration the individual’s knowledge of financial matters, accounting, and legal affairs. Of four members, two are full­time Audit and Supervisory Board Members, and the others are Independent Audit and Supervisory Board Members. We aim to maintain and improve the corporate governance structure by appointing certified public accountants or attorneys as Independent Audit and Supervisory Board Members and utilizing their highly professional knowledge for audits. We consider that the two Independent Audit and Supervisory Board Members satisfy Standards for Independence Standards for Independent Directors, and Audit and Supervisory Board Members prescribed by us and standards for independence of outside officers stipulated in the “Guidelines concerning Listed Company Compliance, etc.” by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, hence and they have sufficient independence and there is no risk of conflict of interest with general shareholders. Therefore, we have designated them as Independent Officers. Officers Remuneration Remuneration for the Officers is determined within the upper limit of total remuneration approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders (not exceeding \430 million in total for the Directors and \60 million in total for the Audit and Supervisory Board Members per year). Corporate Governance 18 CSR Report 2016 Remuneration of Directors and Audit and Supervisory Board Members Remuneration of directors consists of basic compensation and bonuses determined by the Board of Directors. Basic compensation is set according to the individual’s position and the significance of his or her role, and reflects evaluation of the individual’s degree of contribution and performance. Bonuses are based on consolidated business results (net sales, operating margin, performance of the business for which the individual is responsible, etc.) in the relevant fiscal year, and reflect evaluation of the level of target achievement. Remuneration of independent directors consists of basic compensation only, based on factors such as the individual’s career. Remuneration linked to business results is not provided, as the role of independent directors is separated from business execution. In addition to this, we are set to introduce a stock compensation plan called the Board Benefit Trust (BBT) for directors excluding independent directors. The resolution was approved at the 97th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, held on June 17, 2016. The BBT is a system linked to business results in which Nissha shares are acquired through a trust using funds contributed by Nissha, and these shares are paid to directors through the trust in accordance with a Policy on Directors’ Stock Compensation established by the Board of Directors. By further clarifying the link between directors’ compensation and the value of the company’s shares, and having our directors experience together with our shareholders not only the benefits of a rise but also the risks of a decline in share prices, the system aims to increase awareness in directors of the importance of improving business results and enhancing the Nissha corporate value over the medium to long term. The system starts in September 2016. Policies regarding the compensation plan above are determined by the Board of Directors in consultation with the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, in which the chairman and at least half of the members are selected from independent directors and which serves as an advisory panel for the Board of Directors to ensure objectivity and fairness. Remuneration for Audit and Supervisory Board Members is determined through discussions among Audit and Supervisory Board Members within the upper limit of total remuneration approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders. Remuneration by Category(Million yen) Total Number of Title Remuneration Basic Board Members (Million yen) Bonuses Compensation Directors (Excluding 202 141 60 4 Independent Directors) Audit&Supervisory Board Members(Excluding 27 27 ­ 2 Independent Audit and Supervisory Members) Independent Directors and Independent 36 36 ­ 6 Audit and Supervisory Board Members Total Remuneration and Number of Board Members (FY2016) Corporate Officers At present we have 17 corporate officers, each appointed taking into consideration diversity in order to flexibly adapt to changes in the business environment. Seven of the corporate officers have work experience outside the Nissha Group, and one is a foreign national. The term of office of corporate offices is for one year. Corporate Governance 19 CSR Report 2016 Internal Control System Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. builds and operates an internal control system in accordance with a Policy for Internal Control formulated by the Board of Directors. The system is designed to ensure that the duties of each internal organization are carried out legally, appropriately, and e ﬃ ciently toward enhancing our corporate value. To ensure reliability of ﬁnancial reporting, we submit the assessment results of our internal control system in the form of internal control reports to the Prime Minister of Japan and disclose the contents to our shareholders and investors. Policy for Internal Control Pursuant to the Companies Act and the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act, the Company shall establish systems to ensure the properness of operations (hereinafter referred to as “Internal Control”) of the group consisting of the Company and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the “Nissha Group”) as follows: 1. Systems necessary to ensure that the execution of duties by Directors, Members of the Board and employees of the Nissha Group complies with laws and regulations and the Company’s articles of incorporation (i) The Company shall establish a “Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance” and “Code of Conduct” based on its corporate mission and Shared Values so as to comply with laws and social ethics from a global point of view. (ii) The Company shall establish a Corporate Ethics and Compliance Subcommittee under “Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance” to carry out monitoring and educational activities to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, the Company’s articles of incorporation and social norms. In addition, the Company shall appoint a Manager and Leader in charge of promotion in each business unit of the Nissha Group to establish a structure for promoting Corporate Ethics and Compliance. An “in­house reporting system” shall be established and operated, through which employees may provide information directly to the Company, while due measures are taken for the protection whistleblowers. (iii) The Company shall elect multiple Independent Directors, Members of the Board to maintain and enhance the function of supervising the execution of duties by Directors, Members of the Board. In addition, the Company shall establish a Nomination and Remuneration Committee as an advisory panel for the Board of Directors of the Company in order to ensure the objectiveness and fairness of the nomination of Directors, Members of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members as well as the remuneration of the Directors, Members of the Board. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall be chaired by an Independent Director, Member of the Board and the majority of its members shall be Independent Directors, Members of the Board. (iv) The Internal Audit Division, which is under the direct control of the President and Representative Director, shall analyze and evaluate the state of the establishment and operations of an Internal Control system, propose an improvement plan, and enrich the system. (v) The Company shall set a basic policy to counter antisocial forces, shall not have any relationship with antisocial forces, and shall not respond to any unreasonable demands with a resolute attitude in compliance with the Regulations regarding antisocial forces, and the Nissha Group shall strive for thorough implementation of the same. 2. Systems regarding the retention and management of information relating to the execution of duties by Directors, Members of the Board (i) The Company shall retain and manage information regarding execution of duties by Directors Members of the Board, including the minutes of the General Meetings of Shareholders, the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and the requests for managerial decision, properly and with certainty pursuant to the laws and regulations and in­house regulations on information management, and the information shall be maintained in a condition which can be inspected. (ii) The Company shall disclose important information on the Nissha Group timely and properly by establishing a Disclosure Control Committee which shall discuss the necessity of timely disclosure of corporate information and the contents of disclosure. 3. Rules and other systems for risk management of the Nissha Group (i) The Company shall formulate the Basic Policy for Risk Management to specify the Nissha Group’s initiatives in risk management. (ii) The Company shall respond to the risk of managerial losses by organizing company­wide and cross­ organizational subcommittees to manage the issues of corporate ethics and compliance, BCP, labor and human Corporate Governance 20 CSR Report 2016 rights, environment and safety, information security, trade control, product quality, and improved customer satisfaction under the CSR Committee led by the President and CEO, Chairman of the Board as the acting Committee Chairman. (iii) Each subcommittee and the superintending division shall establish a management policy, rules, etc.; determine risk analysis, risk assessment, and related measures; conduct daily monitoring activities; and report the results of reviews to the CSR Committee. 4. Systems necessary to ensure the efficient execution of the duties by Directors, Members of the Board of the Nissha Group (i) Through introduction of the corporate officer system, the Company shall establish functional segregation between strategy development and management monitoring functions to be undertaken by the Board of Directors and business executive functions to be undertaken by the Corporate Officers. (ii) The Board of Directors of the Company shall approve medium­term business plans, and the Directors, Members of the Board and employees shall execute operations based on such strategic and performance plans. (iii) The President and CEO, Chairman of the Board shall request the Corporate Officers to report the status of their execution of business and confirm whether or not the business is executed according to the plans at a monthly meeting (MBR: Monthly Business Review). (iv) The Company shall share the status of execution of business by the Corporate Officers and the strategy implementation items to be undertaken by the organization through the use of IT to improve business efficiency. 5. Systems necessary to ensure the proper business operation of the Nissha Group (i) The Company shall formulate the Affiliated Company Management Regulations to set basic administration policy for each company of the Nissha Group. In addition, the Company shall manage the performance of important operations of each company of the Nissha Group by designating matters requiring approval of and reporting to the Company with regard to the execution of those operations in the Regulations on Requests for Managerial Decisions. (ii) The Company shall appoint its officers or employees to become Directors, Members of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members of each company of the Nissha Group in order to ensure the proper execution of operations. (iii) The corporate division shall manage the proper execution of operations at each company of the Nissha Group and lead and counsel it, as necessary. (iv) The Company shall periodically convene the Group Audit & Supervisory Board meeting for the exchange of information among the Audit & Supervisory Board Members of the Nissha Group and strive to improve and strengthen the audits for each company of the Nissha Group. 6. Matters regarding employees assisting the duties of Audit & Supervisory Board Members, when Audit & Supervisory Board Members ask for appointment of such employees, and matters regarding the independence of such employees from Directors, Members of the Board (i) The Company shall establish an Auditor & Supervisory Board Member’s Office to assist the duties of Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and shall arrange for employees to be exclusively assigned to the office. (ii) The Auditor & Supervisory Board Member’s Office shall belong to the Audit & Supervisory Board and be independent of Directors, Members of the Board. With regard to matters regarding the personnel affairs of the employees of the Auditor & Supervisory Board Member’s Office, approval of the Audit & Supervisory Board shall be obtained through consultation. 7. Systems for reporting to Audit & Supervisory Board Members by Directors, Members of the Board and employees of the Nissha Group and other systems regarding reporting to Audit & Supervisory Board Members Directors, Members of the Board and employees of the Nissha Group shall quickly report to the Audit & Supervisory Board items that have a serious influence on the Nissha Group, the status of risk management, the results of internal audits, the status of internal reports and the details of such reports, etc. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members of the Company shall request the Directors, Members of the Board and employees of the Nissha Group to report the same as necessary. In addition, whistleblowers shall not be treated disadvantageously in any way whatsoever as a consequence of such reporting. 8. Other systems necessary to ensure the effective audit by Audit & Supervisory Board Members (i) The regular meetings for exchanges of opinions between the President and CEO, Chairman of the Board, Directors, Members of the Board and the Audit & Supervisory Board shall be held. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members shall also set up regular meetings with the Accounting Auditor, Internal Audit Divisions and corporate division to cooperate with them closely. (ii) The Audit & Supervisory Board Members shall attend not only the meetings of the Board of Directors, but Corporate Governance 21 CSR Report 2016 also other important meetings (MBR: Monthly Business Review, etc.), and express their opinions as necessary. In addition, they shall also examine the requests for managerial decision and other important documents. (iii) The Company shall ensure objectivity and effectiveness of audits through Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members, including those who have considerable knowledge concerning finance and accounting or legal affairs, such as a certified public accountant or an attorney, etc. (iv) The Company shall bear expenses necessary for the execution of duties by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. If an Audit & Supervisory Board Member requests the Company to make an advance payment of such expenses pursuant to laws and regulations, the Company shall promptly comply with the request upon confirmation . Risk Management With a risk management policy in place to clarify our approach, we promote risk management to counter risks that may have a significant impact on our business activities, and to be fully prepared in the event an emergency does occur. Having organized a CSR Committee chaired by the President and CEO and defined risks that require addressing as “any thing or situation that hinders Nissha’s implementation of the corporate mission,” since fiscal year 2016 we are working to reduce all conceivable risks associated with business processes, including those related to disasters, accidents, and compliance, as well as to appropriately cope with risks that have surfaced. The CSR Committee consists of eight subcommittees—Labor and Human Rights, Corporate Ethics and Compliance, Business Continuity Planning (BCP), Environmental, Safety and Health, Information Security, Trade Administration and Control, Quality, and Customer Satisfaction Improvement—each of which operates a management system from the viewpoints of basic CSR and strategic CSR. In the area of crisis management, we have in place a set of Emergency Response Regulations stipulating that we set up a group­wide response task force headed by the President and CEO in the event of a serious interruption of business due to emergency over a certain level, such as a large earthquake or new global influenza epidemic. Furthermore, we promoted activities to enhance employee awareness about the general rules for action and response in an earthquake, such as stockpiling supplies at major bases in Japan, distributing “survival cards” listing information about what to expect and do should an earthquake strike to all officers and employees of the Nissha Group in Japan, and conducting emergency drills. For the purpose of ensuring business continuity and maximum service to our customers, securing the safety of our employees and their families, and contributing to the restoration of communities and of society at large, we conduct desktop simulation exercises aimed at verifying the effectiveness of our BCP. In fiscal year 2016, we began formulating a Basic Plan for Business Continuity Management, and under the slogan “BCP in Action” conducted training and business impact assessment (BIA) for management and divisions that are a potential bottleneck to BCP. Risk Management Policy The Nissha Group strives to accurately identify the risks we face, avoid unexpected loss, and appropriately control risks, thereby ensuring business continuity and enhancing our corporate value toward realizing a mutually trustful Co­existence with our stakeholders. 1. We build and maintain a structure for responding to the various risks present in our business environment. 2. We promote risk management at the managerial level toward conducting organization­wide activities and preserving management resources. 3. In the event of an emergency, such as a situation with critical managerial consequences or a natural disaster, we work to minimize damage, resume business activities as quickly as possible, and prevent recurrence while prioritizing the safety of human lives. 4. We conduct in­house training to enhance awareness of and the ability to respond to risks, and ensure that each employ takes responsible, swift, and appropriate action. 5. We periodically review our risk management structure, including this policy, and make improvements on a continuous basis to ensure effective risk management at all times. July 1, 2015 Junya Suzuki Corporate Governance 22 CSR Report 2016 President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Initiatives of Internal Audit Internal Audit, to maintain impartiality and objectivity in its functions, serves as an organization independent of business execution divisions in drawing up annual auditing plans, investigating whether business activities are carried out appropriately and efficiently, and offering advice and recommendations to internal organizations. Furthermore, it conducts follow­up audits to confirm how each finding that has surfaced through the audits is improving. The office makes reports and offers suggestions based on the results of its audits to the President and CEO at monthly meetings, and presents particularly important matters at Board of Directors’ meetings. Moreover, it holds meetings with full­time Audit and Supervisory Board Members every three months to establish mutual cooperation with the Audit and Supervisory Board. Audits in fiscal year 2016 focused on governance, compliance, and work processes at North American bases and at consolidated subsidiaries in Japan. Internal Audit, as a third party, also performed an independent assessment of financial reporting­related internal controls, including at subsidiaries that joined the Nissha Group through M&A, in accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. Corporate Governance 23 CSR Report 2016 Corporate Ethics and Compliance Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance In addition to establishing a basic guideline based on the Nissha Group’s Corporate Mission, Shared Values, and Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance, we set forth 13 important points for the purpose of appropriately executing the guideline. All executives and employees work to promote and thoroughly implement corporate ethics and compliance. Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance 1. We comply with laws, social rules and internal regulations along with high ethics, and act with common senses and responsibilities. 2. We pursue the Co­existence with the Stakeholders such as Customer, Shareholder, Supplier, Society, and Employee. 3. We will immediately report and consult with supervisors or Hotline in case we find the violation or the doubtful act against Corporate Ethics and Code of Conduct . 13 important points Relationship with Customer and Supplier 1. Free and Fair Competition 2. Prohibition of Corrupt Practices 3. Quality and Safety of Products 4. Protection of Intellectual Property 5. Appropriate Handling of Information and Resources 6. Compliance with Import/Export Regulations Relationship with Shareholder 7. Handling of Corporate Information 8. Compliance with Regulations against the Insider Trading Relationship with Society 9. Environmental Protection 10. Regional/Social Contribution 11. No Relations with Antisocial Forces Relationship with Employee 12. Respect of Human Rights 13. Safe, Healthy and Comfortable Workplace Promotion Structure and Initiatives All Nissha bases in Japan and abroad appoint managers and group leaders in charge of promoting corporate ethics and compliance. These managers and group leaders not only conduct training in their respective divisions but also implement corporate ethics and compliance through organizational management, serve as the contact for Corporate Legal Affairs in responding to specific cases, and even take on the role of consultant in their workplace. Corporate Ethics and Compliance 24 CSR Report 2016 We designate every October as corporate ethics and compliance month, during which we offer group­wide training. In fiscal year 2016, we conducted training by division tailored to the respective divisions’ duties and the bases’ laws and customs. Each division also held discussions under the major themes of respect for human rights and appropriate handling of information. Participants completed a questionnaire and were provided with feedback on the analysis results. The contents will be reflected in future training themes. For managers at overseas bases, we provided training in risk management with regard to bribery, a key issue in global compliance. For the prevention of insider trading, we cover regulations against insider trading in our regular training programs in addition to educating employees through quarterly publications on the Nissha intranet. To promote free and fair transactions, we work to enhance employee awareness of our manual on the promotion of appropriate transactions as well as our code on exchanging information with competitors. For production bases in Japan, in addition to group­wide training we organize independent sessions around the theme of respect for human rights, focusing more on workplace relationships including the issues of power harassment and sexual harassment. Corporate Ethics and Compliance Structure Corporate Ethics and Compliance 25 CSR Report 2016 Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders Our distribution of added value to stakeholders on fiscal year 2016 is given in the table below. Distribution to employees increased over the previous year due to the addition of consolidated subsidiaries. Sponsorship of events such as museum and art exhibitions are included from this year’s report, in accordance with our Basic Social Contribution Policy, for an increase in distribution to society. Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders Amount Stakeholders Description Remarks (million yen) Figures published in financial Shareholders 1,284 Dividends results Calculated by Corporate Social Responsibility, using Sum of expenses for salaries, results of the year ended Employees 6,665 wages, bonuses, and retirement March 31, 2016 (excluding benefits personnel expenses included in manufacturing costs) Creditors Figures published in financial 219 Interests (financial institutions) results Sum of taxes paid including Government agencies Figures published in financial 1,897 corporation tax, inhabitant tax, (national, local) results and enterprise tax Money and in­kind donations, provision of facilities, and employees’ volunteering Calculated by Corporate Society 63 services converted into Social Responsibility monetary value (using methods established by Nippon Keidanren) Company Figures published in financial 5,610 Amount of increase in surpluses (internal reserves) results Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders 26 CSR Report 2016 Human Rights In line with our Basic Policy on Labor and Human Rights, we observe international norms and legislation, and are working to build and operate a management system. Human Rights 27 CSR Report 2016 Human Rights Basic Policy on Labor and Human Rights We define Nissha’s principles on labor and human rights in a basic policy toward realizing our corporate mission of pursuing a “mutually trustful Co­existence with society.” The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the code of conduct provided by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) were used as reference in formulating the policy. The policy is translated from Japanese into the English, Chinese, Korean, and Malay languages for group­wide distribution. Basic Policy on Labor and Human Rights In order to realize a widespread mutually trustful co­existence with society, Nissha will observe the international norms, laws and ordinances related to human rights and labor standards and will make efforts to continually improve human rights and labor standards. 1. Child labor: We will prohibit child labor and also implement relief measures. 2. Forced labor: We will eliminate all forms of forced labor. 3. Health and safety: We will secure the health and safety of our employees and provide a hygienic workplace environment. 4. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining: We will guarantee the right to organize and the right to collective bargaining. 5. Discrimination: We will not discriminate based on a person’s age, disability, ethnic group, gender, marital status, nationality, political support, race, religion, sexual orientation, pregnancy or membership in a union. We will also not be party to this. 6. Punishment: We will not perform physical punishment or mental or physical coercion and we will not engage in verbal abuse. 7. Working hours: We will observe the laws, ordinances and labor agreements related to working hours, rest breaks and holidays. 8. Remuneration: We will observe the laws and ordinances related to the payment of appropriate wages. June 16, 2014 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. In April 2012, we joined the United Nations Global Compact, thereby declaring that we support and will make continuous efforts to practice the initiative’s 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti­corruption. We include the 10 principles in our Corporate Ethics and Code of Conduct Manual, citing “respect for human rights” as a key item. The manual is produced in the Japanese, English, and Chinese languages and distributed through regular study sessions targeting all employees. After each training session, we collect signatures from our employees confirming that they understand and will base their conduct on the contents of the manual. Building and Operation of a Management System We adhere to international norms and laws on human rights and labor standards, and strive for continuous improvements in the content of our activities. Human Rights 28 CSR Report 2016 Our Fifth Medium­term Business Plan (FY2016–FY2018) promotes the building of a structure for compliance with the EICC Code of Conduct at all Nissha Group bases, including those outside Japan, and at major suppliers. In fiscal year 2016, we built and started to operate a labor and human rights management system and, based on it, conducted internal audits of major Nissha Group companies. Instances of noncompliance found through the audits, such as poor awareness of the harassment help desk, have been addressed through corrective measures at each company. The Labor and Human Rights Subcommittee identifies anti­discrimination, anti­forced labor, diversity and equal opportunities, training and education, and employment as material issues. In fiscal year 2017, it set targets in the areas of work time management, expansion of women’s participation in business, and employment of people with disabilities. As can be seen, the CSR Committee leads operation of our management system toward reducing CSR risks. Hotline To minimize risks and promote ethical conduct and compliance, as well as to enable the company to immediately verify facts, we have in place a system for internal reporting for Nissha Group in Japan in the event of fraud, illegal activity, or unethical conduct by either an organization or an individual employee. The hotline enables reporting to within the company and outside the company (through a lawyer’s office). Our Internal Reporting Code protects informers from any unfavorable treatment by either the company or other employees on account of their reporting. We also accept anonymous reports. In fiscal year 2016, the hotline was used four times. The reports concerned the use of company facilities and the workplace environment. We are working to enhance employee awareness of this hotline through the Corporate Ethics and Code of Conduct Manual, as well as through the Nissha intranet and training, in order to further reinforce corporate ethics and compliance. Hotline Organizational Chart Harassment Help Desk With the aim of preventing and resolving rifts in workplace relationships, including sexual and power harassment, on April 1, 2015, we established a help desk specializing in harassment, providing our employees with a clearer destination for discussing their concerns. In fiscal year 2016, the harassment help desk was used one time. Fair Evaluation and Treatment We at the Nissha Group view evaluation systems as a mechanism for ensuring consistency between the company’s strategy and individuals’ goals, and for determining treatment accordingly. To this end, we conduct a personnel evaluation of all full­time Nissha Group employees twice a year. The evaluations cover the level of achievement of employees’ goals (accountability) and responsibility, and the results of which are reflected in bonuses, pay raises, and promotions. By organizing interviews at the time the goals are set and the results are evaluated, we strive for evaluation and treatment that are fair and convincing. Human Rights 29 CSR Report 2016 With the revision of our managerial personnel system in October 2014 and of our general personnel system in April 2015, we aim to realize a highly convincing evaluation system in which employees are rewarded for producing results. Wage Management The Nissha Group appropriately determines wages paid in exchange for labor in accordance with the wage regulations of each company, based on the laws of the relevant country. Our regulations do not allow for different wage levels by age or gender. Once a year, Human Resources leads internal audits of Nissha Group companies in Japan in the areas of labor and human rights to check that prefectural requirements concerning minimum wages and work times are correctly reflected. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Our Basic Policy on Labor and Human Rights contains the provision, “4. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining: We will guarantee the right to organize and the right to collective bargaining.” In fiscal year 2016, the Information and Communication business was spun off as Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. During this process, we held briefings for employees and discussions with the labor union regarding labor conditions and the coverage of the labor union following the spin­off. With the biennial revision of the labor contract in fiscal year 2017, we plan to carry on dialogue with the labor union toward expanding women’s participation in business and otherwise creating workplace environments where employees can live up to their full potential. Relationship with Labor Union The Nissha Group has three labor unions: the Nissha Labor Union (organized in March 1946),*1 the Nitec Industries Labor Union (March 2012),*2 and the Nissha Printing Communications Labor Union (October 2015).*3 In January 2016, these three unions formed the Nissha Group Labor Union. While one union per company is our basic approach to promoting well­disciplined organization and building sound relationships between labor and management, we recognize that regular exchange of information and coordinated action between labor unions is necessary to resolve common challenges within the Nissha Group. Based on this understanding, we at the Nissha Group have solid relationships and hold regular negotiations and discussions with our labor unions. Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. holds regular Management Council meetings with the Nissha Labor Union, joined by employees excluding managerial staff, to negotiate and discuss employees’ labor conditions and share information about the Nissha Group’s business operations. Although no minimum period is set for notifying the union of significant changes in labor conditions, the company exchanges dialogue with the union on a daily basis with the aim of reaching an agreement satisfactory to both. Furthermore, we organize monthly Work System Committee meetings primarily to share information about work times and prevent large amounts of overtime work. The labor contract confirms, “the Company and the Union shall respect one another’s position and maintain a peaceful relationship between labor and management as well as strive for the maintenance and improvement of labor conditions and the growth of the Company,” and stipulates, “the Company shall respect the Union’s right to organize, right to collective bargaining, and right to act as a group,” thereby guaranteeing basic labor rights for union members. Affiliated companies Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) and Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. also hold negotiations and discussions about employees’ labor conditions with their respective labor unions. The Workplace Improvement Committee, established by both labor and management at Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT), works to promote improvements in the workplace environment and in welfare benefits. In fiscal year 2016, the Nissha Group had no report either of a strike or lockout or of a situation that infringed on our employees’ freedom of association. We will continue to respect the mutual positions of both company and union, and build a sound relationship between labor and management. *1. As of the end of March 2016, the Nissha Labor Union has a membership of 735. *2. As of the end of March 2016, the Nitec Industries Labor Union has a membership of 462. *3. As of the end of March 2016, the Nissha Printing Communications Labor Union has a membership of 193. Human Rights 30 CSR Report 2016 Voice of the Labor Unions At the Nissha Group Labor Union, one union per company is our basic approach to promoting well­disciplined organization and building sound relationships between labor and management. That is, each union offers suggestions, negotiates between labor and management, and performs checks true to the characteristics of the company. While member unions build on their individual strengths, the association provides opportunities for regular sharing of information, particularly about the unique challenges of the member Takashi Yoshioka unions, and strives to nurture the Nissha Group as a whole. Executive Labor Leader Nissha Group Labor Union Each member union carries over the traditional practice of regular Management Council meetings for exchanging views, questions, and reports, and always organizes extraordinary meetings for negotiating wages and labor conditions. Labor and management work hand in hand to promote work­life balance and safety and health. Labor unions of the future should not only maintain equal, healthy relationships between labor and management but also establish value as an important partner in business operations. We believe this will lead to an invigoration of union members and an enhancement of corporate value. Human Rights 31 CSR Report 2016 Labor Practices Our employees are our most important management resource. We support diverse work styles, create workplace environments where diverse employees can live up to their full potential, and promote human resources development. Labor Practices 32 CSR Report 2016 Human Resources Development We at Nissha believe that our employees are our most important management resources. We are aiming to achieve growth for both the company and our employees by actively supporting the growth of each individual employee and developing human resources who are equipped with the skills and experience required to work at Nissha. Human Resources Development Policy We implement a planned development of human resources needed for the company to grow and actively support our employees in the voluntary development of their skills with the aim of achieving growth for both the company and our employees. Approach to Human Resources Development We at Nissha approach human resources development from the three areas of planned human resource development, skill development, and career development. For each area, we aim to promote comprehensive education incorporating the perspectives of training system, on­the­job training (OJT), medium­ to long­term career path development, and human resource systems to support these programs. Human Resources Development Model Planned human resource development Implement planned development to foster and secure the human resources needed to achieve the management vision. (e.g., growth strategy, business continuity, creation of corporate culture) Skill development Individual employees voluntarily develop their skills and increase their market value. →The company supports this and thereby enhances the quality of its human resources. Career development Support medium­ to long­term career development and promote growth toward employees’ ideals. (Provide opportunities to recognize the importance of and pursue career development.) Human Resources Development 33 CSR Report 2016 Training System Model Education Programs Area Training Nissha Academy (selective training for next­ generation management candidates), rank­specific Planned human resource development training, manager training, overseas appointee training, etc. Theme­specific training (leadership, problem­solving skills), foreign language training, accounting Skill development education, in­house TOEIC testing, correspondence course, etc. Education for young employees (first, second, and Career development third years of joining Nissha), career development training, etc. Enhancement of Selective Human Resource Development In fiscal year 2014, we established Nissha Academy, an in­house institute for fortifying advanced, specialized development of human resources. While we continue to expand on our rank­specific, theme­specific, and career design training programs, Nissha Academy employs a selective system to provide advanced, specialized education. Nissha Academy comprises a Business School, which provides knowledge and skills in the proposal and execution of management strategies including accounting, finance, marketing, and human resources; a Management of Technology (MOT) School, which fosters leaders capable of linking technology with management to create new business; and a new Monozukuri School, established in fiscal year 2016, which aims to develop leaders capable of taking a strategic, scientific approach to “monozukuri,” or manufacturing. Graduates of each school are given opportunities to practice what they have learned through involvement in projects and the drafting of medium­term business plans, for a consistent human resources development program that integrates all three areas of planned human resource development, skill development, and career development. As a gateway to Nissha Academy, in fiscal year 2016, we launched business literacy training, a short­term intensive selective program covering the basics of themes such as management, accounting, and marketing. This program also goes beyond inputting knowledge to featuring practical contents, where participants apply Human Resources Development 34 CSR Report 2016 what they have learned to analyze the current situation of their company and discuss its challenges through group work and the creation of individual reports. Programs to Support Employees’ Will to Learn and Grow In addition to compulsory rank­specific education programs for general employees to managerial staff, we have introduced a voluntary “challenge program” for employees aiming for promotion to the highest ranks of the general employment level. Developed in line with our personnel system’s objective of enabling employees to select their own career path, the program provides opportunities to learn about leadership for employees with the will to step up in their career. We support employees with the will to learn through other development programs as well. For example, we offer many open­call training courses, where employees may sign up for in line with their choice of personal development theme, designed to foster all­purpose business skills such as logical thinking and presentation, and develop linguistic skills required of employees of a global company. Our correspondence courses and self­ learning programs via Skype encourage voluntary learning by covering half the price of subsequent courses for graduates. Training Programs in Fiscal Year 2016 The total number of hours dedicated to major training programs in the Nissha Group in Japan and training hours per employee (by gender) in fiscal year 2016 are given in the table below. Male Female Total Annual training hours 23,106 7,375 30,481 Training hours per employee* 11.9 17.3 12.9 *Hours are calculated based on the number of full­time employees of the Nissha Group in Japan. Human Resources Development 35 CSR Report 2016 Respect for Diversity The Nissha Group has a set of Shared Values that serve as a code of behavior for Nissha People seeking to realize our corporate mission. One of those values, Diverse Capabilities, declares, “We respect diversity that enhances our organizational capabilities and drives growth.” To grow as a global company, we respect diverse work styles by diverse human resources, and aim to create workplaces in which all employees can perform to their full potential. Composition of Nissha People The diversity of the Nissha Group shows in our employee composition in terms of gender, age, and employment status. More than one­third of our employees work at Nissha Group companies outside Japan. Locally hired employees are appointed to upper management positions at overseas bases. This includes the CEOs of four subsidiaries served by local hires. Composition of Nissha People Corporate Managerial Employees Average years Fiscal Year Gender Directors Nissha fellows Average age officers staff (total) of employment Male 6 16 1 181 781 38.5 13.4 End of FY2012 Female 0 0 0 6 202 31.7 7.5 Male 7 14 1 177 666 39.8 14.8 End of FY2013 Female 0 0 0 6 195 32.9 8.7 Male 7 13 1 182 662 40.9 15.3 End of FY2014 Female 0 0 0 6 175 33.9 9.4 Male 6 13 1 204 760 41.4 15.2 End of FY2015 Female 1 0 0 7 195 34.7 9.3 Male 6 15 1 153 610 41.1 13.7 End of FY2016 Female 1 0 0 7 180 35.0 9.8 Note 1: Directors include independent directors. Note 2: Employees exclude temporary employees. Note 3: The decrease in total number of employees at the end of FY2016 owes primarily to the spin­off of the Information and Communication business as Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. on July 1, 2015. Respect for Diversity 36 CSR Report 2016 Composition by age (Nissha Printing Co., Ltd., as of the end of March, 2016) Number of employees (Nissha Group, as of the end of March, 2016) * Figures exclude temporary employees Composition by region (Nissha Group, as of the end of March, 2016) Respect for Diversity 37 CSR Report 2016 Composition by employment status (Nissha Group, as of the end of March, 2016) * Figures exclude directors by a delegation agreement Percentage of People with Disabilities Employed at Major Group Companies Private enterprises in Japan with 50 or more employees, as a rule, are required to employ a given percentage of people with disabilities. Nissha Group companies that fall under this category each work to meet the statutory rate. At Nissha Printing Co., Ltd., Human Resources organizes regular interviews with employees with disabilities and strives to maintain an environment where they can perform to their potential. The company also has a system for appointing permanent employees taking into consideration their disability, and assigning job coaches to support the development of potential, toward long­term employment in tune with the capabilities and circumstances of individual employees. Due to a decrease in the total number of employees with the spin­off of the Information and Communication business in July 2015, people with disabilities accounted for 2.54% of the Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. workforce as of March 31, 2016. People with disabilities employed at the company spun off, Nissha Printing Communications, Inc., numbered zero as of March 31, 2016; however, the figure increased to one in April. Each company of the Nissha Group plans to continue making efforts to meet the statutory rate. *The statutory employment rate of people with disabilities for private companies in Japan changed from 1.8% to 2.0% on April 1, 2013. Respect for Diversity 38 CSR Report 2016 Start of Activities toward Expanding Women’s Participation in Business True to the Diverse Capabilities cited in our Shared Values, Nissha aims to be a corporate group where employees can live up to their potential regardless of nationality, gender, or age. Amid growing demand from society, we recognize women employees’ participation in business as a particularly important priority, and to this end launched a project team led by Human Resources in July 2014. Nissha Printing Co., Ltd., Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII), and Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT)—three companies of the Nissha Group are subject to the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (Women’s Participation Act), which came into effect in April 2016. But our activities extend beyond these three companies across the Nissha Group as a whole. As a first step to undertaking initiatives, in fiscal year 2015 we sought to understand how women employees felt about career planning, work­life balance, and sense of fulfillment at work. We interviewed 134 women, representing about 30.0% of women employees at all of our bases in Japan, and based on the results commenced full­scale activities in fiscal year 2016. Internal Communication and Employee Questionnaire In April 2015, we added to our intranet a NISSHINE (Nissha + shine) section for communicating information on work­life balance support and expansion of women’s participation in business. Along with an introduction to systems for supporting child­rearing and family care, the section publishes the voice of employees who have used each system, with the hope that this will acquaint other employees with and encourage them to take advantage of the systems. Since April 2016, the section also turns the spotlight on employees who shine in the workplace. In promoting women’s participation in business, we believed it was necessary to first examine degrees of job satisfaction and job awareness in all employees, including men, and gain insight into any differences in thinking and the current level of participation by women. To this end, in September we administered a questionnaire to all employees. About 70% responded “satisfied” to questions about overall job satisfaction. Questions about satisfaction in workplace relationships and content of work (ability to perform to potential; sense of fulfillment) also earned high scores. Women showed lower awareness of advancement and promotion in general, with the lowest scores coming from those in the 20s. Compared to about 50% of men, roughly 20% of women had the ambition to be promoted to managerial roles. Men in both managerial and general employment levels preferred to have men as subordinates over women. The results provided us with a new challenge: not only is it necessary to change the awareness of women employees, it is also necessary to change the awareness of men managers. There was no significant difference between men and women regarding broadening of work content. The responses showed that a majority of employees wanted to try various types of work. In order to realize growth for both the company and our employees, we plan to include women as well as men employees in job rotations, and work to develop multiple skills in employees. Forum on Women’s Participation in Business In autumn, we organized a forum on women’s participation in business, where some 180 women employees shared the gist and direction of Nissha initiatives. The participants held group discussions to explore the senses of value they have at work, their image of women shining at their respective workplaces in Nissha, and the support they need from the company and their superiors as well as what they could do themselves to realize that image. President Suzuki took the stage and directly delivered a heartfelt opening message about the Nissha Group’s efforts toward diversity and his wish for every employee, regardless of gender or age, to be confident about their job and always strive to live up to their full potential. The forum received positive feedback from the participants, including, “Meeting women employees I had never known before and hearing about the work they do helped me feel closer to them”; “The opportunity to talk with women from other divisions and work together toward a common goal opened up a new world for me. I met a number of women who were ideal role models”; and “I discovered that President Suzuki has the same expectations of women and men, and felt I made the right choice to join Nissha.” Respect for Diversity 39 CSR Report 2016 Training for Management In February 2016, we organized our first training session for management, targeting department directors and positions above. As in the forum on women’s participation in business, the participants shared the objectives and direction of Nissha initiatives, and then identified ways to translate the initiatives into on­site management. Crucial to managing women employees, the managers learned, was to understand that even with the same academic background, women and men perceive things differently, and it is especially important to bear this in mind when communicating with women. Feedback from the participants included, “The session provided valuable insight into the unique sensibilities of women,” and even a request to “Please hurry and give the same training to group leaders who actually work with women every day.” In fiscal year 2017, we plan to organize a session for all managers including group leaders and career development training for women employees. Enhancement of Systems and Communication Tools In April 2016, we began deliberations on establishing a system for supporting employees who wish to be reinstated at work as quickly as possible after taking child­rearing leave, for instance, by covering the expense of enrolling children in private day care service (in Japan, nonauthorized nurseries are significantly costlier than those certified by local authorities, which have years­long waiting lists). The idea is to lighten the burden on women employees, whose careers are often interrupted by life events such as childbirth and parenting. We opened We are Nissha People! in August 2016, a website dedicated to introducing men as well as women employees participating in business actively in the Nissha Group. Major Initiatives to Date Launch project team FY2015 Interview women employees Distribute Work­Life Balance Support Guidebook Open NISSHINE portal site Administer employee questionnaire FY2016 Organize forum on women’s participation in business Conduct training for management (department directors and above) Start deliberations on system for minimizing interruption of women employees’ careers by life events Open Nissha People Portal for introducing employees participating FY2017 (scheduled) in business Conduct training for management (all managers including group leaders) Conduct career development training for women employees Respect for Diversity 40 CSR Report 2016 Support for Diverse Work Styles The Nissha Group has many initiatives to support diverse work styles and achieve work­life balance for employees. Introduction of Flexible Work Hours We have in place flexible work hours as a mechanism in which employees can voluntarily determine their own start and finish times of the working day. The aims of the system include responding flexibly to the time difference between Japan and overseas, to deadlines, and to the busy and slow hours of the working day, and enabling employees to maintain harmony between work and life. Initially introduced in sales departments, the system was expanded gradually to other divisions and today benefits employees also in development and administration. Promotion of the Use of Paid Leave To promote the use of paid leave, we encourage employees to take two days each under our summer and winter vacation planning systems, and offer a further two days in which employees may request to take paid leave on their birthday, that of a family member, or their wedding anniversary. As a result of ongoing efforts, the average paid leave taken exceeds 10 days per year. We plan to continue aiming for improvements in the percentage of paid leave used. Average days and percentage of annual paid leave used (Nissha Group in Japan) Reduction of Overtime Work We are promoting a reduction of overtime work with the aim of encouraging employees to improve their work process and the way they manage their time, and thereby achieve work­life balance. Each month, departments that had a large amount of overtime work are questioned as to the causes, future outlook, and physical condition of employees. Should any issue come to light, measures for improvement are sought between labor and management, and the findings are reflected in personnel assignment decisions. Honoring our labor­management agreement drawn up in compliance with Article 36 of the Labor Standards Act, twice a month we notify all divisions of overtime hours recorded up to that day, and further alert managers of divisions in which overtime hours are likely to exceed the limit stipulated in the agreement. As a result of efforts to raise awareness about overtime work, in fiscal year 2016 the amount of overtime work decreased by 6.1% Support for Diverse Work Styles 41 CSR Report 2016 compared to the previous year, for a continuous year­on­year reduction. In an aim to comply with the global code of conduct provided by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) operates a unique alert system to meet the requirement “Total hours worked should never exceed local or national standards, or 60 hours per week, whichever is stricter.” The system takes a count of work hours in midweek, alerts the superior of any employee at risk of exceeding the standards, and prompts rigorous management of work hours during the remainder of the week. The Japanese government’s guidelines for promoting work­life balance set a target of reducing the percentage of employees who work overtime in excess of 60 hours per week to 5.0% by 2020. With this in mind, all Nissha Group companies in Japan will start managing work hours on a weekly basis starting in fiscal year 2017. Child­rearing and Family Care Support We are working to expand our support systems and enable employees to have flexible work styles in the various stages of life. By drafting an action plan and executing a range of measures based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next­generation Children, many of our efforts in child­rearing support exceed statutory guidelines. Major child­rearing support systems Support system Nissha Group in Japan Statutory coverage During pregnancy (up to Shorter hours during pregnancy maternity leave before childbirth) － Up to 3 hours per day As a rule, up to 1 year old (1 year Child­rearing leave Up to 2 years old 6 months old when certain conditions are met) 4 days at the time of spouse’s Days off for spouse’s childbirth childbirth － (Special paid leave) Up to completion of elementary Up to 3 years old Shorter hours for child­rearing* school By effort: Start of elementary Up to 3 hours per day school 1 child: 5 days 1 child: 5 days Days off for child nursing 2 or more children: 10 days 2 or more children: 10 days Paid Either paid or unpaid Amount: 150,000 yen (for each occasion below) Period • Birth Child­rearing support fund － • Start of elementary school • Start of junior high school • Start of senior high school • Start of technical college Major family care support systems Support system Nissha Group in Japan Statutory coverage Family care leave Total 240 working days Total 93 days Total 480 working days Shorter hours for family care* Total 93 days 3 hours per day Support for Diverse Work Styles 42 CSR Report 2016 1 family member: 5 days 1 family member: 5 days Days off for family care 2 or more family members: 10 2 or more family members: 10 days days Paid Either paid or unpaid *We allow employees to shorten their work time by three hours. For example, employees who normally work eight­hour days may shorten their work time by three hours to five­hour days. We also have in place a system in which employees may save up to 30 days of expired leave to be used in the event of illness, either of the employee or of a family member, and for child­rearing, family care, school events, and days on which a child’s kindergarten or school is closed. Distribution of Work­Life Balance Support Guidebook To support our employees in achieving work­life balance, we created a Work­Life Balance Support Guidebook containing information on both in­house and outside systems for child­rearing and family care, and distributed it to all employees in October 2014. The contents are published on the Nissha intranet since April 2015, and useful information on welfare services were added in April 2016. As a result of these multiple initiatives, the number of employees who take advantage of our child­rearing and family care support systems is increasing year by year. Kurumin Certification In 2013, Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. received “Kurumin” certification for the second consecutive term, following 2009. Nissha Business Service Co., Ltd. (NBS) received certification in 2015, followed by Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) in 2016. * Use of the Kurumin Mark is permitted for companies certified as being next­generation supportive by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare. Certification is granted to companies that draw up and implement a medium­term action plan, and submit it to their prefectural labor bureau. Kurumin Logo Support for Diverse Work Styles 43 CSR Report 2016 Status of Major Long­term Leave and Time Taken Off from Work (Nissha Group in Japan) The number of employees who used child­rearing leave, worked shorter hours for child­rearing, and took days off for child nursing are given in the graphs below. All numbers are on the rise, and male employees are using the systems on an ongoing basis. Number of employees who used child­rearing leave Number of employees who worked shorter hours for child­rearing Number of employees who took days off for child nursing Support for Diverse Work Styles 44 CSR Report 2016 Reinstatement rate after child­rearing leave: Male 100%, Female 100% Reinstatement rate = Number of employees reinstated after child­rearing leave in the current fiscal year ÷ Number of employees expected to be reinstated after child­rearing leave in the current fiscal year x 100 Retention rate after child­rearing leave (1 year): Male 100%, Female 100% Retention rate = Number of employees remaining on March 31 the current fiscal year after being reinstated after child­ rearing leave in the previous fiscal year ÷ Number of employees reinstated after child­rearing leave in the previous fiscal year Number of employees who used family care leave The number of employees who used family care leave, worked shorter hours for family care, and took days off for family care are given in the table below. We are making efforts to raise employee awareness of our efforts to support diverse work styles in an aging society by distributing the Work­Life Balance Support Guidebook containing information on both in­house and outside systems for family care, and publishing the contents on the Nissha intranet. Support Gender FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 system Male 1 0 0 0 0 Family care leave Female 0 0 0 0 0 Shorter Male 0 0 0 0 1 hours for family care Female 0 1 0 0 0 Male 0 0 4 1 4 Days off for family care Female 2 2 2 2 4 Support for Reinstatement after Long­term Leave For employees reinstated at work after long­term leave due to illness or injury, we have Reinstatement Support Bylaws that stipulate the consideration to be taken by workplaces according to the condition of the employee’s health in an aim to prevent recurrence of the illness or injury and achieve a smooth return to work. To offer support also in terms of work style, we arrange periodic consultations with an industrial physician to confirm the considerations necessary in the workplace, and have a system in which reinstated employees may shorten their work time by up to two hours per day for a period of six months. Work at Home System In fiscal year 2015, we introduced a work­at­home system with the aims of promoting harmony between employees’ work and life, and improving their work efficiency. The system enables employees living with a child before completion of elementary school and employees providing family care to work at home either on two days a week or for a number of hours a day. In fiscal year 2016 a total of six employees used the system (one during pregnancy, four for child­rearing, and one for family care). Outpatient Sick Leave System In fiscal year 2016, we introduced an outpatient sick leave system with the aim of supporting employees who require long­term outpatient treatment to continue working. The system enables employees with specified disorders to take 10 days off per year for treatment. One employee used the system in fiscal year 2016; the figure has increased to two since April 2016. Internal Job Posting System The Nissha Group introduced an internal job posting system in fiscal year 2012 with the aim of providing employees with the opportunity to choose their own career path as well as appoint employees to positions that Support for Diverse Work Styles 45 CSR Report 2016 reflect their aptitude and thereby enhance our organizational strength. The company posts specific job openings internally, employees who meet the criteria apply for the job of their own will, and those who pass the screening are transferred to the relevant post. Employees who have transferred through the system are playing an active role in their new division. Status of utilization Fiscal Year FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Number of 21 7 33 27 8 job posting Successful Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female applicants (transferees) 3 2 6 4 3 2 3 3 1 0 * Job openings posted twice a year up to FY2015, and once a year since FY2016 Awarding system The Nissha Group has in place various awarding systems that aim to reward praiseworthy endeavors and create a setting in which the employees responsible for the endeavors influence and motivate the company and organizations as a whole. In fiscal year 2013, we reviewed the contents of our awarding systems. From fiscal year 2013 to fiscal year 2016, as many as 416 employees received the most prestigious President’s Award, 169 employees the Top­Line Award recognizing contributors to sales expansion, and 440 employees the Nissha People Award celebrating workplace stars who epitomize our Shared Values and Code of Conduct. The awards are presented globally across the Nissha Group, with recipients including employees at overseas bases. Every two years, we also organize Technology Presentation Meetings with an eye to discovering and recognizing excellent technologies with great potential, and ultimately inspiring our engineers. Support for Diverse Work Styles 46 CSR Report 2016 Safety and Health Occupational Safety and Health Policy / Safety and Health Objectives The Nissha Group has in place a Occupational Safety and Health Policy declaring that we position the safety and health of all involved in our business activities as a top management priority. We promote thorough awareness of this policy through postings on the Nissha intranet and at each base, and draw on it as a guide for various activities. The results of our efforts are reviewed, reflected in safety and health objectives set each year, and used as a base for further initiatives. Occupational Safety and Health Policy Nissha recognizes that ensuring the safety and health of all people engaged in our business activities is a top management priority for the continuity and development of our operations, and to this end, commits to the following practices. 1. We promote the participation of all in creating comfortable workplace environments and developing sound physical and mental health. 2. We pursue Co­existence with society in compliance with relevant laws and regulations, and with the requirements agreed upon by Nissha of local communities, public institutions, and our customers. 3. We strive for continuous improvement in occupational safety and health standards through the operation of management system. This policy will be distributed widely to all people in the Nissha Group as well as released to the general public. November 6, 2014 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Safety and Health Management System / Safety and Health Subcommittee The Safety and Health Subcommittee of the CSR Committee, responsible for the safety and health activities of the Nissha Group, reports on the targets and progress of activities carried out in line with our Safety and Health Management Manual, on safety and health performance such as occurrence of work­related accidents, and on internal audits and corrective measures based on the audits. It reviews whether our management system is functioning effectively, oversees the Safety and Health Committees operated by each base, and works to standardize and upgrade initiatives throughout the Nissha Group. The Safety and Health Committees of each base consist of base representatives including a safety manager and health manager, and employee representatives selected from the labor union and from each workplace. The members meet to report on work­related accidents and corrective measures on them, and to exchange views and propose measures for improvement toward realizing a safe and comfortable workplace. The Safety and Health Subcommittee was integrated with the Environmental Subcommittee and reorganized in fiscal year 2017 as the Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee. The new organization will work to merge the previously separate management systems toward improving the level of management under a common method and fulfilling its responsibility for corporate governance. Safety and Health 47 CSR Report 2016 Safety and Health Management Structure Reduction of Workplace Risks – Risk Assessment We continue in our efforts to conduct point­based evaluations of the dangers and harms that production equipment and chemical substances used in the workplace may have on workers, and to take measures starting with the highest risks. Based on the results of risk assessment, we work to identify the remaining risks and reflect them in our management efforts. We have also organized and introduced in relevant bases a set of internal standards to assess the risks of chemical exposure ahead of mandatory requirements coming into effect in June 2016. Safety Patrols Members of the Safety and Health Committees of each base take the lead in conducting safety patrols of workplaces. In addition to regular monthly patrols, heads of each base carry out special safety patrols during national safety week in July toward enhancing workplace awareness about safety. In fiscal year 2016, we provided safety patrol training for workplace promoters of safety and health. Employees who had acquired a certain level of knowledge were registered as certificate holders and participated in the patrols, identifying problems with fresh pairs of eyes and striving to create safe and comfortable workplaces. Occurrence of Work­related Accidents Cut­wound accidents from tools such as retractable utility knives increased in fiscal year 2016. Many cases resulted in zero days of leave. Although the number of injuries or casualties increased over the previous year, those resulting in four or more days of leave decreased for a reduction in both the frequency and severity of work­related accidents. Occurrence of Work­related Accidents (Nissha Group in Japan) Item FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Number of work­ 23 21 16 17 26 related accidents Frequency of work­ 0.16 1.15 0.00 0.77 0.66 related accidents*1 Severity of work­ 0.03 0.06 0.00 0.04 0.02 related accidents*2 Safety and Health 48 CSR Report 2016 Number of working 248 434 16 284 139 days lost *1. Frequency of work­related accidents: Refers to the number of injuries and casualties resulting from work­related accidents (four or more days of leave) per one million working hours *2. Severity of work­related accidents: Refers to the severity of work­related accidents in terms of the number of working days lost per one thousand working hours Definitions from work­related accident statistics, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Number of Work­related Accidents (Nissha Group in Japan and major overseas production bases, by gender) Total Male Female Japan 26 21 5 North America 8 3 5 South America 2 2 0 Europe 1 1 0 Asia 4 3 1 Total 41 30 11 * Overseas figures represent accidents that resulted in days of leave Safety and Health Education and Training We provide education and training required in workplaces based on our Safety and Health Education and Management Regulations. In fiscal year 2016, we conducted training with the aim of fostering workplace promoters of safety and health, and training in procedures for handling and assessing the dangers and risks of chemical substances. Employees holding certificates for completing advanced lifesaving training offered by the fire department conducted lessons in CPR methods such as AED and chest compression. Prevention of Lifestyle Diseases We are carrying on with our efforts in exercise, diet, and smoking cessation as countermeasures for metabolic syndrome with the aim of preventing lifestyle diseases. In fiscal year 2016, we organized health courses by an industrial physician and an original event for gauging blood­vessel age toward promoting healthy dietary habits. In the health courses by an industrial physician, titled “creative eating to preserve youth,” participants learned the effects of food on the body, tips to reducing salt consumption, and ideal food portions. In the event for gauging blood­vessel age, employees received an Event for gauging blood­vessel age explanation of their measurement results along with advice on improving dietary and lifestyle habits using a specially prepared leaflet. Both sessions proved to be a good opportunity to reflect on lifestyle habits and gain knowledge about preventing vascular diseases such as arteriosclerosis. For promoting smoking cessation, we continue to organize Smokerlyzer events to measure the level of carbon monoxide in smokers’ breath. Safety and Health 49 CSR Report 2016 As a high­risk approach, we further undertook measures to maintain health by recommending visits to a medical institution to employees who required either detailed examination or re­examination as a result of their health checkup, and provided specific health guidance with support from a designated medical institution to employees who required it as a result of their health checkup. Mental Health Support As part of our mental health support offering, we organize mental health education by a clinical psychologist since fiscal year 2010, and introduced surveys on coping with work­related stress in fiscal year 2013 ahead of a mandatory stress check system coming into effect in December 2015. The survey results have been useful in self­care by helping employees identify and cope with their own stress. In fiscal year 2015 we provided line care education about supporting the process of improving workplace environments for “Employee­friendly Workplace” page in Nissha mental health. And in fiscal year 2016 we sought pilot workplaces internal newsletter for administering general checkups with the aim of creating employee­friendly workplaces from the bottom up. The checkup teams first identified the good points of each workplace, the points that require improvement, and the reasons for improvement, then formulated a plan based on the members’ input, and set to work, topic by topic. Ideas for creating employee­friendly workplaces are also published in our internal newsletter to familiarize employees with the concept. In future, we hope to spread the initiative across Nissha Group companies. As for support on a personal level, we have an outside web counseling service through which a specialized counselor offers mental health advice online. Being accessible even to employees who are too busy to make an appointment and offering the benefit of privacy protection, the service is used several times each year. For employees who work long hours, our healthcare staff and industrial physicians offer consultation to understand their health condition and work with their supervisor and the human resources division to provide required follow­up guidance. Also, for employees who require special attention in terms of mental health, we follow our Long­term Leave Regulations and offer time to recover from their condition as well as consideration in the workplace upon reinstatement, in an aim to prevent recurrence and achieve a smooth return to work. We will carry on promoting collaboration between each division, the human resources division, and our healthcare staff in efforts to create comfortable workplaces. Mental health support structure Safety and Health 50 CSR Report 2016 The Environment We strive to reduce environmental risks, prevent pollution, and create opportunities in line with our Environmental Policy that aims for “business development and the realization of a sustainable society.” The Environment 51 CSR Report 2016 Environmental Policy and Management Structures The Environmental Subcommittee and Safety and Health Subcommittee of the CSR Committee were integrated and reorganized in April 2016 as the Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee. Our aim is to merge the previously separate management systems and realize a higher level of management suitable to our business operations. The Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee’s responsibility in corporate governance involves strategic CSR activities based on materiality toward enhancing our corporate value over the medium to long term. In basic CSR, it seeks to build and maintain a structure for conforming to global standards such as that provided by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and promote risk management in the areas of the environment and of safety and health toward strengthening the foundation of the Nissha Group. Activities include building an environmental management system (EMS) based on ISO14001 at all bases of the Nissha Group in Japan. The Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee comprises management covering general supervision, the director of Corporate General Affairs in Corporate Administration in charge of EMS management, and Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee members selected from each division and factory. The Environmental and Safety Management group in Corporate General Affairs functions as secretariat and operates the subcommittee. It conducts internal environmental audits and management reviews toward the continuous improvement of our EMS, and receives ISO14001 certification inspections to assess and improve EMS effectiveness. Our Environmental Policy aims for both business development and the realization of a sustainable society. We are working to familiarize the policy widely throughout the company via the Nissha intranet as well as promoting the policy among all employees by posting it at each base of the Nissha Group. Toward achieving our environmental objectives, which serve as group­wide medium­term objectives, each factory and organization sets its own environmental targets, and creates and implements an action plan. These environmental targets are linked to quality targets and key performance indicators (KPI) so that they relate directly to everyday tasks. Overseas offices of the Nissha Group obtain ISO14001 certification individually and undertake initiatives to build and maintain a structure in conformance with global standards such as the EICC Code of Conduct. In future, we plan to expand our integrated environmental, safety and health management system to cover Nissha overseas bases. Environmental Policy Nissha and its subsidiaries, as members of the global society, aim for business development and the realization of a sustainable society through environmentally conscious corporate activities. 1. Prevention of Pollution We comply with legal requirements and agreements with society, and strive to prevent environmental pollution in all aspects of our corporate activities such as product development, design, materials, production, sales, and facilities. 2. Product Safety We fulfill promises with our customers and deliver safe and environmentally conscious products. 3. Prevention of Global Warming We make a contribution to prevention of the global warming by efficient using of resources and energy. 4. Continuous Improvement We strive for continuous improvement by establishing an environmental management system and reviewing it in response to changes in the business environment. 5. Co­existence with Society The Environment 52 CSR Report 2016 We promote open dialogue with our customers, shareholders, suppliers, employees, and society through our efforts to preserve the global environment. April 1, 2012 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co. Ltd. Continuous Improvements in the Environmental Management System (EMS) Management by ISO14001 Certification and Non­certified Sites We operate an effective EMS that focuses on key management items at each site. The scope of application extends to all Nissha bases—not only major production bases but also small production bases and sales bases with little impact on the environment. By dividing EMS sites into ISO14001 certification sites and non­certified sites, we aim for management that sets meaningful priorities in tune with the actual circumstances of each site. ISO14001 certification sites, which are also our major production bases, carry on implementing a unique environmental risk assessment process based on environmental hazards, taking into account the risks of a suspension in factory operations. In fiscal year 2016, Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kyoto Factory and the design and development divisions of our Industrial Materials business and Devices business obtained ISO14001 certification. In fiscal year 2017, FIS Inc. will be transferred into the scope of application of the Nissha Group EMS and receive inspection for ISO14001 certification. We built a leaner audit structure in fiscal year 2016 combining environmental with safety and health internal audits, and plan to continue these efforts in fiscal year 2017. Our environmental risk assessment process involves two pillars of activity: managing negative risks, and managing positive risks including the improvement of environmental performance in sync with business targets and quality targets. Compliance with Global Standards Demand is rising in recent years for compliance with the EICC Code of Conduct and, based on this, unique codes of conduct developed by customers operating in the global market. In fiscal year 2016, we promoted efforts to live up to global standards based on ISO14001 in the three categories of EMS sites given below. 1. Sites of conforming to the codes of conduct provided by our customers and by the EICC 2. ISO14001 certification sites 3. Compliance inspection sites (ISO14001 non­certified sites) In fiscal year 2017, we plan to promote integration of our environmental management system with our safety and health management system, and expand coverage throughout the Nissha Group as an environmental, safety and health management system reflecting the codes of conduct provided by our customers and by the EICC. The Environment 53 CSR Report 2016 Nissha Environmental Management Structure Energy Management and Environmental Communication Structures The Environment 54 CSR Report 2016 Environmental Objectives and Status of Achievement The Nissha Group environmental objectives set in April 2015 serve as medium­term objectives covering the three­year period from fiscal year 2016 to fiscal year 2018 for the Nissha Group in Japan. In fiscal year 2016, the first year of this period, each factory and relevant division aimed to achieve its individual environmental targets toward achieving the objectives of the Nissha Group in Japan as a whole. ISO14001 certification sites undertook environmental risk management and measures to reduce environmental risks, and all sites attained one risk level lower. With an intensive focus on emergency training, they also established a system for accident prevention. Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Himeji Factory conducted nighttime training in responding to substance leakage, and NPT Kaga Factory fortified its rainwater management system. As a result, following the previous year we maintained zero environmental accidents and achieved our environmental objectives. In measures to mitigate global warming, major sites of the Nissha Group in Japan combined recorded a CO2 emissions rate by basic unit of 0.92 in fiscal year 2016 (compared to fiscal year 2015 results as 1.00), achieving our target of 0.99 or less. By site, NPT Kaga Factory and Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Koka Factory met their respective targets, while NPT Himeji Factory and Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. (NPC) Yachiyo Factory fell short. NPT Kaga Factory saw dramatic improvement thanks to an increase in production volume coupled with efforts to boost efficiency, plus small­group activities. The Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee of the CSR Committee identifies management by basic unit as a material issue and will continue activities toward improvement in fiscal year 2017. In measures to reduce waste, major sites of the Nissha Group in Japan combined recorded a waste generation rate of 0.86 in fiscal year 2016 (compared to fiscal year 2015 results as 1.00), achieving our reduction target of 1% or more. By site, NPT Kaga Factory achieved its target by a significant margin, with a rate of 0.68 (compared to fiscal year 2015 results as 1.00), through an increase in production volume and activities toward improvement. NPT Himeji Factory also met its target, with a rate of 0.96, even with a decline in production volume thanks to small­group activities and an improved yield rate. NII Koka Factory failed to meet its target despite an increase in production volume due to a conversion to small lot production and the handling of high­ quality products. NPC Yachiyo Factory achieved its target even with a decline in production volume. NPC Kyoto Factory fell short of its target despite small­group activities. In the promotion of zero emissions, we recorded a recycling and resource reuse rate of 91.8% in fiscal year 2016, an improvement over 88.1% in the previous year, thanks to efforts at NPT Kaga Factory to reduce the amount of wastewater sludge generated, which must be sent to landfill. In measures to reduce hazardous chemical substances, NPT Kaga Factory achieved its target by reviewing its wastewater treatment process and working to reduce the usage rate of chemical agents. NII Koka Factory did not meet its target despite efforts to reduce the usage rate of organic solvents such as toluene and xylene due to a decline in production volume and conversion to small lot production. It continues efforts to sell organic solvents for recycling, however, and has contributed to resource reuse and cost reduction. In a new initiative starting in fiscal year 2016, we added to our environmental objectives the concept of environment­conscious design,, which introduces the viewpoint of environmental consciousness and the reduction of environmental impact into products and production processes. The Devices business has incorporated the concept in the processes of designing wireless sensor networks and narrow frame for touch panels. NPT Kaga Factory has switched to using chemical cleaners with low environmental impact, and NPT Kyoto Factory is working to improve its production process toward reducing environmental impact of transportation. Environmental Objectives and Status of Achievement 55 CSR Report 2016 Nissha Environmental Objectives 1. Prevention of pollution Target: Zero environmental accidents (accidents that affect areas outside the factory) Reduce the possibility of environmental risks (by one risk level) by the end of fiscal year 2018 Certification sites implement measures to reduce environmental risks*1 classified as H2 or more on the hazard assessment list (make efforts to attain one risk level lower) ・The degree of severity may not change after measures are implemented in some cases ・H2 or more refers to hazards on the hazard assessment list that affect areas outside the factory ・H2 is equivalent to “maintain” in the conventional classification, and should be addressed in accordance with the designated procedure *1. The risk of environmental hazards by degree of severity and possibility, assessed in nine levels in a matrix (Risk levels from highest to lowest: VH, H1, H2, H3, H4, L1, L2, L3, VL) 2. Prevention of global warming Target: Reduce CO2 emissions rate (basic unit) by 3% or more by fiscal year 2018 Base: Average of fiscal year 2015 results Companies classified as “specified business operator” in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy implement measures listed in their medium­ to long­term plan Certification sites reduce annual CO2 emissions rate by 1% or more compared to the previous year by basic unit, derived from factors such as production volume, through improvements in work processes (efficiency) and quality ・Each organization may set KPI or quality targets as environmental targets ・Companies classified as “specific business operator” in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy use the basic unit reported under the act ・A default emission factor (0.555 kg­CO2 / kwh) is used to monitor fluctuations resulting from initiatives 3. Reduction of waste Target: Reduce waste generation rate (basic unit) by 3% or more by fiscal year 2018 Base: Average of fiscal year 2015 results (1) Control waste generation Certification sites reduce annual waste generation rate by 1% or more compared to the previous year by basic unit, derived from factors such as production volume, through improvements in work processes (efficiency) and quality ・Each organization may set KPI or quality targets (nonconforming product rate, go­through rate, etc.) as environmental targets ・Indexes need not be the same as the CO2 emissions rate basic unit (production volume may be substituted with number of items produced) (2) Promote zero emissions Bases that have achieved zero emissions work to maintain it; those that have not achieved zero emissions work to achieve it (3) Reduce cost of waste treatment Practice cost reduction by promoting multi­sourcing and resource reuse 4. Reduction of hazardous chemical substances Target: Certification sites reduce usage rate of hazardous chemical substances Work to reduce {(usage or purchase volume) / (production volume, treatment volume, or number of units)} (Certification sites set individual targets) 5. Environment­conscious design Target: Introduce the viewpoint of energy and resource savings, durability, and recycling into the product design stage Design environment­conscious processes and reduce the environmental impact of production Environmental Objectives and Status of Achievement 56 CSR Report 2016 Results and Assessment in Fiscal Year 2016 1. Prevention of pollution Results The Nissha Group experienced zero environmental accidents in fiscal year 2016. Assessment: Satisfactory Certification sites NII Koka Factory and Tsu Factory; NPT Himeji Factory, Kaga Factory, and Kyoto Factory; NPC Yachiyo Factory; and Nissha Business Service Co., Ltd. (NBS) created a hazard assessment list and took measures to reduce environmental risks. These sites primarily organized training in substance leakage. NPT Himeji Factory stepped up measures to prevent pollution through nighttime emergency training. NPT Kaga Factory fortified its rainwater management system and, as an emergency measure, built a new system for sending notification from its monitoring system to mobile phones. 2. Prevention of global warming Results Major sites of the Nissha Group in Japan combined recorded a CO2 emissions rate by basic unit of 0.92 in fiscal year 2016 (compared to fiscal year 2015 results as 1.00), achieving our target. Assessment: Satisfactory NPT Kaga Factory saw dramatic improvement, with a rate by basic unit of 0.64 (compared to fiscal year 2015 results as 1.00). An increase in production volume coupled with small­group activities to boost efficiency led to the achievement of its target. NII Koka Factory, with a rate of 0.86, also met its target by basic unit. NPT Himeji Factory, with a rate of 1.15, and NPC Yachiyo Factory, 1.02, fell short of their respective targets. Issues: Maintaining a steady basic unit has become a challenge in recent years. Although each factory promotes various energy saving measures, their respective basic units are often influenced by production volume. Through activities led by the Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee of the CSR Committee, we will seek to rebuild a mechanism so that we may continue appropriate management by basic unit. 3. Reduction of waste (1) Control waste generation Results Major sites of the Nissha Group in Japan combined recorded a waste generation rate by basic unit of 0.86 in fiscal year 2016 (compared to fiscal year 2015 results as 1.00), achieving our target. Assessment: Satisfactory NPT Kaga Factory, with a rate of 0.68 (compared to fiscal year 2015 results as 1.00), achieved its target through an increase in production volume and activities toward improvement. NPT Himeji Factory, with a rate of 0.96, also met its target even with a decline in production volume thanks to small­group activities and an improved yield rate. NII Koka Factory failed to meet its target by basic unit despite an increase in production volume due to a Environmental Objectives and Status of Achievement 57 CSR Report 2016 conversion to small lot production and the handling of high­quality products. NPC Yachiyo Factory achieved its target even with a decline in production volume. NPC Kyoto Factory fell short of its target despite small­group activities. (2) Promotion of zero emissions Results NPT Kaga Factory is continuing efforts to improve its waste treatment process toward reducing the amount of sludge generated, which must be sent to landfill. With a recycling and resource reuse rate of 91.8%, however, we did not achieve our zero emissions target (a recycling and resource reuse rate of 99.5% or more). Assessment: Poor (3) Promotion of cost reduction for waste treatment Results NII Koka Factory and NPT Kyoto Factory are fortifying measures to sell waste for recycling. Assessment: Satisfactory Through measures such as sorting and selling waste for recycling, NBS is a contributor to the overall efforts of the Nissha Group in Japan to sell waste for recycling. 4. Reduction of hazardous chemical substances Results NPT Kaga Factory has improved its waste treatment process. NPT Himeji Factory and Kaga Factory are working to reduce the amount of chemicals used in the production process, particularly through small­group activities. NII Koka Factory did not meet its target usage rate of toluene and xylene due to a conversion to high mix production. Assessment: Unsatisfactory Issues: Setting the criteria for usage rates is a challenge with high mix production and special printing processes. 5. Environment­conscious design Results The Devices business has incorporated the concept of environment­conscious design in the processes of designing wireless networks and narrow frame for touch panels. NPT Kyoto Factory reviewed its production process toward reducing the environmental impact caused by frequency of transportation. Assessment: Satisfactory Issues: Incorporating a system for assessing environment­conscious design into our environmental management system is proving to be a challenge. Environmental Objectives and Status of Achievement 58 CSR Report 2016 Environmental Impact as a Result of Business Operations In order to grasp the impact of our business operations on the environment, we conduct surveys of resource and energy usage (input) and gas, water, and waste emissions (output). The results for the Nissha Group in fiscal year 2016 are given in the table below. Input and Output at Nissha Group Production Bases Input and environmental impact were affected in fiscal year 2016 by changes in business operations and a decline in production volume. By business, Industrial Materials saw an increase of about 38% in the usage of PET and acryl film with the surge in production volume at major site Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Koka Factory. A conversion to high mix, small lot production and the need for a special process in gravure printing also led to increases in the usage of solvents by around 35% and of ink by 50%. Owing to a significant decline in input at NII Tsu Factory, however, Industrial Materials overall saw a decrease of roughly 20% in PET and acryl film, and increases of 7% in solvents and 11% in gravure ink. Devices saw a decline in production volume at Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Himeji Factory, which led to an overall decrease of about 23% in materials used in product manufacturing processes. Information and Communication saw a decline in printing volume and a decrease of around 4% in the usage of paper. Input remained roughly level at FIS Inc., which we welcomed into the Nissha Group in fiscal year 2015. As for output for the Nissha Group as a whole, CO2 emissions decreased by about 6.5% compared to the previous year, and water emissions decreased by 11%. At major overseas production subsidiaries, input increased by roughly 40% compared to the previous year, primarily due to increases at Nissha (Kunshan) Precision IMD Mold Co., Ltd. by 29%, at Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd. and Eimo Technologies, Inc. by 10%, and at Guangzhou Nissha High Precision Plastics Co., Ltd. by 2%, plus the addition of PMX Technologies, S.A. de C.V. to our business operations. Molded resin accounts for more than 90% of materials used at overseas production sites. Environmental Impact as a Result of Business Operations 59 CSR Report 2016 INPUT OUTPUT Production bases in Japan Production bases in Japan Industrial Materials PET/acryl film 1,894t Recyclable resources Waste containing (items sold for noble metals Solvents 1,479t recycling) Metal waste Gravure Ink 1,418t Resin waste Others 197t Paper waste 5,995t Devices Materials used in product manufacturing 6,256t Recyclable resources Waste plastic processes (industrial waste) Iron scrap, waste Others 292t cans Information and Paper 20,837t Waste solvents, waste Communication ink, waste cloth Ink 264t Waste acid, alkali Others 80t Sludge, others 7,066t FIS Printed­circuit board 2t materials Waste for simple General business incineration/landfill waste Metallic materials 2t Others (industrial Resin materials 2t waste) 1,162t Half­finished goods 25t Total for production 14,223t bases in Japan Total for production 32,748t bases in Japan Overseas production bases Overseas production bases Resin 3,636t Total waste 226t Molds and molding Total for overseas 81t 226t materials production bases Touch panels 0t Others 264t Total for overseas 3,981t production bases Total for Nissha 36,728t Group Including production bases in Japan and overseas Including production bases in Japan and overseas Energy Electricity 161,684MWh Emissions CO2 103,923t Gas 6,695,000m3 VOC (including volume of after Water Tap water 682,000m3 combustion and treatment) 1,496t Underground water 57,000m3 Wastewater 2,310,000m3 Industrial water 1,604,000m3 Environmental Impact as a Result of Business Operations 60 CSR Report 2016 Prevention of Further Global Warming Status of CO2 Emissions at Nissha In fiscal year 2016, CO2 emissions from the Nissha Group in Japan totaled 93,398 t­CO2, for a reduction of about 12% compared to 106,087 t­CO2 in the previous year. The result owes primarily to the decrease in emissions from Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) and Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Tsu Factory. Emissions from NPT overall amounted to 61,979 t­CO2 in fiscal year 2016, for a roughly 14% decrease compared to 71,726 t­CO2 in the previous year, due largely to fluctuations in production volume but also an improved yield rate thanks to small­group activities at NPT Kaga Factory. Emissions from NPT Kyoto Factory, on the other hand, were 2,945 t­CO2 in fiscal year 2016, for a roughly 20% increase compared to 2,464 t­CO2 in the previous year. Emissions from NII Tsu Factory were 888 t­CO2 in fiscal year 2016, for a significant reduction compared to 6,566 t­CO2 in the previous year, as a result of the efforts of Industrial Materials to respond to changes in the business environment. CO2 emissions from overseas production bases in fiscal year 2016 totaled 10,525 t­CO2, for an increase of about 20% compared to 8,748 t­CO2 in the previous year. Eimo Technologies, Inc., a subsidiary of Nissha USA, Inc., where emissions account for more than half of the volume of all overseas production bases combined, recorded 5,085 t­CO2, for a roughly 9% increase over the previous year. Nissha (Kunshan) Precision IMD Mold Co., Ltd. recorded an 11% increase. The addition of PMX Technologies, S.A. de C.V. to the Nissha Group also contributed to the increase. CO2 emissions from overseas production bases as a whole, excluding PMX Technologies, amounted to 9,246 t­CO2, for a roughly 6% increase over the previous year. Emissions from Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd. decreased by about 2% compared to the previous year, and those from Guangzhou Nissha High Precision Plastics Co., Ltd. decreased by 10%. The Nissha Group emits virtually no energy­related greenhouse gases other than CO2, and their effects are minimal. Trends in CO2 Emissions Volumes and Basic Unit Prevention of Further Global Warming 61 CSR Report 2016 Trends in Energy Consumption and Basic Unit Trends in Electricity Consumption Trends in Gas Consumption Prevention of Further Global Warming 62 CSR Report 2016 Trends in Gasoline, Diesel, and Heavy Oil Consumption Basic Unit Management by Production Volume and Its Issues The enactment of the revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy demands the comprehension and management of energy use per company. In order to improve our energy efficiency as well as comply with the legal requirements in line with this shift, in fiscal year 2014 we started managing emissions under a basic unit based on factors such as production volume per company. With 1.00 indicating the benchmark fiscal year 2015 results of each affiliated company that constitutes a production base of the Nissha Group, we set fiscal year 2016 targets at 0.99 or less. The results are given in the table below. NPT Kaga Factory saw dramatic improvement thanks to an increase in production volume plus small­group activities to boost efficiency. NII Koka Factory also improved on its target by basic unit owing to an increase in production volume. NPT Himeji Factory and Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. (NPC) fell short of their respective targets by basic unit despite efforts to improve energy efficiency and reduce fixed energy consumption in response to fluctuations in production volume. The Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee of the CSR Committee identifies the management of CO2 emissions as a material issue and will continue to strive for improvement by basic unit in cooperation with each production base. Basic Unit (based on production volume etc. respectively) FY2016 Company Evaluation FY2015 FY2016 FY2016 Results Target Results Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. (Global 1.00 0.99 or less 0.94 ○ Headquarters, Tokyo, Osaka and others) Nitec Industries, Inc. (Koka) 1.00 0.99 or less 0.86 ○ Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. 1.00 0.99 or less 1.15 × (Himeji) Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. 1.00 0.99 or less 0.64 ○ (kaga) Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. (Yachiyo, Kyoto) 1.00 0.99 or less 1.02 × Initiative in Scope 3 Management Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. has undertaken to survey Scope 3 emissions from the Nissha Group, in line with the move in recent years led by organizations such as the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) to report greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted indirectly from companies through their supply chain. This is defined by the GHG Protocol as Scope 3 sources and includes manufacturing, transportation, business travel, and employee commuting. The Environmental, Safety and Health Subcommittee has identified transportation and travel as material issues and set numerical targets for Scope 3 management toward enhancing our corporate value over the medium to long term. We plan to disclose the results in fiscal year 2018. Prevention of Further Global Warming 63 CSR Report 2016 Scopes 1, 2, 3: Scopes of GHG emissions Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions from sources owned or controlled by the company Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions through consumption of electricity, steam, or heat Scope 3: Indirect emissions other than those in Scope 2 Prevention of Further Global Warming 64 CSR Report 2016 Waste Management Initiatives of the Nissha Group in Japan In fiscal year 2016, the Nissha Group in Japan generated a total 14,223 tons of waste, for a 16% reduction compared to fiscal year 2015. The primary reason is the decrease in waste due to changes in business content at Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Tsu Factory and Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT). The volume of simple incineration and landfill waste similarly decreased, amounting to 1,162 tons for a 43% reduction compared to the previous year. Our recycling and resource reuse rate was 91.8%, for an improvement of 3.7% over the previous year. We continue to fall short of achieving our zero emissions target (a recycling and resource reuse rate of 99.5% or more), however, as sludge generated at NPT Kaga Factory cannot be recycled. NPT Kaga Factory has worked to reduce the volume of sludge generated through improvements in its wastewater treatment process. As a result, its recycling and resource reuse rate improved from 71.5% in the second half of fiscal year 2015 to 77% in the second half of fiscal year 2016. Further reductions in the amount of sludge generated from NPT Kaga Factory are expected to contribute to a significant improvement in the recycling and resource reuse rate of the Nissha Group in Japan in fiscal year 2017. Trends in Recycling and Resource Reuse (Nissha Group in Japan) Initiatives at Overseas Production Bases The Nissha Group has three production bases in Asia: Guangzhou Nissha High Precision Plastics Co., Ltd., Nissha (Kunshan) Precision IMD Mold Co., Ltd., and Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd. Waste generated at Southern Nissha accounts for more than 90% of the volume of all Asian bases combined. The three production bases generated a total 226 tons of waste in fiscal year 2016, for a 12% reduction compared to fiscal year 2015. Southern Nissha recorded a 2.7% decrease and Guangzhou Nissha a 52% decrease, while Nissha Kunshan saw an 8.5% increase. As for recycling and resource reuse rates, all Asian production bases achieved their respective targets again this year. Southern Nissha achieved a rate of 99% against a target of 90% or more, Nissha Kunshan achieved a rate of 89% against a target of 86.3% or more, and Guangzhou Nissha achieved a rate of 72% against a target of 71% or more. Waste Management 65 CSR Report 2016 All waste generated in Asian production bases (Guangzhou Nissha, Nissha Kunshan, Southern Nissha) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 All waste generated （tons） 194 256 226 Recycling and resource reuse rates in Asian production bases (FY2016) Targets Results Evaluation Guangzhou Nissha 71% or more 72% ○ Nissha Kunshan 86.3% or more 89% ○ Southern Nissha 90% or more 99% ○ Risk Management Related to Waste and Waste Converted in Valuable Resources We recognize largely three types of waste­related risk: Accidents and disasters caused by waste and waste converted into valuable resources (including at treatment contractors) Environmental pollution and violation of laws caused by inappropriate waste treatment Leakage of confidential information from waste and waste converted into valuable resources Based on laws and customer demand, we have created a set of Nissha Waste Management Regulations that enables all bases of the Nissha Group to manage waste safely under the same set of standards. In line with these regulations, each base has drawn up its own Waste Management Manual and makes efforts toward thorough waste separation and management. Whether a small amount of substance or a spray can, the properties of waste are checked meticulously and monitored so as to prevent spillage during transportation and accidents at treatment facilities. The regulations also stipulate the criteria for selecting waste treatment contractors and for regularly inspecting treatment facilities using a checklist original to Nissha. In addition, we have in place standards for managing waste and waste converted into valuable resources that contain confidential information, and promote management in association with our information security management system (ISMS). Waste Management 66 CSR Report 2016 Monitoring and Prevention of Pollution Measures to Help Prevent Pollution We undertake monitoring and measuring activities to prevent pollution. Based on our strict voluntary standards, we conduct periodic testing the level of atmospheric pollutants, wastewater quality, noise, and foul odor. Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Himeji Factory Measurements of Wastewater Quality Agreement value (Law FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Concerning Regulatory Special value Measures Items (Water Voluntary for Unit measured Pollution standard Conservation Control Analysis Analysis Analysis of the Evaluation Evaluation Evaluation Act) value value value Environment of the Seto Inland Sea) Discharged 5,200 5,000 5,000 m3 5,143 △ 5,017 △ 4,613 ○ water pH 5.8～8.6 5.8～8.6 6.5～8.0 6.7～7.6 ○ 6.9～7.5 ○ 7.0～7.5 ○ BOD 120.0 10.0 9.0 mg/L 6.3 ○ 4.4 ○ 3.1 ○ COD 120.0 10.0 9.0 mg/L 10.3 × 8.9 ○ 4.9 ○ SS 150.0 5.0 4.5 mg/L 1.5 ○ 1.9 ○ 1.3 ○ Mineral oil n­hexane 5 derived 1.0 0.9 mg/L 0.8 ○ 0.9 ○ 0.5 ○ Vegetable substances oil 30 Phenol 5.0 0.1 0.1 mg/L < 0.005 ○ < 0.005 ○ < 0.005 ○ Copper 3.00 0.50 0.40 mg/L 0.07 ○ 0.05 ○ 0.01 ○ Zinc 2.00 1.50 1.20 mg/L 0.02 ○ 0.01 ○ 0.01 ○ Soluble 10.00 0.15 0.08 mg/L 0.01 ○ 0.02 ○ 0.02 ○ iron Soluble 10.000 0.050 0.045 mg/L 0.030 ○ 0.040 ○ 0.040 ○ manganese Chromium 2.00 0.02 0.02 mg/L < 0.02 ○ < 0.02 ○ < 0.02 ○ Nitrogen 60.0 10.0 9.0 mg/L 7.4 ○ 8.0 ○ 3.6 △ Phosphorus 8.00 1.00 0.45 mg/L 0.24 ○ 0.25 ○ 0.02 ○ *In FY2014, COD value momentarily exceeded the agreement value. We have submitted necessary reports to the government and took corrective actions appropriately. Monitoring and Prevention of Pollution 67 CSR Report 2016 Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kaga Factory Measurements of Wastewater Quality Regulatory FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Voluntary Items measured value Unit standard (Prefecture) Fab3 Fab5 Fab3 Fab5 Fab3 Fab5 pH 5.8～8.6 6.2～8.2 76 ○ 7.9 ○ 7.6 ○ 8.0 ○ 7.5 ○ ­ ­ BOD 160 or less 40 or less mg/L 66.0 △ 72.0 △ 22.8 ○ 29.6 ○ 32.0 ○ ­ ­ COD 160 or less 80 or less mg/L 71.0 ○ 84.0 △ 24.6 ○ 33.8 ○ 39.0 ○ ­ ­ SS 200 or less 20 or less mg/L 11.0 ○ 8.0 ○ 4.3 ○ 10.0 ○ 4.4 ○ ­ ­ n­hexane derived 30.0 15 or less mg/L 0.6 ○ 1.7 ○ 1.0 ○ 1.4 ○ 0.5 ○ ­ ­ substances Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. (NPC) Yachiyo Factory Measurements of Soot and Smoke FY2014 Items Regulatory Voluntary Unit FY2015 FY2016 measured value standard Mar. 19 Evaluation Sep. 3 Evaluation Dust 0.100 0.003 g/m3N < 0.001 ○ < 0.002 ○ Exempted from measurement due to discontinued use of Nitrogen soot and smoke generating 150.0 71.3 g/m3N 53.0 ○ 59.0 ○ oxide facilities *The Yachiyo Factory upgraded its air­conditioning system from a gas absorber to an electric chiller in fiscal year 2015, discontinuing use of soot and smoke generating facilities. Management of Chemical Substances In fiscal year 2016, we reported the use of nine PRTR­designated chemical substances. Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Koka Factory Unit: kg FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Volume Volume Volume Name of PRTR Discharge transferred to Reporting Discharge transferred to Reporting Discharge transferred Reporting chemical No. volume into industrial required / volume into industrial required / volume into to industrial required / substance the waste not the waste not the waste not atmosphere processing required atmosphere processing required atmosphere processing required companies companies companies 53 Ethylbenzene 730 250 ○ 1,700 580 ○ 3,100 820 ○ 80 Xylene 9,300 4,100 ○ 17,000 5,500 ○ 25,000 6,500 ○ Hexavalent 88 chromium 0.1 0.0 ○ 0.1 0.0 ○ 0.1 0.0 ○ compounds 1,2,4­ 296 ­ ­ ○ ­ ­ ○ 750 470 ○ Trimethylbenzend 300 Toluene 97,000 73,100 ○ 140,000 7,800 ○ 200,000 120,000 ○ Monitoring and Prevention of Pollution 68 CSR Report 2016 392 N­hexane ­ ­ ○ 4,500 2,600 ○ 8,500 5,400 ○ Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Tsu Factory Unit: kg FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Volume Name of Volume Volume PRTR Discharge Reporting Discharge Reporting Discharge transferred to Reporting chemical transferred to transferred to No. volume into required / volume into required / volume into industrial required / substance industrial waste industrial waste the not the not the waste not processing processing atmosphere required atmosphere required atmosphere processing required companies companies companies 53 Ethylbenzene 3,900 1,100 ○ 250 2,500 ○ ­ ­ ­ 80 Xylene 3,600 1,000 ○ 210 2,100 ○ ­ ­ ­ Hexavalent 88 chromium 0.1 0.1 ○ 0.1 0.1 ○ ­ ­ ­ compounds 300 Toluene 71,000 20,000 ○ 980 9,900 ○ ­ ­ ­ Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Himeji Factory Unit: kg FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Volume Volume Name of Volume PRTR Discharge Reporting Discharge transferred to Reporting Discharge transferred Reporting chemical transferred to No. volume into required / volume into industrial required / volume into to industrial required / substance industrial waste the not the waste not the waste not processing atmosphere required atmosphere processing required atmosphere processing required companies companies companies Ferric 71 0.0 0 ○ 0.0 0 ○ 0.0 0 ○ chloride Water­ soluble 272 copper salts 0.0 280,000.0 ○ 0.0 2,000.0 ○ 0.0 1,700.0 ○ (excluding complex salt) Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kaga Factory Unit: kg FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Volume Volume Name of Volume PRTR Discharge Reporting Discharge transferred to Reporting Discharge transferred Reporting chemical transferred to No. volume into required / volume into industrial required / volume into to industrial required / substance industrial waste the not the waste not the waste not processing atmosphere required atmosphere processing required atmosphere processing required companies companies companies Silver and its compounds Monitoring and Prevention of Pollution 69 CSR Report 2016 82 (water ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ soluble) Ferric 71 0.0 0.0 ○ 0.0 0.0 ○ 0.0 0.0 ○ chloride Water­soluble copper salts 272 0.0 0.0 ○ 0.0 0.0 ○ 0.0 0.0 ○ (excluding complex salt) Molybdenum 453 and its ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 0.0 0.0 ○ compounds Monitoring and Prevention of Pollution 70 CSR Report 2016 Status of Waste Generation at Bases Status of Waste Generation at Major Production Bases (March 2016 Results) Nitec Industries, Inc. (NII) Koka Factory Location: Koka City, Shiga Prefecture Acquisition of ISO14001 Certification: June 2007 Production items: Transfer foils (the Industrial Materials business) Recycling and resource reuse rate: 99.8％ Status of Waste Generation at Bases 71 CSR Report 2016 Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Himeji Factory Location: Himeji City, Hyogo Prefecture Acquisition of ISO14001 Certification: March 2014 Production items: Touch panels (the Devices business) Recycling and resource reuse rate: 99.9% Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kaga Factory Location: Kaga City, Ishikawa Prefecture Acquisition of ISO14001 Certification: March 2014 Production items: Touch panels (the Devices business) Recycling and resource reuse rate: 72.0% Status of Waste Generation at Bases 72 CSR Report 2016 Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. (NPC) Yachiyo Factory Location: Yachiyo City, Chiba Prefecture Acquisition of ISO14001 Certification: December 2004 Production items: Printing and binding of books, catalogs, leaflets, etc., using sheet offset press and rotary press (the Information and Communication business) Recycling and resource reuse rate: 99.7% Status of Waste Generation at Bases 73 CSR Report 2016 Fair Operating Practices As a socially responsible corporation, fair operating practices are a top priority. We incorporate global standards into our operating practices with the aim of being a Nissha that our customers will feel safe in choosing. Fair Operating Practices 74 CSR Report 2016 Initiatives Related to Information Security The spread of the Internet and the broad use of devices such as smartphones have ushered in a convenient era in which anyone can connect with the online community easily at all times. On the other hand, with cyberattacks, email spoofing, and other crimes against information security growing rampant and ever more advanced, the risks are increasing of everyone becoming either a victim or perpetrator of information leakage. We at the Nissha Group recognize the paramount importance of not leaking outside the company or beyond related parties information about our employees, personal information, and information entrusted to us by our customers and suppliers, particularly highly confidential information assets such as information on new products and state­of­the­art technologies. All our employees adhere to our Information Security Policy, which we drew up in and implement since 2005 with the aim of building a highly reliable and safe information security management system (ISMS). Information Security Policy Nissha and its subsidiaries committed to establish, maintain, and improve highly reliable and secure an information security management system to protect our own business information and the information assets, which we acquire from customers, suppliers and employees, etc., through our business activities performed, from any kinds of threat. And we take internal and external information security requirements into consideration and reduce all risks below the acceptable levels. 1. We continually improve an Information security management system by establishing, implementing, and reviewing the information security objectives, so that the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information can be maintained and improved. 2. We comply with legal and regulatory requirements for information security and with contractual security obligation. 3. We establish and improve the criteria for reasonably evaluating risks concerning information security as well as the risk assessment methods, to mitigate risks and to maintain the information security levels which contributes to the corporate developments. 4. We make Information Security Policy known to all employees working in the premises of Nissha and its subsidiaries to raise their awareness of the issues related to information security. July 1, 2013 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Information Security Management Structure We have in place an Information Security Subcommittee of the CSR Committee to serve as a center for the promotion of information security. The subcommittee is run by an ISMS management representative (the Chief Information Officer, or CIO) and comprises information security managers and promoters selected from each department. An ISMS secretariat set up within the IT Department functions as the subcommittee secretariat. The subcommittee plays an important role in the promotion of our ISMS by addressing issues that have become evident as well as reporting and sharing the results and challenges of initiatives related to information security. Initiatives Related to Information Security 75 CSR Report 2016 Management Structure Initiatives in Information Security Management In September 2005, we obtained ISO27001 certification, a global standard for ISMS. Since then, we have built and continuously maintained and improved an ISMS unique to the Nissha Group. Through the operation of our ISMS, we have performed risk assessment and analyses related to information assets, determined and strived for information security targets, complied with related laws and regulations, conducted internal audits, and appropriately followed processes such as management reviews, thereby reducing the risks of information security incidents and accidents. In fiscal year 2016, the Nissha Group focused particularly on the following initiatives. 1. Compliance with Japan’s social security and tax number system We formulated a set of internal regulations with the introduction of Japan’s social security and tax number system, and organized a briefing session and tested the level of understanding of employees responsible for handling the numbers assigned to individuals. 2. Strengthening of information security education We implemented training and education to deepen the understanding of all employees, including through group sessions at affiliated companies new to the Nissha Group. 3. Expansion of ISO27001 examination and certification In fiscal year 2016, Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kyoto Factory and Nissha F8, Inc. (NF8) obtained ISO27001 certification. 4. Response to new ISO27001 We received inspection by an outside organization and renewed our certification in the new version of ISO27001 (2013). 5. Preparations for introduction of ISMS in overseas bases We prepared a system toward the start of ISMS operation at overseas bases, and visited sites and organized videoconferences to provide education about initiatives in information security and explain the procedures for operating the ISMS. In fiscal year 2017, we plan to newly obtain ISO27001 certification at a number of our affiliated companies and start operation of the ISMS at overseas bases. The Nissha Group will actively continue in our efforts to keep up with the rapid changes in the IT environment, and reduce risks and strengthen management of information security. Initiatives Related to Information Security 76 CSR Report 2016 Trade Management Enhancement of Trade Management Structure Our Initiatives related to trade management date back to April 2010 with the launch of the Trade Management Improvement Project Team. With the purpose of building an appropriate internal structure for import and export control, the following year, in 2011, we established the Trade Administration and Control Committee and started full­scale trade management. At its first general meeting organized in May 2012, the committee confirmed that activities would aim to strengthen security trade control incompliance with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act, and to obtain authorized exporter status under the Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) program, which would recognize that we implement appropriate trade management based on the Customs Act. We obtained this AEO Exporter approval in June 2014 and AEO Importer approval in June 2015. We earn an increasing proportion of our sales overseas, with the percentage reaching 73.6% in fiscal year 2016. For a company like us, efforts in trade management are essential for business continuation. Net sales and percentage of overseas sales Trade Management Structure Starting in fiscal year 2017, the Trade Administration and Control Committee carries out activities as the Trade Administration and Control Subcommittee of the CSR Committee. The subcommittee works to strengthen trade management under the head served by a director appointed by the president. Thorough management in daily operations is assigned to subcommittee members and division managers of business divisions, corporate divisions, and affiliated companies in Japan. In fiscal year 2016, the subcommittee secretariat visited our overseas bases for employee education toward expanding trade management efforts to overseas affiliated companies. In fiscal year 2017, it plans to build a trade management system at overseas affiliated companies in addition to continuing with employee education. Trade Management 77 CSR Report 2016 Trade Administration and Control Subcommittee AEO Approval Status Following approval as an AEO Exporter in June 2014, we obtained approval as an AEO Importer on June 15, 2015. As of May 31, 2016, a total of 57 companies in Japan are approved as both an AEO Importer and an AEO Exporter. Being one of the quickest companies to obtain dual approval, we have in place a system for safe and smooth international logistics. Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd., in Malaysia, obtained approval as both an AEO Exporter and an AEO Importer in October 2014. Fiscal Year 2016 Initiatives and Future Challenges In fiscal year 2016, we carried on with our initiatives from the previous year in fortifying security export control and furthering export management not only of cargo but also of services (technological information). Meanwhile, we also worked toward obtaining approval as an AEO Importer. Members of the Trade Administration and Control Subcommittee from each business unit organized secretariat meetings every month, and as part of its efforts to fortify company­wide trade management initiatives, implemented rank­specific training for select groups of participants: sessions for all employees to acquire basic knowledge, sessions for managers and trade­related workers aiming to acquire more specialized knowledge in trade­related duties, and sessions for executives. Through our approval as AEO Importer, awareness has improved about prohibited articles and restricted articles based on import control, and the number of submissions for export and import application continued to increase significantly. We are also carrying on with our efforts toward thorough compliance with rules for completing and submitting customs documents required with actual exports and imports. The strict control of export and import cargo is not only a demand from society but also, for a company like Nissha that operates a global business, an important initiative toward enhanced service to our customers. While we draw on the reciprocal advantages of approval as both an AEO Exporter and an AEO Importer, we believe it is crucial to step up our efforts continuously on a company­wide level toward appropriate cargo control and improved employee awareness of security. We will continue to promote efforts to ensure safety, improve work quality, and fortify our initiatives in compliance so that we may provide safe, secure, and speedy international logistics services to meet our customers’ demands. Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) Program Reinforced security measures are a major requirement in international logistics in recent years. Amid the increase in international logistics, ensuring both trade security and smooth logistics is a great challenge. The AEO program seeks to address this challenge by fostering partnerships between customs and private businesses. AEO operators, approved for their security management and compliance structures, are given benefits such as simplified customs procedures in accordance with international standards. Trade Management 78 CSR Report 2016 Initiatives Related to Intellectual Property Approach to Intellectual Property Nissha Printing raises the protection of intellectual property in our Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance as a key item, and we make active efforts to respect the intellectual property of third parties and to obtain rights for and use that of our own. Intellectual Property Management acts as the central body for protecting intellectual property. With the aim of expanding the performance of business units and ensuring a competitive advantage for new businesses, it works to establish intellectual property strategies for the entire Nissha Group and meet internal needs to secure intellectual property rights. Basic policy for protection of intellectual property (from the Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance) 1. We will acknowledge the importance of our technologies and brands as intellectual property and will undertake their appropriate management. 2. We will report any invention arising through our business operations in accordance with our Company regulations. 3. We will strive to avoid the breach of third­party intellectual property rights. Contents of Initiatives Promotion of Patent Application We aim to file for patent application and obtain rights for new technologies developed in our development divisions. To respond to the increasing globalization of our business activities, this requires us to file for application not only in Japan but also abroad. The promotion of technology development and the obtaining of patent rights help to differentiate Nissha products, made with our own distinctive technologies, from other companies’ products. This in turn puts a check on the inappropriate use of other companies’ technologies, helping also to reduce intellectual property­related risks in connection with Nissha products for our customers. Monitoring of Other Companies’ Patents We periodically research and continuously monitor other companies’ patents so that Nissha products do not infringe others’ patent rights. For monitoring, we input subjects as research criteria in a patent database and obtain results on a regular basis using a selective dissemination of information (SDI) system. Intellectual Property Training Programs We organize internal training programs so that employees may deepen their understanding of and properly protect intellectual property. In fiscal year 2016, we invited an outside specialist to conduct sessions divided into four levels—introductory, basic, advanced, and practical research—in which participants learned in detail about intellectual property law, how to research other companies’ patents, and promoting technology development and filing for patent application. We also hold sessions in which a member of Intellectual Property Management serves as instructor. Intellectual property training program Instructor: Mr. Ryu Yuasa, TechnoProducer Corporation Commissioned organizer: CKS Corporation Initiatives Related to Intellectual Property 79 CSR Report 2016 Partnership with Our Suppliers We at Nissha procure the raw materials, components, equipment, and services necessary for making our products from the global market. We work with our suppliers that constitute this supply chain to promote CSR procurement based on our Basic Purchasing Policy toward realizing co­existence, sharing awareness of our social responsibility, and enhancing mutual corporate value. Basic Purchasing Policy For the achievement of the Corporate Mission, We are committed to pursuing a mutually trustful Co­ existence with society through our business activities utilizing a unique technology development, based on PRINTING as a core. , we at Nissha are always committed to creating enterprise value by establishing the partnership for co­existence and co­prosperity with suppliers and carrying out mutually fair procurement. We at Nissha evaluate suppliers impartially, fairly and comprehensively, based on the following points. 1. Stable business foundation and reliable business attitude 2. Excellent technology development and supply abilities 3. Flexibility to adapt to changes in the business environment 4. Safety of products and services, stable quality and lead time and competitive prices 5. Supply chain management aimed for business continuation We at Nissha promote CSR procurement by working with suppliers on the following points. 1. Labor 2. Health and Safety 3. Environment 4. Ethics 5. Information Security Establishment April 2, 2009 Amendment June 30, 2015 Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Partnership with Our Suppliers 80 CSR Report 2016 Basic Approach to CSR Procurement Promotion Expansion of Our Supply Chain We collaborate with various suppliers in conducting our business activities. In fiscal year 2016, we concluded a capital and business alliance contract and a production consignment contract in our Information and Communications business with Kyodo Printing Co., Ltd. Supply Chain of the Industrial Materials and Divices Businesses Supply Chain of the Information and Communication Business Partnership with Our Suppliers 81 CSR Report 2016 CSR Supplier Audits From fiscal year 2015 onward, we conduct CSR supplier audits starting with our particularly important suppliers and new suppliers. The audits cover five areas— labor, health and safety, environmental, ethics, and management system—drawing on the global code of conduct provided by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and on our customers’ own code of conduct based on this EICC template. Prior to auditing, we organize a CSR procurement briefing to explain our CSR Procurement Guidelines, and distribute an environmental, social, and governance (ESG) check sheet for the supplier to complete. The audit process consists of an inspection of the supplier’s employment regulations and time cards, tours of the site premises including the clean room, and interviews with employees. In the event the audit uncovers any instances of noncompliance, the supplier is required to establish corrective action (CA) and preventive action (PA) on the findings. The nine audits conducted to date detected a total 82 instances of noncompliance (45 related to labor and human rights, 18 to health and safety, 4 to the environment, 12 to ethics, and 3 to management system). In several cases, employees from Nissha revisited the site to explain the proper response to revisions in legislation and provide support to remedy the situation. Roughly three months later, auditors check that CA and PA have been taken and the noncompliance has been remedied, bringing the CSR audit to completion. In fiscal year 2016, we carried out audits at a total of three materials suppliers of the Devices business and the Industrial Materials business. This combined with the suppliers audited in fiscal year 2015 represent about 70% of the total value of goods procured at Nissha. By the end of fiscal year 2018, we aim to complete CSR audits at suppliers representing 90% of the total value of goods procured. Items of CSR Procurement Guideline 1. Labor and human rights 1) Freely chosen employment 2) Young workers 3) Working hours 4) Wages and benefits 5) Humane treatment 6) Non­discrimination 7) Freedom of association 2. Health and safety 1) Occupational safety 2) Emergency preparedness 3) Occupational injury and illness 4) Industrial hygiene 5) Physically demanding work 6) Machine safeguarding 7) Sanitation, food, and housing 8) Health and safety communication 3. The environment 1) Environmental permits and reporting 2) Pollution prevention and resource reduction 3) Hazardous substances 4) Wastewater and solid waste 5) Air emissions 6) Materials restrictions 7) Storm water management 8) Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions 4. Ethics 1) Business integrity 2) No improper advantage 3) Disclosure of information 4) Intellectual property 5) Fair business, advertising and competition 6) Protection of identity and non­retaliation 7) Responsible sourcing of minerals Partnership with Our Suppliers 82 CSR Report 2016 5. Information Security 1) Building of information management system 2) Prevention of leakage of confidential information about our customers and third parties 3) Defense against a computer and network threat, and management of electronic device and recording medium 4) Prevention of leakage of personal information. Fields of ESG check sheet 1. Certification 2. Labor and human rights 3. Health and safety 4. Environmental management 5. Information security management 6. Corporate ethics and compliance 7. Management system Development of Procurement Personnel We make continuous efforts to educate procurement personnel and promote transactions with our suppliers based on fairness, impartiality, and integrity in line with our Basic Purchasing Policy. Fiscal Year 2016 Initiatives 1. Basic course in the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds We invited an outside instructor and organized sessions at three bases. The course attracted many participants even from outside procurement divisions, suggesting a high level of interest from our employees. Following training, we gave the participants a test and In­house training provided feedback of the scores along with a recap, ensuring that knowledge gained through the training took root in the employees’ minds. 2. Training for new procurement personnel We conducted training for employees new to procurement divisions, covering our Basic Purchasing Policy, the importance of compliance, and the knowledge and mindset essential to procurement personnel. 3. Procurement program We developed a new program with the aim of fostering next­generation leaders of procurement divisions. This year we invited an outside instructor to conduct six monthly sessions around the theme of cost engineering. The semester concluded in February with a presentation of achievements. 4. Procurement Q&A Drawing on the results of an in­house procurement test conducted in fiscal year 2016, we sent a series of emails to all employees of procurement divisions plus employees of other divisions who requested it, covering knowledge in procurement with a focus on test questions that had a low percentage of correct answers. The emails were sent once a week for a total of 30 weeks with the aim of strengthening our employees’ foundation in the basics. Partnership with Our Suppliers 83 CSR Report 2016 Initiatives Related to Conflict Minerals The major conflict minerals used in Nissha Group products include tin used in some decoration films and in ITO film*1 for touch panels, and gold used in FPC*2 plating. We investigate all of the materials that make up our products using a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) and identify those that contain conflict minerals. Further, we ask our materials suppliers not to source minerals produced in the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. In fiscal year 2016, we expanded the scope of our investigation to the products of companies new to the Nissha Group. In future, we will continue our efforts to engage in minerals procurement with integrity in line with our Underlying Philosophy Concerning Corporate Responsibility for Minerals Procurement. Underlying Philosophy Concerning Corporate Responsibility for Minerals Procurement The Nissha group is deeply concerned that a portion of the conflict minerals extracted by the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighboring countries are being used as a source of funding for militia that through acts of looting, violence and forced labor are infringing on fundamental human rights. In April 2012, Nissha became a signatory to the “Global Compact” as advocated by the United Nations. We at Nissha have fully embraced the Ten Principles stated in the Global Compact as a cornerstone of our Corporate Mission. Based upon our recognition of the importance of these principles and aiming for co­existence with our stakeholders, we are committed to non­use of these conflict minerals, as raw materials in our products as they result in an infringement of basic human rights. Accordingly where our company becomes aware of the use of any conflict minerals, we will immediately implement all measures required regarding that use. 1. Nissha is presently implementing ongoing control systems for conflict minerals which we maintain continuously. 2. Nissha will promptly provide to its customers conflict minerals information including its smelters, etc. 3. Nissha in respect of this issue will publish the relevant information in its CSR reports. We will continue to make sincere efforts for the responsible procurement of related minerals in order to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities. March 12, 2014 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. *1. ITO film: Film with a transparent conducting coating of indium tin oxide (ITO). *2. FPC: Flexible printed circuits (FPC) that maintain their electrical properties when flexed. Initiatives Related to Conflict Minerals 84 CSR Report 2016 Initiatives Related to Anti­corruption The United Nations Global Compact to which Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. is a signatory lists anti­corruption as its 10th principle. And in recent years, global society has seen a tightening of controls pursuant to anti­corruption legislation including the United States’ Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act. We at Nissha have also seen a rise in demand to follow anti­corruption provisions set forth in the codes of conduct provided both by our customers and by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). The Nissha Group cites prohibition of corrupt practices as an important point of our Guideline of the Corporate Ethics and Compliance. In fiscal year 2016, we checked the level of our employees’ understanding of “corrupt practices” through company­wide training sessions in corporate ethics and compliance, and conducted anti­ corruption training for managers at overseas bases of the Nissha Group. We identify anti­corruption as a material issue related to CSR. Moving forward, we plan to coordinate with relevant divisions and organize initiatives related to the prohibition of corrupt practices taking into account global trends and their significance to Nissha, as well as promote risk assessment and focus on education. Initiatives Related to Anti-corruption 85 CSR Report 2016 Consumer Issues With the aim of providing products and services that satisfy and meet the needs of our customers, we make active eﬀorts to improve quality following our Quality Policy. Consumer Issues 86 CSR Report 2016 Consumer Issues Responsibility to Our Customers / Quality­related Initiatives We at Nissha strive daily to improve quality, based on our Quality Policy, so that we may provide products and services that satisfy and meet the needs of our customers. Quality Policy Nissha and its subsidiaries are committed to contributing widely to society through customer’s trust and satisfaction of quality, cost, delivery, services and speed. 1. We aim for quality that stands up to the customer’s expectations. 2. We pursue Zero Defects in our products. 3. We provide products which satisfy customer requirements and conform to relevant legislation and regulations. 4. We establish and maintain a quality management system, and continually improve its effectiveness. April 1, 2011 Junya Suzuki President and CEO Chairman of the Board Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Quality Management System (QMS) We operate a quality management system that meets the requirements of international standard ISO 9001:2008. Led by the president and a Chief Quality Officer (CQO) in charge of the system, we promote improvements in quality under our comprehensive quality assurance initiative Nissha Total Quality Management (NTQM). We also implement for various forms of improvement based on instructions from top management in periodic management reviews. Consumer Issues 87 CSR Report 2016 Quality Assurance Structure Nissha Total Quality Management (NTQM) Our NTQM initiative seeks to build and improve a mechanism for keeping promises with our customers as well as complying with laws and regulations. NTQM clarifies the procedures followed at each business unit, such as design reviews (DR), reliability tests, and supplier management. We believe that improving the accuracy of these procedures will enable us to provide products and services with even higher levels of quality and safety. In fiscal year 2017, we plan to conduct studies toward building quality management systems pertinent to our new business domains, in compliance with standards such as TS 16949 (automotive industry) and ISO 13485 (medical devices). Five Musts for the Systematization of Work In fiscal year 2012, we set forth Five Musts for the Systemization of Work, a concept we are working to communicate company­wide through training and our internal newsletter. Five Musts for the Systematization of Work 1. Standardize work. Standardization clarifies the required input, as well as the work you have to perform. 2. First of all, check the input. Begin your work by checking for any fault in input. 3. Incorporate the customer viewpoint into the output. Not only customers for the Company, but your immediate customers, internal and external. In your work, you must aim at an output that meets QCDS from all your customers. 4. Reinforce the system using human factors. Human factors should be used to cover those areas of work which cannot be covered by the system alone. Your communication and teamwork will reinforce the system. 5. Make continuous efforts to improve the system. The system must be established and implemented continuously. Continuous implementation results in further improvement of the system, as well as that of the quality of our work and the Company. Consumer Issues 88 CSR Report 2016 *QCDS: Initial of Quality, Cost, Delivery, Service, the index for product evaluation. Small­group Activities The accumulation of bits of wisdom and creativity from all employees is the source of great improvements in work processes. The small­group activities we restarted in July 2011 are an important mechanism for mustering our knowledge and strengths. And the Company­wide Presentation Meeting of Small­group Activities launched in October 2011—we celebrated the holding of the 10th session in April 2016—unveils the various results of improvement activities carried out at our business units. The presentation meetings are designed to reward not only the results but also the thought process and creativity that produced the results, as well as the skills for explaining these in an easy­to­understand manner. With the aim of sharing the fruits of improvement activities with back­office divisions, in February 2016 we organized our first Back­office Company­wide Presentation Meeting of Small­group Activities. Through the small­group activities, a positive attitude has taken root in our employees’ minds: 1) always incorporate creativity in work processes, 2) base judgments on data (facts), and 3) utilize the plan­do­check­act (PDCA) cycle to make improvements on a continuous basis. Improvement Proposal System Besides taking time to analyze workplace problems and search for optimal solutions, it is also important to say “just do it” and act on inspired ideas. In fiscal year 2012, we reintroduced the improvement proposal system as a company­wide mechanism. The number of proposals is increasing year after year, and the concept of giving shape to ideas and reporting them is taking root. At present, various departments submit many proposals, which are helping to streamline management and make it more efficient as well as to invigorate workplaces. Education and Training Activities We at Nissha believe that the quality of people plus the quality of work equals the quality of the company. We plan and provide various educational programs in efforts to develop our employees—our most important management resources. 1) General quality training (for first­, second­, and third­year employees, new managerial staff, managers, and overseas transferees) 2) Management system training (ISO 9001:2008, ISO/TS 16949:2009, and core tools) 3) Quality control training (QC Exam levels 3 and 4) Training 4) Quality methodology training (statistical methods, experimental design, TS core tools, etc.) 5) Improvement tool training (industrial engineering, human error prevention, “5 Whys” cause­and­effect analysis, etc.) 6) Other training 1) Support for small­group activities Practical education 2) Nissha Academy (Monozukuri School etc.) Information sharing / Company­wide Presentation Meeting of Small­group Activities reciprocal learning From Department­based Optimization to Company­wide Optimization The next process is the customer—this is a Japanese maxim related to quality improvement. It means that all workers in every process must have in mind the customer, who might be workers in the production process following theirs. We at Nissha promote the recognition of ties between one’s own department and others’, and even ties between work processes across the whole company, in terms of “input” and “output.” Hence we stress the importance of links between internal processes and the orderly division of roles. By having all employees Consumer Issues 89 CSR Report 2016 stand in the customers’ shoes, we aim to break free of department­based optimization and strive for company­ wide optimization. We believe that basic concepts like this and the sorting out of functions will build Nissha’s foundation as a manufacturing company. Quality and Safety of Products We at Nissha provide our customers with explicit information on product usage and safety in documents such as delivery specifications. In the event a serious accident occurs as a result of flaws in our products and services, which may violate laws or regulations, we establish a CPL committee and strive for a quick resolution. We are also prepared to report the incident to government agencies in accordance with laws and to notify our customers as soon as possible. We communicate to our employees the importance of ensuring the quality and safety of products through corporate ethics and compliance training. Up to fiscal year 2016, the number of instances in which we organized a CPL committee or violated laws was zero, resulting in a fine of 0 yen. We will strive to maintain our zero violation record in the future. * CPL: Combination of contractual liability (CL) with product liability (PL) Management of Chemical Substances in Products We at Nissha have in place two sets of criteria for managing chemical substances: the Nissha Control Criteria for Chemical Substances, covering Nissha products and packaging materials, and the Nissha Control Criteria for Chemical Substances in Purchased Products, covering procured items such as primary and secondary raw materials. Both reflect the laws and regulations of relevant countries and regions, including the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive and the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulation, as well as the substance­related criteria of our customers. Whenever our customers’ criteria change, we identify the differences from our criteria and work to conform to our customers’ request. Apart from this, we review our criteria once a year, making revisions as necessary, and organize briefing sessions for related divisions and our suppliers. When selecting new materials in the design and development stages, we conduct design reviews related to materials and assess compliance with our criteria. Our factories are building a mechanism for accepting materials that meet our criteria, ensuring traceability, identifying and separating noncompliant substances, and responding to issues swiftly such as through reporting in efforts to prevent misuse and contamination. Corporate Environmental and Safety Management of Corporate General Affairs functions as a secretariat and works with the product development, quality assurance, and procurement divisions of each business unit to promote management of chemical substances in products. It also carries out internal environmental audits on a regular basis to inspect the management status. This internal structure implements strict control of chemical substances from the design stage to the final product, and responds to changes in the needs of society and the demands of our customers. Consumer Issues 90 CSR Report 2016 Along with Local Communities With the aim of being a company that is needed by society, we promote active communication with local communities and conduct activities in line with our Basic Social Contribution Policy. Along with Local Communities 91 CSR Report 2016 Along with Local Communities Promoting Communication with Local Communities As a member of the global society, Nissha aims not only to fulfill its responsibilities as a corporation but also to win the trust of local communities and be a company that is needed by society. We promote active communication so as to deepen mutual understanding with local communities. Basic Social Contribution Policy We at Nissha set forth our approach to social contribution in the Basic Social Contribution Policy. We devote our management resources to four fields we recognize as important: environmental protection, next generation support, promotion and support of arts and culture, and human support activities. Basic Social Contribution Policy Nissha and Nissha People contribute to society under the spirit of global citizenship by using their management resources effectively toward the achievement of the Corporate Mission. Main fields of contribution: environmental protection , next generation support , promotion and support of arts and culture , and human support activities . Waste Management Training for JICA Trainees In September 2015, Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. organized a training session at our global headquarters themed around corporate waste management for overseas government agencies invited by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to participate in a training program in environmental management. The request came by way of the Kyoto Environmental Activities Association (KEAA) to accept 10 trainees from seven countries— Sudan, Nigeria, Algeria, Egypt, Kazakhstan, Nepal, and Bhutan. Three KEAA staff members accompanied the group. Along with Local Communities 92 CSR Report 2016 Following a tour of global headquarters workplaces centering on our waste separation and storage area, we introduced the participants to Nissha initiatives in waste management, specifically zero emissions and risk management. The JICA trainees left with a deep understanding particularly of our efforts in zero emissions, the mechanism by which we manage three types of waste­related risk (accidents and disasters, violation of laws that causes environmental pollution, and information leakage), and our all­important management of and partnership with waste treatment contractors. We received words of praise from the accompanying KEAA staff members: “At Nissha, the concepts of reducing risk and reducing waste are in perfect sync. The company does not view environment­friendliness as a challenge detached from business operations. Its initiatives in environmental protection link seamlessly with its initiatives in waste reduction. This approach left a deep impression on us and proved to be a great source of inspiration for the trainees.” Initiatives for Next Generation Support and Humanitarian Support Environmental Workshops at Local Elementary Schools and Nursery Schools Our employees at Nissha mainly at production sites in Japan visit local elementary schools and nursery schools and conduct environmental workshops. In fiscal year 2016, workshops were held at two elementary schools in Kyoto and two elementary schools in Kaga, Ishikawa Prefecture. At the schools, children learned about preventing global warming, how to separate waste, and other environmental initiatives closely associated with their daily lives. In addition, we introduced the “secrets of printing” and the “secrets of touch panels” as part of a uniquely Nissha program aiming to spark interest in “monozukuri,” or manufacturing, and foster a sense of professional values. Participants in this initiative, which started in fiscal year 2008, numbered about 4,150 children at 82 schools as of the end of March 2016. In Kyoto, we further participate in an environmental learning program for elementary school pupils jointly organized by the Kyoto Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Kyoto City Board of Education. The program seeks to raise awareness of environmental issues and deepen interest in the technologies and initiatives of companies based in Kyoto. In November 2015, the program won an encouragement prize in the Sixth Career Education Awards presented by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Workshops Held in Collaboration with an NPO With the aim of developing in children an interest in the environment and unleashing their creativity and imagination, we are holding “Machikusa Mikke!” workshops in collaboration with the NPO Kids Meet Artists (Director: Haruka Idegami). In this program, the children observe the weeds (Machikusa) that generally go unnoticed in daily life, guided by the artist Shinpei Shigemoto, who coined the term Machikusa, give them original names of their choice, and make presentations about them. Following this, they create their own original Machikusa cards, or make Machikusa maps which record where they were discovered. Since it started in 2010, the workshop was run a total of 15 times with participation from about 650 children. In fiscal year 2016, the workshop was held at an elementary school near Nissha’s Kyoto Global Headquarters, and at one temple and one shrine in the Rakuhoku area of Kyoto. Sessions at the temple and shrine invited children from community children’s halls. Following an enthusiastic search for Machikusa, the children came up with countless unique, imaginative names. Support for Kyoto City Inquiry Learning Center for Career Education NISSHA is sponsor of the Children's Monodzukuri Project in Kyoto run by the Kyoto City Board of Education. In addition to exhibiting in a corporate booth at the Kyoto City Inquiry Learning Center for Career Education, Kyoto Monodzukuri­no­Dendo (Monodzukuri Hall of Fame), we provide teaching materials and programs for the workshops held at the Monozukuri Workshop. In this program, the children themselves used staplers and tape Along with Local Communities 93 CSR Report 2016 to create simple touch panels, which were lit up using LED lights. In fiscal year 2016, some 1,200 children from a total of 18 elementary schools participated in our program, titled “First ‘Touch’ to the Future.” We hope to develop the children’s curiosity in “monozukuri,” or manufacturing, through familiar everyday products. In November 2015, the Kyoto program won the first prize for excellence in the Awards for Partnerships for Career Education Promotion jointly presented by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Human Support Activities in Partnership with TABLE FOR TWO Since April 2013, the corporate cafeteria at Nissha’s Kyoto Global Headquarters implements a program in partnership with TABLE FOR TWO International (Director: Masahisa Kogure), where with each purchase of a meal, 20 yen is donated to provide one school lunch for children in developing countries.The cafeteria designates every Friday as TABLE FOR TWO (TFT) day and serves a healthy TFT menu. While enjoying lunch as usual, employees have the opportunity to deliver a meal to children in Africa. The program has taken root thanks in part to its simplicity. In October and November 2015, we took part in the World Food Day “Onigiri Social Action” campaign hosted by TFT, where five meals are donated with every photograph featuring an onigiri (rice ball) posted on a dedicated website. In addition to serving rice­ball lunches at the cafeteria, we offered to take pictures to encourage participation. As a result, more than 150 photographs were posted from Nissha. Sponsorship of Museum Exhibitions and Art Events As part of our efforts in “promotion and support of arts and culture” cited in our Basic Social Contribution Policy, we cosponsor museum exhibitions and art events held throughout Japan. In fiscal year 2016, we cosponsored the exhibitions and events given below. Exhibition / event Schedule Venue 3rd KYOTOGRAPHIE TORAYA Kyoto Gallery, Yuuhisai International Photography April 18, 2015 ‒ May 10, 2015 Koudoukan, etc. Festival Hori Fumiko Retrospective: April 18, 2015 ‒ June 7, 2015 Hyogo Prefectural Museum of Art Unending Journey Kitaoji Rosanjin: A Revolutionary The National Museum of Modern June 19 ‒ August 16, 2015 in the Art of Japanese Cuisine Art, Kyoto Leaps in Evolution – Tracing the National Museum of Nature and July 7 ‒ October 4, 2015 Path of Vertebrate Evolution Science Tove Jansson Exhibition ­ Living July 25 ‒ September 27, 2015 Abeno Harukas Art Museum with Moomins ­ Tove100 September 18 ‒ December 14, Niki de Saint Phalle The National Art Center, Tokyo 2015 RINPA: The Aesthetics of the Kyoto National Museum Heisei October 10 ‒ November 23, 2015 Along with Local Communities 94 CSR Report 2016 Capital Chishinkan Furuta Oribe: 400th Anniversary of the Death of a Feudal Lord October 10 ‒ November 23, 2015 Sagawa Art Museum and Tea Master The Secret of Picasso’s Genius January 3 ‒ March 21, 2016 Aichi Prefectural Museum of Art Vermeer and Rembrandt: The Masters of The 17th Century January 14 ‒ March 31, 2016 Mori Arts Center Gallery Dutch Golden Age LEONARDO DA VINCI – January 16 ‒ April 10, 2016 Edo­Tokyo Museum BEYOND THE VISIBLE Miyagawa Kozan Retrospective February 24 ‒ April 17, 2016 SUNTORY MUSEUM of ART Membership in Community Organizations We participate in various community activities with the aim of being a company that is needed by society. Organization / host Position / membership status Company registered Kyoto Chamber of Commerce Permanent member Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. and Industry Kyoto Employers’ Association Executive director Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Kyoto Association of Corporate Chair Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Executives Kyoto Industrial Association Director Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Ritsumeikan University Business Advisory board member Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. School Joint management council Kyoto Institute of Technology Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. member Kyoto Council of Economic Director Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Organizations Printers Association of Japan Executive director Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Japanese Society of Printing Councilor Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Science and Technology Kyoto Institute of Invention and Advisory committee member Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Innovation Nitec Precision and Kaga Chamber of Commerce Permanent member Technologies, Inc. (NPT) Kaga and Industry Factory Along with Local Communities 95 CSR Report 2016 Company Outline For the company outline and further information on Nissha, please follow the links below. Company Outline View our company outline and a list of major group companies. http://www.nissha.com/english/company/outline.html What's Nissha? View our business fields and an outline of our global operations. http://www.nissha.com/english/company/business/index.html Nissha Group View the bases of our global Nissha Group network. http://www.nissha.com/english/company/office/index.html Company Outline 96 CSR Report 2016 Company Outline Name Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Global Headquarters 3 Mibu Hanai­cho, Nakagyo­ku, Kyoto 604­8551, Japan President and CEO, Junya Suzuki Chairman of the Board Founded October 6, 1929 Established December 28, 1946 Capital ¥5,684,790 thousand 817 (Consolidated number of employees: 4,054) Employees *As of End of June 2016 Nissha is mainly developing the 4 business areas of Industrial Materials, Devices, Life Innovation and Information & Communication. Business outline At the same time, Nissha is accelerating the creation of Development for advance. >For more detail of our business, please check this link, http://www.nissha.com/english/products/index.html Consolidated 58 Subsidiaries Equity Method Affiliates 3* Japan: 14 (including affiliated companies) Bases Overseas: 39 (including locally incorporated companies and equity method affiliates) 【Japan】 Nitec Industries, Inc. Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. SiMICS Co., Ltd. FIS Inc. Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. Nissha F8, Inc. M crossing Co., Ltd. Nissha Business Service Co., Ltd. 【Overseas】 Nissha USA, Inc. Eimo Technologies, Inc. Si­Cal Technologies, Inc. PMX Technologies, S.A. de C.V. Nissha Medical International, Inc. Graphic Controls Holdings, Inc. Graphic Controls Acquisition Corp. Lead­Lok, Inc. Vermed, Inc. CEA Medical Manufacturing, Inc. Major Group Graphic Controls Canada Company Companies Graphic Controls Ltd. Crown Graphic N.V. DIA­Nielson GmbH & Co. K.G. Guyot Graphco S.A. Company Outline 97 CSR Report 2016 Tyromed GmbH. CEA Global Dominicana, S.R.L. Nissha Europe GmbH Nissha Luxembourg Holdings S.à r.l. AR Metallizing N.V. AR Metallizing S.r.l. AR Metallizing Ltd. ARM Embalagens Ltda. Málaga Produtos Metalizados Ltda. Nissha Korea Inc. Nissha Industrial and Trading (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Nissha (Kunshan) Precision IMD Mold Co., Ltd. Guangzhou Nissha High Precision Plastics Co., Ltd. Hong Kong Nissha Co., Ltd. Taiwan Nissha Co., Ltd. Nissha Industrial and Trading Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd. *NS Tech Co., Ltd. *TPK Film Solutions Limited Company Outline 98 CSR Report 2016 What's Nissha? Nissha's Business Fields The company’s name, Nissha Printing, may conjure up an image of a company that prints publications such as books. However its business is not only confined to that. Nissha’s “Touch panels” lead the way in touch input technology today, our “Surface decoration” technology can change the looks from plastic to wood, our “Hydrogen detectors” has adopted in fuel cell vehicle and we develop DDS (Drug Delivery System). We progress technologies since we started business in 1929. We maximize our capabilities driven by our technology, passion, and Global Headquarters (Kyoto, Japan) leadership to create value for the future. Developing the 4 business area Nissha is developing the 4 business areas of Industrial Materials(http://www.nissha.com/english/products/ industrial_m/index.html) , Devices(http://www.nissha.com/english/products/dev/index.html) , Life Innovation(http://www.nissha.com/english/products/life/index.html) and Information & Communication(http:// www.nissha.com/english/products/information_com/index.html) . We handle decorative films and printing related materials field comprising IMD and Metallized Paper as the main product in our Industrial Materials business, and the touch input device FineTouch series in our Devices business. In our Life innovation business, we handle gas sensors and DDS(Drug Derivery System) and the Information & Communication business, we provide printing media and a wide range of services that support general communication strategies, on a one­stop basis. * Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. operates the Information and Communication business of Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Sales breakdown by business field What's Nissha? 99 CSR Report 2016 Globally trusted Technology Nissha's technology is highly regarded not only by customers in Japan, but throughout the world. Nissha products are customized for each and every product provided to our customers. Our business would not be viable without the trust of our customers. Nissha's way of carrying out business is to work near to our customers throughout the world in a way that answers our customers' needs. Overseas sales have vastly surpassed domestic sales. Sales breakdown by overseas vs. domestic Industrial Materials On all sorts of surfaces, the technology to transfer both function and design The major product of our Industrial Materials Business is IMD(http:// www.nissha.com/english/products/industrial_m/imd/index.html), which applies a range of functions and designs on products as they are formed, by enveloping them in a special transfer film during plastic injection molding. The richness of design expression that IMD brings, its functional strengths such as its ability to withstand scratches or fingerprints, and its simple production process are why IMD is held in such high regard around the world, where it is used on a wide range of everyday plastic products that include automobile interior parts, consumer electronics, and smartphones. IMD uses not just transfer foil printing technology but mold technology, injection molding technology, and a range of others, making the Industrial Materials Business unique in possessing so many of these technologies. Our products will evolve to meet future market trends and the needs of customers around the world as we develop new printing techniques. In addition, acquiring a wide range of technologies, not just limiting to printing ones, will allow us to provide a diverse range of products and services to our customers. *IMD is a registered trademark or a trademark of Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Used in the following ways Automotive interior and exterior parts, Smartphone, Consumer electronics, Cosmetics, Stationery and Housing equipment, etc. What's Nissha? 100 CSR Report 2016 IMD's unique mechanisms IMD is a printing technology that allows images to be attached to three­dimensional plastic. How are we able to attach images to something that isn't flat? Expanding the application areas Centered around the unique technologies we have accumulated through IMD, we can respond to wide­ranging market needs by expanding and developing new application fields. Metallized paper Metallized paper is a special paper with a metallic layer vacuum deposited on the surface for decorative effect. With the appearance of metal but the properties of paper, such as biodegradability, metallized paper is garnering interest as an excellent material for environment­friendly packaging. Transfer to various materials Nissha’s transfer technology enables decorate and add functions on not only for plastic molded products but also for glass, metal and 3D products. What's Nissha? 101 CSR Report 2016 Devices Revolutionizing Sensing Technology Nissha's FineTouch leads the way in touch input technology. This technology is used in today's mobile phones, as well as in gaming and digital devices all over the world, and continues to open doors to exciting new possibilities in a long list of industries and technologies. With an eye toward future trends in the market, we are pushing the boundaries of touch­input functionality to create advanced sensing devices of superior quality. Our developments in this area include a new three­dimensional touch panel, a force sensor that can detect the slightest touch with a high degree of accuracy, and a flexible transmission antenna. We are committed to supplying our customers with Flexible and Smart Devices that change the way the world works and plays. * FineTouch is a Nissha's touch panel with outstanding accuracy and functionality. * FineTouch is a registered trademark or a trademark of Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Used in the following ways Nissha makes small­to­medium­sized transparent touch panels. These are largely supplied for use in smartphones and portable games gears. Touch panels have gained attention for their usability and fun operation . Applications are gradually spreading to a variety of other devices, such as digital cameras and car navigation systems.We are aiming to expanding into a wide range of businesses by providing devices, services, and systems with sensing functions in addition to touch panels. These will be targeted at a range of markets, including healthcare, medicine, agriculture, education, housing equipment, industrial equipment, and automobiles. Strengths of FineTouch Nissha is leading the touch panel market with its advanced technology. Reputation for high quality Touch panels require characteristics such as being light, thin, easy­to­ read, and operating accurately. Nissha is achieving this with its abundant know­how and state­of­the­art production equipment. It is also offering a wide variety of products tailored to the needs of the market, such as a touch panel with a design. Expanding the area from touch to sensing But Nissha is not only working on a touch panel that is used as a switch. Aiming to give new value to the input and output of various devices, it is also working on products like a touch panel with a three­dimensional shape and a sensor that detects how much pressure is being applied to it. It is carrying out development while being aware of the trends of the times. What's Nissha? 102 CSR Report 2016 New products The force sensor The force sensor(http://www.nissha.com/english/products/dev/force.html) is a touch sensor that detects the force of pressure (patent acquired). By identifying changes in pressure and the area covered as well as the position touched, it enables subtle input control and can reproduce even calligraphy­ style brushstrokes. Applications are as diverse as ideas. The next­ generation touch sensor promises broad use in a wide range of industries. Life Innovation Contributing to Healthy and Enriched Lifestyles Worldwide Life Innovation aims to contribute to safe, secure, and healthy lifestyles worldwide through business activities in the fields of gas sensors and drug delivery systems (DDS*). *DDS: Dosage forms of medication, such as injections, pills, ointments, and adhesive patches Gas Sensors Our gas sensor business, led by Nissha Group company FIS Inc., offers semiconductor gas sensors and applied equipment such as modules and finished products. Along with expanding into home fuel cell systems and hydrogen stations and similar infrastructure, rather than being limited to fuel cell vehicles, we are further accelerating specific initiatives to create new business fields such as for medicine or POCT. Used in the following ways Sensors for gas alarms, Sensors for air purifiers and air conditioners, Breath alcohol checkers for the prevention of drunk driving (finished product), Halitosis analyzers (finished product), Hydrogen Detectors,etc. DDS (Drug Delivery System) Our DDS business seeks to cultivate markets for Nissha’s new DDS: the dissolving microneedle patch, which hardly causes any pain when applying to skin, high efficiency can be expected. Development is underway for products that may be used to deliver pharmaceutical preparations such as vaccines, and skin care products formulated to penetrate into the skin. What's Nissha? 103 CSR Report 2016 Information & Communication Innovating Business Through Communication Design Nissha identifies and clarifies the customers issues in communication strategies and designs communication policies to solve those issues. Nissha has a wide range of products and solution development expertise, including for Marketing Solution, Sales Promotions, Web Solutions, Creative Design, Cultural Asset Art Solutions, Commercial Printing and Publication Printing. We make full use of these, together with market research, the verification of effects, contents development and management, in order to realize overall communication policies which are adapted to the times. * Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. operates the Information and Communication business of Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. Service example AR application Cazasmart Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. has developed and released an AR (augmented reality) application Cazasmart which can display rich contents such as moving images and detailed information superimposedly by holding (cazasu, in Japanese) the built­in camera of a smart phone or tablet device over an image printed on a booklet, leaflet, poster, etc. We also contribute to the preservation of important cultural assets for future generations Nissha has had a close relationship to works of art and cultural assets through its printing activities. We are also involved in passing down cultural assets to future generations by utilizing our experience in the restoration and digital archiving through ultra­precision digital photography. What's Nissha? 104 CSR Report 2016 Editorial Policy The Nissha CSR Report is published annually to serve as a communication tool for building a “mutually trustful Co­existence with society,” as set forth in our corporate mission. CSR Report 2016 is compiled with the objective of disclosing widely to our stakeholders information regarding Nissha’s initiatives and performance in fiscal year 2016 (April 2015–March 2016), following the editorial policy given below. Guidelines Used as Reference ・The G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative ・ISO26000 ・Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012, issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment Period Covered The information contained in this report, in principle, covers the period from April 2015 to March 2016. Some reporting is also done regarding activities carried out after April 2016. Publication Dates Current issue: June 2016 Next issue: June 2017 (planned) Last issue: June 2015 Scope of Reporting The information and data contained in this report focus mainly on activities conducted by the Nissha Group. Where information for the entire group is not available, the scope of reporting is indicated separately. “Nissha Printing Co., Ltd.” refers to the parent company alone. “Nissha” and “Nissha Group” refer to Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. and its group companies. “Global Headquarters” refers to the global headquarters and associated companies located within the global headquarters premises. The major affiliated companies of each Nissha business are given below. Significant activities conducted by companies in our supply chain are also included in this report. Major Affiliated Companies and Businesses Companies Major Businesses Nitec Industries, Inc. Industrial Materials Nitec Precision and Technologies, Inc. Devices SiMICS Co., Ltd. Devices FIS Inc. Life Innovation Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. Information and Communication Nitec Printing Co., Ltd. Information and Communication Nissha F8, Inc. Information and Communication M crossing Co., Ltd. Others Editorial Policy 105 CSR Report 2016 Nissha Business Service Co., Ltd. Others Nissha USA, Inc. Industrial Materials, Devices Eimo Technologies, Inc. Industrial Materials Si­Cal Technologies, Inc. Industrial Materials PMX Technologies, S.A. de C.V. Industrial Materials Nissha Europe GmbH Industrial Materials, Devices Nissha Luxembourg Holdings S.a r.l Industrial Materials AR Metallizing N.V. Industrial Materials ARM Holding S.r.l. Industrial Materials AR Metallizing S.r.l. Industrial Materials AR Metallizing Ltd. Industrial Materials ARM Embalagens Ltda. Industrial Materials Málaga Produtos Metalizados Ltda. Industrial Materials Nissha Korea Inc. Industrial Materials, Devices Nissha Industrial and Trading (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Industrial Materials Nissha (Kunshan) Precision IMD Mold Co., Ltd. Industrial Materials, Devices Guangzhou Nissha High Precision Plastics Co., Ltd. Industrial Materials Hong Kong Nissha Co., Ltd. Industrial Materials Taiwan Nissha Co., Ltd. Industrial Materials, Devices Nissha Industrial and Trading Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Industrial Materials Southern Nissha Sdn. Bhd. Industrial Materials Variations in Scope of Reporting Changes in Nissha Group companies in fiscal year 2016 and their impact on the scope of reporting are given in the table below. Date Contents Impact on scope of reporting Nissha Printing Communications, Inc. was established (took over April 2015 the Information and Minor Communication business in July 2015) CSR Report 2016 contains information on work­related H.I.G. Luxembourg Holdings 28 accidents at AR Metallizing N.V. S.a r.l was acquired as a and its group companies between subsidiary (currently Nissha December 2015 and March 2016. August 2015 Luxembourg Holdings S.a r.l.) Information related to the along with its business company environment will be compiled AR Metallizing N.V. and its group starting with FY2017 results and companies presented in CSR Report 2017 (scheduled). Editorial Policy 106 CSR Report 2016 Malaga Produtos Metalizados Information on Malaga Produtos Ltda. was acquired through AR Metalizados will be compiled December 2015 Metalizing N.V. and ARM starting with FY2017 results and Embalagens Ltda. presented in CSR Report 2017 (scheduled). Publishing Division and Contact for Inquiries Nissha Printing Co., Ltd. CSR, Corporate Communications Tel: +81­(0)75­811­8111 Fax: +81­(0)75­823­5344 Inquiries: Nissha website “Contact us” page http://www.nissha.com/english/inquiry.html Editorial Policy 107 CSR Report 2016 GRI Content Index The Nissha CSR Report 2016 conforms to the core items of the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The comparison table of GRI Guidelines (G4) items and our reporting are given below. Pages on General Standard Disclosures Location in CSR report PDF Strategy and Analysis a. Provide a statement from the most senior decision­maker of the organization (such as G4­1 CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the CEO Message 2­3 organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. CEO Message 2­3 G4­2 a. Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Nissha’s CSR Materiality 6­8 Organizational Profile G4­3 a. Report the name of the organization. Company Outline 97­98 G4­4 a. Report the primary brands, products, and services. What's Nissha? 99­104 G4­5 a. Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. Company Outline 97­98 a. Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries G4­6 where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to Nissha Group 96 the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4­7 a. Report the nature of ownership and legal form. Company Outline 97­98 a. Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types G4­8 What's Nissha? 99­104 of customers and beneficiaries). a. Report the scale of the organization, including: ・Total number of employees Company Outline 97­98 ・Total number of operations ・Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector G4­9 organizations) ・Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) What's Nissha? 99­104 ・Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. Respect for Diversity > G4­10 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers 36­38 Composition of Nissha People who are legally recognized as self­employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). Human Rights > Relationship with G4­11 a. Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 30­31 Labor Union G4­12 a. Describe the organization’s supply chain. Partnership with Our Suppliers 80­83 GRI Content Index 108 CSR Report 2016 a. Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: Editorial Policy > Variations in 106­107 ・Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, Scope of Reporting and expansions G4­13 ・Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Partnership with Our Suppliers > ・Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships 75 Expansion of Our Supply Chain with suppliers,including selection and termination Commitments to External Initiatives Corporate Governance > Risk 22­23 Management a. Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the G4­14 organization. Environmental Policy and 52­54 Management Structures CEO Message 2­3 a. List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or G4­15 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. United Nations Global Compact 12 a. List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Along with Local Communities > ・Holds a position on the governance body G4­16 Membership in Community 95 ・Participates in projects or committees Organizations ・Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues ・Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or Editorial Policy > Scope of 105 equivalent documents. Reporting G4­17 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. Nissha Group 90 a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4­18 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Nissha’s CSR Materiality 6­8 Report Content. G4­19 a. List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. Nissha’s CSR Materiality 6­8 a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: ・Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization Editorial Policy > Scope of ・If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4­17), 105 Reporting select one of the following two approaches and report either: G4­20 – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4­17 for which the Aspect is not material or – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4­17 for which the Aspects is material Nissha’s CSR Materiality 6­8 ・Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: Editorial Policy > Scope of 105 ・Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization Reporting G4­21 ・If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified Nissha’s CSR Materiality 6­8 ・Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization a. Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the G4­22 Not applicable – reasons for such restatements. a. Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Editorial Policy > Variations in G4­23 106­107 Boundaries. Scope of Reporting Stakeholder Engagement G4­24 a. Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Nissha's Stakeholders 8­9 GRI Content Index 109 CSR Report 2016 G4­25 a. Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Nissha's Stakeholders 8­9 a. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of G4­26 engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the Nissha's Stakeholders 8­9 engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. a. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, Nissha's Stakeholders 8­9 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including G4­27 through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and Partnership with Our Suppliers > 82­83 concerns. CSR Supplier Audits Report Profile G4­28 a. Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. Editorial Policy > Period Covered 105 G4­29 a. Date of most recent previous report (if any). Editorial Policy > Period Covered 105 G4­30 a. Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Editorial Policy > Period Covered 105 Editorial Policy > Publishing G4­31 a. Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 107 Division and Contact for Inquiries GRI Content Index a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4­32 c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally GRI Content Index 108­121 assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Assurance a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the Assurance has not been sought for G4­33 scope and basis of any external assurance provided. – the sustainability report. c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Governance Structure and Composition a. Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest Corporate Governance 16­23 G4­34 governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision­making on economic, environmental and social impacts. CSR Management 5 a. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics G4­35 CSR Management 5 from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. a. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive­level position or positions G4­36 with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders CSR Management 5 report directly to the highest governance body. Corporate Governance > Nissha’s Management and Business 17 a. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance Execution System G4­37 body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to CSR Management 5 whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. Human Rights > Relationship with 30­31 Labor Union a. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: ・Executive or non­executive Corporate Governance > Directors ・Independence 17 and the Board of Directors ・Tenure on the governance body ・Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature G4­38 of the commitments GRI Content Index 110 CSR Report 2016 ・Gender Respect for Diversity > ・Membership of under­represented social groups 36­38 Composition of Nissha People ・Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts ・Stakeholder representation a. Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Corporate Governance > Directors G4­39 (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this 17 and the Board of Directors arrangement). a. Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body Corporate Governance > Directors members, including: and the Board of Directors, ・Whether and how diversity is considered Nomination and Remuneration G4­40 17-18 ・Whether and how independence is considered Committee, Audit and Supervisory ・Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and Board Members and the Audit and social topics are considered Supervisory Board ・Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved a. Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: Corporate Governance > Directors G4­41 ・Cross­board membership 17 and the Board of Directors ・Cross­shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders ・Existence of controlling shareholder ・ Related party disclosures Highest Governance Body’s Role in Setting Purpose, Values, and Strategy Approach to CSR 4 a. Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, CSR Management 5 G4­42 approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. Corporate Governance > Internal 20­22 Control System Highest Governance Body’s Competencies and Performance Evaluation a. Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s G4­43 collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a G4­44 self­assessment. b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Highest Governance Body’s Role In Risk Management a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of Approach to CSR 4 economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. CSR Management 5 G4­45 b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, Corporate Governance > Internal 20­22 and opportunities. Control System Approach to CSR 4 a. Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the CSR Management 5 G4­46 organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. Corporate Governance > Internal 20­22 Control System Approach to CSR 4 a. Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, CSR Management 5 G4­47 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Corporate Governance > Internal 20­22 Control System GRI Content Index 111 CSR Report 2016 Highest Governance Body’s Role In Sustainability Reporting a. Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the G4­48 Nissha’s CSR Materiality 6­8 organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. Highest Governance Body’s Role in Evaluating Economic, Environmental and Social Performance Approach to CSR 4 CSR Management 5 G4­49 a. Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. Corporate Governance > Internal 20­22 Control System a. Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the G4­50 CSR Management 5 highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. Remuneration and Incentives a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: ・Fixed pay and variable pay: – Performance­based pay – Equity­based pay Corporate Governance > – Bonuses Nomination and Remuneration – Deferred or vested shares Committee, Officers G4­51 18­19 ・Sign­on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments Remuneration, Remuneration of ・Termination payments Directors and Audit and ・Clawbacks Supervisory Board Members ・Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. Corporate Governance > a. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration Nomination and Remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of Committee, Officers G4­52 18­19 management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with Remuneration, Remuneration of the organization. Directors and Audit and Supervisory Board Members a. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding G4­53 remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. a. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest­paid G4­54 individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest­paid individual) in the same country. a. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest­paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median G4­55 percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest­ paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity a. Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as G4­56 Approach to CSR 4 codes of conduct and codes of ethics. a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful G4­57 Human Rights > Hotline 29 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or G4­58 unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through Human Rights > Hotline 29 line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Pages on Indicators by Aspects Location in CSR report PDF GRI Content Index 112 CSR Report 2016 Category: Economic Aspect: Economic Performance G4­DMA Distribution of Added Value to G4­EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 26 Stakeholders Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due G4­EC2 to climate change G4­EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations G4­EC4 Financial assistance received from government Aspect: Market Presence G4­DMA Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at G4­EC5 significant locations of operation Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of Respect for Diversity > G4­EC6 36­38 operation Composition of Nissha People Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4­DMA G4­EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported G4­EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Aspect: Procurement Practices G4­DMA G4­EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation Category: Environmental Aspect: Materials CSR Management 5 Environmental Policy and 52­54 G4­DMA Management Structures Environmental Objectives and 55­58 Status of Achievement Environmental Impact as a Result G4­EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 59­60 of Business Operations G4­EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Aspect: Energy* CSR Management 5 Environmental Policy and 52­54 G4­DMA Management Structures Environmental Objectives and 55­58 Status of Achievement Environmental Impact as a Result 59­60 of Business Operations G4­EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Prevention of Further Global 61­64 Warming GRI Content Index 113 CSR Report 2016 G4­EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Prevention of Further Global G4­EN5 Energy intensity 61­64 Warming G4­EN6 Reduction of energy consumption G4­EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Aspect: Water CSR Management 5 G4­DMA Environmental Policy and 52­54 Management Structures Environmental Impact as a Result G4­EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 59­60 of Business Operations G4­EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water G4­EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Aspect: Biodiversity G4­DMA Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of G4­EN11 high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in G4­EN12 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4­EN13 Habitats protected or restored Total number of iucn red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in G4­EN14 areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Aspect: Emissions* CSR Management 5 Nissha's Stakeholders > External 10­11 Assessment G4­DMA Environmental Policy and 52­54 Management Structures Environmental Objectives and 55­58 Status of Achievement Environmental Impact as a Result G4­EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 59­60 of Business Operations Prevention of Further Global G4­EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) 61­64 Warming Prevention of Further Global G4­EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) Warming > Initiative in Scope 3 63­64 Management Prevention of Further Global G4­EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 61­64 Warming G4­EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4­EN20 Emissions of ozone­depleting substances (ODS) G4­EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Aspect: Effluents and Waste* GRI Content Index 114 CSR Report 2016 CSR Management 5 Nissha's Stakeholders > External 10­11 Assessment G4­DMA Environmental Policy and 52­54 Management Structures Environmental Objectives and 55­58 Status of Achievement Environmental Impact as a Result G4­EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 59­60 of Business Operations Environmental Impact as a Result 59­60 of Business Operations G4­EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Status of Waste Generation at 71­73 Bases G4­EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the G4­EN25 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats G4­EN26 significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services G4­DMA G4­EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services G4­EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Aspect: Compliance* CSR Management 5 Environmental Policy and G4­DMA 52­54 Management Structures Corporate Ethics and Compliance 24­25 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non­monetary sanctions for non­ G4­EN29 Not applicable – compliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport* G4­DMA CSR Management 5 Prevention of Further Global Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials G4­EN30 Warming > Initiative in Scope 3 63­64 for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Management Aspect: Overall G4­DMA G4­EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment* Partnership with Our Suppliers > G4­DMA Basic Purchasing Policy, CSR 80­83 Supplier Audits Partnership with Our Suppliers > G4­EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Basic Purchasing Policy, CSR 80­83 Supplier Audits GRI Content Index 115 CSR Report 2016 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and G4­EN33 actions taken Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4­DMA Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through G4­EN34 formal grievance mechanisms Category: Social Sub­Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment* G4­DMA CSR Management 5 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender G4­LA1 and region Benefits provided to full­time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime G4­LA2 employees, by significant locations of operation Support for Diverse Work Styles > G4­LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Status of Major Long­term Leave 44­45 and Time Taken Off from Work Aspect: Labor/Management Relations CSR Management 5 G4­DMA Human Rights > Relationship with 30­31 Labor Union Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are Human Rights > Relationship with G4­LA4 30­31 specified in collective agreements Labor Union Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety* CSR Management 5 Nissha's Stakeholders > External 10­11 Assessment G4­DMA Safety and Health > Occupational Safety and Health Policy / Safety and Health Objectives, Safety and 47­48 Health Management System / Safety and Health Subcommittee Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and G4­LA5 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Safety and Health > Occurrence of G4­LA6 48­49 total number of work­related fatalities, by region and by gender Work­related Accidents G4­LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation G4­LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Aspect: Training and Education* Human Resources Development > G4­DMA Human Resources Development 33 Policy Human Resources Development > G4­LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Training Programs in Fiscal Year 35 2016 GRI Content Index 116 CSR Report 2016 G4­LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, Human Rights > Fair Evaluation G4­LA11 29­30 by gender and by employee category and Treatment Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity* CSR Management 5 G4­DMA Respect for Diversity 36­40 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Respect for Diversity > G4­LA12 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of 36­38 Composition of Nissha People diversity Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4­DMA Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by Human Rights > Wage G4­LA13 30 significant locations of operation Management Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices* Partnership with Our Suppliers > G4­DMA Basic Purchasing Policy, CSR 80­83 Supplier Audits Partnership with Our Suppliers > G4­LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria Basic Purchasing Policy, CSR 80­83 Supplier Audits Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and Initiatives Related to Conflict G4­LA15 84 actions taken Minerals Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms CSR Management 5 G4­DMA Human Rights > Relationship with 30­31 Labor Union Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal G4­LA16 Human Rights > Hotline 29 grievance mechanisms Sub­Category: Human Rights Aspect: Investment G4­DMA Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that G4­HR1 include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects G4­HR2 of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non­discrimination* CSR Management 5 Human Rights > Basic Policy on G4­DMA Labor and Human Rights, Building 28­29 and Operation of a Management System G4­HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Not applicable – Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI Content Index 117 CSR Report 2016 CSR Management 5 Human Rights > Basic Policy on G4­DMA Labor and Human Rights, Building 28­29 and Operation of a Management System Human Rights > Relationship with 30­31 Labor Union Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and G4­HR4 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support Partnership with Our Suppliers > these rights Basic Purchasing Policy, CSR 80­83 Supplier Audits Aspect: Child Labor CSR Management 5 Human Rights > Basic Policy on G4­DMA Labor and Human Rights, Building 28­29 and Operation of a Management System Human Rights > Basic Policy on 28 Labor and Human Rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and G4­HR5 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Partnership with Our Suppliers > Basic Purchasing Policy, CSR 80­83 Supplier Audits Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor* CSR Management 5 Human Rights > Basic Policy on G4­DMA Labor and Human Rights, Building 28­29 and Operation of a Management System Human Rights > Basic Policy on 28 Labor and Human Rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or G4­HR6 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or Partnership with Our Suppliers > compulsory labor Basic Purchasing Policy, CSR 80­83 Supplier Audits Aspect: Security Practices G4­DMA Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or G4­HR7 procedures that are relevant to operations Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4­DMA Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions G4­HR8 taken Aspect: Assessment G4­DMA CSR Management 5 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Human Rights > Relationship with G4­HR9 30­31 or impact assessments Labor Union Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment* Partnership with Our Suppliers > G4­DMA Basic Purchasing Policy, CSR 80­83 GRI Content Index 118 CSR Report 2016 Supplier Audits Partnership with Our Suppliers > G4­HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria Basic Purchasing Policy, CSR 80­83 Supplier Audits Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and Initiatives Related to Conflict G4­HR11 84 actions taken Minerals Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4­DMA CSR Management 5 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through Human Rights > Hotline, G4­HR12 29 formal grievance mechanisms Harassment Help Desk Sub­Category: Society Aspect: Local Communities G4­DMA Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact G4­SO1 assessments, and development programs G4­SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Aspect: Anti­corruption* CSR Management 5 G4­DMA Corporate Ethics and Compliance 24­25 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the G4­SO3 significant risks identified Initiatives Related to Anti­ 85 corruption G4­SO4 Communication and training on anti­corruption policies and procedures Corporate Ethics and Compliance > Promotion Structure and 24­25 Initiatives G4­SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Aspect: Public Policy G4­DMA G4­SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Aspect: Anti­competitive Behavior CSR Management 5 G4­DMA Corporate Ethics and Compliance 24­25 Total number of legal actions for anti­competitive behavior, anti­trust, and monopoly G4­SO7 practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance* CSR Management 5 G4­DMA Corporate Ethics and Compliance 24­25 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non­monetary sanctions for non­ G4­SO8 Not applicable – compliance with laws and regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society* Partnership with Our Suppliers > GRI Content Index 119 CSR Report 2016 G4­DMA Basic Purchasing Policy, CSR 80­83 Supplier Audits Partnership with Our Suppliers > G4­SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society Basic Purchasing Policy, CSR 80­83 Supplier Audits Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions Initiatives Related to Conflict G4­SO10 84 taken Minerals Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4­DMA Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through G4­SO11 formal grievance mechanisms Sub­Category: Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety CSR Management 5 Nissha's Stakeholders > External 10­11 G4­DMA Assessment Consumer Issues > Quality and 90 Safety of Products Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts G4­PR1 are assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non­compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Consumer Issues > Quality and G4­PR2 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by 90 Safety of Products type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling CSR Management 5 G4­DMA Consumer Issues > Quality Policy, Quality Management System 87 (QMS) Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for G4­PR3 product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non­compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4­PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4­PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Aspect: Marketing Communications CSR Management 5 G4­DMA Corporate Ethics and Compliance 24­25 G4­PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Total number of incidents of non­compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4­PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy* CSR Management 5 Nissha's Stakeholders > External Assessment 10­11 GRI Content Index 120 CSR Report 2016 G4­DMA Initiatives Related to Information Security > Information Security 75­76 Policy, Information Security Management Structure Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and G4­PR8 No complaint has been reported. losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance* CSR Management 5 G4­DMA Corporate Ethics and Compliance 24­25 Monetary value of significant fines for non­compliance with laws and regulations concerning Consumer Issues > Quality and G4­PR9 90 the provision and use of products and services Safety of Products *Aspects identified as material issues GRI Content Index 121 CSR Report 2016
