FY16 Sustainability snapshot transurban.com/sr16 FY16 Sustainability Report snapshot At Transurban, we aim to continuously improve our sustainability performance. We are making our roads safer and more efficient, introducing state-of-the-art intelligent transport technology, and regenerating our road corridors to improve the liveability of communities in which we operate. This is a snapshot of our sustainability achievements and areas of focus for the 2016 financial year. Our full Sustainability Report is available at transurban.com/sr16 We focus on three key areas: Be good neighbours Use less Think long term Working with communities Minimising and efficiently Looking for innovative to create shared value with using natural resources solutions to create efficient our business by anticipating, to reduce our impacts and safe transport networks listening and responding to on the community and and liveable cities. community needs. environment. Cover image: The winning idea from our M2 Macquarie Park ideas competition. Read more about it in the Be good neighbours section. 2 About us We manage and develop urban toll road networks in Australia and the United States Travel-time savings of America. Safety, travel-time savings, reliability and customer experience are major Our vision is to strengthen communities focus areas for us. During the year, through transport. We aim to be the partner we ran a number of communication of choice for governments, communities and campaigns to highlight the travel-time investors in providing effective and innovative savings on our roads. urban road infrastructure. Some examples included: We have been in business since 1996 and are a top 20 company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. 25 Drivers travelling from Sydney Airport to Sydney Harbour Bridge minutes save an average of 25 minutes by taking the Eastern Distributor. Operating 35 Drivers on the M2 in Sydney save around 35 minutes travelling from assets 15 minutes Bella Vista to North Ryde compared to the alternate routes. Development 9 14 Drivers save around 14 minutes and avoid 7 sets of traffic lights travelling projects minutes via Legacy Way in Brisbane compared to the alternate routes. Total capital investment to date $23B 10 Travelling via Clem7 in Brisbane drivers save around 10 minutes and minutes avoid up to 24 sets of traffic lights. Project pipeline* $9B 35-40 Drivers using the 95 Express Lanes in Northern Virginia, USA, save an minutes average of 35 to 40 minutes a day Total kilometres of our 15 roads 1,200 between Quantico and Alexandria. 51 By travelling on CityLink in Melbourne, drivers can avoid up to Kilometres travelled by drivers on our roads 5.7B lights 51 sets of traffic lights. * Estimated spend reflects 100% of total project costs, not Transurban’s share. 3 Be good neighbours In FY16, we continued our commitment to employee and customer safety, focused on improving customer experience, contributed to local communities, and continued to foster an engaging and diverse working environment. Health, Safety & Environment Investing in communities Health, Safety & Environment is Transurban’s We aim to make a difference to the highest priority. Our success in delivering communities in which we operate by providing safer road networks has a significant impact smarter, faster and safer ways to travel. on everyone who uses or works on our We also invest in communities through roads. We are dedicated to providing a safe partnerships, grants, charitable donations, and healthy working environment for our employment opportunities, volunteering and employees, contractors and visitors. At the support key public events. same time, we also focus on minimising impacts on the environment. $50K We contributed $50,000 to Melbourne’s Asylum Seeker 17% We achieved a 17% reduction Resource Centre to establish a in the Road Injury Crash Index. driver training school. During the year the Centre provided more 4 We supported four key road safety awareness campaigns—Yellow than 600 individual lessons or assessments to its clients. campaigns Ribbon National Road Safety Week, Queensland Road Safety Week, Towards Zero (Victoria) and a >$220K We provided $220,000 in community grants to not-for-profit Christmas social media road safety groups in Australia and the USA. campaign (Queensland). >$200K We supported the planting of 16,950 native plants in Beecroft Reserve next to the M2 in Sydney through a $200,000 contribution. V3 Transurban USA is a Virginia Values Veterans (V3) certified certified company and has committed to increasing career opportunities for Virginia’s veterans. 6 We supported six key public events in Australia including hosting Run for the Kids (Melbourne), Bridge to Brisbane (Brisbane) and Share the Path (Sydney). 4 Customer experience In FY16 we... We aim to provide a positive experience for our customers provided underpinned by our three promises to Make it easy, Show we care and Add value. 2,850 volunteer hours ~5M 95% 3,600 1 app experienced 37% Customers Of our Australian First app released customer retail outlets for Express Lanes queries customers in the workforce growth resolved USA—apps are on on first call their way for other markets and provided placements for... Our people 7 Our employees volunteered 2,850 hours on different projects including the City of Sydney Homeless Street Count, OzHarvest graduates food rescue in Brisbane, Returned Services League (RSL) in Melbourne and the Northern Virginia Family Service Head Start Center in Arlington. 38 This year, our workforce grew by 37% to over 1,350 employees. female engineering Also, we were awarded the Workplace Gender Equality Agency’s students Employer of Choice for Gender Equality citation for the second 12 consecutive year. Monash Industry Team Permanent Senior executive Board Initiative students workforce (including CEO) (including CEO) 56% 75% male male 55% 45% 44% 25% male female female female Commitment to reconciliation We commemorated the 2016 National Reconciliation Week with Welcome to Country and Acknowledgement of Country initiatives in all our Australian offices. These activities helped us advance implementation of our Reconciliation Action Plan. 5 Use less We continued to challenge ourselves to ‘use less’ in the operations of our roads, tunnels, offices and construction projects. 10% Our target is to reduce our total energy usage by 10% in 10 years, on a 84% We used a significant portion of recycled water—84%—in our FY13 baseline. This year we achieved operations. a 2.3% saving. 5-star Our Melbourne head office tenancy 30 We identified more than 30 major energy-efficiency opportunitities rating was issued with a 5-star NABERS energy rating. This represents a initiatives across our assets that will be 25–30% energy saving compared implemented over the coming years. to a fellow tenant of the same scale. We are also expecting a LEED 134 We installed 117kW of renewable energy-generation capacity, Commercial Interiors rating for the fitout of our new Tysons office in MWh generating 134MWh of electricity Virginia in the USA. and purchased 3,273 MWh of ‘Green Power’ for Sydney assets. 3 We completed three climate change risk assessments for projects assessments currently under development. 30– Our roads are designed and operated to keep traffic flowing. 40% An environmental review of the M5 South West Widening project estimated a 30–40% reduction in customer greenhouse gas emissions as a result of improvements in travel times and improved driving conditions. 6 FY16 Energy use by scope FY16 Energy use by asset type 93% 78% 20% Electricity Tunnel Open road 7% 2% Fuel and gas Office 7 Think long term Roads are a fundamental part of our cities’ transport networks. They also last a long time and require significant investment and resources. The needs of cities, communities, government clients and customers are central to the plannning, design, construction and operation of our assets. 2 Motorscapes • We made progress with our two Motorscapes projects to projects regenerate disused sites near our roads in Sydney and Melbourne and we continued our partnership with Landcare in Australia to revegetate road corridors and increase local biodiversity. $200K awarded for • We have now awarded two innovation grants of $100,000 each innovation grants to universities in Australia for projects that aim to improve the safety of roadside barriers and manage noise from motorways. 10–25% • In the USA, we hosted test demonstrations for autonomous increased capacity with connected & vehicles on our 95 Express Lanes. Connected and autonomous autonomous vehicles in vehicles have the potential to significantly reduce crashes as 10-15 years well as increase the average capacity of traffic in lanes, by 10 to 25% in 10-15 years. We are enhancing the sustainability performance for new 3 ratings underway for assets by using rating schemes to improve and benchmark Australian projects sustainability performance. a further two ratings • Three assets in Australia are currently using the Infrastructure planned Sustainability Council of Australia’s IS rating scheme and two more will use it in future. • We are committed to achieving an Envision rating from the Institute for Sustainable Infrastructure for our I-66 proposal in the USA. We undertook Australia’s first practical study to gauge motorists’ understanding of the current road funding system and assess their attitudes and preferences towards various user-pays options as an alternative to the current system of opaque fees and charges. The Melbourne Road Usage Study included: 1,635 motorists • 1,635 motorists • 5 charging options 5 • 12 million kilometres of travel charging options To ensure our assets operate effectively and safely, we continually monitor our road networks and undertake 12 enhancement projects to address the growing needs of million kilometres of travel our cities. 8 In Melbourne: In Brisbane: 30% We started work on the CityLink Tulla Widening project to provide 6.7 We acquired AirportlinkM7, a 6.7km twin tunnel to build up to 30 percent more capacity km on our customer offering. and improve travel times to and from Melbourne Airport. 20K We completed the first year of operations on Legacy Way, with trips 210K At its busiest section, the corridor carries 210,000 vehicles per day motorists making almost 20,000 trips each work day. vehicles across 9 lanes. $100K We donated $100,00 6K We progressed our Western Distributor project which will donation to Legacy Australia. trucks remove 6,000 trucks from local streets and reduce daily peak travel times by up to 20 minutes. $1.2B We started work on the $1.2 billion Gateway Upgrade North project project which will improve road safety and $11B The Western Distributor project is forecast to provide an $11 billion reduce congestion for more than 80,000 motorists daily. boost boost to the Victorian economy and 5,600 new jobs at the peak of construction. $450M We progressed the $450 million Logan Enhancement Project wich project will address congestion and safety 2K We are partnering with the Victorian Government to upgrade hazards on Logan and Gateway Extension Motorways. vehicles the Monash Freeway with 30 kilometres of additional traffic lanes and room for an extra 2,000 vehicles during the peak. In Sydney: In the USA: 1.5M We continued work on NorthConnex, a twin 9km dual11 We signed a framework agreement with the Virginia Department hours lane tunnel, and achieved more km of Transportation (VDOT) to than 1.5 million contractor hours extend the 95 Express Lanes worked to the end of FY16 without for 11 kilometres north to the a Lost Time Injury1. Washington, DC border to reduce congestion in the I-395 corridor. 21 NorthConnex will reduce travel traffic times by up to 15 minutes and allow motorists to bypass up to 16 We are working with VDOT to extend the 95 Express Lanes lights 21 traffic lights. km approximately 16 kilometres south to the Fredericksburg area to help 35 Spoil from NorthConnex tunnels will be used to help transform the relieve congestion. ha 35-hectare Hornsby Quarry site into a recreational facility for the community. 1 A work-related injury or illness which results in a person losing one or more full shifts from work after the date of injury. 9 Reporting and benchmarking We report annually in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative, are benchmarked against a range of sustainability frameworks and support international sustainability committments. In FY16 we were: • Listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index in the Asia Pacific Leadership Index1 • Rated by the Australian Council of Superannuation Investors as ‘Leading’ for sustainability governance and performance • A FTSE4Good Global Index member • A United Nationes Global Compact signatory. As part of our membership of the United Nations Global Compact, Transurban supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals, a set of 17 global sustainability priorities. 1 As of September 2016, we have been included in the World Leadership Index. 10 Contact us Your feedback is valuable and helps us improve our reporting. For questions or comments please contact sustainability@transurban.com 11 Visit our online report transurban.com/sr16 Australia Melbourne (head office) Paper specifications Level 23 Tower One, Collins Square This document was printed on ecoStar Offset. 727 Collins Street By using ecoStar Offset rather than non-recycled Melbourne paper the environmental impact was reduced by: Victoria 3000 Landfill Sydney 34kg Level 9 1 Chifley Square Sydney Water New South Wales 2000 716L Brisbane 7 Brandl Street Wood Eight Mile Plains 56kg Brisbane Queensland 4113 Greenhouse gases Mailing address 6kgCO2e Locked Bag 28 South Melbourne Victoria 3205 Energy Phone +61 3 8656 8900 66kWh Fax +61 3 8656 8585 United States of America Greater Washington Area 6440 General Green Way Alexandria VA 22312 United States Carbon footprint data evaluated by Labelia Conseil in accordance with the Bilan Carbone ® methodology. Phone +1 571 419 6100 Calculations are based on a comparison between the recycled paper used versus a virgin fibre paper according to the latest European BREF data (virgin Email corporate@transurban.com fibre paper) available.
