GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2015 Message from the PRESIDENT To all our stakeholders, Labor Relations, Environment and Anti-Corruption. I’m pleased to renew Embraco’s ongoing commitment towards In this publication, we present supporting the Ten Principles of our actions in each of these the United Nations Global areas, the results achieved in Compact. 2015 for an increasingly value generating operation for our We have sustainability as a stakeholders and the strategic guide for our business, transformation which we aspire so we’ve built a sound culture for the future. by adopting good practices and principles encompassing the LUIS FELIPE DAU areas of Human Rights, President of Embraco 1 At Embraco, one of our strongest commitments is to think sustainable . This is evidenced by our actions in the communities where we operate, in environmental responsibility both on internal processes and the value chain, in developing the solutions we offer the market, and also in all decision-making spheres. We have sustainable development as a driver of the company's strategy, challenging and inspiring the actions that will be presented throughout this publication. URSULA ANGELI Vice President of Human Resources, Communication, Sustainability and Institutional Relations Introduction Our business mission is to provide innovative solutions for a better quality of life, therefore, they are Promoting Human Rights intrinsic behaviors in our activities and in our relationships, valuing L Promoting Better Labor Conditions each person in our value chain, ethics and respect for the environment. Anti-Corruption Get to know our initiatives identified with icons: Preserving the Environment 2 Responsible VALUE CHAIN Suppliers We work with more than five Also, to be a supplier for Embraco, thousand suppliers both direct the company must be aligned with related the operational materials, our principles, set out in the code of and indirect providing conduct. That is, neither the supplier administrative materials, services nor the contracted third parties may and maintenance items. These – under any circumstances – suppliers are present in over 30 condone corruption, child labor, slave countries, and being aware of the labor, discrimination, deforestation reach our actions have on the reality or other environmental violations, of thousands of companies, we and must comply with all labor laws. support their sustainable development. From 2009 onwards, all suppliers began to receive our code of conduct Since 2012, we offer our direct and, since then, were invited to suppliers, totaling around 500 participate in three self-assessment companies, the Supplier Excellence processes, which included profile Program, including workshops and issues, labor relation rights, multidisciplinary actions in order to environmental impact management raise this public’s awareness and and production chain control. engagement for sustainability in Additionally, the Company counts on relation, mainly, to efficiency and a systematic routine of monitoring quality, reducing its environmental sustainability KPIs and promotes impact. quality audits with the suppliers. L It’s worth noting that Embraco works with the aim of reducing the use of restricted substances in its operations. With that in mind, the Company continuously evaluates the raw materials used in manufacturing products, seeking lower social-environmental impact and is in compliance and meets all regulations of the markets in which it operates. The Company also continues looking for constant improvement based on adherence to international best practices on the topic, such as the Conflict Minerals requirement, that, among other issues, restrict the use of minerals extracted from the Congo conflict zones in Africa, location where labor and human rights are not respected. L 3 Circular economy Inspired by nature, where all cycles are closed and all elements are reused at the end of their useful life, in 2014, we created Thus, knowing in detail that cycle, Nat.Genius, a new operation that the Company has the opportunity uses decades of reverse logistics to implement improvements to expertise of our compressors in mitigate its negative impacts and Brazil to create a new business. boost its value creation. At the end of 2015, Nat.Genius was already operating in two units, with 80 employees dismantling and recycling components not only 2.4 from Embraco, but from all manufacturers. In all, since 2014 there have already been recycled 1.3 million compressors, reusing 4.7 thousand tons of steel. EN thousand tons of steel recycled with In addition to the clear positive Nat.Genius since 2014 impacts on the environment, the project plays a deeper social role, fostering a local network of suppliers and generating income for the community. HR In 2015, Embraco also initiated the Life Cycle Assessment studies (LCA) on compressors with Fullmotion and Wisemotion technologies. The LCA methodology provides environmental analysis of the product’s impacts from the extraction of raw materials through production, usage and end of life. 4 4 Innovation for SUSTAINABILITY We are world leader in cooling technology, always focused on In 2015, we were awarded 1 st place innovation, we are one of the largest in the Large Companies Category in hermetic compressor manufacturers the Innovation Management Case of in the sector, with production capacity FINEP Innovation Award, promoted of 40 million compressors per year. by FINEP (Financier of Studies and Projects). In the year, for the fourth We have the constant challenge of time, we were also recognized by the being at the forefront in developing Best Innovator ranking as one of the new technologies and solutions that 10 most innovative companies in meet our customers’ demands and Brazil. that promote energy efficiency, reduce consumption of natural This strong innovation culture resources and create solutions that provides us with important offer increasingly less environmental achievements. impact. From the environmental For this, we have a Research & management perspective, Development (R&D) area composed Wisemotion is an example. Launched of more than 600 professionals, in 2014, it allows reducing the being 120 in partnerships with environmental impact in the institutions, distributed in five production chain: it eliminates the countries, 47 laboratories, and the need for lubricant oil, uses 50% less continued investment of 3% to 4% of raw material to be produced, makes a our annual revenues in innovation. 20% savings in energy possible and also allows new refrigerator design In addition, our new business area possibilities with less consumption of works in partnership with startups natural resources, since it can be and various institutions, in line with placed in different positions inside the open innovation concept, in other the refrigerator. words, to look at references outside the core business to attain disruptive 20% innovations and bring them to the business’ reality. Therefore, the Company seeks to position itself at the forefront of short and medium term transformation in its segment. in energy saving EN 6 Doing more WITH LESS Lean thinking We constantly assess our operation’s processes in the pursuit of lean thinking, which is, producing products using increasingly less natural resources. This means that our teams are always focused on avoiding waste of all inputs used in the operation, as shown in the following initiatives, as well as achieve continuous improvement, excellence in customer service and quality. WCM In order to become increasingly Our energy consumption rate per more efficient, since 2013 we unit produced fell by 4.58%, from began implementing a complete 6.39 KWh/unit in 2014 to 6.11 system for continuous KWh/unit in 2015. improvement focused on safety, quality and cost reduction, based Water In 2015, we reduced by 9% on the World Class Manufacturing the water consumption per (WCM) methodology in all our compressor produced when operations. compared to 2014 and we reused 10.8% of all the water that Through WCM, we work on the entered our units. simplification and organization of our work routine, to ensure zero Waste In 2015, we produced accidents (learn more on page 12), 109.9 thousand tons of waste, a zero waste, as well as productivity 3.0% decrease over last year. gains. Of this total, 86% was recycled, up one percentage point compared to Environmental management 2014. One of the pillars of the WCM methodology works, specifically, Emissions In 2015, our direct on environmental and energy emissions totaled 39.1 thousand issues, with a focus on reducing tCO2, down 1.6% over the previous the consumption of natural year, and indirect emissions resources and waste generation. totaled 72.3 thousand tCO2, a 1.2% decrease. Therefore, total Energy In 2015, we consumed emissions fell by 1.3%, totaling 260.7 thousand GWh, down 1% 111.4 thousand tCO2. from the previous year's total. EN 7 9% less water to produce a compressor in 2015 7 Social DEVELOPMENT Our employees Strategically, we support the Our approximately 11,000 employees employee in the professional distributed in seven countries, are development necessary for their next essential for sustainable business hierarchical level, while helping to development. build their career plan, so they can be prepared for their future step at For this reason, we continually seek Embraco. to stimulate their professional development, recognize their The Company also promotes the performance through compensation Engagement Survey, conducted with and benefits in line with the market’s employees both from administrative best practices, provide an inclusive and manufacturing departments, environment that values diversity as through a tool that evaluates three well as caring for their health, safety dimensions: and quality of life on a daily basis. Extraordinary Performance Learn more in the following employee alignment with the subsections. Company's strategy and goals. Professional development Great People skills and right capabilities that create a competitive People Excellence is part of the advantage. business strategy and has a significant impact on the Company's Winning Culture Embraco values results and achievements, by into practice, focusing on the client to boosting the individual and collective overcome competition through an talents, inspiring a winning culture inspiring and extraordinary and creating competitive advantages performance, while allowing that that allow us to achieve results everyone reach their full potential. beyond expectations. We invest in developing our people through on-the-job training, job rotation among units worldwide and by offering scholarships for technical and post-graduate courses. 80 employee engagement % achieved in 2015 9 Diversity and inclusion Valuing diversity is part of Women's empowerment – Embraco company’s leadership monitors the percentage of women in model. leadership positions and seeks to create initiatives that strengthen meritocracy, Apart from respecting the providing women with conditions to cultural and racial diversity progress in their careers. inherent in the business because of its global Inclusion of people with disabilities when profile, in 2015, the promoting diversity, the inclusion of people Company worked to with physical and intellectual disabilities in promote women's the Company's workforce is an important empowerment and aspect, as well as monitoring and inclusion of people with encouraging their development through disabilities. awareness-raising campaigns, training and close monitoring of teams. 10 Health and Safety Taking care of our employees’ health and safety is an ongoing commitment of the Company. To ensure this in practice, regarding workplace safety, Embraco has adopted globally Behavior-Based Safety, a program which seeks to build and maintain a safe work environment. Since 2010, it has engaged employees, suppliers and visitors on the Golden Rules to keep their safety as a priority in everyday activities. When it comes to promoting health and quality of life, the Company always seeks to be close to its employees, supporting prevention and care, while also providing support in the physical or psychological difficulties of their lives. L 9 Social Investment We believe in our potential to During this period, we also offered transform the reality in the close to five thousand hours of communities where we operate. community work, carried out with Accordingly, we make every effort to the support of over 350 volunteers, engage our employees in social with actions such as Embraco projects that bring benefits to Ecology Award, held in Brazil and people that live near our plants and Slovakia, and voluntary actions, offices around the globe. such as Global Volunteer Day (“Prove um Dia Diferente”Prove A In 2015, we invested approximately Different Day). US$ 120 thousand in social projects in the communities in which we Actions such as those generate operate in Brazil, China, Slovakia, Italy competitive advantage for us and and Mexico, which have benefited contribute toward building a better and contributed to the well-being of business and a better world. over 28 thousand people. HR Embraco Ecology Award In 2015, we held the 23rd edition of the Embraco Ecology Award, which “Ambiente-se”, which aims to recognizes public and private disseminate the actions that are schools in Joinville (SC, Brazil) by being implemented by schools. In creating solutions that benefit the the last edition five institutions were environment. awarded: The award is divided into Action and Action category Transformation categories and the • CEI Professora Alzelir Teresinha winners receive, respectively, R$ Gonçalves Pacheco 8,000 and R$ 24,000 to develop • CEI Cachinhos de Ouro their project, strengthening • Escola Municipal Alfredo environmental education. Germano Henrique Hardt • Escola de Educação Básica In addition to the monetary value, Professora Alícia Bittencourt the Embraco Ecology Award offers Ferreira support to the winners’ activities, such as monthly monitoring of Transformation category projects by consultants specialized • CEI Alegria de Viver in environmental education, training workshops for the projects’ The award is also given in Slovakia. coordinating team in schools, visits In its seventh edition, it granted US$ by Embraco to check the projects’ 11,000 to eight schools for their progress and publication of the recycling and waste reuse projects bimonthly magazine called in 2015. EN 12 Ethical CONDUCT We have a structure dedicated to We adhere to the requirements of promote ethical conduct in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), a business and relationships aiming North American law created to to combat corruption in all its reduce the risk of financial fraud, forms. which provides for all significant internal controls to be documented Our Ethics Committee manages and tested by the Internal and issues regarding the conduct External Audit. In addition to SOX, expected from our employees and to ensure the integrity of our suppliers as well as maintains the operation, we conduct operational communication channels that audits in our units: 100% of them receive complaints or claims. are subject to periodic review of all internal control processes. A list of 15 policies and principles establishes the guidelines to All new employees are trained on maintain ethical conduct, besides hiring and the remaining an anti-corruption management employees periodically go through system, Letter of Organizational a knowledge updating process, Values – which are adhered to by receiving instruction on topics such all employees – as well as the as corruption, money laundering Code of Conduct for our suppliers. and antitrust actions. These documents and information are The Compliance Program has a also available at all times for management and indicators consultation on the intranet and system, provides for the audit of website. the various activities of the Program such as the training of In 2015, the Company held all new employees and annual training based on Embraco’s Compliance Certification for all values, including ethics, for all leaders -; it also offers a employees in Brazil and intends to confidential questioning and expand that initiative to other reporting communication process, units in 2016. ensuring no retaliation. AC 13 September, 2016 Content and Layout RICCA RI Photographers André Kopsch Marcelo Caetano Press photo Development Eliza Hostin Silva Michelle Scachetti Patrícia de Morais Della Justina
