U.N. Global Compact Communication On Progress Steelcase 2015 2015 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PROMISE + PROGRESS Our Vision People are at the heart of everything we do and everything we create. Those same values drive our approach to sustainability. We believe we can deliver meaningful, lasting economic, environmental, and social change through the choices we make and the behaviors and actions that we demonstrate. CONTENTS 04 Welcome from Jim Keane Employees 06 Our Sustainability Promise 23 Diversity + Inclusion 08 Targets and Performance 24 Employee Wellbeing Customers 26 Learning + Development 11 People + Purpose 27 Workplace Health + Safety 12 End of Use Strategies Environment 13 Sustainable Procurement Strategies 29 Innovative Products + Solutions Partners 32 Energy Use + Efficiency 15 Dealers 33 Renewable Energy 16 Suppliers 34 Transportation + Packaging Communities 35 Water Conservation 19 Employee Impacts 36 Waste Reduction 20 Social Investment Ourselves 39 Governance Welcome Steelcase is in the people business. While it’s true we are a global leader in creating products and solutions for offices, schools, healthcare facilities and other workplaces, our larger purpose extends far beyond what we create. We understand work is a social activity and believe it should be rewarding, fulfilling and give people a deeper sense of meaning and wellbeing. Sustainability plays a vital role in achieving that goal. We believe sustainability is about creating the economic, social and environmental conditions that allow people and communities to thrive. We also believe it is an innovation lens and a pathway to ensuring our company is positioned to serve all of our stakeholders’ needs well into the future. This perspective influences everything we do – from the products we deliver to the research we conduct, the investments we make to the opportunities we explore. Sustainability is a systems approach to how we do business and it continues to produce results year after year. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 4 HERE ARE SOME HIGHLIGHTS: “ We believe • Invested in renewable energy equivalent to 100 percent of our electricity use sustainability is • Expanded end of use services to help businesses redeploy about creating assets at end of need or end of life – diverting millions of tons of furniture from the landfill and giving products new life the economic, • Built urban school partnerships to drive educational social and outcomes and increased graduation rates through innovative approaches grooming tomorrow’s leaders through real-world environmental • experiences Drove down our energy, water, and waste to meet our conditions ambitious 2020 goals – despite expanding global production that allow • Launched an employee wellbeing platform that includes initiatives such as a dedicated wellbeing hub complete with people and nurses and coaches, generous parent bonding leave, and innovative training and development programs communities to thrive.” Thanks for taking a look at our 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report. James Keane President and CEO Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 Our Sustainability Promise True progress takes continuous and coordinated efforts to We have strong beliefs that guide us, and we’re putting our create the economic, environmental and social conditions that beliefs into action. Those actions drive us toward our dream allow people and communities to thrive. of a better world. We’re not on the path alone. We’re in the good company of other global organizations, communities and individuals who share common beliefs and work together to propel each other forward. OUR CORPORATE VALUES OUR SUSTAINABILITY BELIEFS This is where our work begins — with what we We believe that: value. As we work to create meaningful, lasting change, we’re putting our values to work. · Businesses, communities and people are Every day around the globe – from Michigan inextricably linked and more powerful to Malaysia, Dongguan to Cluj, Rosenheim to when they act from a core of shared Pune – our values frame our beliefs and inform interests. our actions: · We have an opportunity to use our assets · Act with integrity and influence to create significant, · Tell the truth positive change in the world. By fully · Keep commitments leveraging our assets to this end, we · Treat people with dignity and respect will become an ever stronger partner and · Promote positive relationships an increasingly fit company. · Protect the environment · Excel · When you tell the truth, you become part of the solution. We work hard to be transparent and authentic with others and, perhaps more importantly, with ourselves. · Sustainability is a lens for innovation and economic fitness, contributing to the overall financial wellbeing of our company. · People are at the center of sustainability; we begin and end our product, service and application efforts with a commitment to human-centered design and sustainability. · There is no greater design challenge than sustainability. It demands systemslevel design thinking in all aspects of our business. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 6 ACTING ON SUSTAINABILITY ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS We’re tackling the global challenges of We’ve set our sights high as we think about sustainability to achieve our vision of strong what it means to create holistic value as a economic, social and environmental systems. globally integrated company operating in a globally connected world. We’ve been on a · Strengthening sustainable development quest to understand sustainability and what in our global operations and those it means to our stakeholders, now and in the of our supplier partners, including a focus future. We have: on environmental and human health, social responsibility and economic · Embarked on a company-wide corporate, prosperity social and environmental responsibility diagnostic · Ensuring that our operations protect the environment and health of our · Surveyed our customers and studied employees, neighbors and customers their inquiries to understand their through actions that conserve resources, corporate priorities relating to reduce waste and promote a closed loop sustainability system · Identified sustainability aspects material · Investing in education and training to our business to help us advance our to increase stakeholder and employee social and environmental performance to engagement align with the expectations of our many stakeholders, shareholders and partners. · Engaging with suppliers, dealers, customers, researchers and environmental · Partnered with leading organizations to agencies to share and distribute best understand and explore emerging issues practices and discover new ideas such as circular economy and integrated reporting · Empowered employees through education and partnerships to understand their role in advancing the mission and goals of our company – as well as those of our partners, customers and communities Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 7 Targets + Performance Across our global footprint, we’re measuring our progress against our social, environmental and economics goals. We continuously strive to refine our metrics and expand our reporting, improving our focus on sustainability as we move toward global accuracy and amplified performance. Social Employee Retention Gender Distribution 68% 32% Male Female 68% FY15 32% FY15 69% FY14 31% FY14 69% FY13 31% FY13 69% FY12 31% FY12 86.1% FY15 Volunteer Hours Reported Monetary and In-kind Donations 88.8% FY14 12,130 $ 3.2 Million Steelcase Foundation 80.4% FY13 76.5% FY12 $ 1.3 Million Steelcase Inc. 2012 2013 2014 2015 Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 8 Environment Economic Progress Towards Goal Stock Performance ($ Dollars) Greenhouse Water VOC Emissions Waste S&P 500 Stock Index Peer Group Steelcase Gas Emissions Exceeded 2020 Goal 350 CY2014 300 250 CY2013 200 150 CY2012 100 50 0% Reduction 25% Reduction Goal 02/26/10 02/25/11 02/24/12 02/22/13 02/28/14 02/27/15 by the end of CY2020 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Water Use Revenue Gross Profit 1% 2% $3.1 Billion 30% Reduction Reduction 25% Reduction Goal 25% Reduction Goal by the end of CY2020 by the end of CY2020 VOC Emissions Waste FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 73% 46% Reduction Reduction Net Income $86.1 Million 25% Reduction Goal 25% Reduction Goal by the end of CY2020 by the end of CY2020 Renewable Energy 100% investment in wind and hydroelectric renewable energy credits (RECs) FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 9 Customers Helping our customers to succeed in their businesses and meet their sustainability goals is a driving force at Steelcase. We lead the way with researchbacked solutions, innovative end of use strategies, a robust supply chain, and products that deliver results. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 10 CUSTOMERS People + Purpose Customers often We’ve helped customers optimize real estate and create spaces that support the team uses a proprietary assessment tool to measure achievements, identify turn to us to do employee wellbeing. And though these opportunities and inform strategies to are important elements, we’re looking connect people with purpose. These more than provide ahead and shifting the conversation to insights are then translated into concepts furniture. something larger – the promise of people. for workplaces that inspire and connect higher business goals with employees’ Today, we’re focusing on helping everyday work experiences. customers create spaces designed to accomplish an array of goals. From We’re conducting global research building culture to reinforcing corporate on the link between employee strategies to expressing brand identity, engagement and the workplace – and intelligently designed workplaces help have found a definitive correlation connect people with their company’s between higher engagement levels and purpose. These spaces can help unleash workplaces that offer workers choice and creativity and innovation, collaboration control over where and how they work. and trust, helping customers unlock the full potential of their employees and More than ever, the work we do is create a more engaged workforce. helping leading companies attract and retain the best and brightest talent, Steelcase is helping customers embrace create workplaces that foster innovative these new challenges and realities on ideas, and help connect individuals to multiple fronts. Our Applied Research meaningful and satisfying work. + Consulting team offers customers leading edge assessments of how space, process and technology can influence and support behaviors that lead to great work experiences. After working with customers to understand the type of culture they want to build or reinforce, Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 11 CUSTOMERS End of Use Strategies In a recent internal study, one third of Performance Management THOUSANDS TRADE UP TO Steelcase customers requested end of Our Performance Management team GESTURE® use and asset management services. serves large organizations with multiple Last year, we launched the Gesture® And that’s not surprising; as organizations locations, developing a strategic Trade Up program, giving customers migrate to new or different work approach to managing complex the opportunity to turn in older chairs for our innovative new seating environments, there is a greater need for facility needs. For more than 20 years, solution, Gesture. The concept was programs that provide turnkey solutions Performance Management has applied simple: Steelcase removed the used and ease inherent pain points. Our suite of this same method to help clients with assets, refurbished or recycled them services helps customers take advantage decommissioning solutions for reuse, and issued a credit to the former of environmentally and socially responsible recycling and broker options owners to purchase their new chair. alternatives to landfills, including charitable Thousands of chairs were recycled reuse, resale and recycling. Phase 2 or refurbished with new, sustainably Our North American program helps designed parts. Today, our programs are available in customers assess furniture inventory ECO’SERVICES DELIVERS certain geographies, but we’re developing and create decommissioning plans that RESULTS strategies to support our customers’ include options for resale, charitable Eco’Services completed one of the asset deployment needs regardless of reuse, or recycling, depending on age largest projects in its history during their location. Increasingly sophisticated and condition of the assets – all with a 2014; a 35-floor, 2500 workstation methods of gathering data and metrics “zero landfill” goal. project for a major governmental amplifies our ability to serve these global building in Paris. The three-month customers. ReMarket™ project was successful in sending ReMarket gives customers who lease over 618,000 cubic feet of furniture Eco’Services furniture the option of returning the items – enough to fill more than seven Olympic-size swimming pools – to In France, Belgium, Switzerland and at the end of the lease. These assets certified recyclers. Luxembourg, we offer complete end are then offered to our North American of use services. Providing process dealer network for resale. It allows select management expertise and an extensive network of providers, Eco’Services helps customers to get high-quality furniture at budget-friendly prices and is one more 6,800+ workstations managed by assess building assets so they can be way we help keep furniture out of landfills. Eco’Services in 2014 resold, donated or transported to licensed recycling organizations that manage material recovery. 70% of all furniture handled by Eco’Services in 2014 was sent to certified recyclers. The remainder was charitably donated Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 or resold. 12 CUSTOMERS Sustainable Procurement Strategies We understand that That’s why we create strong partnerships with our customers to better understand · · Innovation in design Low-emitting materials when customers their objectives, and with our suppliers Specific product environmental profile to deliver materials that support human purchase our and environmental health. Insight information can be found on our website solutions, they’re and innovation springs from those relationships, creating healthier work in the Resource Center, or by request. expecting our help environments and delivering results that Environmental Metrics Reports By providing customized metric reports in meeting their customers expect. for customers, we deliver the information they need to assess their past furniture economic, social Design for the Environment Our design approach begins with closedchoices and make informed decisions and environmental loop thinking. We strive to measure the about future purchases. We collect, measure and share environmental impacts of our options at every step along sustainability goals. the path – from design, manufacture, impacts, as well as provide detailed delivery, use and reuse, recycling and reporting on sustainability certifications, end of use. Whether we’re dissecting recycled content, material makeup and the chemical profiles of materials and product weight. components we use or offering turnkey Third-Party Certified Products solutions for furnishings that are no longer While we’re proud to have earned the needed, we’re making careful choices endorsement of the world’s leading that amplify performance and extend the product certifications, that’s not our lifespan of our products. primary intent. We aim to set highLEED® Contributions level performance criteria to deliver the 225+ We continue to help customers leverage highest value and performance through our products in the LEED certification of sustainable design. To meet these high Product Environmental their buildings. Steelcase products can standards, we partner with respected Profiles available contribute through: third-party certifiers who help us give our customers assurance on issues such as 250+ · · Materials and resources Ergonomics indoor air quality, materials chemistry, closed-loop textiles, and sustainably Customized Environmental · Social equity in the supply chain harvested wood. Metrics Reports provided Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 13 Partners Creating lasting change takes a committed team, and we’re fortunate to work with some of the finest suppliers, dealers and community organizations to forge a more sustainable future. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 14 PARTNERS Dealers With more than 800 Steelcase dealers management to diversity and inclusion. around the world, our sphere of influence We continue our long-term support for isn’t limited to our global business dealers in the United States and Canada centers and manufacturing plants. As an to build minority ownership and hiring extension of our company, we actively practices that reflect the communities support our dealers and encourage where they operate. their sustainability efforts. The result is a vibrant network of independent To ensure that dealers can attract and businesses making positive impacts in develop the highest caliber of talent, their communities while serving the best we share best practices and conduct SUCCESS STORY interests of our customers. development sessions. We continue to Across our dealer network, support our dealers with the education sustainability is thriving with Our partnerships with our suppliers begin and resources for success. innovative programs including with shared understandings about our recycling, waste reduction and key guiding principles, our promise to our Now in its fifth year, our Platinum Partners employee wellbeing. From electric program recognizes superior dealer vehicle charging stations for dealers, and our dealer’s promise to us. performance. This program was extended employees and customers to From this foundation, we work closely donating time and resources to together to serve the business, employee beyond North America this year and is local organizations, our dealers and community needs everywhere we now available to dealers in Europe, continue to inspire us. From a have a presence. Middle East, and Africa which boast nearly dealer who’s installing more than 300 active Steelcase dealers. To earn this 1600 solar panels on their roof to To help dealers tackle pressing issues elite status, dealers must meet stringent provide 90 percent of their energy, to the dealer who recently hired and take leadership positions in line criteria including sales and customer a sustainability project manager, with our corporate vision, a dedicated performance and organizational strength. our dealer network extends our Steelcase team works closely with commitment into communities and dealers on challenges ranging from talent customers’ lives around the globe and we could not be more proud to call them partners In the United States and Canada, Steelcase has over 35 dealer locations 28 11 2 woman-owned minority-owned veteran-owned with minority classification, dealerships dealerships dealerships including: Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 15 PARTNERS Suppliers We depend on We deepen our partnerships by asking suppliers to agree to our Supplier Code our relationships with them, they are joining the hundreds of existing suppliers our suppliers to of Conduct, committing to Steelcase’s in ensuring high-quality products social responsibility standards and delivered through high standards of adhere to the expectations. The Code of Conduct business practice. highest standards is available in five languages, setting a universal set of expectations, wherever Across the globe, we’re working of quality. we do business. We’re working with our with suppliers to support Steelcase’s suppliers to obtain their commitment sustainability goals and their own, and to this common set of values and their efforts continue to accumulate expectations. and inspire us. We partner with these visionary suppliers to share industryThe Code of Conduct is addressed in leading ideas and best practices, creating three phases: a supplier questionnaire, a virtuous cycle of positive outcomes a possible site visit from Steelcase, and and improved conditions. Here are just a written contract. Since its inception, a few examples of the work of some of we have our suppliers this past year: · Logged 518 completed supplier · Recycled 100% of their plastic, questionnaires paper and wooden skids · Implemented 165 contracts · Transitioned transportation from requiring adherence to the trucking to rail to conserve fuel Code of Conduct with existing · Improved air quality within their and new suppliers plants · Attended LEAN manufacturing Though we’ve met our goal of rolling classes with Steelcase consultants out the Code of Conduct globally, we to learn more about available tools continue to collaborate with our supply and how to introduce them into their chain partners to encourage greater workplaces results. The opening of our latest manufacturing facility in the Czech Republic has introduced us to a new eco-system of suppliers. As we build Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 16 SUSTAINABILITY SPOTLIGHT Balancing Transparency and Privacy in A Big Data World “Across the globe, The promise of Big Data is manifesting in many positive ways: from allowing new patterns to be we’re working visible to offering innovation potential at unimaginable scale. But there’s an inherent tension in this new age with suppliers to of transparency and sharing, one that we wrangle pursue their own with every day as we seek to be sustainability champions. For years, we’ve been committed to sustainability sharing information about the chemical makeup of the materials we use in our products. Because our goals, and their simplest product can easily involve at least 50 discreet suppliers, and a cascading number of sub-suppliers, efforts continue to full disclosure requires close cooperation across our accumulate and entire supply chain. inspire us.” This means our supply chain partners must be willing to release closely-held information about the chemical inventories of products, leading us to negotiate privacy agreements so we gain access to the very information we need. Unfortunately, this means we know the chemical make-up of materials, but we can’t legally share it with others. We understand that materials assurance might not always come in the most transparent way our customers expect. But know that we’re working to detect and eliminate materials of concern, and that through this sharing exchange everyone wins by giving up a little information. The exchange is working: it’s benefitting human and environmental health and delivering material and design innovation. In this era of Big Data, the question of creating transparency or preserving private information is not the only one. The real question is: How can we create an abundant and sustainable future by finding a place where transparency and privacy co-exist? Stay tuned we’re working on it. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 17 Learn more: 360 Magazine Issue 68 Communities We value our global relationships, but understand that change happens on the local level. We’re actively sharing our resources, time, talents, materials and leadership to tackle entrenched issues like education and environment. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 18 COMMUNITIES Employee Impacts We consider each From Malaysia to Mexico, Dubai to Grand Rapids, employees have organized social 300 STEELCASE VOLUNTEERS PARTICIPATE IN DAY OF CARING and every one responsibility committees charged with Steelcase employees in Grand identifying and tackling local needs. These Rapids rolled up their sleeves to of our more than grassroots efforts combine to create participate in the United Way’s Day 10,000 worldwide of Caring, a program encouraging change on a larger scale, fueled by our community members to donate employees’ skills, talents, passions and employees as energies. Together, our employees are their time and talents to local organizations in need. Roughly concentric circles, affecting 300 employees volunteered for 28 agencies, helping beautify school spreading our reach · · Literacy programs Orphanages play spaces, pick fresh food for local pantries, offer professional and creating positive · Mentoring skills to administrative facilities, and so much more. · Environmental cleanup days change in the · Go Green days communities where · Nonprofit boards and foundation we live, work and This year, we launched a new global volunteering program aimed at play. Together, we’re incentivizing employees to not only having a positive volunteer, but report their hours of service. Employees who logged their impact on local community service hours were entered into a quarterly drawing for the chance conditions, creating to win a $250 donation to the nonprofit REYNOSA MAKES WISHES COME TRUE hope and inspiring of their choice. Thanks to this program, we are better understanding the true In Mexico, Santa and Steelcase others. extent of our employee outreach, allowing have the same address. Steelcase employees in our Reynosa us to quantify and improve our social facility collaborated with a local investment and celebrate individual and orphanage and received Letters collective contributions. No matter where to Santa written by the children we are, we’re committed to making our of Casa Hogar MAMI. Employees chose a letter and worked like mark on the communities we serve and elves to deliver some holiday the communities that serve us. magic. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 19 COMMUNITIES Social Investment Our long-standing Together, The Steelcase Foundation and Steelcase Inc. donated $4.5 million Across the globe, Steelcase employees generously give of their time, expertise involvement in in 2014, including nearly half a million and resources to a myriad of causes dollars in matching employee gifts. ranging from renovating orphanages communities to mentoring young leaders. Last year, and charitable Steelcase Inc. contributed over $1.3 million to more than 100 these contributions totaled nearly $475,000 and more than 12,000 hours organizations organizations ranging from Habitat – the equivalent of more than 3,000 for Humanity to the West Michigan continues to produce Environmental Action Council. With a full-time work weeks. Local Social Impact Committees identify pressing community meaningful results focus on helping groups extend their offerings and further their impact, needs and provide support, creating resilience and momentum, hope and – from funding Steelcase prioritizes investment in: meaning, spreading our impact across research on student · Arts and culture our entire footprint. achievement gaps · · Diversity and inclusion Economic Development to protecting and · Public urban education Giving in 2014 · Environment maintaining local · Healthcare parks. · Human Services $ 3.2 million The Steelcase Foundation, with its focus Steelcase Foundation on education in Western Michigan, supports public schools, after-school programs, and innovative approaches to systemic economic and social $ 1.3 million Steelcase Inc. issues. Of $3.2 million granted in 2014 by the Foundation, educational initiatives received $1.7 million – creating opportunities for the next generation of $ 474,000 skilled workers to learn, grow and thrive. Matching employee gifts Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 20 SUSTAINABILITY SPOTLIGHT Active Learning Centers From instilling a culture of curiosity among our 10,000 employees across the globe to funding classroom grants and investing in urban education, Steelcase supports education as a core part of our sustainability philosophy. Learning is essential to who we are and what we do, but we also recognize it’s our responsibility to help create the same opportunities for the next generation. That’s why we’re engaging with partners in innovative programs across sectors to reveal new possibilities. In December 2014, Steelcase Education launched a new grant program to fund and research up to 15 Active Learning Center classrooms in schools and universities across the United States and Canada. The response exceeded all expectations we anticipated perhaps 200 applicants. Instead we received 533 applications, which we narrowed down to 12. Volunteer Hours Reported in 2014 Each Active Learning Center grant covers the furniture, 12,124 Steelcase Employee Volunteer Hours, integrated technology, design, installation and posta 75% increase since 2013 occupancy evaluation for one of three classroom types designed for 28-32 students. Grants were valued between $35,000 and $50,000, with support services provided pro bono by regional Steelcase dealers. Each recipient agreed to provide dedicated space, 75% participate in Steelcase Education training and a community of practice, and conduct and share the results of an impact study over the next two years. 2011 2012 2013 2014 Learn more: How Classroom Design Affects Student Engagement Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 21 Employees We honor the unique talents, skills and perspectives of our employees, knowing full well that their contributions are what propel us. We’re creating a workplace that truly seeks to unlock the full potential of every individual. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 22 EMPLOYEES Diversity + Inclusion Leading global has long participated in the fight for equal rights for the LGBT community, and 100 ON THE CORPORATE EQUALITY INDEX organizations not in 2014 joined our trusted partner, the Each year, the Human Rights American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), only embrace Campaign Foundation publishes and other leading Michigan companies its Corporate Equality Index, multiple perspectives, to oppose multiple religious freedom restoration bills that would threaten benchmarking corporations on equality for gay, lesbian, bisexual they leverage them LGBT rights in the state. Along with other and transgender employees. Steelcase was proud to earn for innovation and leading businesses, Steelcase argued the proposed bills would restrict their ability to a perfect score of 100 in all categories, including equal growth. attract and retain talented employees and employment opportunities, equivalency in spousal and institutionalize discrimination. partner benefits, competency We’re actively promoting social justice and training, public engagement and inclusion across our footprint, including In our home community of Western responsible citizenship. economic, gender, race and sexual Michigan, Steelcase continues our orientation equality, to ensure a more tradition of involvement through HRC Corporate Equality promising future for our company and all sponsorships and donations of resources, Index Rating Criteria our employees – no matter where they live expertise and product. For the 15th and work. year, we co-hosted the Urban League’s Prohibits discrimination based community breakfast to honor Dr. Martin on sexual orientation In the United States last year, perhaps Luther King, Jr. and we continued as Prohibits discrimination based no other social issue changed more a lead sponsor for the Grand Rapids on gender identity or expression rapidly than Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Community College Diversity Lecture Offers partner health/medical Transgender (LGBT) equality. From state series, bringing top thought leaders insurance court rulings to the Supreme Court, new to the area to discuss the day’s most Has parity across other ‘soft’ laws quickly spread across the country provocative issues. benefits for partners faster than many anticipated. Steelcase Offers transgender-inclusive health insurance coverage Firm-wide organizational competency programs Has employer-supported employee resource group Positively engages the external LGBT community Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 23 EMPLOYEES Employee Wellbeing Across our company’s footprint, the In three of our North American WELLBEING AROUND THE emphasis on employee wellbeing manufacturing plants, wellbeing is more WORLD is stronger than ever. We’ve been visible and accessible than ever thanks to In Europe, the Middle East and consciously moving toward a more larger and better equipped workout and Africa, wellbeing committees comprehensive definition of wellbeing – coaching spaces. The Kentwood and are taking the lead by offering week-long activities focused on including physical, mental and emotional Wood Plants in Michigan both received different dimensions of wellbeing. aspects – and expanding opportunities new fitness equipment, showers, private Physical wellbeing is encouraged for all employees to explore and improve rooms and additional classes, building through well-attended weekend their total wellbeing. on their existing wellbeing programs. Our outdoor activities from hiking to Athens, Alabama facility also expanded skiing, with Steelcase footing One of our most visible commitments its fitness room with updated equipment the cost for employees. In Cluj, to wellbeing is the new 1,600 sq. ft. Romania, the local Employee and access to showers. Wellbeing Hub in the Grand Rapids, Experience Committee stocks break areas with fresh fruit to Michigan Global Business Center. The In addition to these programs, we help keep energy levels and dedicated space creates a destination initiated a policy in the United States vitality high all day. complete with free exercise and coaching and Canada that allows parents to take classes, an on-site nurse, health three weeks of paid leave following the In North America, more than information and a new consultant called birth or adoption of a child. Steelcase 200 employees at the Athens, Alabama plant participated in a Wellbeing Navigator. Many tools and understands that work and home roles the first annual Employee Health services are free to employees, including continue to intersect and overlap, and and Fitness Day. With a goal body composition screening, nutrition we’re taking proactive steps to support of educating and encouraging and weight management classes and all aspects of our employees’ lives. This healthy activities that people life coaching. Private spaces allow for new policy reinforces our commitment can easily incorporate into personal one-on-one sessions, or simply to supporting both parents as primary their daily schedules, the event featured healthy snacks, body offer a quiet space for a moment of caregivers and our employees’ ability composition readings, one on one reflection. Future plans call for mini-hubs to respond to business needs. In its coaching, free blood pressure in global locations and the recruitment of inaugural year, bonding leave has been a checks, massage, battle ropes on-site wellbeing champions. popular new benefit, helping numerous and consultations about all the families adapt to their new addition and options available in the Steelcase routines. benefits package. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 24 SUSTAINABILITY SPOTLIGHT Wellbeing Hub In today’s fast-paced business environment, performance is more important than ever. Growing, learning, practicing, leveraging natural talent, taking risks, embracing mistakes and confronting deficiencies. These are the vital skills needed to move Steelcase into the future as an innovative and fit company. As a company, we’re supporting our employee’s personal fitness with our new Wellbeing Hub in our Grand Rapids, Michigan Global Headquarters, helping our team contribute their full potential. Steelcase plays a key role in employee wellbeing, In Asia Pacific, the employee focusing on all three aspects: physical, emotional, exercise of choice has been social. For example: yoga. From Australia to Malaysia to China, employees and even · We can find space to connect or reflect customers have been taking ·  We have policies that let us express our advantage of yoga classes at personal brand Steelcase facilities and with ·  We can take time to recharge or care for family Steelcase fitness partners. In fact, yoga has proven so popular that members when needed programs have been extended ·  Around the globe we are encouraged to take to continue to meet growing time to support our communities demand. ·  Health and safety is an important focus in Operations ·  In the U.S. we have many offerings to encourage our physical wellbeing: fitness rooms, team contests, awareness-raising with biometrics, incentives for healthy habits and more The new Wellbeing Hub offers resources, spaces and tools to help employees including: · Body assessments and progress trackers ·  Personal support, from chronic disease management to financial or career counseling ·  Team activities, including yoga, meditation and food management ·  Opportunities to re-energize yourself, including a nap station and massage Our partners are committed to this project, and we have dedicated resources to support this simple concept: a place to support our employees’ personal situation, aspirations and passions and a place to show our customers that we walk the talk. We will learn from the Wellbeing Hub, and duplicate the idea in other locations when possible. We believe that when our employees are growing and thriving, our organization will become a more innovative and sustainable entity. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 25 EMPLOYEES Learning + Development We’re investing facilitators, and create a culture of coaching. The goal? To create a more SPOTLIGHT ON SALES TRAINING in and expanding agile, competitive organization that keeps Supporting growth in the pace with the fast rate of change. the innovative, Americas, more than 40 new sales professionals each global learning Taking a rapid, real-time development approach to creating curriculum, completed a six-week core onboarding curriculum, designed and development the Global Leadership Development to deliver superior experiences for clients and sales professionals Experience was a program prototyped programs available with participants from North America, alike. In addition, four new hires completed a tailored threeto our employees. Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific. Emerging leaders connected month experience designed to bring high-potential recent across geographies to develop new skills university graduates into the We believe delivering new ways of learning sales organization, injecting and tackle enterprise-wide challenges will help create the positive, sustainable additional new energy and fresh with fresh energy and imagination. perspective. change in ourselves that will help us do Participants formed cohort groups and the same in the world. served as mentors and coaches to one In coming months, we’ll be making a shift at Steelcase as the company moves another, enriching the learning experience and sharing their collective learning and 7,980 wisdom. Graduation was marked with employee training hours toward becoming a hands-on, real-time a two-day event at the Global Business dedicated to our Global learning organization. Instead of learning Business Standards around moments taking place solely inside Center in Grand Rapids, Michigan, the world in 2014 classrooms or seminars, employees will featuring remarks from CEO Jim Keane be encouraged to take charge of their and other senior leaders who addressed own development finding opportunities three of the company’s cultural pillars – to learn and grow every day in more empathy, humility and trust. informal ways. This new model will allow employees to receive faster feedback, leverage internal leaders as informal Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 26 EMPLOYEES Workplace Health + Safety Good health and safety practices are as important to our company as production enhanced safety elements such as antifatigue mats, as well as an organized “At Steelcase, efficiency and quality – meaning that method for leaders and employees to we’re committed business decisions are always made share and ideate new safety solutions. considering the health and safety of our to providing a employees and our customers. Since more than half of all accidents can be linked to unsafe employee healthy and safe A proactive health and safety culture behaviors, designing workstations that workplace for that engages employees and supports encourage safety is a priority as we a cross-functional and participative continue to move toward an incidentour employees, approach to prevent injuries is fundamental to our journey toward free work environment. In coming years, we will expand our efforts to customers and optimal wellbeing for our employees. explore occupational risk assessments business partners.” and behavior-based safety in process Our European plants are benefitting from design, accident analysis, and ergonomic key initiatives in our Rosenheim, Germany assessments of workstations. location. Local leaders implemented a new health and safety program that In North America, an expanded MASSAGE OFFERED IN identified risk “hot spots,” executed orientation process includes a more U.S. PLANTS solutions and measured progress. For comprehensive safety orientation – new All our American manufacturing instance, an initial assessment revealed employees spend a full week performing plants now offer employees the assembly department would best classroom work and floor observations regular, free, 15-minute massages benefit from additional attention, so before being assigned to a workstation. to help treat minor injuries. leaders and employees held a joint This process is helping prepare Most employees saw significant safety kaizen meeting to brainstorm employees for more productive and safe improvement after only three visits. needs and priorities. Kaizen, Japanese experiences. for “continuous improvement,” is an organized approach to evaluating problems, designing solutions, and achieving success. Thanks to this technique, the plant now features Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 27 Environment We’re working to leave a lasting legacy that benefits all of humanity. That’s why we’re conserving more, using less, sourcing more responsible materials, and finding better ways to work and be a leading voice. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 28 ENVIRONMENT Innovative Products + Solutions Three pillars – materials chemistry, life cycle assessment and end of use design strategies – guide our efforts to innovate, improve, and deliver on our product promises. These three pillars help us avoid and challenging and collaborating with eliminate materials of concern, without material developers to increase literacy compromising performance, and and inspire materials innovation – all contribute to international research while assessing our current materials, efforts aimed at helping other product processes and products to identify new designers and providers perform better. opportunities for improvement. Most importantly, they help deliver greater benefit to our customers through We’re advocating for better chemical human centered and environmentally standards through public policy and fit products and services. partnering with academic institutions and innovative companies to find Materials Chemistry answers to today’s challenges. We’re As new programs emerge, and as pushing for solutions at scale and existing certifications elevate materialtranslating advances in the lab into related expectations, we remain practical applications, because we know committed to push today’s boundaries green chemistry will play a vital role in through leading by example. We’re building a sustainable future. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 29 ENVIRONMENT Innovative Products + Solutions (cont.) Life Cycle Assessments will benefit manufacturers and consumers STEELCASE WINS GC3 For years, we’ve performed life cycle well beyond our industry. By sharing our CHAMPIONS AWARD assessments (LCAs) to measure and findings and continuing to learn through Steelcase was honored with the analyze the environmental footprint of local and regional conferences we also Green Chemistry & Commerce our products. As an early adopter, using learn as we support the expansion and Council (GC3) Champions Award, a distinction is given to internationally recognized methodology, growth of the LCA practice throughout individuals and organizations our LCA practice helps us identify other global industries. for outstanding leadership, potential opportunities for improvement support and promotion of green and aids us in understanding how to End of Use and Recycling chemistry. The award was best apply, expand, and integrate better Thanks to our approach to products, given to recognize Steelcase’s practices and decision-making. we can offer customers ever more leadership in advancing safer material selections, ever higher recycling chemistry and a healthier planet. In addition to performing LCAs on performance and increasingly better end THINK RETHOUGHT products, our dedicated internal teams of life options. We make products built have been conducting life cycle research to last, and sometimes, they even outlast The newly redesigned Think stands as an example of what in areas like post-industrial and postour customers’ needs. Though we design can be achieved with a life consumer recycled materials. Their our products to be adaptable, they will cycle approach and a mind research has resulted in many useful eventually reach a time when they are no for continuous improvement. insights – things like better leveraging longer optimal. That’s when we can help The newly incorporated recycled post-industrial recycled content, such customers make responsible choices. content significantly reduces as foam in the B-Free™ Cube and nylon See our End of Use Strategies section of carbon emissions. In the U.S. alone, the emission reduction in the Gesture® chair and the new this report for more information on how is equal to 2.5 million miles Think® chair. we’re working with our customers to driven, or 100 trips around the help manage their furniture inventory and world, per year. Our ongoing research collaborations keep products out of landfills by selling, with industry and academia are helping refurbishing, donating, or recycling their advance data sets and practices that excess assets. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 30 EDUCATING THE NEXT GENERATION Externally, the demand for green chemistry is larger than the supply – so we’re committing resources to creating educational curriculums in local schools to ensure today’s students are exposed to green chemistry principles, creating the next generation of highly skilled employees. Partnering with Beyond Benign, a non-profit reimagining how chemistry is taught in schools, Steelcase hosted a half-day Advanced Green Chemistry workshop for school teachers. Demonstrating some of the ways Steelcase incorporates green chemistry principles into products and “For years, we’ve manufacturing processes, teachers then brainstormed how these 50+ performed life practices could be translated into curriculum or labs for students. Cradle to Cradle Certified™ products cycle assessments (LCAs) to measure 30+ and analyze the Published Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) environmental footprint of our products.” Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 31 ENVIRONMENT Energy Use + Efficiency As we’ve worked to increase our investments in renewable energy Steelcase Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2004-2014 resources, we’re still taking a hard look at the energy we’re using to power 200k $5M our operations and their associated greenhouse gas emissions. Today, we’re celebrating modest decreases in our $4M global energy use and global greenhouse 150k gas emissions. As a global company with high production levels and energy $3M needs, we know that each percentage point reduced adds up across our global 100k operations – and brings us closer to our $2M goal of 25% reduction by 2020. A significant step toward meeting this 50k $1M goal includes utilizing the most current ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 resources and standards for measuring and monitoring our global energy and Direct Emissions (tons CO2 equivalent) Indirect Emissions (tons CO2 equivalent) emissions figures. We’re adopting the Gross Sales (thousands of US dollars) new World Resources Institute guidance for greenhouse gas reporting, and have advanced equipment, we’re now able to Using the data, we’re able to figure out begun expanding our data gathering to monitor our electrical usage every fifteen better ways to measure, understand, include some of our indirect impacts. minutes instead of waiting 30 days for the share, and report the details of our energy We’re expanding the scope of our utility bill. And while monthly statements usage and impact, better equip and metrics so we can more accurately track typically only show total building usage, empower our employees to work together our usage and develop comprehensive these meters allow us to track individual in reducing usage and hitting goals, strategies to pursue further reductions. areas, processes or machines, giving us and better develop targeted reduction One of the strategies we’re pursuing to hit a more accurate picture of energy usage goals and solutions. As we learn best our energy goals is installing new remote than ever. This new ability means we can practices and optimize this new data, meters in our North American plants. now detect hot spots and respond to we will explore additional investments Using money received from our corporate issues with immediate corrective actions, and strategies to install remote meters in recycling efforts to purchase this including preventive maintenance. additional locations. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 32 ENVIRONMENT Renewable Energy When it comes Last year, we took an important step by purchasing RECs equivalent to STEELCASE RECEIVES EPA GREEN POWER AWARD to our renewable 100 percent of our global electricity For the second time, Steelcase consumption. And that was big news. energy commitment, won the Green Power Leadership While we’re pleased with our progress, Award from the EPA Green Power we’ve made great we know there’s always more work to be done. That’s why we enhanced our Partnership. A founding member of the Green Power Partnership progress in a few renewable energy strategy to include an in 2001, and a previous winner in 2009, Steelcase was short years. What increased focus on localized purchasing. honored to receive the award, which acknowledges leading started as local As a major manufacturer, we acknowledge our energy footprint and are committed to actions that organizations take to advance green power investments is now recognizing it by investing in renewables, development. locally, nationally and globally. That’s why, a global, cohesive whenever possible, we’re purchasing clean energy renewable energy credits produced in the regions where we operate. As 2014 Renewable Energy Credits portfolio composed more countries make investments into of wind and renewable energy technologies, we’re looking forward to the day when every hydroelectric power country we operate in has a thriving renewable energy infrastructure. Renewable Energy And while we’re focusing on investing 100% Credits (RECs). in and expanding our renewable energy portfolio, we remain committed to reducing the energy we use. For more information on our efforts in energy optimization, see the Energy Use and Americas (159,940,445 kWh) APAC (7,379,513 kWh) Efficiency section in this report. EMEA (40,007,982 kWh) Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 33 ENVIRONMENT Transportation + Packaging Delivering our products and people safely recycled and recyclable materials. We’re DELIVERING MORE PRODUCT to their destinations while minimizing our actively reducing synthetic materials AND MORE RESULTS environmental footprint requires continual, and polyurethane packaging, opting Thanks to a new method of intentional effort. With our innovative instead for recyclable materials. We’re packaging our media:scape® packaging and shipping practices, as well investigating a more flexible stretch units in Europe, the Middle East and Africa , we’re seeing sizable as efficient operations, we’re putting our film to protect items during shipment. increases in the amount of beliefs into action. So far results are positive: 30 percent product we’re able to ship. less material used and significantly less For overseas shipping containers, Our packaging team takes a methodical machine usage time. And we’re installing we’re now able to transport approach to uncovering opportunities a machine that custom cuts corrugated 300% more product than before for improvement and innovation. It material – meaning less waste and – meaning a significant reduction begins with our rigorous testing model in materials, fuel, and greenhouse potential savings. for packaging methods featuring four gas emissions. distinct levels, each tougher than the last. When it comes to our vehicle fleet, From dropping boxes to vibrating tables, we’re optimizing travel routes to shorten crush tests to temperature changes, our distances and improve fuel use. In engineers ensure our packaging protects Europe, we’ve added hybrid cars to our customers’ products and arrives intact. fleet, and in North America, our tour Thanks to our efforts, more product is buses run on biodiesel. Thanks to these arriving safely to customers, creating fewer incidents of damage and wasted initiatives, we’re on the road to meeting our energy efficiency goals. And it’s not 33% materials. just our trucks taking fewer trips — it’s also our people. Through our highThough we have a number of successful definition videoconferencing technology methods to pack and ship products, and alternative work strategies, we’re we’re constantly testing in the search minimizing employee travel and reducing for materials with superior performance. The increase in V.I.A.® units that can our environmental footprint. In addition be shipped in each truck thanks Over the last few years, we’ve moved to reducing travel costs and emissions, to some innovations in packaging toward knockdown packaging, employees see their families more — an glass corners lightweight corrugated paper, and important part of supporting our people. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 34 ENVIRONMENT Water Conservation Compared to many other industries, our operations don’t require much water – Water Usage vs. Gross Sales 2004 2014 but that doesn’t mean we’re less focused 300 m $5M when it comes to conserving this vital resource. We’re committed to reducing our water footprint 25% by the year 2020. 250 m $4M In the last few years, we experienced higher than normal water use due to increased production levels and new 200 m $3M manufacturing facilities coming online around the world. Thanks to some new innovations and a continued focus on 150 m $2M our existing water reduction strategies, since 2010 we’ve reduced our water consumption by 2% across our footprint, 100 m $1M moving us closer to our long-term goal. ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 One of the highlights is a new process Water (gallons) in our Stribro, Czech Republic plant. Gross Sales (thousands of US dollars) We are introducing an innovative method for applying powder coat paint that Looking ahead, we’re examining how has significantly reduced wastewater discharge. The plant is located in a best to optimize and integrate our Environmental Management Systems 18.7 million rural area and has a zero process water so individual facilities can more easily discharge restriction. We worked to see, share and brainstorm successful gallons of water reduced in 2014 design a method that will reduce the ideas and solutions. With efforts like plant’s total waste water output from this, we’re excited about increasing the two tanker trucks per day to one cubic meter of waste water per week. Based collective power of our employees and partners around the globe – realizing 2% reduction on the method’s success, we’re hoping new possibilities through their knowledge this process can be duplicated in other and ingenuity. in water use since 2010 facilities. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 35 ENVIRONMENT Waste Reduction Over the years, In fact, thanks to our Environmental Management Systems and the dedication In the last few years, we’ve widened our lens and turned our attention to we’ve successfully of our internal teams, we’ve reduced improving performance at our distribution our waste by 46% since 2010. This centers. This past year, we saw diverted thousands surpasses our current goal of reducing significant progress in implementing of tons of materials our waste by 25% by the year 2020. While we’re celebrating our progress more robust recycling strategies and processes in these locations, thanks from landfills. so far, we’re still focused on the to the lessons we learned by piloting possibilities ahead. them in our plants. We’re working with distribution center leadership to establish Optimizing waste can mean reducing recycling teams and empower employees the amount of materials needed to build to make proactive changes in their work a high-quality product, finding new ways areas. We’re providing training on quality to measure and cut fabric or simply recycling and composting techniques as adjusting our production processes so well as engaging facilities employees to we reduce inventory through makeaudit processes. to-order practices. We’re constantly implementing new and improved waste Building on these successes, we’re reduction strategies in our facilities to looking ahead now and asking how ensure we’re taking advantage of every we might continue to expand these option available, whether it’s reusing, efforts into other areas of our value recycling, composting or incineration chain. Our future goals include working for energy recovery. Additionally, we with suppliers to minimize their waste actively search for solutions when our streams, and expanding our composting waste might be another person’s asset. efforts into more facilities. For example, if we accumulate excess inventory, we donate materials such as wood tops, drawer pulls, and other components to organizations like Habitat for Humanity so they can be put to good use. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 36 SUSTAINABILITY SPOTLIGHT Rethinking How The World Moves Forward In sustainability circles, there’s a conversation gaining momentum about a new business model that minimizes waste, maximizes resource recovery and creates economic growth through innovation. This model – known as the circular economy – trumps the current take, make, and throw away mentality 46% 25% Reduction Goal by the end of CY2020 of current business and consumption models through its environmental benefits alone. But there are also economic benefits to consider: leading think tanks estimate the circular economy could create 100,000 new jobs in the next five years and contribute $1 trillion to the global economy by 2025. Reduction in waste since 2010 Recently, Steelcase participated in The Circular Economy 100, an international, multi-industry group including Unilever, Phillips, Cisco and Renault and 17,286 lead by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. The goal is to accelerate transitions to these more streamlined Tons of material recycled globally business models as we all recognize we’re operating in a world of finite resources. 149.9 For example, though some businesses are using energy more efficiently, the world as a whole demands Tons of food waste composted more, tapping into our limited supply of fixed resources. With nearly 3 billion people in developing countries expecting to enter the global middle class in the next 15 years, the linear economy model simply won’t be able to meet expanding consumer needs. We know firsthand that innovation is complex and challenging: moving forward means leaving behind time-honored ways of doing things. But there are dramatic opportunities for growth and innovation moving ahead. By abandoning increasingly obsolete economic frameworks, we have the singular chance to realize positive change at a scale and speed rarely experienced before. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 Learn more: 360 Magazine Issue 70 37 Ourselves We’re taking a close look at ourselves and putting economic, social and environmental sustainability at the center of our strategy. Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 38 OURSELVES Governance Our leadership team remains committed to our mission to unlock human promise, to deliver longterm shareholder value, and drive sustainable business fitness. A hardworking combination of proven business leaders and third generation founding family members set the tone for our company’s future. Our Global Sustainability Steering Committee, in particular, sharpened its focus in 2014, developing new cultural, communication and process strategies to better leverage our sustainability efforts and advance our value proposition, brand reputation and business fitness. The committee is exploring long-term investments that will help fuel even deeper engagement through “A hardworking combination of proven · broader sustainable business literacy business leaders, third-generation · frameworks, case studies and benchmarking to make more explicit connections between founding family members, and other sustainability, business success and corporate resilience Board of Directors members set the The Steering Committee’s role is to encourage and tone for our company’s future.” empower employees, whose efforts will continue to drive our collective success. and to contribute toward the overall safety and wellbeing of fellow workers, their communities and Each and every Steelcase employee is accountable the natural world. for abiding by our social and environmental sustainability policies in his or her particular role. Our sustainability aspirations are ambitious. Everyone These policies clearly express our expectations must be actively engaged in strengthening our for our employees, no matter what their title performance and reaching or surpassing our goals. or responsibilities, to be responsible stewards Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 39 THANK YOU Our path to sustainability is a shared endeavor, touching all levels of our organization in all corners of the globe. Our successes come from individual employees, from departments, from regions, from offices, from manufacturing lines, from customers, from our dealers, from our suppliers, and from our partners. The end of this report is not the end. We’d love to keep the conversation alive. Please reach out to us at sustainability@steelcase.com and share your sustainability dreams. ©2015 Steelcase Inc. All rights reserved. Please recycle. Trademarks used herein are the property of Steelcase Inc. or their respective owners. Cradle to Cradle Certified™ is a certification mark licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. The U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED® green building program is the preeminent program for the design, construction, maintenance and operations of high-performance green buildings. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILILTY REPORT 2015 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index is a sustainability Not Reported Partially Reported Fully Reported reporting framework that allows companies the opportunity to self-report on a variety of material subject areas. The GRI Index provides increased transparency and accountability when it comes to economic, environmental, social and governance information. Strategy and Analysis Welcome address Corporate Sustainability Report pp. 4-5 (Welcome from Jim Keane) 1.1 Description of key impacts, risks, Annual Report pp. 6-10; Corporate Sustainability Report pp. 6-7 1.2 and opportunities (Our Sustainability Promise) Organizational Profile Name of the reporting Steelcase Inc. 2.1 organization Primary brands, products, and/or Annual Report pp. 1–3 2.2 services Operational structure of the Annual Report pp. 1–3 2.3 organization Location of organization’s Steelcase is headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan, U.S.A. 2.4 headquarters Number of countries where the Steelcase Locations 2.5 organization operates Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 1 Nature of ownership, legal form Steelcase Inc. (SCS) is a publicly traded company listed on the 2.6 New York Stock Exchange. Markets served Annual Report pp. 1–4 2.7 Scale of reporting organization Annual Report Intro 2.8 Significant changes during the Steelcase transferred a factory in France to a third party that will 2.9 reporting period use the facility for its own products. We also began the process of closing one of our German plants, and we opened a new greenfield factory in the Czech Republic. Annual Report Awards received Awards 2.10 Report Parameters Reporting period This report covers the calendar year 2014 (CY2014), spanning 3.1 January 1, 2014, to December 31, 2014 and the company’s fiscal year 2015 (FY2015), spanning February 25, 2014, to February 22, 2015. Key environmental impact metrics (energy, GHG emissions, VOCs, water and waste) are tracked on a calendar year basis for 2014 (CY2014). Date of most recent previous report The most recent Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report was 3.2 published in November 2014 and covered calendar year 2013 (CY2013) and Steelcase’s fiscal year 2014 (FY2014 – February 25, 2013 to February 22, 2014). Reporting cycle Steelcase publishes a corporate sustainability report annually. 3.3 Contact point for questions sustainability@steelcase.com 3.4 regarding the report or its contents Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 2 Process for defining report content In preparing the content of this report, Steelcase reviewed its 3.5 operations through the lens of the ISO 26000 corporate social responsibility standard and the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The report was prepared with insight from significant stakeholder research and as well as other measurement systems to identify sustainability aspects of the business. Through that process, Steelcase identified significant impacts and developed objectives and targets that guide efforts to improve performance. This is an ongoing process that requires continued learning, evaluating, and adapting systems to ensure that Steelcase is living its core values and meeting sustainability commitments. Boundary of the report This report covers Steelcase’s global operations in Americas, 3.6 Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific (AP) to the extent to which data was available. As a part of this report, we have outlined our commitment to further developing our global social and environmental practices and reporting capabilities. Please see Corporate Sustainability Report pp. 6-7 (Our Sustainability Promise). Specific limitations on the scope See 3.6 3.7 and boundary of the report Basis for reporting on situations See 3.6 3.8 that can significantly affect comparability Data measurement techniques and The data in this report was collected with the help of global 3.9 the bases of calculations subject matter experts within each key function and the Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Steering Committee. Steelcase collects data from each of its global locations through the web-based systems, company databases and other non-automated methods. Environmental data related to energy, greenhouse gas emissions, waste, water and VOCs was collected through a web-based management system. Data inputs include utility bills, pull tickets from recycling and waste hauling service providers, and the company’s environmental management system. Steelcase’s scope of inclusion follows the guidelines established by the World Resources Institute as adopted by the EPA Climate Leaders Initiative. Human resources-related data is provided by the Global Talent Management team. Re-statements of information See 3.11 3.10 provided in earlier reports Significant changes from previous No significant changes. 3.11 reporting periods Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 3 Table identifying the location of the See 3.1 3.12 standard disclosures in the report Assurance statement At this time, Steelcase does not utilize an external organization to 3.13 assess this report. Governance, Commitments and Engagements Governance structure of the Steelcase Inc. Corporate Governance Principles 4.1 organization Indicate whether the Chair of the The Steelcase Board of Directors is chaired by Robert C. Pew III. 4.2 highest governance body is also an He is not an Executive Officer. executive officer Independent and/or non executive The Steelcase Inc. Board of Directors has 11 members, 4.3 Board Membership 9 of whom are independent. Mechanisms to provide Board of Directors Contact Form 4.4 recommendations to the Board Link between executive 2015 proxy statement, pp. 26-37 4.5 compensation and sustainable performance Process to avoid conflicts of Steelase Inc. Code of Business Conduct Policy 4.6 interest Board qualifications and expertise 2015 proxy statement, pp. 4-6 4.7 Missions, values, codes of conduct Steelcase Inc. Global Business Standards 4.8 and principles Process for overseeing economic, Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 39 (Governance); 4.9 environmental and social Steelcase Inc. Governance performance Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 4 Process for evaluating board Steelcase Inc. Corporate Governance Principles 4.10 performance Explanation of whether and how the Steelcase takes a precautionary approach toward environmental 4.11 precautionary approach or principle management. We follow insights gained from decades of research, is addressed by the organization leverage partnerships with leading companies and organizations, and our experiences and feedback from customers, giving us valuable guidance and perspective. It is for these and many other reasons we have taken a leading role in finding creative and responsible ways to operate and design products and applications. Please see the Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 11-13 and 2937 (Customers and Environment sections). Externally developed economic, Steelcase participates in the following initiatives: 4.12 environmental, and social charters, • AFNOR NF Environment certification program principles, or other initiatives to • BIFMA level® certification program which the organization subscribes • Blue Angel certification program or endorses • Carbon Disclosure Project • Circular Economy 100 (CE100) • Cradle to Cradle® certification program • Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) • Forestry Stewardship Council Chain of Custody certification • Global Reporting Initiative (self-declared) • ISO 14001 • ISO 26000 • LEED® certification program • OEKO-TEX® certification program • OHSAS 18001 • Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification • Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) • SCS Indoor Advantage™ certification program • Sustainable 50 • U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership • UN Global Compact Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 5 Memberships in associations (such There are a number of organizations around the world that we are 4.13 as industry associations) and/or members and active partners in. Here are a few: national/international advocacy • Business and Industrial Furniture Manufacturers Association organizations in which the (BIFMA) organization: • Business Leaders for Michigan • Has positions in governance • Business Roundtable bodies • Circular Economy 100 (CE100) • Participates in projects or • Design Industry for Fighting Aids (DIFA) committees • Gilda’s Club, Leadership and Incubation • Provides substantive funding • Grand Rapids Community College Diversity Speaker beyond routine membership Series Sponsor dues • Greenbiz Executive Forum (GBEN) • Views membership as strategic • Michigan Manufacturing Association • Michigan Minority Supplier Development Council • National Association of Manufacturers • National Association of World Affairs, Executive Leadership Council, Diversity Executive • National Civil Rights Museum • National Minority Supplier Development Council • Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) • Sustainable Brands • Student Advancement Foundation • Talent 2025 • United Way • University Prep Academy • West Michigan Center for Arts & Technology (WMCAT) • West Michigan Envrionmental Action Council List of stakeholder groups engaged The stakeholder groups we engage with are our customers 4.14 by the organization (global businesses and organizations), the architectural and design community, employees, academic and research institutions, dealer partners, supplier partners, governmental agencies, industry organizations, NGOs, community partners, nonprofits, investors and media. Please see Corporate Sustainability Report pp. 6-7 (Our Sustainability Promise). Basis for identification and selection Corporate Sustainability Report pp. 6-7 (Our Sustainability Promise) 4.15 of stakeholders with whom to engage Approaches to stakeholders Steelcase regularly conducts research to understand our 4.16 engagement, including frequency stakeholder expectations around sustainability. We use the results of engagement by type and by of this research to drive our business strategies and engage with stakeholder group stakeholders on the topics that are most relevant to their priorities. We continue to engage with stakeholders, moving forward through informal discussions, surveys, focus groups and social media. For more information, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report pp. 6-7 (Our Sustainability Promise). Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 6 Key topics and concerns that have Corporate Sustainability Report pp. 6-7 (Our Sustainability Promise) 4.17 been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Economic Direct economic value generated Please see the following resources for this information: EC1 and distributed, including revenues, • Operating Costs: Annual Report, p. 16 operating costs, employee • Employee & Exceutive Compensation: Annual Report, pp. 43 compensation, donations and other -45, 88 community investments, retained • Donations/Community Investments: Corporate Sustainability earnings, and payments to capital Report, p. 19-21 (Community section) providers and governments • Retained Earnings: Annual Report, p. 42 • Payments to Capital Providers and Governance: Annual Report, p. 43 Financial implications and other Climate change poses many potential risks to the environment, EC2 risks and opportunities for the business, people and the communities in which we work, live and organization’s activities due to serve. At this time, these risks are difficult to predict and quantify. climate change However, we work to minimize our impact on the climate through a global initiative to reduce our emissions and measure our performance through a metric-based system. Steelcase monitors its global greenhouse gas emissions and has several goals in place for continuously improving our reduction rates. In addition, we invest in renewable energy by purchasing Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) equivalent to 100% of our global electricity consumption. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 32-33 (Renewable Energy and Energy Use & Efficiency). Coverage of the organization’s Annual Report pp. 28, 65 73 EC3 benefit plan obligations Significant financial assistance We have not received significant financial assistance from the EC4 received from government government. Range of ratios of standard entry Steelcase pays all entry level employees wages that are equal to EC5 level wage by gender compared to or exceed the local legal minimum wage at the significant locations local minimum wage at significant of operation. locations of operation Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 7 Policy, practices, and proportion of There are a number of factors involved in the evaluation and EC6 spending on locally-based suppliers selection of our supplier partners. Quality, performance, safety, at significant locations price, location and social and environmental impact are all weighed. Our value-based supplier assessment process aims to consider all factors in order to make the best possible decision for Steelcase, our customers and from a social and environmental perspective. Local suppliers are often selected. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report p. 16 (Suppliers) and visit our Supplier Overview page for more information. Procedures for local hiring and As a global enterprise, Steelcase supports a diverse workplace. EC7 proportion of senior management Our goal is to attract and retain the best talent around the world. hired from the local community at To accomplish this goal, we work to develop and promote internal locations of significant operation employees and we engage with local recruitment sources to provide top candidates. Every Steelcase global location has identified and works directly with these sources to attract the best local talent. Currently, we do not track the proportion of locally hired senior management. Currently, we are implementing a tool that allows us to track the source of candidates. Development and impact of infraCorporate Sustainability Report, p. 20 (Social Investment) EC8 structure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Understanding and describing sigSteelcase and The Steelcase Foundation make donations to EC9 nificant indirect economic impacts, support various art, education and environmental organizations in including the extent of impacts the geographies where Steelcase operates. Please see Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 20 (Social Investment). Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 8 Environmental Materials used by weight or volume Due to the complexity of manufacturing Steelcase products, EN1 material weight and volume vary significantly by product type and options selected. Steelcase calculates materials used by products on an individual basis. Some of the key materials we use in our products are: • Aluminum • Fabric • Fiberglass • Foam • Glass • Laminates • Paint • Plastic parts • Steel and steel parts • Woodcore In the Americas, please see Product Environmental Profiles (PEPs) for more information. In the Europe, Middle East and Africa Region, PEPs and Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) can be provided upon request. In the Asia Pacific region, PEPs can be provided upon request. Percentage of materials used that Steelcase uses a broad range of materials in its products – many of EN2 are recycled input materials which contain recycled materials. Percentages of recycled content in products are reported in Product Environmental Profiles (PEPs). The primary materials used that contain recycled content are steel, aluminum, composite wood and select textiles. For information on products in the Americas, see PEPs. PEPs are available by request in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and AP (Asia Pacific) regions. Where available, Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) can be provided upon request. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 29-31 (Innovative Products and Applications) for more information. Direct energy consumption by Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 32-33 (Energy EN3 primary energy source Use and Efficiency and Renewable Energy) for more information. SCOPE 1 TERAJOULES Natural Gas 321.3 Propane 0.5 Coal 211 Diesel Fuel 39.9 Gasoline 1.2 Jet Fuel 48.6 Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 9 Indirect energy consumption by Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 32-33 (Energy EN4 primary source Use and Efficiency and Renewable Energy) for more information. INDIRECT CY2014 GIGAJOULES TONNES CO2 EQV Electricity 299,040.1 47,121 Energy saved due to conservation The company set a goal to reduce its environmental footprint by EN5 and efficiency improvements 25% by the end of 2020. From 2010 to 2014, we reduced energy consumption by 1%. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 32-33 (Energy Use and Efficiency and Renewable Energy) for more information. Initiatives to provide energyMost Steelcase products do not consume energy, but the company EN6 efficient or renewable energy is optimizing products that impact energy in the use phase, such as based products and services, and lighting. Steelcase conducts life cycle assessments on key products reductions in energy requirements to understand the impacts of their whole life cycles. This effort as a result of these initiatives offers insights in the development of new products and helps the company develop action steps to reduce the embodied energy in all phases of the products life including the use phase. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 32 and 29-31 (Energy Use and Efficiency and Innovative Products and Applications) for more information. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 32-33 (Energy Use and EN7 consumption and reductions Efficiency and Renewable Energy) achieved Total water withdrawal by source Globally, Steelcase used approximately 112 million gallons of water EN8 in 2014. The primary sources of water are the municipal water systems where Steelcase facilities are located. The company set a goal to reduce our global environmental footprint by 25% by the end of 2020. Water use has declined 2% during the period from 2010 to 2014. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 35 (Water Conservation) for more information. Water sources significantly affected Globally, Steelcase used approximately 112 million gallons of EN9 by withdrawal of water water in 2014. The primary sources of water are the municipal water systems where Steelcase facilities are located. The company set a goal to reduce our environmental footprint by 25% by the end of 2020. Water use has declined 2% during the period from 2010 to 2014. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 35 (Water Conservation) for more information. Percentage and total volume of The company set a goal to reduce its environmental footprint by EN10 water recycled and reused 25% by the end of 2020. Water use has declined 3% during the period from 2010 to 2014. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 35 (Water Conservation) for more information. Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 10 Location and size of land owned, Steelcase is committed to investing in and enhancing habitat EN11 leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protection. Refer to Habitats Protected or Restored (EN13) and protected areas and areas of high Strategies, Current Actions, and Future Plans (EN14) for examples biodiversity value outside protected of those initiatives. areas Description of significant impacts Steelcase’s goal is to minimize potential environmental impacts of EN12 of activities, products, and services our products, services and operations. At this time, biodiversity on biodiversity in protected areas is not a material issue to our business and operations. For more and areas of high biodiversity value information about how we consider environmental impacts in the outside protected areas creation of our products, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 29-31 (Innovative Products and Applications). Habitats protected or restored Steelcase is committed to investing in and enhancing habitat EN13 protection. Examples of these programs include: • Native species plantings and low-impact landscaping at the wood furniture manufacturing plant (LEED Silver Certified) • Creating a bioswale utilizing native plants at the WorkLab (LEED Platinum Certified) and Innovation Center (LEED Platinum Certified) in Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA • Low-impact native landscaping at the company WorkLab in Schiltigheim, France Strategies, current actions, and By conducting life cycle assessments, Steelcase works to EN14 future plans for managing impacts understand the impacts of its key products throughout all stages of on biodiversity their complete life cycle. These insights inspire innovation and new approaches in the development of our products. See EN26 and our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 29-31 (Innovative Products and Applications) for more information. Number of IUCN Red List species Steelcase’s approach to embedding sustainability into its business EN15 and national conservation list systems is holistic, research-based and measurable. Every step of species with habitats in areas the way – from design, manufacture, delivery and product life cycle affected by operations, by level of – Steelcase considers the impact of its products and processes extinction risk on human and environmental health. The company’s product development process is based on three foundational platforms for sustainable design: materials chemistry, life cycle assessment and end of use. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 2931 (Innovative Products and Applications) for more information. Total direct and indirect greenhouse Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 32-33 (Energy EN16 gas emissions by weight Use and Efficiency and Renewable Energy) for more information. Other relevant indirect greenhouse Steelcase follows protocols and reported its GHG emissions EN17 gas emissions by weight through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The CDP approach uses World Resources Institute protocols. Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 11 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 32-33 (Energy Use and EN18 emissions and reductions achieved Efficiency and Renewable Energy) Emissions of ozone-depleting Nearly 20 years ago, Steelcase phased out all ozone depleting EN19 substances by weight substances in the manufacture of its products. NOx, SOx, and other significant air These emissions are included in the measurements we track EN20 emissions by type and weight for Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. Steelcase reports all measurements in CO2 equivalents. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 32-33 (Energy Use and Efficiency) for more information. Total water discharge by quality and Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 35 EN21 destination (Water Conservation) for more information. Total weight of waste by type and Steelcase tracks and reports according to the following categories: EN22 disposal method landfill, incineration, compost and recycle. For waste reduction initiatives, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 36 (Waste Reduction). For how we help our customers with end-of-use strategies, see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 12 (End of Use Strategies). TYPE DISPOSAL METHOD 2014 TONS Composting Composted 99.48 Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste 88.58 Disposal Facility Incineration/ Incinerated 4,392.70 Cogeneration Coal Ash Landfilled 29.50 Enamel Cake Waste Landfilled 120.32 Landfill Waste Landfilled 3,678.61 Non-Steel Materials Recycled 4,185.78 Total number and volume of There were no significant spills during the reporting period. EN23 significant spills Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 12 Weight of transported, imported, Lean manufacturing processes, powder coat finishing operations EN24 exported, or treated waste deemed and improved steel utilization and recycling have contributed to the hazardous under the terms of the significant reduction of hazardous waste and the reduction of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and amount of waste sent to landfills. The majority of hazardous waste VIII, and percentage of transported is sent to local treatment facilities, exceptions being where legal waste shipped internationally standards require export. For waste reduction initiatives, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 36 (Waste Reduction). For how we help our customers with end-of-use strategies, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 12 (End of Use Strategies). TYPE DISPOSAL METHOD 2014 TONS Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste 88.58 Disposal Facility Identity, size, protected status, and None. EN25 biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Initiatives to mitigate environmental Steelcase’s approach to embedding sustainability into its business EN26 impacts of products and services, systems is holistic, research-based and measurable. Every step of and extent of impact mitigation the way – from design, manufacture, delivery and product life cycle – Steelcase considers the impact of its products and processes on human and environmental health. The company’s product development process is based on three foundational platforms for sustainable design: materials chemistry, life cycle assessment and end of use. For our operational initiatives and progress, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 29-31 (Innovative Products and Applications). Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 13 Percentage of products sold and Designing products for disassembly and recyclability is an EN27 their packaging materials that are embedded approach in Steelcase’s product development process. reclaimed by category It ensures that Steelcase products, packaging and components can be recycled or repurposed at the end of useful life. To explore our sustainability product design platforms, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 29-31 (Innovative Products and Applications). Steelcase offers a convenient way for businesses to responsibly dispose of furniture and equipment. With options ranging from refurbishing and resale, to donation or recycling, Steelcase has helped extend the useful life of thousands of furniture products and millions of tons of raw materials, dramatically reducing the amount of product waste dumped into landfills. For details on how we help our customers with end-of-use strategies, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 12 (End of Use Strategies). Steelcase has a comprehensive packaging strategy that focuses on a number of different tactics to reduce, reuse and recycle packaging. We begin by seeking to eliminate or minimize packaging wherever possible. We utilize tools such as blanket wrap and palletizing to minimize the amount required. Next, we look at the types of packaging that are used, seeking materials that contain recycled content and are recyclable. Where packaging is used, we partner with our independent local dealers to assist our customers in recycling packaging materials. Some materials such as blanket wraps are returned to us. Other materials are recycled in local markets. For packaging initiatives, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 34 (Transportation and Packaging). At present, Steelcase does not have a global system that can track the total percentage of products or packaging that have been reclaimed. Monetary value of significant fines It is a Steelcase Inc. policy to work in full cooperation with the EN28 and total number of non-monetary agencies that regulate our business to ensure that it is compliant sanctions for non-compliance with with applicable laws and regulations. As part of this full cooperation, environmental laws and regulations Steelcase is routinely inspected by various regulatory agencies, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and agencies in other countries where we have operations. To support compliance efforts, Steelcase has dedicated internal compliance personnel who regularly conduct internal environmental reviews of operations as they relate to specific codes and regulations. Should internal reviews identify an item that is a compliance concern, it is Steelcase policy to voluntarily report that concern to the appropriate agency and then work cooperatively with that agency to resolve the matter. Occasionally, this voluntary proactive approach may actually trigger a notice of violation due to the way in which government regulations are structured. Public filings identify any situations that meet reporting thresholds required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Recent filings with the SEC are available on the Investor Relations section of the Steelcase web site. Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 14 Significant environmental impacts Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 34, 29-31 EN29 of transporting products and (Transportation and Packaging and Innovative Products and other goods and materials used Applications). Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) resulting from for the organization’s operations, transportation of products and materials are included in the Carbon and transporting members of the Disclosure Project (CDP) filing. We continue to work on expanding workforce to include Scope 3 contract carrier product transportation impacts. Total environmental protection Steelcase’s business strategy is to systematically embed EN30 expenditures and investments by sustainable decision making and investments into all business type systems. These investments are integrated into the operations of the company and therefore cannot be reported by line item. Human Rights Percentage and total number of Our core values are reflected in our Global Business Standards, HR1 significant investment agreements which embody the fundamental principles that govern our ethical and contracts that include clauses and legal obligations as we do business around the world. incorporating human rights Steelcase agreements and contracts require adherence to all concerns, or that have undergone applicable laws. In keeping with our core values, Steelcase human rights screening supports fundamental principles of human rights set forth in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related international covenants in every aspect of our business, each region of the world in which we operate, relationships with our employees, clients and suppliers, and communities where our employees live and work. In 2013, Steelcase globally launched the Steelcase Supplier Code of Conduct. In FY2015, we implemented 165 contracts with suppliers that require compliance to the Steelcase Supplier Code of Conduct. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 16 (Suppliers) and our Supplier Resources page for details on human rights policies and practices in our supply chain. Percentage of significant suppliers, In FY15, we continued implementing our supplier qualification HR2 contractors and other business process which included 518 supplier questionnaires, 29 onsite partners that have undergone supplier assessments and 165 contracts requiring compliance with human rights screening, and the Steelcase Supplier Code of Conduct. We also translated the actions taken documents into Spanish, French, and German to support better understanding by our supplier partners. Total hours of employee training on Globally, employees are required to take policy and compliance HR3 policies and procedures concerning training regarding our Global Business Standards. As of 2014, aspects of human rights that are eighty (87) percent of all employees globally have received this relevant to operations, including the training, for a total of approximately 7980 employee hours in 2014. percentage of employees trained New employees receive this training as a part of the onboarding process. Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 15 Total number of incidents of Per the Steelcase Global Business Standards, any reports of HR4 discrimination and corrective discrimination are investigated within 48 hours of the complaint. The actions undertaken Steelcase Integrity Line enables employees to make anonymous reports. As such, Steelcase does not disclose this information. Operations and significant suppliers See HR1. At Steelcase, acting with integrity is a key principle that HR5 identified in which the right to has guided our individual and corporate business thinking, decisions exercise freedom of association and behavior for over 100 years. It is a legacy handed down from and collective bargaining may be the founders of our company and remains the cornerstone of our violated or at significant risk, and business philosophy today. As outlined in our Global Business actions taken to support these Standards and supplier relations document, Steelcase does rights not tolerate the use of child labor, forced labor or discriminatory practices within its operations or within the operations of affiliated partners. We comply with applicable laws and industry standards on working hours. We respect the right of individuals to form and join trade unions and to bargain collectively. Please see our Supplier Diversity page and our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 23 (Diversity+ Inclusion) for more information. Operations and significant suppliers See HR5 HR6 identified as having significant risks for incidents of child labor and measures taken to contribute to the effective elimination of child labor Operations and significant suppliers See HR5 HR7 identified as having significant risks for incidents of forced labor and measures taken to contribute to the effective elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Percentage of security personnel One hundred (100) percent of our global security personnel are HR8 trained in the organization’s policies trained in Steelcase’s human rights policies and procedures. or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Total number of incidents of There are no known incidents involving the rights of indigenous HR9 violations involving rights of people. indigenous people and actions taken Percentage and total number of To date, we have not been subject to any human rights reviews HR10 operations that have been subject or conducted any impact assessments. See HR1. to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 16 Number of grievances related to Steelcase provides a variety of mechanisms designed to aid HR11 human rights filed, addressed and employees in voicing concerns or receiving assistance with sensitive resolved through formal grievance issues in the workplace. They can consult/connect with: mechanisms • Leader, if appropriate • Designated Human Resources Business Partner • Global Business Standards (GBS) Integrity Line (see below) – confidential service that allows employees to ask questions, raise concerns or clarify issues Anonymity is crucial to the success of this process; therefore, we do not report on these issues. Labor Practices & Decent Work Total workforce by employment The global total employee headcount as of LA1 type, employment contract, and August of 2015 is approximately 10,300. region, broken down by gender Gender percentages globally: • Male: 68% • Female: 32% Total number and rate of new Total new hires worldwide: approx. 2300 LA2 employee hires and employee Approximate attrition rates by region: turnover by age group, gender, and • Americas: 17% region • Asia Pacific: 26% • EMEA: 22% Approximate attrition by Gender: • Male: 21% • Female: 16% Approximate attrition by generation: • Silents: 28% • Boomers: 12% • Gen X: 15% • Gen Y: 33% Benefits provided to full time Full-time employees working in Steelcase locations in the United LA3 employees that are not provided to States, Mexico and Latin America, Germany, France, Belgium temporary or part time employees, and China have full benefit access to medical, prescription drugs, by significant locations of dental, vision, shortand long-term disability, employee basic operations and supplemental life insurance, spouse and child life insurance, employee accidental death & dismemberment (AD&D), spouse and child AD&D, flexible spending accounts for healthcare and dependent day care, education assistance, adoption assistance, employee assistance program, employee discounts and a 401(k) retirement plan. These benefits are also available to parttime employees in these locations, with the exception of China. Temporary employees in Germany and France also have access to these benefits, while the remaining locations have benefits based on the individual temp agency overseeing those employees Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 17 Percentage of employees covered Americas: LA4 by collective bargaining agreements • Steelcase Manufacturing: 0.5% • PolyVision: 60% • Designtex: 32% France, Germany, and Spain: 100% Mexico: 80% union Minimum notice period(s) regarding Minimum notice periods are as follows: In the United States, France LA5 operational changes, including and Germany – 60 days. In Belgium, the minimum notice period for whether it is specified in collective white-collar workers is 90 days for every starting period of five years agreements of service. For blue-collar workers, notice is based on the amount of time with the company, starting with 42 days for those serving under five years and up to 196 days for those with the company 25 years or longer. In China and Malaysia, the minimum notice period is 60 days. Percentage of total workforce Nearly 15 percent of our total workforce worldwide is represented LA6 represented in formal joint in formal joint management-worker health, safety and wellness management-worker H&S committees. These committees help monitor and advise on committees that help monitor occupational health and safety programs. and advise on occupational H&S programs Rates of injury, occupational Rates of occupational diseases and injuries by region are as follows: LA7 diseases, lost days, and • Americas: 3.01 absenteeism, and number of work • Europe, Middle East & Africa: 3.20 related fatalities by region and by • Asia Pacific: 0.44 gender Lost time days by region are as follows: • Americas: 0.49 • Europe, Middle East & Africa: 0.77 • Asia Pacific: 0.10 There were no work-related fatalities reported during the recording period. Steelcase does not track this information separately by gender. Education, training counseling, Each Steelcase employee in the United States has the ability LA8 prevention, and risk-control and is encouraged to visit a dedicated website for information on programs in place to assist disease prevention, counseling, education and training. In all other workforce members, their families countries where Steelcase is located, employees have access to or community members regarding this information through government programs. serious diseases Average hours of training per year Not Reported. LA10 per employee by gender, and by employee category Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 18 Programs for skills management The Steelcase University offers a variety of training and development LA11 and lifelong learning that support courses and programs on campus and online. It enables employees the continued employability of around the world to take them and track progress for their employees and assist them in personal and professional development. We also provide a Career managing career ending Development tutorial to guide employees through the process of identifying their career ambitions, strengths, and networks and develop action plans to achieve their goals. Additionally, the University also offers a retirement program to help employees think through their transition, financial planning and tools. U.S.-based employees have access to a phased retirement program. For those who exited the company due to position elimination and plant closings, we offer services from a professional outplacement company, including career counseling, tools and techniques for job searching and courses to update skill sets. Furthermore, we support the French requirement to provide learning for employability outside Steelcase. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 26 (Training and Development) for more information. Percentage of employees receiving Steelcase believes that successful implementation of our corporate LA12 regular performance and career strategies requires alignment between our corporate goals and the development reviews, by gender performance goals of individual departments and employees. This shared and focused direction enables each of our individual and team efforts to truly impact our organizational success. Steelcase uses a process tool called MAPP – Measurable Annual Performance Plan. The MAPP is a one-year performance plan linked to our annual corporate goals. It addresses three key areas of performance management: • Goal alignment • Performance measurement • Ongoing feedback and coaching Employees at Steelcase are encouraged to establish a general career direction and a plan for their next Steelcase job or role. The company’s career development process is one about self-discovery, direction setting and decision making. Hourly employees are evaluated using supervisor notes and the Steelcase Employee Performance System (SEPS) as the feedback tools for performance. Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 19 Composition of governance bodies Total average age of all employees: LA13 and breakdown of employees per • Global: 42 employee category according to • Americas: 42 gender, age group, minority group • Asia: 35 membership and other indicators of • EMEA: 42 diversity Total gender breakdown globally: • Male: 68% • Female: 32% Estimated U.S. minority breakdown: • Salaried: 11% • Hourly: 32% • All U.S.: 21% Ratio of basic salary and Steelcase routinely assesses discrepancies in compensation with LA14 remuneration of women to men by the intent of meeting both legal requirements and corporate values employee category, by significant regarding equal pay. location of operation Return to work and retention rates We strive to help our employees achieve a work/life balance. Please LA15 after parental leave, by gender see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 24 (Employee Wellbeing) for more information. Product Responsibility Life cycle stages in which health Steelcase conducts material assessments and life cycle PR1 and safety impacts of products assessments on key products to understand the impact of our and services are assessed for products over their entire life cycles – material extraction and improvement, and percentage of selection, production, transport, use and end of use or next life. significant products and services We use that information to inform the development of new categories subject to such products. Information is published in Product Environmental Profiles procedures for North America, and by request in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions. Environmental Product Declarations are available by request for products that have gone through a life cycle assessment and third-party review process. For more information, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 29-31 (Innovative Products and Applications). Type of product and service Not reported. PR3 information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 20 Total number of incidents of No significant incidents. PR4 non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer In the Americas and EMEA regions, we survey our customers PR5 satisfaction, including results of regarding their satisfaction in a variety of areas from our products surveys measuring customer and our representatives capabilities to our performance as a satisfaction company. In the Americas, our dealers assisted in our new Customer Experience Measurement (CEM) system, which allows our customers to provide feedback on how we’re doing. This system enables clients to provide feedback on various aspects of products and services provided by Steelcase and our dealer network through an online survey. Results are shared with management and key employees both at Steelcase and within the dealer organizations. For 2013, customers provided an average overall satisfaction score of 8.5 out of 10 for Steelcase and dealers combined. Customers were about equally satisfied with Steelcase (8.7) and dealers (8.6) In our EMEA region, various customers throughout the region are surveyed for their satisfaction in a number of areas, such as our portfolio offerings, our representatives and the company’s ability to offer workplace solutions. Solution Fulfillment Team reach out the EMEA dealer network on a yearly basis with a Voice Satisfaction Survey. In 2014, the results for those markets are as follows (3.0 = Meets Expectations, and 4.0 = Above Expectations): • United Kingdom: 3.7 • France: 4.1 • Rest of International: 3.8 • DACH (Germany, Austria and German speaking Switzerland): 3.8 Learning from these surveys not only helps us improve our performance but also allows us to better understand the needs of our customers as we want to ensure our dealers and customers are not just “served” but are truly satisfied. Programs for adherence to Steelcase communications are prepared in consultation with PR6 laws, standards, and voluntary environmental technical and regulatory specialists knowledgeable of codes related to marketing the Federal Trade Commission, Environmental Protection Agency, communications, including and other global regulatory standards, accepted practices and advertising, promotion, and requirements for such communications. Communications are sponsorship. submitted to the Steelcase legal department where they undergo an additional review to ensure technical accuracy and conformance with regulatory standards and guidelines. Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 21 Total number of incidents of None. PR7 non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated None. PR8 complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Monetary value of significant fines No significant incidents. PR9 for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Society Percentage of operations with Steelcase and the Steelcase Foundation (independent) utilize a SO1 implemented local community process to assess the priority and value of gifts provided. The engagement, impact assessments, Steelcase Foundation offers funding for human services, health, and development programs education, community development and arts and education. The foundation provides assistance to a broad array of organizations. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 20 (Social Investment) for more information. Percentage and total number of All business units are regularly analyzed by the Internal Audit SO2 business units analyzed for risks Department. related to corruption Percentage of employees trained Globally, all salaried and hourly employees are required to take SO3 in organization’s anti-corruption policy and compliance training regarding our Global Business policies and procedures Standards. We have updated the GBS course materials and plan to roll out training by the 4th quarter of FY2015. In addition, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act training is required for sales and other employees where applicable. Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 22 Actions taken in response to There were no significant incidents of corruption during the SO4 incidents of corruption reporting period. Please see Code of Business Conduct for practices and policies on the issues of: • Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations (Including Insider Trading Laws) • Conflicts of Interest • Financial Reporting and Controls, Records Management and Communication • Protection and Proper Use of Company Assets • Confidential Information • Competition and Fair Dealing • Payments to Government Personnel • Corporate Opportunities • Reporting Illegal or Unethical Behavior • Waivers of the Code of Business Conduct • Compliance Procedures Public policy positions and Steelcase actively lobbies for public policy issues that impact SO5 participation in public policy Steelcase at local, state and federal levels in the United States. development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind None. Steelcase Inc. does not make financial or in-kind SO6 contributions to political parties, contributions to support political parties. politicians, and related institutions by country Total number of legal actions for Annual report p. 10 SO7 anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines Annual Report p. 10 SO8 and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Operations with significant potential We deeply value the communities in which we work, live and serve, SO9 or actual negative impacts on local and continue to identify opportunities to improve the fitness of our communities business and strengthen our long-term competitiveness. Steelcase transferred a factory in France to a third party that will use the facility for its own products. We also began the process of closing one of our German plants, and we opened a new greenfield factory in the Czech Republic. . Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 20 (Social Investment) for ways we are working to positively impact our communities. Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 23 Prevention and mitigation measures See SO9. Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 20 S10 implemented in operations with (Social Investment). significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Other KPIs Percentage of ethnic minorities in 18% ethnic minorities O1 the US staff Total Recordable Injury Frequency Total Recordable Frequencies: O2 Rate • Americas: 3.01 • Europe, Middle East & Africa: 3.20 • Asia Pacific: 0.44 Lost-time injury frequency rate Lost time rates by region are as follows: O3 (LTIFR) • Americas: 0.49 • Europe, Middle East & Africa: 0.77 • Asia Pacific: 0.10 Number of fatal accidents There have been no fatalties in the reporting period. O4 Employee satisfaction rating Steelcase conducted an employee survey with its global workforce O5 in March 2012. Over 7,000 employees participated, representing approximately 72% of our global employees. Based on the insights from this survey, Steelcase formed a group to focus on evolving our culture. An extended global team of employees representing various departments participated in workshops designed to tap into what was working in our existing culture, and where we had opportunities to improve. Prototypes were created to enable employees to experiment with new behaviors. The group is engaged in similar activities with leaders across the organization who are interested in transforming their teams. In addition to these grassroots efforts, the group is working to identify opportunities and make necessary changes at the organizational level. Total giving Steelcase Inc: $1.3M O6 Steelcase Foundation: $3.2M Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 20 (Social Investments) Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 24 Global amount of donated hours of In FY2015, Steelcase employees reported 12,810 hours of O7 volunteer service volunteer service – a 75% increase from the prior year. List of countries taking part in • Belgium O8 volunteer service • Brazil • Canada • France • Germany (Durlangen, Rosenheim) • Hong Kong • Latin America & Caribbean • Malaysia (Kuala Lumpur) • Mexico (Monterrey. Tijuana, Reynosa and Mexico City) • Romania (Cluj) • Singapore • Spain • United Kingdom (London) • United States Steelcase Corporate Sustainabililty Report 2015 25
