PROGRESS OF UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES OCTOBER 2016 CONTENTS P3 MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR P4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT P5 HUMAN RIGHTS P7 LABOUR STANDARDS P9 ENVIRONMENT P12 ANTICORRUPTION 2CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR On November 15th 2012, Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services became a member of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and committed to integrating the principles of the UNGC within the business’ strategy and day to day operations. We are pleased to confirm our continued support for the Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and also focused in Sustainable Development Goals defined in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Our mission and our values will help us achieve our goals aiming to reconcile economic growth with environmental and social responsibility. This document, our third annual Communication on Progress, describes Intercruises efforts to achieve this. Intercruises is making a clear statement of this commitment with stakeholders and the general public using our primary channels of communication. During this year, Intercruises has successfully maintained the certification of the Quality Management System (ISO 9001:2008) for Barcelona Operations and Passenger Service operated in Palma de Mallorca and the Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2004) for Head Office. Besides, following the principles of continual improvement Intercruises has received official partner status from Travelife, an organisation dedicated to promoting sustainable practices within the travel and tourism industry. Travelife Partner status was achieved following Intercruises involvement in the Travelife Sustainability System for Tour Operators & Travel Agencies, which certified twelve offices, providing services in 69 destinations, as being committed to sustainability, with consistent sustainable business practices. As part of our key initiatives, during this year Intercruises has strengthened its commitment towards Sustainability Strategy and all projects related to that. We will continue to work towards furthering our commitment to the Global Compact principles and Sustainable Development Goals by reviewing our progress and challenging ourselves to constantly improve. Intercruises is proud to be a member of the UNGC and we look forward to developing our business in line with the UNGC principles. Yours sincerely, Olga Piqueras Managing Director Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services 3MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN LABOUR ANTIRIGHTS STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT CORRUPTION The third Intercruises Communication on Progress will focus on the achievements in the four areas of the Global Compact Principles and their relation with the Sustainable Development Goals defined in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 4UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN PRINCIPLE Business should support and respect the protection of 1 internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE RIGHTS Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2 Intercruises aligns its strategy with UN Sustainable Development 12,2 million children worldwide included in their educational Goals, respecting human rights in the communities where we programs. operate and supporting NGO´s worldwide. Intercruises´ engagement with NGO´s in different types of collaboration, from philanthropy to partnership, gives us the opportunity to invest in global Sustainable Development Goals using their expertise to create social change in a most effective way. 2,6 million children worldwide involved in physical, sexual and emotional violence helped. 1,17 million children helped directly because of their push to government for the children rights. On behalf of our employees Intercruises has made some financial and in-kind donations during FY 15/16: Kaibigan Foundation, an organisation committed to supporting and providing opportunities for urban poor children at-risk and their parents in Manila. We integrate sustainability into our business strategy, we try to Wounded Warrior Project, a support group that provides minimize continuously our impact to ensure prosperity for all holistic & economic empowerment support to veterans and and we use sectorial network to minimize tourism impact in service members who’ve incurred physical or mental injuries communities where we operate. during duty. Intercruises´ commitment to treat people in a way that respects St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, a group that are their human rights by operating responsibly and sustainably committed to advancing cures, and means of prevention, worldwide. Intercruises is committed providing human, infor pediatric catastrophic diseases through research and kind and/or financial support to the local communities treatment. where we are present, optimizing our social and economic impacts with the support of our human team and our network Platypus Swimming Club for the Handicapped, an of partners. The aim is to generate prosperity and sustainable organisation that provides people with disabilities private & development in the communities where we are present. safe place to swim. Brazilian Lymphoma and Leukaemia Society (ABRALE), a group that are committed to achieving excellence and a better quality of life for suffers of Leukaemia in Brazil. Quatre Bornes orphanage and Caritas for the homeless, Mauritius, support investment in social development and Intercruises has continued its partnership with Save the Children endeavour to help the neighbourhood, where our firm is that started in 2011. Save the Children invests in childhood located. worldwide, providing a healthy start, the opportunity to learn and protection from harm. Banc dels Aliments warehouse: members from Intercruises in Barcelona helped this organisation by categorising and With our support Save the Children has helped more than 62 packing the donated food, which was then sent to families million children in 120 countries in 2015: nationwide. 5,7 million children affected by 99 emergencies, like natural Soñar Despierto Foundation: in the traditional St. Jordi´s disasters, illnesses and war, in 59 countries. day the girls from Intercruises Barcelona received a rose. The 8,4 million sanitary interventions, including vaccines, proceeds gathered from the flowers went to a charity that malaria, pneumonia and diarrhea treatments in 36 countries. supports children and the young people of today. 5HUMAN RIGHTS Intercruises is an active member of CLIA (Cruise Lines International Association) and MedCruise. CLIA is the world’s largest cruise industry trade association, providing a unified voice and leading authority of the global cruise community that supports policies and practices to foster a safe, secure, healthy and sustainable cruise ship environment and is dedicated to promote the cruise travel experience. MedCruise is the Association of Mediterranean Cruise Ports. We use their marketing, networking and professional development tools and forums to promote sustainable tourism in the Mediterranean Area. Recently, in the 48th MedCruise General Assembly in Odessa, Ukraine, Mark Robinson, Chairman Intercruises, was invited to present on a panel entitled “Associate Members Perspectives”, where Mark delivered a talk on the benefits of being members of the MedCruise Association and how association could be enhanced, as well as the emerging trends in the region, like sustainable tours. Intercruises, as part of Hotelbeds Group professes its regards and observance of human rights and we endeavour to engage our stakeholders on issues around responsible practices in order to promote justice and equity across our global community chain and protect vulnerable societies. Suppliers are expected to uphold our principles by adopting accessible clear policies and procedures to respect human rights and child protection. We have included a sustainability Campaign to promote using seat belts among students: Our clause in our contracts to assure its commitment. target are 7-11 year old children. We will go to different schools in Bulgaria to present and lead the campaign as Intercruises controls and monitors sustainability issues through part of a common project between several companies from various internal and external processes aimed at ensuring different industries, as well as non-government organisations. the validity and reliability of our sustainability management practices and reporting. Regular controlling and monitoring We have the following excursions/visits where we support gives us valuable information on the results of our sustainability social and cultural development: work and is therefore an important element in our continuous City of Second Chances – Barcelona: Intercruises has won efforts to develop our reporting and in building a more Innovative Shorex of the Year Award at this year’s Seatrade sustainable world. Cruise Med conference in Tenerife with this tour. A city tour with Lloyds and Molins de Q: ISO 9001 and 14001 certification. a twist… all the guides were previously homeless. This fantastic Travelife: we obtained 12 partner certifications. tour helps transform a negative social issue into a positive, by hiring those in need and giving them the training needed to start As well as all those actions, with this report we support a new life. The enterprise tries to offset the growing homeless the United Nations Global Compact. Our daily business is problem with the boom in tourism in the city. based on the ten principles of the global compact. Save la Geria – Lanzarote: This new information center will The fulfilment of the commitments arising from all those provide details of the agricultural, ethnographic and volcanic codes and principles allow us to create shared value with values of this protected natural area. The project employs our stakeholders and act together towards the society in people with disabilities to help recover the abandoned land which we operate. in this region of Lanzarote. iKamva Labantu in Phillip – South Africa: A project that uplifts, educates and empowers the local Community, one of the most impoverished communities in the outer lying area of Cape Town. Volunteer at the Maryland Food Bank – Baltimore: Guests will collaborate for a few hours with Maryland Food Bank and make a donation. This is a nonprofit hunger relief organisation leading the movement to end hunger throughout Maryland. Recognising the importance of sector-wide collaboration, 6HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR PRINCIPLE Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 4 STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 6 occupation. the Company offers a voluntary private health insurance, financing part of the cost for permanent employees. Intercruises has a liability insurance for all employees in line with national and international laws. Our people are often located in underdeveloped regions, Based on national law, employees have the right to and Intercruises promotes opportunities for women and a fixed yearly paid holiday, which is in compliance with men to obtain decent and productive work, in conditions legal requirements. It is also possible to have additional of freedom, equity, security and dignity. That is in line with holidays to the statutory paid leave per annum through SDOs to achieve equitable and sustainable growth for all. salary reductions where operationally possible. The company is in line with the labour principles and the Employees are entitled to receive full payment of the salary national and international regulations. during their sick leave. Intercruises acknowledges the right to collective bargaining As well as the salary, depending on the country, there and freedom of association, trade union membership, are additional benefits such as discounts or other offers on collective labour negotiation and representation of specific products or services. members by trade unions is not hindered at Intercruises. The unionization is free. Worker’s representatives can be Intercruises, as part of Hotelbeds Group, has a health company’s employees joined to a union or a group of and safety policy to provide and maintain arrangements to independent employees. ensure an effective risks control system and prevent harm to people. Intercruises participates in and is in compliance with the sector collective labour condition negation structure that Intercruises is committed to open lines of communication applies in each country, depending on national law for the with employees, to transparency and high ethical standards. Travel Agencies sector. Intercruises offers equal resources and opportunities for Intercruises fights against all forms of forced labour and personal development through regular training, workshops pays special attention to protecting groups like children that and education. are particularly vulnerable. The Performance Management Template helps employees All employees have a job offer and a written and fair and managers set yearly objectives and define how those employment contract, including labour conditions and will be achieved, reviewing them regularly. Depending description of duties and responsibilities. Subject to a on the financial and personal objective results measured, notice period all employees are free to enter and leave permanent employees are entitled to retribution per their employment when they choose without penalty. objectives. Travel agency employees are graded according to Intercruises does not permit children labour, people professional levels, based on the criteria of responsibility under 18 are only employed in accordance with national and range of skills, with specific minimum wages, higher regulations and the UN convention on the Rights of the than the ones stablished by the government of each Child, ensuring that International Labour Organisation destination. conventions are fulfilled and we also forced our supplies to follow that measures with our contracts (sustainability Due to the nature of the job, Intercruises employees may clause). work sometimes more time than contracted. This overtime is given back as lieu. We pay particular attention to protecting children from sexual exploitation in travel and tourism and to strengthening Depending on national law, employees are covered by responsible activities to contribute to the eradication of the the National Social Security. Also in some destinations commercial sexual exploitation of children and adolescents. 7LABOUR STANDARDS Intercruises is committed to the Hotelbeds group Child treatment and opportunities between women and men Protection Policy, where we state our commitment to within the company, Intercruises ensures a work-life balance condemn the exploitation of children, a fundamental abuse with some measures for the reconciliation between work, of child’s human rights. We are committed to maintaining private and family life: high standards of professional conduct. The company offers schemes for pregnancy, maternity and Hotelbeds Group have signed up the Code of Conduct paternity leave for all employees depending on National for the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation in laws. Travel and Tourism (The Code www.thecode.org) and will implement an Action Plan accordingly to protect children The company supports flexible working times or part time at local levels. We also include that obligation in our employment, for example, to support family obligations as sustainable clause for suppliers. well as to go on leave. Intercruises, as part of Hotelbeds Group, professes its It is possible to request additional holidays to the statutory regards and observance of human rights, respecting the paid leave per annum through salary sacrifice where personal dignity, the private sphere and the personal rights operationally possible. of each individual. Intercruises does not tolerate any kind of discrimination on the basis of nationality, gender, race, skin, colour, disability, origin, religion, ideology, age or sexuality, neither tolerates child labour and degrading working conditions. As a global enterprise, Intercruises aims to have as diverse and international work force as possible. Different nationalities are already represented in the top management. We are keen to keep encouraging this diversity at other management levels, too. Employees are evaluated on their individual attributes, skills and capabilities, rather than on stereotypes, prejudice or assumptions. Intercruises as an employer has the primary obligation to make sure the workplace is free from discrimination and harassment, human rights are respected and provide equal opportunities. Depending on the country, there are different reporting procedures in place to address any kind of discrimination cases, whether contacting management or using other ways of communication. If any discrimination case arises that cannot be solved with an immediate line management or a Human Resources representative, employees are able to report any concern without revealing them to the people they work with to compliance professionals that will assess any reports and investigate them if necessary. At the same time, apart from supporting employees, we endeavour to engage our stakeholders on issues around responsible practices in order to promote justice and equity across our global community chain and protect vulnerable societies. According to law, the office buildings and other premises of Intercruises provide, where technically and financially viable, access for people with special needs. Due to the labour type, employment of people with special needs is not always feasible possible. Following the commitment expressed by the management to guarantee the efficiency of the principle of equality of 8LABOUR STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 7 environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 8 responsibility; and PRINCIPLE Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 9 friendly technologies. Since we have started to work under an Environmental Ukraine, Mark Robinson, Chairman Intercruises, spoke Management System, we have defined more ambitious about “Sustainable Destination Development”. As the objectives year by year to reduce our environmental Med welcomes an increasing number and size of vessels, footprint. Our collaboration with NGOs, gives us the how do we ensure that destinations grow in a sustainable opportunity to reach more regions and projects to protect way and that the environment and local community is not our Planet. adversely affected? Intercruises focuses on monitoring the negative impact of Cruise Canada New England Symposium 2016. We our activity and taking actions to reduce our environmental offer responsible gifts to our clients. The symbolic adoption footprint. In order to do that we promote awareness about supports WWF’s global efforts to protect wild animals and sustainability among our stakeholders. their habitats. China Workshop, Errol Chicano, Regional Product Manager Asia, explained Intercruises sustainability initiatives for the next fiscal year. With the participation and collaboration of Intercruises employees, we made monetary donations and in-kind contribution initiatives: World Wildlife Fund (WWF), an organisation committed to halting the degradation of the planet’s natural environment We apply different actions in order to raise awareness on and building a future in which humans live in harmony with sustainability topics of Intercruises employees worldwide. nature. We encourage our people to save water, energy and paper and to reuse and recycle waste using some posters. APAN, a group dedicated to protecting animals Regular sustainability updates are made on an internal from neglect and mistreatment. blogs, The Interjournal and The Beat, available to all Intercruises employees. These are the communications Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals published in FY 15/16: (RSPCA), a charity operating in England and Wales that promotes animal welfare. Interquiz: test your knowledge of the company and be in with a chance to win a donation to your favourite charity. CSR Teambuilding Program in Malaysia – SWIM with Us! Where we collaborated to do Coral Transplanting @ The Cardboard stands Andaman. Volunteer activities and donations (St Jordi, etc.) Season Greeting e-cards Certifications (ISO, Travelife) Sustainability events (Earth Hour, WED 2016) Global Compact report Tips to be eco-friendly CLIA Sustainability report We also involve our stakeholders in internal and external workshops: During the 48th MedCruise General Assembly in Odessa, 9ENVIRONMENT A sustainable excursion can have a positive impact on the Completely Recyclable – Can be recycled up to 7 times natural environment and local communities, offer customers unique and memorable holiday experiences and protect Buying recycled furniture for the Barcelona office terrace. the resources for the future. There are some examples of More than half of the brochures are printed in the offices, sustainable excursions in our portfolio: and therefore, are printed in 100% recycled paper. Orang-utan Sanctuary – Penang: Take a short boat ride Business cards are printed on FSC paper, calendars are to the island, learn about the rehabilitation & conservation printed in FSC material. work performed at the sanctuary. Electronic Equipment: Energy Star technology (in Ecotour Volcanoes of Tenerife: Take a walk in the National monitors, computers, laptops, printers and multi-function Park and contribute to preserve the place planting a tree. printers), mouse with wire instead of batteries, solar calculators, rechargeable batteries, sustainable notebooks We encourage our suppliers to be more sustainable and such as ‘Paper by Nature’ certified notebooks, recyclable environmental responsible using the Sustainability clause in or refillable toners if available for the printer and at the our contracts. destination. Intercruises controls and monitors its environmental Cleaning products: we ask our supplier to substitute performance through various internal and external the hazardous ones for others that are respectful with processes aimed at ensuring the accuracy of our data and environment. validity of our reporting. In order to measure the improvements effectiveness of our Environmental Management System, each year we set environmental objectives and key performance targets. During this year 2016, Intercruises has successfully maintained certification of the ISO 14001:2004 for its Environmental Management System in the office in Barcelona without any non-conformity. Travelife verified our sustainability commitment and consistent sustainable business practices in a variety of areas, including Legal Compliance, Environment & community relations, Transportation, Excursions and Destinations. Intercruises has reached the Travelife Partner full compliance status with 12 offices worldwide, 69 ports in 9 countries, on June 1st 2016. Across Hotelbeds Group we are committed to purchasing sustainable products and we have embedded sustainability principles in the Global Procurement Policy. The inspiration came from Intercruises’ core value to “implement and promote the use of sustainable ways of working.” Whenever possible, feasible and economically viable we choose sustainable office supplies. Some examples of our sustainable purchase are: Cardboard Stand uses in Seatrade events: 5 times less CO2 – When compared to traditional stand building materials 10ENVIRONMENT OBJETIVES FY 2014-2015: Some sustainability actions have been taken this year. Those different actions have resulted in CO2 emissions reduction We achieved all objectives and goals set for the 14/15 and other benefits. They can be resumed as below. fiscal year. Save paper and support Save the Children by sending 1. To use 100% rechargeable batteries across Intercruises an Intercruises Season’s Greetings E-Card. Instead of Head Office printing some Season´s Cards we prefer to do it by e-mail, our Marketing Area designed different cards to send to our 2. To reuse a 100% of the envelopes in Intercruises Head client contacts. Office 3. To maintain paper consumption at a rate of 9 reams of paper per employee in Barcelona office 4. To reduce 2% the energy consumption in Barcelona office Indicator FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Energy con731,05 KwH/ 606,13 KwH/ 777, 6 sumption per person person KwH/person employee (-5,99%) (-17,09%) An internal e-learning platform, Mindflash, has been Reams of developed to create unlimited courses with PowerPoint, paper con11 reams / 9 reams/person 5 reams/person Video, Word, PDF and SCORM, reducing at the same sumption per person time our paper consumptions. employee We constantly measure Intercruises environmental The decrease of electricity consumption per employee from performance in the Head office in order to be able to FY13-14 to FY14-15 has clearly exceed the goal set. implement measures and objectives of reduction. This Fiscal Year a new template with new KPIs has been put The purchase of reams of paper from FY13-14 to FY14in place, “Follow-up environmental performance” which 15 has been reduced incredibly. The significant reduction periodically measures and monitors: is related to the different actions that were carried such as paper consumption procedures to reduce the negative Waste: paper, confidential paper, plastic, bottle caps, impact of printing. lamps, E-waste, toner, batteries, large waste, general waste, sanitary bins, glass, writing instruments and CDs. OBJETIVES FY 2015 – 2016: Consumptions: electricity, water, HVACR (air conditioning / 1. Implement measures to reduce paper consumption at a heating), printed paper and purchased paper, batteries and toner. rate of > 5 reams of paper per employee -Emissions: business travel. 2. Awareness campaign to reach a Paperless office We have registered our half term environmental performance 3. Follow-up environmental performance with new KPI to and some actions have been set in order to correct some get our Carbon Footprint deviations. Climate change has encouraged us, to measure our Carbon Indicator Half Term Performance FY 15-16 Footprint and to implement actions to reduce it. A new tool Sustrax, Sustainability Tracking System, developed by Reams of paper We consumed 327 reams and we are 132 consumption people in the office (2,5 reams/person), if we Carbon Footprint Ltd, was selected to measure Hotelbelds per employee continue that way we should reach our goal. Group Carbon Footprint. Sustrax is a cloud based online sustainability tracking software that is used by multi-site Awaraness We communicate best practices for the office campaing pain June, using The Beat. There are some posters organisations to collate sustainability data from offices and perless office distributed in the office. facilities around the world. Follow-up We have created a new template “Follow-up environmental environmental performance” to get information performance about waste, consumptions and emissions. We – kpi carbon are monitoring our Carbon Footprint using a footprint tool “Sustrax” 11ENVIRONMENT Intercruises Barcelona joined different solidary programs will award points to Intercruises depending on the amount seeking to improve Intercruises’ awareness about the needs of writing material the business donates; these points are to engage with social and environmental causes. then converted into money and donated to local schools on behalf of Intercruises. This year we donate 6,85 kg of SEUR “Tapones para una vida” program Caps for a New different writing materials. Life is a plastic cap recycling initiative that raises funds to help children receive medical treatments not currently covered Pont Solidari, an organisation that promotes the by the national health system. This year in Barcelona we reutilisation of goods like office furniture (chairs, tables …). collected 40 kg, equivalent to 20.000 plastic caps. With Pont solidari will donate them to different NGOs or public this initiative we donate money for children and additionally organisations to contribute to socio-economic development we avoided the emission of 60 kilos of CO2, equivalent to and at the same time minimize our environmental impact. the CO2 absorption of 11 trees. As a result of Barcelona´s office new location, we have donated 99 tables, 7 closets, 2 lamps and 10 chairs to Terracycle, an organisation that creates consumer products this organisation. by recycling used goods (known as upcycling). Terracycle ANTIPRINCIPLE Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 10 including extortion and bribery. CORRUPTION UN key commitments include substantially updated understanding of our compliance programme and reducing corruption and illicit financial flows, our business practices all Intercruises employees have to developing effective, accountable and complete the mandatory e-learning course “Compliance transparent institutions, and strengthening Refresher course”. access to information and participation in public decision-making. Intercruises has zero tolerance An Anti-corruption clause is included in all contracts with to bribery and corruption and gives particular focus to clients and suppliers. Where Intercruises states that it destination markets where perceived levels of corruption takes zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption are high and with an absence of effective anti-bribery and expect clients and suppliers to comply with the legislation. Policy for Prevention of Bribery and Corruption, and any other applicable local and international anti-corruption Intercruises is committed to carrying on business fairly, legislation. openly and honestly with a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. Compliance is a key factor in the The success of this policy depends on employees and others success of Intercruises, our reputation is what makes us raising concerns and reporting violations quickly. Accordingly, stand out to our customers. all employees are encouraged to make use of the confidential anonymous reporting facilities which can be used to report We continue applying rigorously the Hotelbeds Group concerns or violations. Compliance Programme. To ensure that all of us have an 12ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION
