Achievements 2015 CSR a source of innovation and opportunity PROTECTION OF BATS DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE an Egis ecological initiative winning 1st prize at the IDRRIM awards Take a look at our new CSR site www.rse-egis.fr/en ADVANTAGES + More interaction with our stakeholders + Economic and environmental benefits + Information updated over the year + A more accessible CSR report with various perspectives “Our first paperless CSR report” We are pleased to provide you with the are offering a space for dialogue, particularly completely paperless 2015 edition of our discussions and suggestions. Corporate Social Responsibility Report (CSR). So please tell us how you feel, approach us, So you now have at your disposal a CSR challenge us. This space is for you and website that’s continuously updated and that we need your feedback to be able to improve! we have sought to make more attractive and So we’re inviting you to visit www.rse-egis.fr/en comprehensive. to find out all about our CSR commitments, our ambitions, our approach, our actions, our In the era of transitions (environmental, energy, solutions, our indicators and much, much digital, etc.) and with a view to transparency, more. From the interactive menu, you can it therefore seemed natural to provide enriched select the content you’re interested in. content that uses links to direct you to And since we are very concerned with fact sheets, publications, infographics and transitions, this smaller-size paper edition tells videos, etc. you about some of the achievements that have marked 2015. You can find it on our website if Digitalising the information is also a way of you want more details. meeting your expectations as stakeholders. Enjoy exploring our website. At a time when social media is becoming more and more prominent in communication, you Martine Jauroyon, are asking to have your say, to interact. Our Director of Business CSR policy hoped to achieve this interaction; Activity Transformation our website enables it. Within this context, we and CSR EGIS CSR Achievements 2015 <<< 01 ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 Anticipating and taking action Making sustainable development a real driver ENERGY/CLIMATE for making our offer stand out, creating value to enhance the competitiveness of our company and the attractiveness of the regions where we work, with the focus on a positive and shared economy are the key points of our CSR roadmap. OFFICIAL COP 21 PARTNERSHIP Egis has reaffirmed its commitment to the fight against climate change and proposed solutions to support the transition towards a low carbon economy. >> WIND IT® << DISTRICT HEATING Wind-it®, developed by Egis AND COOLING IN PARIS and its partners, is a solution Within a group, Egis designs, for renewable energy builds and operates district generation which incorporates heating and cooling, vertical axis wind turbines inside incorporating four geothermal a telecom pylon. This solution has drilling sites over 750 m deep. been specifically designed for This means 3 times less off-grid sites or those fed by CO2 than a gas solution. unstable power grids, aimed at mobile phone operators. Wind-it® won the Technology Industry and Consultancy prize at the National Engineering Grand Prix in 2015. >> ENERGY SAVING The implementation at our Montreuil site (Terra Nova building) of Egis energy diagnostic tools has achieved 16% of energy savings. ­­­­­­­­­­­Egis was a prizewinner at the first edition of the CUBE 2020 awards. ACCELERATING TRANSITIONS Egis, in collaboration with the Caisse des Dépôts, >> PARTNERSHIP WITH R20 has created Egis Environmental Investments Egis has signed a partnership with the NGO Regions for (EEI), an investment company for funding the Climate (R20), an NGO founded by Arnold Schwarzenegger marketing phases of innovative projects relating with the support of the United Nations, in order to develop to Ecological and energy transition (EET) “Waste to Energy” projects in emerging countries. 02>>> EGIS CSR Achievements 2015 BIODIVERSITY AND RESOURCES PREVENTING, REDUCING, OFFSETTING >> Egis has signed the commitment charter for consultancy firms in the field of environmental assessment established by the department of environnement. This charter specifies professional ethics criteria and the expert skills required to develop an impact study. A LABEL FOR REAL ESTATE PROJECTS The CIBI (International Consultancy for Biodiversity and Real Estate) has accredited several Egis ecologists for the implementation of the BiodiverCity label®, a frame of reference and international label for the consideration of biodiversity in real estate construction and renovation. MOBILITY / TRANSPORT ROADS: A TOOL FOR PROTECTING BATS >> DURING THE CONSTRUCTION Egis was awarded 1st prize at the IDRRIM* awards CHARGING ELECTRIC “Infrastructure for VEHICLES >> Mobility, Biodiversity and Landscape” in the By becoming a shareholder in The New “clever initiative” category Motion, Egis is promoting sustainable for the temporary system mobility in Europe and consolidates its for guiding bats during leading position in France in relation to the construction phase, access and payment services on terminals set up on the detour road via its Easytrip Kiwhi solution. of Troissereux (Oise), in partnership with the Egis has signed a contract to operate the Regional Council of Oise, parking services in the city of Amsterdam Bouygues TP Régions INNOVATIVE, in a completely paperless way. France, DTP, Colas Nord PARKING From the verification of payment to the Picardie and Biositiv. SERVICES notification of a parking ticket, the system OPERATION >> manages the entire process. * Institute Of Roads, Streets and Infrastructure for Mobility EGIS CSR Achievements 2015 <<< 03 ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 LOW CARBON AIRPORT >> The airports of Abidjan (Ivory Coast) and Libreville (Gabon) operated by Egis have been awarded “Airport Carbon Accreditation” (out of 3 certified airports in Africa). These two airports confirmed their desire to implement an action plan to control and reduce their carbon footprint. Lille, among the top 10 most congested cities in France, has trialled the project to reduce peak traffic flows in order to regulate road traffic with the solution BNV Mobility proposed by Egis. Over 60% of participants have changed their normal daily behaviour. Tested for << REWARDING DRIVERS 5 years in Rotterdam, the system has WHO MAKE CHANGES TO THEIR RUSH HOUR CAR reduced rush hour traffic by 5 to 10%. SUSTAINABLE CITIES Egis was awarded the Enterprise and ROSAU >> Environment prize in the Innovation in technologies category of the Ministry of Ecology for ROSAU, this tool for diagnosing the resilience of regions affected by climate disaster. The tool assesses the interdependence of urban services in order to identify possible domino effects between power grids, water networks, telecommunications, transport, etc. With this tool, the city’s stakeholders can implement integrated risk management in their policy-making. ASTAINABLE®, e-PORTFOLIO >> A management tool >> A 3.0 SUSTAINABLE CITY and collaboration platform developed by Egis, e-portfolio Driven by Vivapolis, Egis and its Eiffage and Engie enables managers partners have conceived Astainable®, an interactive of real estate assets tool for urban design. Created to meet the development to optimise their needs of Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan, this simulator energy renewal brings the expertise of French companies with regard to projects. sustainable cities to the fore. 04 >>> EGIS CSR Achievements 2015 Interacting with our stakeholders Committed to social issues, Egis contributes to numerous think tanks, builds partnerships and works on collective projects. Egis has helped with the << EDUCATION construction of three classrooms at the College of Agnafiafy in Madagascar via a partnership with the OSCAR association, the French alliance and local authorities. WORKING WITH VICTIMS OF TERRORISM >> To help the people of the region in the extreme north of Cameroon, victims of the terrorist group Boko Haram, Egis, in partnership with the Red Cross, organised a collection of essential commodities. Incorporating CSR into CSR is instilling a major cultural the heart of our business shift. The challenge is to get more and more employees on board. Chithiraputhiran Kannan, HEALTH SAFETY QSE CERTIFICATION deputy chief engineer of ENVIRONMENT >> health and safety at Egis In 2015, Egis was awarded the triple certification India, received the 2015 of its performance management system in prize from the World the three areas of quality (ISO 9001), Occupational Health and Safety Health and Safety (OHSAS 18001), and the Environment Organisation, in the “research and development” (ISO 14001). This certification rewards the Group’s category, for his presentation works in building a unified management system for of the Safety Management sustainable performance. System on the metro project in Chennai. He also received the Green Apple Award for Environmental Best Practices 2015 in Londres. EGIS CSR Achievements 2015 <<< 05 Egis is an international group offering engineering, project structuring and operations services. In engineering and consulting its sectors of activity include transport, urban development, building, industry, water, environment and energy. In roads and airports its offer is enlarged to encompass project structuring, equity investment, turnkey systems delivery, operation and mobility services. Employing 13,000 people, including 8,300 in engineering, the group generated a managed turnover of €937 million in 2015. Egis is 75% owned by the French “Caisse des Dépôts” and 25% owned by Iosis Partenaires, (a “partner” executive and employee shareholding). Copyrights : Brigitte Cavanagh, Elioth-Groupe Egis, ArtefactoryLab, Egis Bruno Cognata, Hippolyte Pouchelle Egis, Henk Rougoor, Roza Fotolia.com, EGIS S.A. RCS Versailles 702027376 –June 2015 – GRAPHIC DESIGN: Eurokapi REALISATION : Agence PatteBlanche 15 avenue du Centre CS 20538 Guyancourt 78286 Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines Cedex Contact : developpement-durable.egis@egis.fr www.rse-egis.fr/en www.egis-group.com Follow Egis on: Chris-m Fotolia.com, crazydiva_Thinkstock, dany ranivo, egis cameroun Document printed using vegetable-based inks on Cocoon 100% recycled paper, by a French printer certified as meeting the requirements of the Imprim’vert label, and holder of Print Environnement certification (No. 2011-D-34-01) which rewards its compliance with the Environmental Charter and the sustainable development policy on its website.
