Cavalier Logistics Communication on Progress 2016 Human Rights Description of Practical Action Since its creation in 1948, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights has been the highest standard in human interaction. At Cavalier Logistics we let these principles guide our conduct both within our company and with our suppliers, vendors, and clients across the globe. From the first step of our hiring practices to the last, we hold ourselves to the principles of the Declaration. We are an equal opportunity employer and we carefully guard against discrimination. Special effort is given in our recruitment practices to include disabled and veteran communities. Once you join the Cavalier Logistics family, our Employee Handbook gives clear guidance as to the high standards with which every employee will be treated and will be expected to treat others. Operating in a global environment requires us to engage partners throughout the world. While we cannot control our suppliers and vendors, we make every effort to work with likeminded partners. Cavalier does its utmost to inform those partners of our policies regarding human rights and labor and requires them to provide us with confirmation of understanding and compliance with such standards. Measurement of Outcomes To date, Cavalier has not received any complaints of human rights violations. Through our company policies and frequent communication with our employees, senior management and our H R department ensure that our employees and stakeholders are treated fairly and equally. Labor Description of Practical Action Our business success relies on the quality of our people and the work they all do. In some cases, this requires special training or certification and in all cases it requires dedication and a professional attitude. Building good relationships with customers, business partners and colleagues is important to future success. Our Employee Handbook guides us to build ever stronger relationships through the use of good judgment and high ethical principles. Immediate supervisors and Department Managers are also available for guidance, advice and consultation. Our reputation for integrity and excellence is also reflected in our hiring and promotion practices. Cavalier Logistics does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, or disability. We are very proud that our employee demographics attest to that fact and feel that this diversity is an asset that makes our company more competitive and successful. We periodically retrain our staff and monitor their work life Cavalier Logistics Communication on Progress 2016 satisfaction regularly, which allows fairness and accuracy in the awarding of quarterly and yearly recognition programs. Operating in a global environment gives us the opportunity to demonstrate the principles of the United Nations Global Compact to our business partners. We inform our vendors and suppliers of our standards and policies regarding human rights and labor and require written confirmation of their understanding and compliance with such standards. Measurement of Outcomes The Cavalier Logistics Employee Handbook has a clearly outlined range of Human Resources policies which is the foundation for best practice in terms of labor. No labor rights violations have been reported by employees or others during this reporting period. Environment Description of Practical Action Uncontrolled consumption of natural resources and relaxed waste management policies have a negative impact on both the local environment and on global natural resources. Cavalier Logistics is happy to do our part in minimizing our carbon footprint. Our Enterprise Management Software (EMS) system, which is now used throughout our company, continues to conserve paper by creating e-air waybills and allows for electronic communications within our company. In cases where our global partners are still updating their systems and cannot use e-air waybills, some paper use is unavoidable. In those ever decreasing cases, we make every effort to recycle. As a logistics company, it is necessary to use cardboard. However, not only do our warehouses recycle all damaged or unusable cardboard, but we invest in more expensive reusable boxes which minimize waste. Cavalier employees continue to recycle plastic bottles, aluminum cans, and glass at work and are encouraged to continue these practices at home. Recycling bins are placed throughout the office to make recycling more of a habit than a chore. Cavalier Logistics’ woodshop is proud to support local high schools whose county budgets seem to shrink every year. Many local teachers are grateful for our donations of unused wood, adding that without these vital donations, some programs would no longer be offered. Measurement of Outcomes In our continuing effort to contribute to the wellbeing of our planet and reduce our carbon footprint, Cavalier reduced the use of paper products and recycled wood, cardboard, glass, plastics, and aluminum cans. In addition, we use motion sensors, energy efficient appliances and reduce energy usage through the continued education of our employees. Cavalier Logistics Communication on Progress 2016 Anti-Corruption Description of Practical Action As a globally operating corporation Cavalier understands the importance of fostering a transparent, open and honest work environment. Our company’s anti-corruption policy is very clearly defined and is distributed to all new employees upon hire. Additionally, it is distributed to all existing employees yearly. All employees, officers and directors of Cavalier are held to the highest standards and are required to adhere to a strict code of ethics. Cavalier does not do business with any organizations that are known to be corrupt. Measurement of Outcomes Over the last year Cavalier has distributed our anti-corruption policy to our worldwide partners and suppliers asking that they too adhere to such policy. This is done on an annual basis. The assessment of our vendors and agents includes a very rigorous anti-corruption section with a requirement that an officer of the company complete and sign a document stating that they understand and will comply with our policy. Cavalier has not experienced any cases of corruption within the past year. There have been no reported cases of attempted bribery or conflict of interest.
