2015 Annual Report Sustainability results INDEX TECHNICAL DATASHEET Message from the Superintendent Director4 6. + Commitment to Angola 80 6.1 + Investments  82 Production Odebrecht 6.2 Looking to the Future  86 1. Odebrecht in Angola at a glance6 Superintendent Director 1.1 2015 Highlights 8 António Carlos Daiha Blando 1.2 Odebrecht Global 10 7. Annex88 1.3 Odebrecht in Angola 11 7.1 Matching between Odebrecht Coordination in Angola material themes versus GRI Aspects 90 Sustainability Paulo Campos 7.2 Mechanisms and associated frequency 2. + Commitment to Sustainability16 of interaction and communication Planning, People and Communication 2.1 Sustainability Results Report 18 actions with Stakeholders 94 Marcus Felipe 7.3 Methodological Notes 96 2.2 Odebrecht´s Conduct  20 Finance 2.3 Sustainability Strategy 22 7.4 GRI and Global Compact Index  100 Francisco Ayres 2.4 Commitment with Stakeholders 28 Legal 2.5 Odebrecht Award for Renata Lemos Sustainability Development 30 2.6 Certifications 31 Equipment  Gustavo Henriques 3. + Commitment to the Environment32 Strategy Counselor Jarbas Santana 3.1 The Bases for Environmental Management 34 3.2 Sustainable Management of Natural Resources 35 Consultants 3.3 Fostering Environmental Responsibility  40 Deloitte Graphic Design & Pagination Flúor Studio Design Advisors 4. + People Commitment 46 4.1 Our People  48 Photos Odebrecht in Angola Imagebank 4.2 Occupational Health and Safety 53 4.3 Education and Training  60 Edition Date April 2016 5. + Commitment with the Community62 Printing Ondagrafe 5.1 Social Responsibility Programmes  64 5.2 Community Health  78 A special thanks to all Odebrecht in Angola members 5.3 New Life 79 that contributed to this report. Digital Version Download Translation of a report originally issued in Portuguese. 3 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-1 Message During 2015, the procedures to prevent risks and work accidents continued to be followed in all the organization’s operations and our From the Superintendent focus was strengthened. Director Regarding this, we had good results reducing our Total Frequency Rate from 4.68 to 3.66 and a significant reduction of our Severity This document presents Odebrecht in Angola main results for 2015. Rate from 883 to 156. The safety of our employees will continue This is the fourth sustainability report published by the Company in to be a crucial point of our attention in 2016, which will require a the country, the second being drawn up after its adherence to the constant dedication from our employees and suppliers. Global Compact, communicated to the United Nations in January 22, 2014, confirming support to its ten principles related to Human Odebrecht in Angola’s investment on employees training Rights, Environmental protection and Anti-corruption, position amounted around 2.1 million USD, on social programmes, here confirmed. that aimed to conciliate interests from Clients, shareholders and communities located in areas influenced by our projects, 2015 was a challenging year for Odebrecht in Angola. The the investment amounted 3.7 million USD. On environmental Company’s operation was affected, on one hand, by the crisis protection programmes 6.5 million USD were invested. arising from the general depreciation of commodities recorded during the year around the world, among which the oil crisis was As for the environment, we achieved important progresses particularly severe and persistent to the liquidity of our clients regarding waste management generated in our operations and and, on the other hand, by the Brazilian economic crisis, which positive results regarding the reuse of water. In Laúca’s Dam limited the funding flow for our projects in the country. In addition project, we reached a milestone of 60% of reused water. By reused to this negative economic situation, we faced a reputational crisis water, we mean in the project not into their end products. This resulting from a relentless persistent prosecution process in Brazil, water reuse allowed us to reduce the discharge of 460,000 m3 of from which will result, in the future, major improvements to our wastewater in water courses. Those water reuse values achieved compliance and governance model. in Lauca’s Dam will become a reference for our future projects. All our projects had their emissions inventoried. In order to surpass this challenging year, we had to be more committed. We enhanced our dedication, as we did in previous In the area of occupational health, 2015 was, besides the constant difficult times, to match the trust of our customers established and relentless fight against malaria, the year of attention to over our 31 years of existence in Angola. We must recognize the emergency situations. 33 medical protocols were performed in contribution of our partners in this effort, without which the monthly sessions with the project’s health, 10 medical emergency challenges could not been faced. drills were conducted covering the majority of the projects and, in addition, basic and intermediate life support courses were We managed to overcome the negative situation and fulfil our performed in 50% of our projects. term commitments at all stages established for important projects for the country development, among which are the expansion We continued to be publicly recognized in the areas of engineering of Cambambe´s Dam, the construction of Laúca’s Dam, which and sustainability, shown by the prize we have been awarded with includes the progress of its electromechanical assembly, within (Best Participation Example of Environmental Quality) in the 5th the scope of the Ministry of Energy and Water, and the Lobito’s edition of Angola´s International Convention of The Environment of the future” so they can contribute to a balanced and robust “We continued to be publicly Refinery terracing works of Sonaref. We delivered yet another and Environmental Technologies, which took place in June and development of the country. stage of the business complex that makes up the Condominium was organized by Angola´s Environment Ministry and Luanda’s recognized in the areas of Belas Business Park. We carried on with Luanda’s urban structuring International Convention, as well as the significant adherence Our commitment could only be strengthened due to the engineering and sustainability, works, highlighting the BRT (Bus Rapid Transport) to the Ministry to Odebrecht Award for Sustainability Development which had valuable support from our key stakeholders, namely our clients, of Construction. an increase in 2015 of 12.5% in the number of applicants when shareholders, employees and local communities in the areas of shown by the prize we have been compared to 2014. influence of our projects, as well as our partners and suppliers, to awarded with (Best Participation In the economic plan, Odebrecht in Angola net revenues recorded, whom we thank for their trust, joint work, dedication and care, and in comparison to 2014, a result particularly influenced by the We kept following the strategy of expanding Angolan participation to whom we reward with the information compiled in this report Example of Environmental Quality) exchange rate behaviour observed in 2015. in our workforce with the reduction of expats, who currently and the actions reported therein. in the 5th edition of Angola´s represent less than 8% of our direct members, and with training Following the principles of sustainability, Odebrecht in Angola and education programmes for young Angolans. It should be noted International Convention of The continued to operate considering the economic, social and that, in the 2015 edition of the “Jovens Parceiros” (Young Partners) Antonio Carlos Daiha Blando Environment and Environmental environmental dimensions in an integrated way. programme, all the participants were Angolans. This programme Odebrecht in Angola Superintendent Director is part of a set of initiatives that Odebrecht in Angola develops, Technologies.” which shows the Company’s focus on training the “engineers 4 5 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results Odebrecht in Angola AT A GLANCE Another year of Odebrecht’s activity in Angola contributing for the sustainable development of the country, either by the nature of its projects or by the social impact it promotes. Tab image Odebrecht at a Glance: Transmission lines 6 7 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results 1. Odebrecht in Angola at a glance G4-9 1.1 2015 Highlights 1.1.1 Main facts 1.1.2 2015 Main Indicators Company Environment ODEBRECHT’S LAÚCA DAM Costs with local SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AWARD . Great participation in 2015’s edition . Descent and installation of the Spiral Casing of the Generation Unit (GU1), which represents an 76% suppliers 40% Water reused with the number of applicants increasing important mark for energy by 12.5 % production in Angola; · Reached 1 million m3 of 12 concrete milestone in the dam’s vestment; · 60% of reused water Ongoing projects 1,447,938 Total energy consumed (GJ) TALATONA’S RESIDENTIAL PROJECT · This project was recognized Positive press Millions of USD in as a reference of good coverage 87% 6.5 total Investment practices implementation and operationalization for companies hired by ESSO, particularly for on environment large projects in the African Continent; · Excellent safety performance in the last 3 years with more than 6.3 million of man hours worked without work related accidents, awarded by ESSO CAMBAMBE DAM for the second consecutive year; . Revalidation of ISO 9001:2008, · Talatona’s Residential ISO 14001:2012 and OHSAS Project Certification by 18001:2007 certifications; OHSAS 18001 : 2007 . ESAP – 100% compliance in the International Finance Audit; . Execution of the Historical, People Community Archaeological and Cultural Heritage programme of Kambambe Preservation and Enhancement; . Hydro seeding – Technological Angolan 92% employees ** 3.7 innovation applied to PRAD; Integrated System . Ongoing Resettlement and Millions of USD for Emergencies Compensation Plan and Rescue (ISER) (Infrastructures Construction and In Social programmes Implementation Technical visit to Environment ) . 10 large medical emergency Ministry) drills were performed, covering the majority of the projects; · Medical emergency training and basic life support to at least one team 14,809 employees * + 23,000 Beneficiaries in each project BELAS BUSINESS V . Implementation of a specific Millions of Involved construction technique for man hours the building’s facade, which lowers the risk of work at height and leads to an 1.6 of training 78 communities increased productivity SONAREF and safety conditions; . Delivery of Lobito Refinery’s · 1.5 million man hours worked pier – SONAREF – Very without major accidents important infrastructure for the achieved by increasing the development of the country, observation of deviations leading executed through an innovative to a greater safety awareness construction method and with by workers multidisciplinary and multicultural teams of excellence. *(employees + subcontractors) **(direct employees) 8 9 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-6 1.2 ODEBRECHT GLOBAL 1.3 Odebrecht in Angola G4-3 G4-4 G4-7 G4-8 GLOBAL PRESENCE Odebrecht operates in the Angolan market in the area of Odebrecht Angola – Projectos e Serviços, Lda. (OAL), Engineering and Construction (E&C) since 1984, being dedicated Odebrecht’s main subsidiary in in Angola (“Projectos e to perform large infrastructure construction projects such as Serviços” means projects and services in Portuguese); dams, water supply systems and sanitation, roads, power grids and real estate ventures that have contributed significantly to Construtora Norberto Odebrecht S.A. – Odebrecht’s branch the country’s development. Odebrecht’s activity always has in Angola (CNO) “Construtora” means construction company the objective of maintaining their workers and communities in Portuguese; under the influence of its projects safety, with equal concern on environmental protection and producing quality works. Odebrecht Angola – Construção e Projectos de Energia, Lda. (OAE), Odebrecht’s subsidiary specifically focused All construction works carried out by Odebrecht, are accompanied on energy projects (“Construção e Projectos de Energia” by social programmes developed with local communities, acting means energy projects and construction in Portuguese). Germany United Kingdom in the fields of training for income generation, community health and education, literacy campaigns, in a wide range of other social In this report, the companies mentioned above are United States Áustria programmes. referred together as Odebrecht in Angola. portugal Cuba At the same time to its E&C business, Odebrecht has been MExico Dominican Rep. making investments in several areas outside its core business, guatemala panamá United Arab Emirates as exemplified by its participation into nossosuper retail chain, venezuela colOmbia in Biocom and also in Belas Shopping. This subject deserves equaDor Ghana further attention later in this report. Peru angola Paraguay Brazil In Angola, Odebrecht operates through three legal entities, known as: Mozambique argentina 2015 PROJECTS IN PROGRESS LOCATION ZAIRE PROJECT CSR (Controlled Shunt Reactor) SOYO zaire NORTH CUANZA NORTH Cuanza Founded in Salvador, Bahia in Brazil, in 1944, Odebrecht became The commitment to sustainability, the innovative character of its Cambambe’s Dam a multinational leading organization in several world economic business, and the respect for people and for the environment, are sectors. Odebrecht is present in 21 countries over 4 continents Odebrecht characteristics that contribute positively to be one Luanda MALANJE NORTH CUANZA /MALANJE and acts in 14 business areas such as Engineering and of the largest business groups in the construction sector in the Laúca’s Dam Construction, Oil and Gas, Environmental Engineering, Chemical world over time. and Petrochemical, Sugar and Ethanol, Investment, Defence and SOUTH Cuanza LUANDA Technology as well as Transport and Logistics. Throughout its Odebrecht becomes involved with the communities surrounding Luanda’s Road System history, Odebrecht has successfully completed more than 2,000 their projects, promoting the values of education, development, Benguela Belas Business Park – Stage V projects in these areas. job creation opportunities, and respecting the traditions and local Talatona Residential – Real Estate Venture customs. Luanda Routes Project Responsible for the strategic direction of the Organization and Expressways Project for the preservation of its unity, Odebrecht S.A. seeks to enhance Luanda Waters Project Reinforcement quality of business development, promote people’s development and offer strategic support to its subsidiary companies, through a SOUTH CUANZA decentralized management model. South Cuanza Infrastructure BENGUELA SONAREF (Marine Facilities and Lower Heavy Haul Road) Benguela’s infrastructures project – Second Phase 10 11 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-34 G4-9 1.3.1 Corporate Governance The main function of these areas is to support the SD as well 1.3.2 Economic Performance G4-EC1 as the Contract Directors (CD) in the management of their G4-EC4 Odebrecht has a client oriented business structure, which is businesses. On the other hand, each construction project is led Odebrecht contributes to create value and to the development The following table presents the main financial flows that comprise G4-S06 G4-PR5 reflected into its Corporate Governance. This model implies by a Contract Director (CD) that reports to the SD. During 2015 of the countries where it operates by streamlining the economic the direct contribution of Odebrecht in Angola to society. G4-PR9 that all the decision making process and communication the body of Contract Directors of Odebrecht in Angola was market, through the taxes paid, the hiring of suppliers, the jobs between shareholders, the organization and the client, happen composed by 14 members. generated and corresponding wages, and other amounts that horizontally. distributes to the economy. Sustainability affairs coordination is performed by a specific area. Odebrecht in Angola is totally owned by Odebrecht S.A., whose The responsibility of the implementation and operationalization Chairman of the Board of Directors is Emílio Odebrecht. The of the actions defined on the Contract’s Sustainability President of the holding company is Newton de Souza. Integrated Programme (IP – Sustainability) is in charge of each Contract’s sustainability manager, which reports directly to the Odebrecht in Angola is part of the integrated business area of correspondent CD. International Odebrecht Engineering and Construction– Africa, 2015 United Arab Emirates and Portugal, whose Business Leader (BL) % MILLIONS USD is Ernesto Baiardi. The highest body of corporate governance in Angola is the Superintendent Director (SD) António Carlos Direct Economic Value Generated 100% 1,616,566 Daiha Blando and its Dynamic Organization (DO) integrated by several Responsible for Function Support (RFS). Revenues 100% 1,616,566 Economic Value Distributed 95% 1,538,923 At Odebrecht in Angola, the RFS are divided in six support areas to the SD: Operating costs 28.4% 458,703 • Finance / Information Technology (IT); Payroll and employees benefits 21.8% 352,973 • Planning, People and Communication; Suppliers* 40.6% 655,865 • Legal; • Sustainability; Community Investments 0.2% 3,751 • Equipment; • Strategy Taxes 3.5% 55,777 Payments to Capital Providers 0.3% 5,165 Non-operational costs 0.4% 6,690 Planning Finance Economic Value Retained 5% 77,643 People Legal Sustainability Equipment Strategy IT Communication * This corresponds to service suppliers (providers). Costs with material suppliers are recognized under operating costs. Contract Director Contract Director Contract Director Business Superintendent Contract Director Shareholder Client Leader Director Contract Director As in previous year, Odebrecht in Angola did not receive any Odebrecht in Angola does not perform periodically a systematic Contract Director support from the Government of the Republic of Angola in 2015, and formal client satisfaction survey. However, in the delivery Contract Director and did not make any contributions to political parties in the of each project, Clients are requested to fill a declaration which Contract Director same year. Also the organization was not subjected to any kind attests the work delivery under proper conditions. Additionally, of significant fines or sanctions related to non-compliance with the organization regularly evaluates its image in the market, laws and regulations on the use of products and services. through the analysis of positive, negative or neutral press coverage. Also monitors the Advertising Value Equivalency (AVE), which in 2015 reached the value of 1,777,431 USD, with Spirit Communication Results to Serve System 87% of the published news about the organization being positive. 12 13 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-12 G4-13 1.3.3 Suppliers and value chain Our Suppliers The main risks identified in 2015 were politically exposed G4-SO3 G4-SO4 people and overpayments, however there were no records of G4-SO7 The value chain of Odebrecht business construction can be During 2015, about 76% of the total costs with suppliers of corruption incidents, legal actions for unfair competition or G4-EC9 G4-EN32 characterized according to the following scheme: Odebrecht in Angola was with local suppliers and 24% with monopoly practices in Odebrecht in Angola for the reporting G4-HR5 international suppliers. Payments to suppliers totalized 1.0 period. G4-HR6 billion USD of which 40% correspond to purchases of materials G4-HR10 and 60% to services costs. Whenever possible, local service Our partners providers are hired, reinforcing the relationship of Odebrecht in 1 . CONQUEST Odebrecht in Angola participates in consortium with other E&C Angola with national firms. The conquest phase deals with all work planning activities. Begins with the full knowledge of the Client’s needs and businesses companies operating on the Angolan market. Some wishes and the study of material, technical, financial, legal, Material suppliers, include all the suppliers related to examples are Somague, Griner, Teixeira Duarte and Omatapalo environmental, social and human resources requirements related to the project implementation. At this stage, the construction raw materials such as cement, fuel, iron and wood, who developed their activity jointly with Odebrecht in some service providers and consultants are actively involved electromechanical equipment, food and drinks and personal projects in Angola. on the project development, taking an important place in protective equipment (PPE), among others. Service providers our supply chain. The financing institutions and insurance companies are also very important in this phase. During are broken down into two categories: this phase a set of risk assessments and Environmental and social impact studies are prepared In order to find and identify all the negative impacts, and propose mitigation, • Subcontractors that perform specialized engineering and 5. PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS correction or compensation measures to be implemented construction works; and At the end of some significant project phases and at the during the contract execution. end of each project a results evaluation process is carried out, considering the contracts’ previously established • Outsourced services, corresponding to the subcontractors requirements such as Client satisfaction, legal compliance, that provide services that are outside the scope of Odebrecht in financial and corporate requirements. The periodic 1. Angola activity, but that are essential to its good development. assessment of all projects contributes to the continuous improvement process, allowing the distribution of results This category includes services such as real estate, insurance, and release of funds for new projects. advertising and communications. 2. MOBILIZATION This phase consists on hiring and allocating all the material and human resources required for the Due to Odebrecht’s worldwide operations, the Organization has 5. 2. execution of the work. Financial resources are also mobilized, with important participation of banks and embraced clear standards and a great level of compliance with insurance companies. At this stage the suppliers the provisions of the laws on worldwide suppliers hiring. evaluation are in order to choose the materials and service suppliers that will contribute to the implementation of the project. This review includes Under the process of the Organization’s Code of Conduct technical, financial, health and safety, respect revision, it was created the Supplier Code of Conduct, which for the environment and performance criteria. 4. 3. contains the shared values and principles that guide the Contracts resulting from this process include clauses that consider sustainability performance organization’s relations with them, so that they can comply with 4. CONSTRUCTION and the requirements of our Code of Conduct. the corporate governance good practices. The construction phase is the full realization of the commitments made in previous phases between all elements in our value chain. Involves material suppliers, The referred Code condemns any related practices to forced service providers, funders and internal Employees, who share production and management responsibilities and labour or child labour, sexual exploitation of children and perform the legal, contractual and corporate established 3. START OF adolescents, or other any form of exploitation or human traffic. requests. During the construction phase, internal corporate CONSTRUCTION WORKS Through commitment to comply with the Code of Conduct, the guidelines lead us to: (i) preserve the environment where we operate; (ii) comply with habits and expectations of the The construction works begins at the suppliers commit to respect human rights. ones that live, work or circulate in those sites; (iii) develop moment where the main parts of our processes and procedures to improve the quality of our value chain – employees, service and products and to fully satisfy our Clients; and (iv) recover material suppliers and financiers – come Although there are no environmental criteria established in hiring the areas affected by our operation. together for the first time starting a suppliers, in all company contracts suppliers commit to comply mutual collaboration process, coordinated by the project’s management teams. with the established principles in this Code, which advocates environmental standards aligned with the good practices and refuses any practices that violate the environment. During hiring, suppliers go through a due diligence process, by Our Clients which their practices are assessed and possible risk factors identified, including aspects related to the safeguarding of Odebrecht’s operation is guided by the spirit to serve its clients. has private sector clients such as ESSO, BP and Maersk as well human and labour rights, and it’s assumed the commitment to Odebrecht’s main client in Angola is the Angolan Government as individual clients in the real estate operations such as Belas the Organization’s Code of Conduct Starting in 2015, besides through its ministries, since they are the ones who manage the Business Park. the due diligence process, it is required a corruption risk analysis infrastructure projects in the country. Odebrecht in Angola also for new contracts with suppliers and business partners. 14 15 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results +COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY The challenging environment of 2015, which perpetuated to 2016, requires firm sustainable bets on a new and future-oriented commitment, as well as cooperation and improvement in Odebrecht in Angola efforts, and from other Angolan stakeholders involved in this market. Tab image + Commitment to sustainability: SONAREF road 16 17 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-15 G4-17 2. + Commitment to sustainability The subjects classified as P1 level are the material issues for material issues, in this case, P1 level topics. However, it also reports G4-5 G4-19 G4-18 Odebrecht in Angola, resulting from the highest rating by both the information related to the P2 and P3 level topics, although with less G4-31 G4-20 Company and its key stakeholders. emphasis than those classified as P1 level and accordingly with G4-21 2.1 SUSTAINABILITY RESULTS REPORT the expressed above approach. The topics considered as material G4-28 G4-30 Therefore, and according with the reporting strategy that is defined issues for Odebrecht in Angola are represented as follows. G4-32 The sustainability results presented in this report are related to process at the beginning of each one of those cycles, that is by the alignment with GRI International Guideline, Odebrecht in G4-33 the period of January 1 2015 to December 31 2015. As mentioned for the 2017’s activity report. However, at the beginning of Angola sustainability results report focuses mainly on the before, these results correspond to the joint activity and each reporting exercise, it should be confirmed if the defined performance of the three legal entities integrating Odebrecht in materiality at the beginning of the cycle remains valid or if it has Angola. to be adjusted considering external and internal constraints. Aligned with the sustainability report strategy established in 2014, Therefore, according to this strategy, the topics on which this EN SO SO SO TR SO this is the second report that is prepared according to the Core report focuses were defined considering the stakeholders’ [1] Environmental [2] Occupational [3] Employees [4] Working Conditions [5] Ethics and Conduct [6] Community level of the G4 version of the sustainability reporting Guidelines of auscultation process and the materiality analysis performed Responsibility Health and safety Education Empowerment the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and considering the sectorial before the Sustainability Results Report of 2014 (SRR14) Promotion disclosures for companies in the construction and real estate elaboration. The detail of these processes, which were designed sector (Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures). This to respect the GRI G4 Guidelines for the materiality determination, report was not submitted to external verification. can be found at http://odebrecht.com/sites/default/files/ SO TR EN SO EC SO rsodebrechtangola2014_1_eng_0.pdf The edition of the 2015 Annual Sustainability Results Report of [7] Jobs Creation [8] Transparency [9] Water [10] Products and [11] Economic [12] Income generation Odebrecht in Angola, is also the basis of the Communication on In the course of those processes, a set of topics were placed sustainable use Services Excellency and performance and opportunities Progress (COP) in relation to the Principles of the United Nations to the consideration of the Company’s internal and external Quality creation Global Compact (UNGC), for the Active level. stakeholders for prioritization. The intersection between both perspectives originated a list of topics classified according to TR EN SO SO SO EN The table of contents GRI and UNGC is presented on Chapter 7 of a scale of importance. this publication. The coordination and execution of this report was [13] Governance [14] Other natural [15] Involvement in the [16] Human rights [17] Community health [18] Biodiversity in charge of Odebrecht in Angola Sustainability Department. For this, three priority levels were assigned, corresponding to a resources Sustainable Community protection and safety conservation differentiated reporting approach as shown in the following table: management The defined strategy establishes three year reporting cycles, and it is expected to perform a materiality review preceded by a peers benchmark and relevant sustainability references TR TR SO Legend: analysis, as well as a stakeholder’s representatives auscultation SO Social dimension TR Transversal dimension [19] Stakeholders [20] Corporate [21] Freedom of engagement Culture Association* EC Economic dimension EN Environmental dimension *The Freedom of Association subject was reclassified as P1 level, because it’s IMPORTANCE a mandatory reporting issue to respond to UNGC’s annual COP. LEVEL DESIGNATION APPROACH IN THIS REPORT Material aspects (priority) Aspects to report with greater emphasis on the report and with P1 significance ≥ 10 the active concern to align with the GRI Guidelines, being those of most interest to Stakeholders and the organization. In this report the themes in which the Company invested more Odebrecht Infraestrutura in 2015 are highlighted. The safety, which deserved a special Via A1 – Avenida Talatona Aspects to report with less emphasis and without active concern to align with the GRI Guidelines (although common information attention in all the Company’s projects in Angola, due to the Condomínio Belas Business Park Important aspects P2 significance ≥ 9 to that required by the Guidelines may be reported, there will accident results in 2014; the medical emergency response Torre Cabinda, 7º e 8º andares be no concern to confirm its compliance with all its details and training and increasing percentage of reused water in projects, Luanda, Angola requirements). are some of them. e-mail: sustentabilidadeangola@odebrecht.com Moderate significance aspects P3 significance < 9 Aspects not discussed in detail, or not reported at all. In case of any questions concerning this report, please contact through the following address or e-mail: 18 19 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-56 2.2 Odebrecht’s Conduct TEO’s values are transversal to the conduct of all those who are During 2015, several lawsuits related to customs fraud were in G4-HR2 G4-HR12 part of Odebrecht. course, many of them related to the incorrect classification of G4-SO3 Odebrecht’s activity and operation is based on the Odebrecht Another of its principles is the reinvestment of the gained imported goods. All processes were at the defense stage by the G4-SO4 G4-SO5 Entrepreneurial Technology (Tecnologia Empresarial Odebrecht results for the creation of new job opportunities and developing The Organization’s Code of Conduct establishes the principles closing date of this report. G4-SO8 TEO), a work philosophy created by Norberto Odebrecht, communities. and standards for the development of the professional activity founder of the Organization, that establishes the ethical, moral and of Odebrecht and provide guidance for the establishment of conceptual principles that underlie the business. Odebrecht’s sustainability policy is bolstered by TEO, and therefore internal and external relationships. is transversal to the overall conduct of the Organization teams. TEO is focused on education for and through work valuing the Odebrecht’s Code of Conduct addresses the themes of willingness to serve, the ability and desire to evolve, as well as the ethics and professional conduct when it comes to relations will to exceed results. Provides a process of planned delegation with the other elements involved in the activity, namely, based on trust and partnership between leaders and team anti-corruption issues, conduct for decent employment and members and decentralized management. non-labour exploitation, legal compliance and occupational health and safety which should be known and applied by all of Organization’s members. New Company members have access to the Code of Conduct Odebrecht Entrepreneurial Technology TEO through a mandatory training session about this subject, in which human rights and compliance system issues are addressed. SERVING THE CLIENT Client satisfaction, with emphasis on quality, The Code of Conduct is always available at the Company’s site: productivity and socio-environmental responsibility http://odebrecht.com/en/odebrecht-group/code-conduct In 2015, the Code of Conduct was communicated to 775 employees in the Management and Senior Staff, Technical Staff and Other Workers categories, by means of a compulsory training session. Following the previous year prediction, the Code of Conduct training programme was adapted to the EMPLOYEES TRUST IN PEOPLE operational level employees, having been distributed to about SELF-FULFILMENT Capacity and desire 8,000 employees and it was also held awareness conversations Education for and to progress about the issues addressed in it. The Code of Conduct training through work totalized 3,550 hours. The Code of Conduct revision, held in 2014, lead to the creation of the Odebrecht’s Ethics Line, an open communication channel to report irregularities regarding possible violations observed by anyone in any of the countries where Odebrecht operates, through a telephone number (for each country) or by e-mail indicated on Odebrecht’s web site: http://odebrecht.com/ en/odebrecht-group/ethics-line DESCENTRALIZATION WORKING By planned TOGETHER In the first year of operation of Odebrecht’s Ethics Line, two delegation Participation in the design and execution, sharing complaints in Angola were recorded, one related to a missing the results payment to suppliers, which was addressed by the Ethics Committee and the debt was settled, and the second one was related to the employees´ holidays frequency. An investigation was carried out, concluding that there was no violation of the REINVESTMENT worker’s rights. Of the results to generate new  opportunities to grow 20 21 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-14 G4-15 2.2.1 Human Rights Protection In January 2014, Odebrecht formally joined the United Nations 2.3.1 Integrated Sustainability For each new project it is planned the existence of a socioG4-16 Global Compact, consolidating its commitment to sustainability Management System (ISMS) environmental risk assessment based on a preliminary study G4-HR1 The Human Rights protection is an intrinsic theme for principles towards its stakeholders. phase, from which results a potential socio-environmental risk G4-HR3 G4-HR5 and values of Odebrecht’s activity. As mentioned before, TEO Odebrecht has implemented, as a management tool, the rating. Each project’s risk level allows to determine the potential G4-HR6 constitutes the ethical and cultural reference framework for Integrated Sustainability Management System (ISMS). This level of socio-environmental impacts and the mitigation and G4-HR8 G4-HR9 the behaviour of all employees of the Organization. 2.3 Sustainability Strategy system is adapted to each business and all the company’s compensation measures to be included in the plan. activity and operation is performed according to its guidelines. The Organization’s Code of Conduct establishes and reinforces Therefore, every project has its own IP Sustainability which is principles of non-discrimination, non-use of forced labour, of Odebrecht sustainability strategy is set out in corporate The ISMS unfolds in five guidelines: Environment, Climate the key instrument for the risk management in the Organization, non-tolerance for sexual exploitation or child labour and people principles and values of TEO and in its Sustainability Policy. The Change, Social Programmes, Occupational Health and Safety since it integrates and articulates the economic, social, trafficking. Also explains that all the employees’ conduct must action focused on sustainability consists in driving each one Promotion and Safety at Work. Each guideline provides environmental, political and cultural aspects that are design to be accomplished with social responsibility, avoiding waste, of the businesses in order to generate positive results for all detailed procedures, instructions and indicators that guide the benefit the communities. With this risk management model, the respecting the environment and cultural values, human rights stakeholders in the present and in the future. preparation of the Sustainability Integrated Programme (IP Precautionary Principle compliance is ensured by Odebrecht. and social organization in the communities. Sustainability) specific to each business. The programme is built with the vision of the particularities of each business, integrating On the other hand, while there is no set of specific clauses, all According to Odebrecht’s Sustainability applicable legal requirements, licensing requirements and of Odebrecht in Angola’s contracts refer to the strict adherence Policy, the following principles set Odebrecht’s permits, contractual obligations, agreements and commitments to the principles prescribed by law, as well as the protection of commitment in this area: to investors, funders and other stakeholders, among other Human Rights, guaranteed by Title II of the Angolan Republic aspects. Constitution and appeal to the respect of the Code of Conduct the enhancement of people’s life conditions; for Suppliers. the reduction of environmental impacts; During 2015, there were no cases related to situations of violation Organization’s Sustainability Policy of indigenous or traditional people rights or, complaints related to control over the used processes and technologies hazards human rights violations or cases of discrimination at Odebrecht and risks; in Angola. Guidelines the use of materials and raw materials that reduce the consumption of natural resources and specially non2.2.2 Associations and external Initiatives renewable resources; and The promotion and suitability of projects and enhancing Odebrecht in Angola has had a particular important role in the the regional production in order to expand the benefits and Environment Climate Social Occupational Safety Changes Programmes Health At Work area of health, through the participation and promotion of a set contribute to their development. of actions that aim to boost the interaction with the Angolan Government and other civil society organizations, searching for effective responses to some of the main health problems faced The path to the sustainable development has also been pursued Integrated Sustainability by the communities. by Odebrecht by participating in international initiatives that Management System Manual aggregate entities with the same development goals, such as the In this context, the organization was founder and is the leader of participation in COP 21 or the convergence with the Sustainable Activity and Processes Activity and Processes the Business Committee for fight against HIV/ AIDS in Angola, it Development Goals (SDGs). Aspects and Risks Aspects and Risks is a permanent member of the Forum of Partners against Malaria and is a partner of the National Centre of Blood and Angola Red Contracts Cross. Legal Requirements, EIA’s Integrated Technical Standards, Studies More information about the Odebrecht’s presence in COP 21 and Licenses and Particular Conditions Programme and Engineering Solutions the Organization’s activity convergence can be found at: Of Sustainability The action of Odebrecht in Angola has excelled over the years http://odebrecht.com/en/communication/news/odeby working together with these associations, having created brecht-businesses-reinforces-commitment-global-climateprogrammes that contributed to strengthening the country’s Contract Obligations Goals, Targets and agenda Indicators of the programmes performance in the prevention and eradication of malaria and other relevant health aspects. In the business domain, Odebrecht in Angola is a Collective Member Other System Requirements of the Angolan Order of Engineers, it is a founding member of the • Implementation and Operation Corporate Social Responsibility network in Angola and a partner of • Monitoring and verification • Critical Analysis the Association of Brazilian Business and Executives in Angola. 22 23 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results 2.3.2 Sustainability Objectives and Targets Odebrecht in Angola establishes, annually, a set of objectives work developed over its period of permanence in Angola This is for its different activity areas which contributes to enhance a procedure defined in the Company’s Sustainability Policy. the Company’s sustainability performance and continue the SCOPE OBJECTIVES / TARGETS OBJECTIVES ACHIEVEMENT LEVEL ODEBRECHT MATERIAL THEME Conclusion and delivery of the following project phases on the established Economic and operational performance deadline: Economic performance; • Sonaref Marine All the contracts were delivered and concluded on time. Products and services excellency and quality • Sonaref Road • “Águas de Talatona” condominium – Talatona’s Esso Residential Image and reputation • Having a positive exposure in the local media In 2015 there was a positive exposure in the local media with 87% of positive news Products and services excellency and quality or articles related to Odebrecht. Ethics and Conduct; Ethics and conduct • Adapt the Code of Conduct training for operational level employees The code of conduct adaption was performed. Transparency; Human Rights protection A great effort was made in order to inform all employees about the Company’s Code Ethics and Conduct; • Deliver and inform every employee of Odebrecht in Angola about the of Conduct, by performing extensive awareness campaigns. Transparency; new version of the Code of Conduct Human Rights protection In addition, all the members received training about this subject. People • Increase the participation of Angolan employees in the Company’s During 2015, 33 and 24 promotions of Young Partner to Project Responsible Employment creation; management levels and Trainees to Young Partners were carried out, respectively. This means Income generation opportunities creation; there was a total increase of 6% compared with the previous year. Employees education; Involvement with the community Employment creation; • 1 trainee per each project manager Each project manager was supported by a trainee. Income generation opportunities creation; Employees education; Involvement with the community • Edition of the first annual sustainability results report (relative to 2014’s On the several communication’s platforms activity) in line with the international report references – Global Reporting The report was edited and published on the several communication’s platforms Transparency Initiative (GRI) and COP under the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and its release on the platforms of these initiatives Environmental responsibility promotion; Sustainability Environment • 50% of the contracts include at least one structured programme of resource 83% of the ongoing contracts in 2015 had resource-saving programmes. Water Sustainable Use; savings (e.g.: water, energy, GHG) Other natural resources Sustainable management; Biodiversity conservation Caption: Not Accomplished Partially Accomplished Accomplished 24 25 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results 2.3.2 Sustainability Objectives and Target SCOPE OBJECTIVES / TARGETS OBJECTIVES ACHIEVEMENT LEVEL ODEBRECHT MATERIAL THEME Products and services Excellency and quality; Sustainability – Socio-environmental • Change of the indicators system including a good practices component Environmental Performance Indicator (EPI) and Social Performance Indicator Environmental Responsibility promotion; (EPS) Implementation. Water Sustainable Use; Other resources sustainable management; Biodiversity conservation Income generation creation of opportunities; Sustainability – Social Programmes • 75% of the contracts have to perform or participate in at least one structured Stakeholder’s engagement; 75% of the contracts with structured programmes. Community empowerment; social programme Community health and safety; Involvement with the community • Musculoskeletal Work Related Diseases Rate [MWRDR]: 0.00 [MWRDR] = 3.00 (Max.) [ARWDR]: 0.02 • Absenteeism related to work diseases rate [HLI]: 0.02 Occupational Health and Safety [ARWDR] = 5.00 (Máx.) [ANwRR]: 10.65 • Hearing Loss Index [HLI] = 2.00 (Max.) • Absenteeism non-work related rate [ANWRR] = 10.0 (Max.) Occupational Health and Safety Sustainability – Occupational Health %HTrOH = 0.45% • Minimum percentage of training hours in Occupational Health (%HTrOH) = 0.25 % Occupational Health and Safety; An increase from 4.6 (2014) to 8.5 (2015) of Malaria Incidence Rate was Working Conditions • Reduction of malaria incidence in the workforce verified, although in the controllable populations, a decrease was confirmed. Angola Safety Commitment full disclosure A great movement to disseminate this initiative was verified, which has produced important results in creating awareness next to the employees Occupational Health and Safety and population of the works. • Single Frequency Ambulatory Care Rate [SFACR] = 4.15 (Max) • Injury Rate without lost days [IRNLD] = 1.15 (Max) [SFACR]=2.08 • Injury Rate with lost days [IRWLD] = 0.70 (Max.) [IRNLD] = 0.99 • Total Frequency Rate [TFR] =6.00 (Max.) [IRWLD] = 0.59 Occupational Health and Safety • Severity Rate [SR] = 20 (Max.) [TFR] = 3.66 [SR] = 8 • Zero serious or fatal accidents Sustainability – Occupational safety There was one fatal accident. Occupational Health and Safety; Working Conditions • Minimum percentage of training hours about Safety at Work (%HTrSW) = 1.5% %HTrSW = 3.85 % 5,372 PRÉVER inspections were performed to every Odebrecht in Angola Occupational Health and Safety; • 100% of ongoing contracts engage and report the PRÉVER (Programa de ongoing projects. Employees education Prevenção de Eventos Graves Serious Events Prevention Programme) and Evaluation Management System programmes in accordance with their Occupational Health and Safety; conceptual bases There was a significant increase of deviations observed. Environmental Responsibility Promotion Occupational Health and Safety; • Increasing the number of deviations observed Sustainability – Human Rights • Human Rights in business training plan for the security personnel The Human Rights in business training for security personnel wasn’t performed due to a priority change. Human Rights Protection Caption: Not Accomplished Partially Accomplished Accomplished 26 27 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-24 G4-29 G4-25 2.4 Commitment with stakeholders G4-26 G4-27 The good relationship with Odebrecht’s key stakeholders is an As so, the Company develops a set of actions directed to different important element for its activity success. The close relationship groups of stakeholders, considering its main expectations, as shown Suppliers and service providers Local Communities and meeting the needs of each stakeholders group is essential below for its main stakeholder groups: Material suppliers, External Services, Communities to the sustainability of Odebrecht’s projects in Angola and to the Outsourcing continuity of its business prosperity. Key actions Key Actions · Permanent dialogue and win-win leveraging opportunities · Social impacts evaluation · Local hiring · Surrounding community needs diagnosis · Communities consultation Main Expectations · Social projects implementation · Business opportunities Main Expectations · Greater participation of local communities in social projects selection · Employment and income generation · Education and training · Support to local development and the suppression of people’s needs Shareholders Clients Management board Public and private Key actions Key actions · Annual setting of sustainability goals and targets · Permanent Dialogue and enhancement of win-win opportunities · Periodical economic and financial data report · Local hiring · Periodical sustainability data report · Annual setting of goals and objectives Main Expectations · Product quality Financial Community Unions Main expectations · Good Practices communication Investors, Analysts, Investment Funds Managers · Good Economic and Financial Results · Services efficiency Labour unions · Good sustainability performance · Deadlines compliance Key Actions Key Actions · Maintenance and consolidation of reputation in the eyes of clients, · Implementation of the Company’s Sustainability Integrated Plan guidelines · Implementation of the Company’s Sustainability Integrated Plan guidelines suppliers, funders, government and society · Adapt the organization’s management and operations to funders’ specific · Frequent dialogue between both parties · TEO aligned conduct requests Main Expectations Main Expectations · Continuous improvement of working conditions and labour relationships · Compliance with economic, social and environmental financing requirements · Cooperation and dialogue Society Organizations Gonvermental Authorities and Regulatory Entities Human Rights Organizations, NGO’s, Environment Ministries, Local Authorities, Government, Regulatory Entities Defence Organizations, Local Associations, others Key actions Key Actions · Implementation of the Company’s IP-Sustainability guidelines · Implementation of the Organization’s Sustainability Integrated Plan guidelines Employees Business partners · Communication of Odebrecht’s activities · Continuous improvement plan of the Company’s management and operation All members of Odebrecht in Angola Joint ventures partners adopted practices. Main expectations Key Actions Key Actions · Good practices application in the organization’s conduct Main Expectations · Internal communication campaigns · Governance best practices · Legal compliance · Continuous training and career plan · Continuous improvement of processes · Local market compatible remuneration Main Expectations · Respect for local culture · Annual Pact (AP) · Activity transparency Main Expectations · Training education and career plan · Organization’s image (brand) · Remuneration and wages transparency · Organizational climate and Leader-Led communication improvement · Working conditions · Benefits Media and opinion makers Academic Community Newspapers, Magazines, Television, opinion makers sites Universities, Investigation Institutes, Middle school Institutes The systematic identification of the main stakeholders groups of The close relation between Odebrecht and its stakeholders, and Key Actions Key Actions Odebrecht in Angola (above identified) preceded their auscultation its actions (mentioned above), are based on the operation of a set · Good relations with the media and frequent publication of press releases · Young Partners Programme · Odebrecht Award for Sustainable Development in 2014 during the planning of the sustainability results report related of interaction and communication mechanisms, which in turn are Main Expectations · Odebrecht in Angola core visit programme to 2014, which in fact was the first report of the current sustainability fundamental tools for managing expectations from stakeholders, · Good practices communication · Information transparency Main Expectations reporting cycle. by seeking a conciliation of interests from both parts, and helping to · Employment creation add sustainable value. Those mechanisms and the frequency of the · Working life integration of University Students · Cooperation communication and interaction actions with different stakeholders groups occurrence are detailed in chapter 7 of this report. 28 29 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results 2.5 ODEBRECHT AWARD FOR SUSTAINABLE The external evaluation commission, responsible for choosing 2.6 CERTIFICATIONS CRE6 DEVELOPMENT the three winning projects, was composed by the following: Odebrecht seeks to align its actions with the best international On April 22nd 2015, Odebrecht in Angola accomplished its 5th • Ministry of Science and Technology: 4 representatives management practices by aligning its management mechanisms edition of the Odebrecht Award for Sustainable Development, with the international certification standards management which the goal is to stimulate university students to participate • Ministry of Energy and Water: 1 representative systems. Within this scope, in 2015 Cambambes’ Dam project in the search for technical solutions that are responsible and revalidated its Integrated Management System of Quality, innovative in relation to sustainable development topics. • Ministry of Higher Education : 1 representative Environment and Safety and Health certification obtained in This contest is inserted in a wider programme developed by 2014, according to the standards ISO 9001; 14001 and OHSAS Odebrecht’s relation with public and private higher education 18001, respectively. institutions in the countries in which the corporation acts. In 2015, Belas Business Park and Talatona Residential projects Odebrecht in Angola believes that it is necessary to encourage not only had their Safety and Health Management Systems networking and teamwork by stimulating young engineers to certifications renewed, by the OHSAS 18001 standard, but also assume their role as “engineers of the future” capable to make obtained Quality Management System certification according to a difference in the development of the country. This award and Odebrecht Award ISO 9001 standard. For Sustainable Development the commitment in this relation with the academic environment are important steps in that direction. In its 5th edition in Angola, 106 applications were made by 45 competitors from 16 universities, of which 12 are based in Luanda, 1 in Benguela, 1 from Huambo and 2 from Huila. These numbers demonstrate the growing interest in the Odebrecht Award among students, advisors and universities. During the event, the three best projects were awarded, each with an amount of USD 22,500 being distributed USD 7,500 to each student or group of students, to each mentoring teacher Winning projects and each university the winners are linked to. Additionally, an ODEBRECHT AWARD 2015 internship in Odebrecht in Angola was offered to the winning students with the opportunity of an ongoing developing career in the company. Use of recycled plastic for implementation on asphalt University Jean Piageat of Angola – UNIPIAGEAT The submitted projects have gone through a process of Student – Lourival Santana Jorge Afonso internal and external evaluation which was based on the Mentor – Sonia Paím engineering contribution in terms of sustainable development and it was considered the content, clarity, reasoning, depth, Sustainable Asphalt – A current challenge technical contribution, applicability and graphical presentation. University Metodista of Angola – UMA Students– Joelson Vidal Velhinho and Aldemiro Jorge Mariata The internal evaluation commission was undertaken by 35 Mentor – Jorge Mariata employees from Odebrecht’s areas of Sustainability, Equipment, Production, Engineering and some Contract Directors. Biodigestion of sludge in the draining ditches for agricultural use and biogas generation University Jean Piageat of Angola UNIPIAGEAT Students – Madalena Manuela da Fonseca Fernandes and Melquide Wanderley Martins Neto Mentor – Albertina Canda 30 31 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results +Commitment to the ENVIRONMENT Odebrecht in Angola continues to focus on spreading the respect for the environment, through the practices implemented in their projects and real actions and awareness among the communities and their members, and reinforced in 2015 its investment in the rational use of resources. Tab image + Commitment to the Environment: Cambambe’s Dam 32 33 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-22 G4-23 3. + Commitment to the ENVIRONMENT G4-EN8 3.1 THE BASES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL 3.1.1 Risk analysis and environmental The creation of a global information system (CERENSA) was 3.2 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF MANAGEMENT impact studies one of the adopted measures to monitor greenhouse gas NATURAL RESOURCES emissions (GEE), which shows the annual emission inventory Odebrecht follows the requirements set in its Environment The completion of an environmental impact assessment (EIA) in of all the organization’s activities, promoting transparency and The E&C business is very demanding on the consumption Guideline of the Integrated Sustainability Management System a project is defined, considering the relevant legislation, by the comparability of data between projects. of natural resources, in particular water, fuel and energy (ISMS) for the adoption of practices to identify, assess and degree of socio-environmental risk assigned to it in a previous consumptions. These consumptions are directly dependent minimize negative environmental impacts that may be caused study phase analysis. The EIA is the starting point to carry out Internal Control on the nature, extent and stage of the construction project. by the projects carried out by its activities, enhancing positive the existent procedures for the sustainable management of Thus, it is difficult to identify a comparative basis which would impacts and promoting environmental responsibility. projects. Within internal control procedures, regular internal and external allow standardizing the resources consumption and generalize inspections are carried out to investigate the reliability of the resources reduction factors. 3.1.2 Environmental performance monitoring data and identify problems and improvement opportunities in relation to the environmental performance. In 2015, Odebrecht’s socio-environmental performance has 3.2.1 Sustainable water use been measured differently from what has been reported in recent years. Previously, performance results were reported Water is an essential natural resource for the construction in the ISAM (Socio Environmental Indicator), which in 2015 was activity. Despite the fact that is relatively abundant in the replaced by the IDS (Social Performance Indicator) and by the IDA ENVIRONMENTAL AUDITS majority of the places where Odebrecht operations are located Environmental (Environmental Performance Indicator). in Angola, it is a resource that deserves continuous attention Management Principles about its preservation. These two indicators allow the organization to have a global vision Number of Internal Audits of its sustainability performance in several projects in different In infrastructure construction works water is a very important Prior knowledge about the environment that will support geographies. resource, not only in terms of incorporation into the the project, regarding particularly its physical, biological and infrastructure itself, but also to supply the construction work socioeconomic aspects; Assess and classify the projects’s environmental and social Similar to ISAM, IDA and IDS are indicators composed of a set of environmental and social indexes respectively and compiled on a quarterly basis through a virtual platform specific to this purpose. 55 sites for employee’s consumption. All Odebrecht’s projects must include in its IP – Sustainability Number of impacts; In this platform, the information is consolidated by the project and External Audits a specific programme for the water supply, according to the geography, resulting in two indexes of environmental and social Environmental Guideline. 10 Ensure that each project meets the local legislation and performance which consider the level of risk and its performance. Client’s requirements, as well the licensing authorities Also, the Occupational Health and E&C Business Health requirements by practicing the necessary monotoring for The IDS and IDA report had some improvements over the ISAM Promotion Guidelines include the obligation to provide hygiene the effective fulfilment of those; report, now being more detailed, allowing a greater accuracy and health conditions to employees, which means access to Avoid interfering with protected habitats and safeguard endangered species; in the information provided. The IDA registers environmental information such as resources consumption, waste production or deforestation. The IDS registers data related to social projects 1 Number of Audits Under the potable water at the construction sites, and available water to ensure personal and collective hygiene conditions. ISO 14001 implemented together with the construction projects, such as The majority of Odebrecht construction sites in Angola are Certification Pulic participation promotion, communication and investments in social actions among other things. supplied by surface water collected from adjacent waterlines or consultation with all stakeholders in the operation’s area from the public water supply network. of influence; With the subscription of the Open Letter to Brazil about Climate Change, Odebrecht assumed in 2009 the commitment for There are other water supply forms in Odebrecht in Angola Promote natural resources rational use and their responsible mitigation and adaptation to Climate Change, ensuring the construction sites: (i) sea water collection and treatment conservation, ecosystems protection, biodiversity greenhouse gas (GHGs) control released by its operations in all by desalinization (SONAREF construction works); (ii) supply conservation and respect for local culture; geographies and the adoption of mitigation actions in relation to through water trucks; (iii) rain water reutilization and (iv) this issue. treatment of generated effluents for reutilization. In 2015, the Management programmes implementation considering total consumption of water resulting from Odebrecht in Angola the magnitude, complexity and scpoe of the projects. activity was 4,673,000 m3. 34 35 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-EN10 G4-EN27 About 85% of the water consumed at the active Odebrecht Although the comparability of total annual water consumption Wastewater reuse in Laúca Dam CRE2 projects in Angola originated from surface water collection in the data is limited, by using the water consumption rate per worker Kwanza River. Consumed water coming from the public supply it is possible to have a perception of the annual consumption In 2015 it was introduced an innovative water management These actions can be seen, for example, in the concrete plant, that network or water supplied by water trucks, is also considered evolution. In 2015, specific water consumption at Odebrecht model at the construction site of Lauca’s Dam that allowed to by adopting the “Recover” product to best inhibit the adhesion as surface water source, since its collection also origins from in Angola was 0.32 m3/worker, having increased in relation to decrease the amount of water collected from the environment of concrete to the internal metallic parts of the concrete mixers surface collection from the river. the previous year. This slight increase was due to the nature due to the implementation of a water reuse system. The adoption balloon, spent less water for its washing, reducing the volume of of the developed activities in the 2015 ongoing projects, which of a circular and non-linear water management model, allowed water collected for this purpose. required the use of larger amounts of water, along with the in 2015 the water reutilization of 75,000 m3/month, which is Water consumption by source reduction of workers. equivalent to the water supply for a city with 15,000 residents. Water reuse The main changes to the system were the adequacy of the 10% various structures producing effluent with tailored solutions, In 2015, the water reuse at Odebrecht´s projects in Angola is in order to modify the effluent into water that can be used for 5% a highlight. This was encouraged by the Contract Directors from different uses, such as wetting accesses, irrigation of areas in Laúca’s Dam and Cambambe´s Dam, reaching results never seen recovery, or even in the reintegration on the process. before in the company’s activities in Angola. The main types of wastewater produced at the construction The reuse of existing water in Odebrecht in Angola, refers to site are: proper treatment of wastewater, allowing its reuse in processes • Domestic wastewater: from accommodation facilities and similar to their previous use (as water recirculation from cafeterias; concrete mixers) or others (as the process of wetting roads). • Industrial wastewater: resulting from sand washing process, concrete production and washing concrete mixers, truck and The overall results of reuse water by Odebrecht in Angola equipment washing and tunnel excavation. related to its activity in 2015 are as follows: 85% In relation to the total wastewater generated at the construction site, it was possible to achieve a water reuse rate of about 60% Surface water (fresh water) Water reused percentage in 2015. Sea water (desalination plant) The target for 2016 is to reach a water reuse rate of 80% of all Wastewater reuse 40% treated wastewater. Wastewater reuse main advantages: The water consumption rate measures the water consumption • Economic use of water natural resource; verified in the Organization compared to the number of workers • Economically viable process and easily replicable, by reducing (employees and subcontractors) in a period of time. Taking the wastewater treatment and construction site water supply costs; number of workers as a measure of the Organization operations • Pollution prevention by not discharging effluents; dimension, we can obtain a more comparable view of the annual • Reputation gain by the satisfaction of stakeholders involved consumptions, in that it weights the greater or lesser intensity of in the project with the results obtained from wastewater reuse operations in the reporting period. practices. 60% This change in Lauca’s Dam water management model, saves about 31,500 USD/year in water costs. The money saved was 2013 2014 2015 reallocated to support the research of new technologies which ensure the project’s production process efficiency and also in the training of local workforce without experience in this area 1.42 0.14 0.32 Non Reused water in order to make them capable to influence the reuse practice Reused water in new projects. Water consumption rate (m3/worker) In addition to the actions taken to increase the generated In 2015, obtained results in water reuse has increased significantly wastewater reuse, actions to rationalize the use of water were in relation to the previous year, due to the implementation of also implemented, resulting in a decrease of the total volume of reuse systems in several projects. water collected. 36 37 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-EN1 G4-EN3 G4-EN2 Wastewater management 3.2.2 Other Resources Most Odebrecht in Angola´s projects of Odebrecht in Angola The decrease observed in 2014 to 2015 corresponds to a saving G4-EN5 G4-EN22 projects are located outside large urban centers where there is of 162,908 GJ and is mainly related to a decrease in the number of G4-EN6 The IP-Sustainability for each project also defines the Raw materials consumption no electric supply network. Therefore, most of the electricity active projects in 2015 relatively to 2014, with the project phase methodologies to be applied for the proper treatment and consumed at the projects were locally produced by diesel in which the works are at, and with the replacement of power destination of wastewater produced by the activity in compliance In 2015 the main raw materials used by Odebrecht in Angola were generators in 2015. Even in projects where there is electric power source occurred in Lauca’s Dam. Thus, it was verified in 2015 an with the applicable legislation in the country of operation. At asphalt and cement. Concrete isn’t considered a raw material network, there are always diesel generators to guarantee the increase in electricity consumption associated with the entry into Odebrecht in Angola construction sites the typical wastewaters because all of the concrete used in 2015 was manufactured stability of the system. operation of the power transmission line directly from the Capanda produced are: at the construction site from cement. At Odebrecht in Angola Hydroelectric Power Station to supply the Láuca Dam project. This operations the majority of raw materials consumed are from was an important step to reduce fuel consumption, emissions • Domestic: from sanitary facilities of the construction site; non-renewable sources. and environmental noise, since it allowed the demobilization of 13 generators in this project, of which 9 were working 24 hours/day. Energy consumption in the Organization by source (GJ) • Industrial: from concrete plants and contaminated wastewaters The consumption of raw materials during 2015 resulting from It also generated a monthly saving of approximately 66,000 liters with fats and oils originated from mechanical activities and Odebrecht in Angola activities are specified below. of fuel. washing equipments. 2013 In 2015, there was no recycled material used as raw material on However, most past of the energy consumed by Odebrecht in Whenever there is public sewerage near the construction the construction works. 2,000,000 1,753,744 1,762,465 Caption: Angola continues to be from non-renewable sources, such as sites, the wastewater disposal is performed directly on the Diesel fossil fuels (diesel). network under a license. In the case of nonexistence of a 1,500,000 consumption public sewerage, the necessary infrastructure for wastewater Raw material consumption Electricity treatment and disposal at the environment are build. There are consumption also cases where effluents are stored and transported in tank 16,009 (t) 500,000 Total energy Renewable and Non-renewable energy consumption in the trucks to disposal and treatment in appropriate facilities. 12 (t) 25,709 (t) 8,721 Organization consumption 0 The management and responsibility for the discharges, and 190,271 (t) quality of wastewater discharged, are locally ensured in each work site. In 2015, it was possible to measure more precisely 2014 the amount of wastewater produced in active projects due to the installation of flowmeters at the exit of each treatment 2,000,000 1,599,557 Caption: plant for the majority of projects. Thus, in 2015, it was produced 1,590,548 94% 6% Diesel 1,159,000 m3 of wastewater from Odebrecht in Angola activities, 1,500,000 consumption from which 700,000 m3 were discharged in an appropriate Electricity destination, regarding projects in which was possible to take consumption 500,000 Total energy measurements. consumption In 1,067,000 (t) 9,009 the Organization NON-RENEWABLE RENEWABLE 0 Fuel Electricity Consumption Consumption Asphalt (diesel) (hydroelectric) Cement 2015 Steel Similar to the water resource, the energy intensity of the 2,000,000 Caption: Organization was also obtained through the ratio between the Wood 1,447,938 Diesel total energy consumption and the total number of workers. Whitewash 1,367,548 1,500,000 consumption Thus, although the total absolute energy consumption of the Electricity Organization was smaller, it was observed a slight increase in consumption Energy Management the energy intensity, related to a lower reduction in proportion 500,000 Total energy of the total number of workers than the absolute reduction in 80,559 consumption in the The main sources of electric energy in Angola are hydro power Organization energy consumption. and thermal power. 0 2013 2014 2015 The electricity distribution network is organized primarily to supply large urban centers, and is currently being executed an The total energy consumption has been decreasing over the electrification plan of the whole territory. years at Odebrecht in Angola. The fuel consumption is related 119.0 90.3 97.7 to the generators operation and the fuel is used by Odebrecht in Angola’s operational transportation fleet. Organization’s energy intensity [GJ/worker] 38 39 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-EN27 3.3 FOSTERING ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSABILITY The performance related to environmental responsibility of The development of environmental awareness and education G4-EN23 G4-EN24 Odebrecht in Angola is the result of operational investments programmes for the local communities surrounding the projects is G4-EN31 and the implementation of good practices continuously another way to foster Odebrecht Environmental Responsibility. In CRE5 Fostering environmental responsibility is ensured at Odebrecht in also defined annually. The set of procedures implemented incorporated by the Organization in its projects in the country. these programmes, the valorization regarding environmental care is Angola through the implementation of mitigation, correction and in the projects are defined in each of them according to the These investments are managed by each of the projects and induced by conducting awareness campaigns about environmental compensation measures for its project´s impacts, as defined in its environmental risks identified in the project study phase, are intended to preventive, monitoring, control, remediation, issues in communities, such as waste recycling or the maintenance Sustainability Policy and ISMS Guidelines. allowing the mitigation of environmental impacts, particularly mitigation, recovery and environmental education actions. of public hygiene. with regards to: Those are part of the IT-Sustainability of each project, being guided Odebrecht’s sustainable integrated vision allowed the creation of by targets annually defined by the CD based on the Action Plan interaction mechanisms with the communities where, in one hand, it is promoted the environmental responsibility and, on the other In 2015 the total investment in hand, the improvement of quality of life of the communities in environmental actions was USD 6,528,190 the surroundings areas of the the projects, as mentioned before, through family farming programmes, where communities are IMPACT APPLIED SOLUTIONS encouraged to cultivate native species trees, which are later used by Odebrecht in the reforestation of deforested areas. Contamination by sanitary wastewater • Implementation of preliminary and primary treatment and its stages: screening gift chambers, sedimentation, flotation, Oil/ water separator, equalization, neutralization and flow meters One of the major environmental impacts of the construction • Secondary treatment implementation and its stages: stabilization ponds, aerated lagoons, activated sludge and its variants, Biological filtration and anaerobic reactors industry is deforestation. The execution of large projects such In the ongoing projects of Laúca’s Dam and Sonaref are in • Implementation simplified treatment and its stages: septic tank, anaerobic filter and anaerobic sludge blanket reactor as dams or roads requires, in most cases, deforestation and course socio-environmental projects of this nature, as specified • Other: collection by tank ground cleaning. Odebrecht’s environmental guideline foresees in the chapter related to Odebrecht in Angola work with the Contamination by industrial wastewater • Implementation of setting and sedimentation ponds for the treatment of effluents coming from concrete mixers washing areas, concrete and the implementation of a Vegetation Suppression procedure in communities. crushing site plants according to API standard/ “Construction Kit” (Odebrecht internal standards) • Implementation of water/ oil separators systems and standard API/ “Construction Kit” for Oily Wastewater (Odebrecht internal standards) the IP-Sustainability for each project. This procedure foresees • Implementation of preliminar and primary treatment and its stages: screening, grit chambers, sedimentation, flotation, Oil/ water separator, equalization, neutralization and flow meters deforestation but also recovery actions for the affected areas. For most cases, these mitigation and recovery actions are 3.3.1 Waste Management Accidents: • Implementation of special systems for chemicals handling and all its stages: reception, identification, storage, labeling, Transportation offset in time in relation to deforestation actions, occurring at • Explosives and handling • Industrial gases • Planned mitigation actions in emergency situations such as spills, leaks, overflows, fire principles, explosions, etc. the end and beginning of works. All Odebrecht projects incorporate a waste management system • Liquid fuels/ flammable according to the ISMS Environmental Guideline. This system • Oily materials • Corrosive products In 2015, the resulting deforested area of Odebrecht’s activity in allows the correct handling, treatment and final disposal of the Angola was about 26 ha, and deforestation actions occurred in the waste produced at work protecting the environment and always Air polution by: • Implementation of an adequated vehicles and equipment maintenance system and subsequent control of its combustion products • Combustion products emission by vehicles and other • Implementation of an adequate particulate matter collection and treatment system (cyclones, fabric filters, etc) projects of Laúca´s Dam and Cambambe’s Dam. respecting the laws in force in the country of operation. The diesel equipments • Implementation of an adequate dust control system on site aggregates processing plants and concrete production guideline also provides a set of procedures for the prevention • Dust in aggregates benefiting plant and concrete • Implementation of an adequate dust control on transit routes and earth-moving work areas production The recovery of degraded areas by deforestation is in most of of spills which are always implemented when the risk of their • Dust in the roads and earth-moving operation areas, cut and fill the cases performed by reforestation. Exceptionally, whenever existence is identified. In 2015 there was no register of significant necessary, it is performed the treatment of environmental spills of hazardous substances to the environment resulting from Improper disposal of: • Site landfill implementation liabilities. In 2015, 64 ha of deforested areas were recovered Odebrecht in Angola activities. • Inert non-hazardous waste • Implementation of a construction waste management system in the construction site and its stages: classification, identification, Packaging, • Not inert non-hazardous waste transportation, reuse and recycling through reforestation actions, in the areas affected by Laúca’s • Hazardous waste • Implementation of a solid waste management system in the construction site and its stages: identification, packaging, segregation, temporary • Hazardous waste resulting from health services storage, selective collection, transportation, treatment and disposal Dam and Cambambe is Dam projects. The main types of waste produced by the operations of • Implementation of a thermal recycling system for hazardous waste in the construction site and its stages: classification, segregation, storage, Odebrecht in Angola correspond to inert materials, resulting quantification and disposal (incineration) • Implementation of a separation, handling and thermal recycling system for medical waste from the construction and demolition activities, organic • Other controlled Landfill/ Municipal waste generated in cafeterias and accommodations facilities, Environmental contamination by: • Topographic conformation evaluation medical waste, in cases where there are structures of • Concrete mixers and mixer trucks with concrete Waste • Implementation of stabilization and slope control procedures health support, oily wastes and other hazardous waste and washing activities • Implementation of proper removal of surface soil layers procedures • Earth works, excavation, drilling and cuting. • Planned actions of recovery andre-plantation of degraded areas YEAR DEGRADED RECOVERED contaminated materials also generated by the daily activity at • Wetting processes for control of air emissons AREA (HA) AREA (HA) the construction site. Excessive noise caused by: • Implementation of a preventive maintenance for noisy rotary dynamic equipments procedure 2013 351 0 The final destination of the waste from each project is planned • Excavation and blasting operations • Implementation of an explosive detonations management system • Earth-moving works, cut and fill according to the prediction of the type of waste that will be • Working with industrial and off-road equipment • Confined Work/ tunnels construction 2014 1,063 168 generated by the construction in articulation with the existing infrastructures in the region where the project is taking place, Degradation of flora and fauna by: • Implementation of a flora and fauna handling and rescue system 2015 26 64 if they exist. As the major part of Angola´s ongoing projects are • Excavation and blasting operations • Delimitation and optimization (reduction as much as possible) of the areas with vegetation to be removed and prioritizing the use of already • Construction, maintenance and recovery disturbed areas located outside major urban centers, in areas where municipal of access and routes • Implementation of procedures for genetic asset conservation • Cleaning area, deflorestation/ vegetation removal waste management systems are inexistent, the waste • Movement of land, cut and fillo produced by those projects is mostly treated onsite through infrastructures built for that purpose. 40 41 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-EN11 G4-EN19 G4-EN12 In Angola, inert and hazardous waste from demolition construction 3.3.3 Greenhouse Gas Emission EMISSIONS SCOPE I SCOPE II SCOPE III TOTAL EMISSIONS G4-EN13 works are usually recycled or reused on site, while hazardous waste SOURCE (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) G4-EN15 from health support activity are incinerated. According to the Climate Change Guideline of Odebrecht ISMS for G4-EN16 Food and boilers 593.72 157.49 751.21 G4-EN17 E&C business, this inventory differentiates direct from indirect emissions, scope 2 and 3 of the GHG Protocol. Fuels and 89,281.21 89,281.21 Amount of waste by final destination (t) lubricants (1) The Greenhouse Gas Inventory is carried out by all projects of Cutting and welding 82.76 0.79 83.56 14,000 the Organization in all geographies. In the construction activity, 13,007 the majority of GHG emissions are indirect and result from Deforestation production processes of raw materials (cement and steel) which 12,000 Wastewater 13,867.35 1,947.22 15,814.57 require the use of large amounts of energy. Electricity 10,712.89 10,712.89 10,000 In Angola, filling the emissions inventory was first held in 2010. Explosives 218.29 80.99 299.29 The results of the GHG emissions inventory related to the Raw Material 166,596.46 166,596.46 8,000 Odebrecht in Angola activities of 2015 was as follows: Reforestation 6,000 Refrigeration 2,659.39 2,659.39 Solid waste 2,747.98 565.31 3,313.29 4,000 2,445 Cargo transportation (2) 7,909.87 7,909.87 2,349 1,848 2,000 Employee 208.26 208.26 Transport (3) 532 Air travel 221.63 221.63 0 La Co m Re Re nd us TOTAL 109,450.71 10,712.89 177,688.03 297,851.63 post cy fil in g cl e Inci ne ing ration NOTES: (1) Corresponds mainly to emissions associated with burning generators fuels for electricity generation and emissions associated with Odebrecht in Angola own fleet; 3.3.2 Biodiversity conservation (2) Corresponding to cross-border transport of materials (3) Corresponds to the transport by subcontractors transport service providers. In 2015, new projects were not started, as so, similar to 2014, there are no activities located within or in protected areas adjacent lands, in areas with high biodiversity value outside protected areas or in areas with significant impacts to endangered species. Total Emissions 2013 2015 (tCO2e) The projects located in areas of higher risk of decreased 700,000 Caption: 665,062 biodiversity, are always subject to EIA, as described earlier, Scope I which define the mitigation measures to face the impacts on 600,000 biodiversity, flora and fauna in each project. The land where Scope II Odebrecht’s worksites are located are prepared in advance and, 500,000 Scope III for all of them recovery measures for habitat are foreseen. Total Emissions 400,000 534,965 357,456 297,852 300,000 190,964 200,000 177,688 834 476 10,713 100,000 165,658 129,620 109,451 0 2013 2014 2015 42 43 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-EN18 G4-EN29 Organizations’s GHG emissions Intensity Fines and environmental penalties This indicator allows the perception of the impact of Odebrecht in In 2015, there was no register of non-monetary fines or penalties Angola total emissions per worker. It translates into a ratio (tCO2e due to non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations / worker) which allows to compare annually the evolution of the against Odebrecht in Angola. level of carbon intensity, leading to better planning of mitigation measures on GHG emissions. Over the past three years there has been a decrease of total emissions and emissions intensity, which follows the trend of the organization in its commitment to combat climate change, reflected in a general decline in most parameters. In the case of emissions associated with domestic wastewater, the increase is associated with improved wastewater monitoring mechanisms observed in 2015. Organization’s carbon intensity [tCOe/member] 2013 44.9 2014 20.2 2015 20.1 44 45 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results +COMMITMENT TO PEOPLE Odebrecht in Angola continues to claim people as a main asset their Angolan employees and young masses represent a permanent investment in relation to issues of health, safety and training for the labour market. Tab image + Commitment To People Infrastructures Project 46 47 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-10 G4-LA12 4. + COMMITMENT TO PEOPLE G4-EC6 4.1 OUR PEOPLE Employees percentage by People, as key players in business performance, are Odebrecht Total of direct employees of nationality and function main asset. Odebrecht in Angola The development of each member is based on the partnership 14,000 100% 2% between Leader-Team Members, on a planned delegation and 12,363 a succession of planning cycles, monitoring, commitment and 80% 12,000 2% evaluation. 10,835 10,319 60% Odebrecht’s human resources policy is based on the capabilities 10,000 to identify, develop, evaluate and integrate, characteristics that 89% give to employees an elevated capacity to adapt to different 40% 8,000 73% businesses on every country where Odebrecht operates. 5,360 20% 5% It’s expected that employees have a proactive approach on the 6,000 4,490 3% 3% 15% 3% development of their career in the organization. With people as 3,982 1% 1% 1% 0% 1% 0% 1% the central figure in Odebrecht, the respect for human rights is 4,000 0 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 present in the organization code of conduct and TEO. Directors and Technical Staff Operational staff Other 2,000 Management Team employees In 2015, permanent employees at Odebrecht in Angola, decreased about 12% over the previous year. It’s a result of Caption: demobilization that occurred due to the reduction of projects in 0 Angolan Expatriates progress compared to the previous year. This year was affected 2013 2014 2015 by the strong financial constraints, both for the company and the country, factor that influenced its operation. Caption: Odebrecht employees nr. All Odebrecht direct employees have permanent contracts and at a full-time basis, and in 2015 about 27% of the total workforce Outsourcing employees nr. in Odebrecht in Angola, was subcontracted. Some activities are performed by subcontracted companies with specific expertise hired by Odebrecht in Angola, strengthening the national business network of the Organization’s related Employees Distribution by gender Employees percentage by nationality sectors. 92% 8% 763 10,072 Female Men Angolan Expatriates The big difference between the number of men and women is explained by the nature of the construction activity, and for the fact that the work is largely held in remote areas, causing in long term periods away from family. 48 49 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-LA1 In 2015, Odebrecht in Angola continued its mission to incorporate Employees distribution 4.1.1 Labour Conditions employees with Angolan nationality. As so, in 2015, 92% of by age group the total direct employees were Angolans, which represents Odebrecht promotes working conditions that allows its employees an increase of 2 percentage points in relation to previous to enjoy benefits, ensuring quality of life whatever the location year’s activities. This fact is due to the implementation of an of the operation. effective policy to train and specialize Angolan employees to be 5% Above 50 able to perform functions in operational or management and Odebrecht follows local labour laws in place in the countries leadership positions. where develops its operations. Angola’s operation is no exception and in this country labour regulation is in accordance with the General Labour Law of the Republic of Angola (LGT). In the case of expatriate employees whose home country´s labour laws are applicable abroad, the applied law is the one that most benefit 47% the worker. 2015 Below 30 Turnover Rate AGE TURNOVER TURNOVER RATE GENDER TURNOVER TURNOVER RATE 48% GROUP 2015 (NR.) BY AGE GROUP 2015 (NR.) BY GENDER 30 and 50 Below 30 2,606 24% Male 394 4% 30 and 50 2,825 26% Female 5,392 49% Above 50 355 3% Total 5,786 53% 3% 4% Total 5,786 53% 2% Admission Rate 91% AGE NEW HIRES NEW HIRES GENDER NEW HIRES NEW HIRES GROUP 2015 (NR.) RATE BY 2015 (NR.) RATE BY AGING GROUP GENDER Below 30 2,221 20% Male 140 1% 30 and 50 1,480 14% Female 3,660 34% Above 50 99 1% Total 3,800 35% Total 3,800 35% Caption: Directors and Management Team Technical Staff Operational Staff Other Employees 50 51 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-11 G4-LA2 However, in 2015, due to contingencies arising from the was the reason for this increase. However it’s important to point 4.2 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA4 macroeconomic context, expatriate member’s conditions had some out that this correction does not prevent or limit for subsequent G4-LA11 changes. Despite these, Odebrecht in Angola guaranteed working wage adjustments related to the merit evaluations. Occupational Health and Safety issues are fundamental for E&C G4-LA13 G4-EC5 quality and living conditions for expatriated employees. Odebrecht business, since the construction activity presents G4-HR4 Odebrecht employee´s career development is supported by high risks in this area. Odebrecht operates under guidelines of All members are entitled to a life insurance that fully covers the their performance evaluation. According to TEO principles, all Occupational Health and Safety, in line with its Sustainability Occupational issues of death and partial or total invalidity. For health insurance, employees have an annual commitment to their immediate Policy. These set out the risk prevention and control practices and Safety Principles expatriate members have compulsory insurance, where the laws superior, called Action Programme, which defines objectives procedures applicable to the contracts since the moment of the in their countries of origin so require. Angolans have a optional and personal goals. All employees are evaluated annually, in two previous study and planning, until the final phase of demobilization, membership health insurance in which Odebrecht in Angola phases, with no differentiation by gender. In 2015, all 763 female for the protection of people, surroundings and assets. Ensure that the Occupational Safety theme is a differentiating covers 80% of the value and the employee ensures the rest. and 10,072 male received feedback. element of the process, activities and brand quality, in the The concern with these issues is also reflected in the employee’s projects. The responsibility of protecting people and applying Odebrecht projects are often located in remote areas and away At Odebrecht evaluation is shared between the employee and productivity and by consequence in the organization, since the occupational safety good practices is of each Contract from towns or villages well provided with urban infrastructures. its leader, and through a specific conversation, both face the workers on a working environment with adequate hygienic, health Director and his team; As so, Odebrecht is committed to provide all the conditions at actual results in comparison with the expected results. and safety conditions, have high levels of productivity. construction sites to ensure quality of life for its employees. Construction sites have accomodations with required hygiene The evaluation measures simultaneously the employee These guidelines of Occupational Health and Safety constitute Plan, implement and maintain on each contract an Occupational and health conditions. In all the construction sites employees performance regarding the execution of what was planned, and the guidelines for good practices and procedures implementation Safety Programme, adapted to the dimension, complexity and have health care services, leisure areas, rest areas, recreation the leader performance in monitoring the process. in each contract Occupational Health and Safety Programme: magnitude of the liabilities and risks of each project; areas and in most of them sports camps. All the construction sites are fitted with a cafeteria where three meals a day are provided, breakfast, lunch and dinner, to all the team members. 4.1.2 Freedom of Association Fully meet the client’s needs and expectations, with knowledge Employees are charged a symbolic value for the total monthly of Occupational Safety contractual requirements and other meals of about 4.54 USD. Odebrecht in Angola’s head office also Odebrecht supports free workers association as part of its applicable requirements; have a cafeteria with the same conditions. policy and conduct. Odebrecht in Angola offers transport between housing and the The majority of operational employees are unionized, and the Ensure legal compliance, considering the applicable legislation workplace to its members. country´s unions are organized by province. in the different operations; Odebrecht also ensures that all members have at work In 2015, all of Odebrecht in Angola’s employees were covered by personal protection equipment (PPE) and uniform for daily use, collective bargaining agreements, which are laid down with the Foster the development of a safety culture in the different to prevent and protect the worker from dangerous situations. unions on a provincial base and for individual questions, and not operation locations. The legal obligations are the minimum These are free to all members and its use is mandatory. for all the points of the LGT. In certain contracts the collective basis of action. The project features may require conditions agreement in the region of Luanda can be adopted, due to that exceed legal requirements; The nature of the E & C activity requires frequent demobilization particularities inherent to that specific contract. processes in Odebrecht’s annual activity. In Angola, LGT regulates such processes, being respected the time limit for workers Regarding the suppliers freedom of association issues compliance, Establish and monitor goals and targets for occupational notice set in such law which stands for 60 days for the technical these are considered in Odebrecht Suppliers Code of Conduct, safety in each project; staff and 30 days for operating level personnel. Demobilization which the suppliers are bound contractually to comply. clause are fixed in collective bargaining agreements. Ensure that Occupational Safety Programmes are based on According to its remuneration policy, Odebrecht in Angola sets the sequence of planning with focus on prevention; that practiced salaries in different countries where it operates, should be higher than the minimum salary paid in the respective country. The basic salary of each employee is assigned Adopt critical analysis of results, providing management according to the functional category and according to its career continuous improvement. development plan, without any differentiation by gender. The minimum wage practiced by Odebrecht in Angola has increased in relation to the same amount practiced in the previous year corresponding to a positive variation of 84% in relation to the national minimum wage. The compliance of the collective agreement that rules the operational labour remuneration adjustment by the annual change in CPI (Consumer Price Index) 52 53 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-LA5 Safety Management Model 4.2.1 Safety at Work (SW) To have a more effective operational management, Odebrecht 2015 was a year of changes about the way Safety at Work is seen implemented a control and monitoring tool with Safety at Work in Odebrecht in Angola. Despite the great importance given to (SW) indicators. This tool consists in an information system this issue, and Angola’s several projects being distinguished by that allows SW teams from all Odebrecht businesses, to their performance in occupational health and safety areas, 2014 Safety Commitment – Definition register monthly SW indicators, and with that, monitoring more was a less positive year’s, revealing the existence of failures in Odebrecht in Angola rigorously these issues, considering some goals: these areas. Given these facts, a thorough investigation was made to find the reasons that led to the occurrence of last • Define technical procedures for SW information’s process year’s tragic events and it was developed and implemented a 1. Odebrecht respect the laws and perform all activities in with the objective to operationalize the Safety Programme transversal plan to all projects to correct all observed failures. accordance with the established safety rules and standards; · Project Safety plan definition of the project, in accordance with Sustainability Policy; identification and preliminary analysis of risks and dangers · Safety engineering establishment The plan, based on the “Safety Commitment Odebrecht in • Evaluate Safety at Work Programme management in each Angola”, was designed and accepted by all Contract Directors, 2. Odebrecht refuses to do any work when there’s a severe · Constructive methodology focused on safety project; and is based in 10 basic rules (see box). This plan brings a and imminent risk to physical safety of any person; · Materials acquisition reinforcement for safety commitment of Odebrecht’s conduct • Qualify planning and control actions, training people and in Angola. All Contract Directors are committed to implement, campaigns actions; share and operationalize these rules within their teams. As 3. Risks of our activities are previously evaluated on all projects a result changes were introduced to all active projects. It is and measures are adopted to eliminate them; • Measure investments and costs for prevention, and related presented a Lauca’s Dam case study, where the implemented results; changes in the approach for safety issues were significant with Verification great operational results. 4. We only perform critical activities with qualified people; • Provide parameters for the continuous process of improvement; and 5. We separate vehicles and pedestrians equipment in our · Field results Measurement · Field Inspections • Establish preventive and corrective actions through the indicators work areas and accesses; · Indicators analysis. The system contains 70 Safety at Work procedures, 17 6. Temporary structures are designed with the same security performance targets and is available in three languages. as definitive structures and Odebrecht adopts safety means and effective collective protection; In 2015 it was elaborated the first Information and Data Implementation Control Report, to improve the reliability and robustness of the information gathering monitoring data processes. 7. We perform all activities with personal protection equipment (PPE) and adequate tools; Regarding the structure of safety at work, the LGT predicts · Training a Commission for the prevention of occupational accidents · Control Implementation known as CPAT existing in each construction site, having as its 8. We send the Permit to Work License (PW), for activities main responsibility the identification, analysis and monitoring of with high damage potential at the service sites and adopt all existing security risks, as it happens in all Odebrecht projects. necessary preventive measures; The members of this Committee are employees elected by their contract’s colleagues and its size depends on the size and Continuous Improvement characteristics of the worksite. 9. We register, communicate and investigate 100% of accidents and all high potential risk incidences; Each contract’s IP-Sustainability sets on the Safety at work Program, and the existence of an occupational safety at work dedicated team, following what is set up on the Brazilian 10. We do not accept violation of any point on this commitment. Labour Law and on the LGT. This team is composed by technicians and workers, nominated by Odebrecht in Angola and has the responsibility of implementing and maintaining each contract occupational Safety Programme adopting all the necessary measures to minimize the risks associated to the workers activity. 54 55 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results Laúca DAM In Odebrecht in Angola’s operations, the identified activities with Despite the remaining projects not being certified by the G4-LA6 CRE6 Safety at Work Management higher risks were: equipment use, excavation works, energy grids international standard, all the works have implemented Odebrecht works and work at heights. Positive results were achieved on Safety at Work System, so 100% of Odebrecht in Angola workers, The less positive results of Odebrecht SW in Angola and particular in incidents and accidents prevention at work, by increasing safety work in an environment with adequate safety conditions for the Lauca’s Dam project in 2014, revealed the need for an approach to change issues awareness for all employees. performed activity. Within the Odebrecht Safety at Work System, to SW management. In 2015 enormous changes were introduced in the audit actions and internal inspections to evaluate safety daily Safety at Work field. Deep structural measures have been taken which Despite gravity rate decrease, in 2015 occurred a fatal accident conditions on the construction site are also planned, as well as had as a fundamental principle “Intolerance for Accidents” and have been resulting from a support structure lifting. In 2015, the total the compliance with the procedures, set by the safety at work operationalized in three major initiatives: frequency rate also reduced. plan of the project. 1. To work with people inducing a behavioural change; The corporate programme SEPP (Serious Events Prevention 2. Specific actions for deviations treatment, through strict compliance Programme) was still ongoing in 2015, consisting in the execution 100% of Odebrecht in Angola with legal and systemic requirements; of a series of inspections called “Qualimetrias” (safety quality members work on an environment with 3. Risk management through the operational control over facilities and checks). These follow a check list of safety issues at work to adequate safety conditions. equipment. detect non conformities and potential accidents and to define In awareness and subcontractors management, a program called PRAOP improved procedures. These initiatives sustained a set of 13 programmes or action measures -Programme for Responsible Attitude of Odebrecht Partners was which were the focus of safety activities in 2015 in this project. implemented (PARPO in portuguese) connected to IPOE – Open Eyes In 2015, occupational health and safety systems for Cambambe’s Inspection Programme (PIOA in portuguese), consisting of carrying out Dam, Residential Talatona and Belas Business Park projects The first initiative was intended to promote among employees an cross-audits between Odebrecht members and Subcontractors, which were again certified for safety by the international standard awareness and perception about the risks from the activity, and to induce give systematic audit result records and work plans definition for faster OHSAS 18001. This means that about 37% of the total workers individual behaviour changes to each member. improvement. (employees and subcontractors) of Odebrecht in Angola’s operations, worked with a certified environment by this standard. Because each and every one is a key element in safety promoting, one PRAOP integrates a safety committee involving Odebrecht leaders of the major focus of the actions taken was related to communicating and partners at construction site, and an indicators system to evaluate better and more about safety issues. In this sense, it was created an subcontractors. The committee involve monthly meetings. It also associated symbology for each one of the 13 programmes or initiatives to involves a number of recognitions to stimulate better performances ensure an effective communication and awareness about the compliance on subcontractors such as: to these programmes. • Best team in charge; or • Best Safety at Work team ACCIDENT RATE 2013 2014 2015 Total Frequency Rate 5.81 4.67 3.66 Severity Rate 826 883 156 Several awareness campaigns and other attractive disclosure means about safety information were also implemented, such as: Fatalities 5 6 1 The third initiative focused on operational control through the • Security Rotation 4 joint events between the project top leadership implementation of a traffic safety control programme associated with and all the employees, dedicated for safety motivation; pedestrian areas and vehicle / equipment segregation, as well as a • Reflection Week Intolerance for Accident: to promote reflection Labour Safety Team design and qualification and creation of machinery about serious accidents at work 5 days, 5 subjects (heights working, and equipment committee. loads movement, trampling, electricity, safety posture). With a total participation of 4,078 members; In fact, many of the risks were associated with poor delimitation and • Informative report segregation of roads for vehicles and pedestrian’s safety, and because of that safety traffic control was one of the most important areas. The second initiative, intended to act on monitoring processes, engineering systematization of projects versus execution, strengthening In addition to increasing skills and the ability of the safety team, whose attention and promote subcontractors management, more systematic leader in the project has an exclusive competence, there was a strong approach over deviations treatment and planning prevention tasks APT commitment on getting closer the safety team and engineering and critical activities. competences, promoting greater analysis and joint resolution of problems, all of this provided by several of the 13 mentioned programmes and aspects such as safety team location in different project frontlines. 56 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-LA6 In 2015, in addition to the OHSAS 18001 external audit at the All projects in any location must report their activities and results Integrated System for Emergencies and Rescue For musculoskeletal diseases it is monitored the Musculoskeletal G4-LA7 construction, the following actions were carried as internal on this system, according to what is defined in the Occupational work related diseases rate (MWRDR) that allows to know the safety control: Health Programme in IP-sustainability. In 2015, Integrated System for Emergencies and Rescue (ISER) incidence of this disease among direct employees of Odebrecht activity was consolidated in relation to the previous year. The in Angola. Safety internal control actions All aspects related to Occupational Health should be considered objective of this programme is to achieve excellence in the from the design phase, including specific conditions of the region procedures of response to medical emergencies and rescue needs. For hearing disorders it is monitored the Hearing Loss Index (HLI). where the project belongs. Thus, a set of operational programmes The analysis of this indicator allows the evaluation and measure Nr. of construction site audits for occupational health issues were defined, to be implemented The importance of this action is in the diversity of risks within of the incidence of hearing disorders in direct employees and regarding on the project such as the Hearing Protection Programme or the projects, and in the distance to hospitals qualified to treat the subcontractors. Number of audits to the Odebrecht Safety at Work 2 OHSAS 18001 certification Individual and Collective Health Promotion Programme among others. potential accidents or medical emergencies. The main actions developed by ISER in 2015 were: HLI results in 2015 show a decrease of this index among Odebrecht workers, revealing the value of preventive measures System 462 The implementation of occupational health programmes is the carried out in the last years of activity. In 2015, MWRDR results responsibility of the Contract Director, since it is responsible • Technical evaluations of all projects regarding the capability to were also very positive, with a significant decrease of this rate. for ensuring the safety medical and health care conditions respond to medical emergencies, including reports identifying This is the result of all recent years working together with in the work environment. On the other hand, employees are improvement opportunities to be adopted; occupational health teams, through ergonomics training courses, responsible for their individual health and should also function as which promoted the adoption of good practices and preventive health promoters for people and surrounding communities. 5,372 • From January to December 2015, once a month, presentations habits of musculoskeletal diseases among workers. and discussions of medical protocols for medical emergencies In 2015, the absenteeism rate related to occupational diseases were held, performing a total of 33 presented protocols; was stable in comparison to previous years and there was a Nº of quality slight increase in the number of occupational diseases rate. • 10 simulations, involving almost the majority of active projects Hearing Loss Index checks done regarding The absenteeism rate related to occupational diseases is only in 2015; PRÉVER presented for direct employees (the absenteeism rate of subcontracted workers is of the responsibility of their employer). • Basic and Intermediate Life Support Courses for teams in 50% of the projects totalizing 27 people trained; 0.03 0.06 0.02 4.2.2 Occupational Health (OH) • Disaster Management Plan for Multiple Victims for the project The Occupational Health guideline is also aligned with the OCCUPACIONAL DISEASES RATE 2013 2014 2015 with the largest effective member’s number in the Company. Organization´s Sustainability Policy. To differentiate the concepts 2013 2014 2015 of occupational health and health promotion, the first refers to Occupacional Diseases Rate 1.11 0.78 0.92 In 2016, training will be continued in these domains, performing services related to the workplace conditions, and the second to Absentee Rate (related to more basic and intermediate life support courses to cover all 0.03 0.02 0.02 the actions and initiatives that promote the health conditions work Diseases) health teams in the projects, presenting and discussing new improvement inside and outside the workplace. The main protocols, and continuing to make drills with subsequent critical objectives of the occupational health management system analysis of results. Musculoskeletal Diseases Rate implementation are: One of the most valuable results of ISER in 2015 was saving a life, 1. Ensure employees and worksite population general health as a result of an immediate medical assistance to an employee conditions; who had suffered a serious accident at work. 0.03 0.07 0.00 2. Comply with the legal requirements and responsibility not to The main occupational health risks identified in the E&C activity cause illness or work accidents; are musculoskeletal diseases, hearing loss issues and some respiratory diseases. However, in Angola, the main cause of 2013 2014 2015 3. Meet the challenges generated by clients making them absenteeism in Odebrecht in Angola is malaria, being developed compatible with the protection of the legal entity in order to a programme to combat this endemic disease whose results will safeguard the security of the organization; be detailed later on this report. 4. Establish sustained growth by applying the Sustainability Considering the most frequent occupational diseases, such as Directive and leading Occupational Health to participate actively musculoskeletal diseases and hearing disorders, Odebrecht in in the achievement of these outcomes in each contract. Angola monitors health parameters of its members by compiling a set of indicators that allow the management and definition of mitigation programmes and monitoring of positive cases of the disease. 58 59 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results 1. Introduction to the culture – training course, lectured to all the 3. Training courses in Occupational Health – with the integration G4-EC6 G4-LA9 G4-LA10 4.3 Education and Training Electrical Engineering, Computing Engineering, Environmental new members in the Organization and addressing the theme of of doctors in occupational health, ergonomics, educators for G4-SO4 Engineering and Business Administration, within 5 years. the company’s history and culture, introducing the philosophy HIV and malaria prevention awareness training and laboratory G4-HR7 Education and Training is one of the development axes of of TEO; technicians capacitation for malaria diagnosis Odebrecht employees. In Angola, this is a key-element of the In 2015 initiatives involving the academic community were carried development business line, as regards the integration strategy out, such as the “Open Doors” Programme. Its main goal is the 2. Young Builder Programme – targeted to the members 4. Training courses on Environment – where environmental of Angolan employees in the Organization. interaction with the country’s universities in the students training that have fulfilled the programme Young Partner and also practices are discussed, such as waste management (routing and process, offering them the opportunity to know the organization the programme Introduction to the culture, offering them an separation), environmental management, environmental risks, Odebrecht in Angola makes available to its employees in all activities, including the investments and developed social actions. integrated vision into Odebrecht’s business; promoting environmental good practices and the reduction of professional categories several training courses that allow energy and fuel consumption. them to build their career and improve their professional The programme consists in visits of students to Odebrecht’s 3. Business Leaders Development Programme (BLDP) – performance daily. Beyond the benefit obtained by the facilities in Luanda, where they have the opportunity to assist to intended to the members who will take high leadership The percentage of total hours of training in relation to total Man employee and Organization, the Community also benefits from a presentation about the organization, about its main active and positions in the future; hours worked (HHT = 40,470,659) was 4%. their participation in these training actions, in the way that concluded projects, and training of people over the 30 years of there is a transfer of knowledge to the community. Members presence in the country. Students also have the opportunity to visit 4. Excellence seeking – strategic programme designed by are part of the community acquiring knowledge that may Odebrecht Knowledge Centre, which gave a better understanding Odebrecht in Angola, to all the company’s members, that address apply in activities promoting the local economy development. of the Organization’s actions in the country and the world. the themes of competences development, aggregating some Photographic exhibitions about Lauca’s Dam works, Sonaref topics such as leadership, self-esteem, communication and The proximity of Odebrecht in Angola to the academic and Luanda’s Expressways Project, allowed participants to get a motivation; community is one of the important pillars of the Company general overview of these projects, its evolution and related social TRAINING TOTAL TRAINING in relation to training. These partnerships are aligned with initiatives. 5. Productive Teams awareness course for Odebrecht members, CATEGORY MAN HOURS the integration strategy of angolan members in leadership aiming the improvement of labour productivity as a team. positions and coordination teams, and brings mutual benefit Since the beginning, the programme has received more than 5 Technical 1,605,751 to the organization and local society, by sharing knowledge universities, with more than 100 students. There is also another type of training, daily training that Acculturation 20,835 as well as the approach to University students with the labour corresponds to the philosophy of education by presence. This is market, giving them the opportunity to make a career within Odebrecht in Angola also offers other training programmes the Daily Work Training, which consists of a 5-minute talk between Skills 5,747 the company. targeted at employees, which allows them to improve their members of the team to address health and safety issues that are qualifications as professionals, promoting the continuous most important to the tasks to be performed that day. Ethics and anti bribery conduct 3,550 Odebrecht in Angola believes in the importance of contributing improvement of their performance, productivity and perspectives TOTAL 1,635,883 to “Future Engineers” capable of making the difference in of their quality of life, namely: In 2014, three Angolan employees in Odebrecht’s management Angola´s development and the relationship with the academic positions in Angola, started at distance post-graduation world is an important step in that sense. programme on Safety at Work (DWT) at the University of São Paulo in Brazil, because the course is not yet taught at universities Several partnerships with local universities have been set. In Odebrecht in Angola’s New Talents in Angola. This way, Odebrecht promotes the capacity of its In 2015 there was no specific training action performed for 2015 these were the programmes implemented: employees, contributing to the training of technical staff and Security personnel at Odebrecht in Angola (activity carried out In the Odebrecht organization, young talents hiring process is a national management. The course lasts 2 and a half years, being by specialized providers) covering the policies or procedures Alternative Internship Programme – destined to 4th year Civil long-term vision to develop these professionals together with completed in July 2016. of the Organization about human rights. This happened due to Engineering students who intend to make a career at Odebrecht. the Organization. So, hiring priority and career development lies financial constraints observed last year that led to a revaluation The programme allows the student to intern at the organization, in the new generation’s training, lying here the key to an organic, It also offers a set of technical courses which aim to develop of the needs and restrict initiatives for the most pressing and being present or away from the worksite, through an online healthy and sustained growth. The career development of new specific skills. Many of these courses are taught in training centers strategic priorities, together with the perception that the public training platform with the knowledge and ideas being shared talent can be measured at Odebrecht through the annual number where there are simulators for situations with high potential of performance to which this activity is intended does not represent between professionals and the trainee. After the programme’s of “Launches”. These correspond to the company investment accident, where the trainees have the opportunity to experience a high risk for Odebrecht’s operations in Angola. Odebrecht conclusion, participants begin the Young Partner Programme. in the career of young professionals, giving them new functions in practice certain procedures: in Angola is planning to carry out this training programme in annually with greater responsibility compared to previous year. In August 2016. Young Partner – involves a process of identification, selection recent years the evolution was: 1. Equipment Technician Course – learning to work the machines and monitoring of young people within the organization, for construction handling and performance; providing them with functions with some responsibility, LAUNCHES giving them some autonomy and mobility. In the year of 2015, 2. Training courses on Occupational Safety – relating to 100% of the participants in this programme were Angolans. 2013 2014 2015 occupational safety, addressing topics such as work at heights, YP to PM* 20 24 33 safety risks, permission to work, work with electricity, use of Scholarship UNILINS – in partnership with UNILINS – Lins PPE’s among others; University Centre, São Paulo, Brazil, Odebrecht in Angola granted Other to YP** 27 30 26 scholarships to 20 Angolan students for several institutions of high school in Brazil, with the cost fully taken by the organizatoion. * N.º Young Partners (YP) promoted to Programme Managers (PM) The grants provide graduate courses in Civil Engineering, ** N.º of other youngsters from other functions (interns, technics) to Young Partners. 60 61 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results According to Norberto Odebrecht +Commitment with “By definition, the development has to be sustainable or it cannot be called development”. Following his words, the Community Odebrecht in Angola implements a social programme in all its projects, contributing to the surrounding communities’ development. However, in order to be truly sustainable it must last, which leads to a greater investment in actions to empower people so that they can perpetuate the legacy of these programmes. Image tab + Commitment with the community: Fruit sale SONAREF 62 63 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-S01 5. + Commitment with the Community Social Programmes The construction and implementation of a programme of this Design Fundamentals nature, involves the following phases: The theme of local communities has great importance to These initiatives can be carried out in partnership and using i. Knowledge of the region implies the implementation of Odebrecht, since the Organization believes that business third-party resources, for contractual or legal requirements Job opportunities generation – Job opportunities promotion and a study to obtain knowledge about the region’s reality with growth is only possible if there is a joint development with the compliance, or voluntary nature. The latter can be constituted communities’ empowering in order for the construction work the identification of stakeholder’s expectations and regional surrounding communities in the places where the projects by structured or isolated programmes including campaigns, sites to be able to have skilled local workforce to recruit, as well characteristics, in order to explore and create synergies and are located. Therefore, it is policy of the Organization to actions with the community and sponsorships. as development of productive initiatives for consumption needs win-win opportunities. The region knowledge considers the develop social programmes in all projects that aim to improve suppression that have potential to survive after the construction realization of public consultations. the population’s quality of life and well-being that live in the The construction of the social programmes for the community works implantation period. surrounding areas influenced by those projects. development considers the guideline about social programmes, ii. Obtaining interest convergence at this stage client’s as part of Odebrecht’s sustainability policy. This guideline interests must be combined with the interests of the region and provides guidance on the construction and implementation of the Productive insertion – promoting people integration into the other stakeholders, in order to identify the opportunities arising 5.1 Social Responsibility Programmes social projects. The design of social programmes is based on the labour market and induction of business continuity potential after from the implementation of the project. following considering the legal and permits specific requirements: Odebrecht leave the place. iii. Implementation this phase works in parallel but in an The maintenance of a good life quality level and safety of people Sustainable practices adoption – all procedures are performed integrated way with the aspects of Mobilization and Articulation, living or working in the surroundings of each Odebrecht project, considering the local culture and the conservation of natural Education and Culture, and Production. It is assumed that the as well as for its employees, are essential elements directly resources from the construction site location. environment is the basis that integrates the physical, biotic, linked to the E&C business nature. socioeconomics and cultural backgrounds. The coordination of basic aspects is performed according to the following Odebrecht in Angola has developed its E&C activity on large Strengthening governance and citizenship – Odebrecht seeks to conceptual model. infrastructures, which are generally projects which, by its maintain a close relationship with local authorities and civil society dimension, generate positive and negative impacts on the social organizations to support their work and maintain social welfare. environment, both during construction and after the work delivery. Choice of entrepreneurial leaders – establishing strategic alliances The Sustainability Policy of Odebrecht for the E&C business with local people and organizations with an entrepreneurial predicts the development of a socio-economic study together spirit, able to engage in consistent projects and to maintain the with an environmental impact study for all new projects in the continuity of the projects initiated by Odebrecht. development phase. This study includes the diagnosis of the expectations and needs of the local communities, and the assessment of possible impacts generated by the project. Collective construction – The implementation of social projects The characterization of the existing communities in the fields is held together with local organizations and the project of health, socio-economic conditions, quality of life, housing implementation rate is one that is affordable by local dynamics. conditions, cultural issues, identification and characterizations of traditional and ethnic groups is compulsory in the performance of this study, even in cases where the assessment of environmental Focus on results – evolves each community and region needs impacts is not legally required, although its level of depth is and particularities assessment so that both Odebrecht and the adapted according to the project’s risk level.The social action plan community are able to take full advantage of the project. of the project is designed from the socio-economic study which, in one hand, depends on the dimension and on the impacts of the construction works, and on the other hand, on the needs and opportunities detected. The main focus of the social initiatives developed in each of Odebrecht´s project are People, Communities and Organizations present in the surroundings of the construction works locations. It is expected that after having their needs met and being prepared and motivated by the employment opportunities and income generation, they can enjoy the consequent improvement in quality of life and intensify their dedication to the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources and respective territories. 64 65 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results Odebrecht Social Project Implementation Phase Conceptual Mode Social Programmes Areas of Incidence Throughout its permanence in Angola, Odebrecht has developed term Social Programmes (structured programmes) which aim to many initiatives and social programmes which had a positive promote development and improvement of local communities’ impact in communities’ life. As already referred, develops long quality of life, divided into four big groups: Promotion, MOBILIZATION AND COORDINATION of actions together with the surrounding social groups, in order to improve their living Family Farming Initiative and Citizenship conditions by generating jobs and income Family farming programmes aim to create income-generating The Initiative and Citizenship component is related to community opportunities for the community from agricultural activity. The development incentive programmes by supporting associations, implementation of these programmes involves communities’ income generation opportunities or populations’ civil registration awareness about good practices and cultivation techniques, support programmes. Environmental responsibility, traditional and promotion and encouragement of association and inter culture promotion and creation of association support fall within community cooperation. These type of programmes allow the this category. improvement of the community living conditions by generating income and diversification and improvement of their food The development of these programmes is of the responsibility of habits, by inserting new vegetables in the community diet. each project and it should be foreseen, in an integrated way, with the construction project, according to the sustainable policy. Education and Training The education and training component of Odebrecht Social Health Programmes is one of the most important to the Organization. The main developed initiatives in the area are literacy activities for The component of Health in the Community of the Social children and adults, and the programme ACREDITAR (“To believe”, programmes performed by Odebrecht seeks to promote the in English), a transversal programme of the Organization which its improvement of the community’s public health conditions, as main objective is to empower communities, as described later in well as the implementation of actions directed to the people’s this chapter. health. The public health conditions improvement goes EDUCATION a transformation through providing access to clean water by building wells and The PRODUCTION aspect ENVIRONMENT factor, is able to empower healthcare infrastructures construction for medical assistance. closes the implementation people to reach a new condition. As examples of actions related to people´s health are the cycle by creating job Promotion of educational Malaria Combat Programme, the Safe Childbirth Programme opportunities and income activities focused on population and the HIV/ AIDS prevention programme. These programmes through community members’ training for subsequent are corporative and are managed by the SD support team. integration in the organization’s inclusion in the production chain productive chain of the construction work site. Punctual Actions As mentioned before there is another type of initiatives that do not fit into any of the groups above which are named Punctual Actions, characterized by not being integrated in any specific social programme and can be eventual sponsorships or provide a response to an identified need in a certain community in any of the other described areas. 66 67 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-EC7 5.1.1 Side by side with the community Well Being Good Living – Laúca Dam In 2015, Odebrecht in Angola had 12 active projects and all of In 2015, the Social Programme of Lauca’s Dam was fully them streamlined Social Responsibility (SR) Programmes. operational, and it was possible to start collecting its first Eight of those active projects boosted a structured social results for the project’s surrounding community. As it will be responsibility programme specific of the project (such as the detailed later on this report, 2015 was the starting year for the Laúca Dam project, with the programme “Bem Estar Bem Viver” resettlement process among the population, by achieving the (which means “Well being Good living”) or SONAREF with the first institutional protocols with the local authorities and the Number of programme “Tuluya Lumunga”), while the programmes of the beginning of the public consultation process, which revealed communities remaining projects were composed of initiatives related to one great participation levels of the affected population. or more of the four corporate social responsibility programmes (as in the case of Safe Birth programme or Programme to The implementation of the family farming component of the Number of beneficiaries 22 Combat Malaria) and by punctual actions. It should be noted Social Programme Well Being Good Living – Agro Laúca, which that a specific social responsibility programme of a project has a great impact on the living of the population, allowed can also include initiatives inherent to the four corporate social responsibility programmes, which are of a horizontal nature. to increase the farmer’s living standards by improving their farming techniques, increased production, improved their 3,173 diet and still created a product flow network through the Results of the major social programmes 2015 sale of vegetables in the weekly markets that took place at Odebrecht’s construction sites. The implementation of this The results of the major social programmes in 2015 are the project enabled its participants to increase their monthly following: income by 10 times over the previous year. 1,612,069 Well Being Good Living programme also includes another income-generating programme through an aquaculture project. In 2015, the Cacusso production center became fully Investment SOCIAL Nº OF INVESTMENT operational having supplied, weekly, 1,400 kilos of fish to the (USD) PROGRAMMES BENEFICIARIES (N.º) COMMUNITIES 2016 (USD) project´s cafeterias. This programme’s main objectives are AREAS OF INCIDENCE INVOLVED to generate a new source of income and diversify to the food habits of the project’s surrounding populations through fish Education and Training 1,593,683 3,903 24 farming in tanks in the Kwanza River. The project workers are members of the community who had as traditional occupation Family Farming 1,064,230 4,864 39 hunting and fishing, and now found a new way of working in a more sustainable and profitable way. Health 539,213 11,828 10 Another major impact in 2015 on this social programme was the support to health in the community, with the Programme Initiative and Citzenship 518,428 2,882 4 to Combat Malaria, held three campaigns throughout the year. Regarding this, awareness lectures for prevention were held, malaria rapid diagnosis tests were performed and medication Punctual Actions 27,963 180 1 in positive cases was distributed, as well as mosquito nets. Alongside these actions to combat malaria, it was also offered TOTAL 3,743,517 23,657 78 to the population general consultations, pediatrics, vaccinations and distribution of medication. Also as part of the Community Health component, a training In comparison with the previous year’s activity, there was a This overall decrease followed the sharp downturn trend of the was held to 13 health and sanitation agents who came from 7 significant decrease in the number of social projects, mainly Angolan market in 2015, however Odebrecht in Angola had the local communities, which its essential aim is to mobilize rural due to the decrease of works in progress. Although the value concern to maintain the social projects in place, fulfiling the communities for the construction of ecological latrines. of the total investment in social projects has decreased by 50%, country’s development commitment assumed. all active projects maintained their social programmes running, Other awareness campaigns for personal hygiene and hand achieving very positive individual results as followed described. washing were also carried out among students from local schools. 68 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results North Hanha – SONAREF Tuyula Lumunga Xalenu Kyambote – Cambambe Dam The Community Development Programme executed by Sonaref Reassuring the sustainability policy of the Odebrecht Group, Ecologic soap production Project has the objective of contributing to the Sustainable the Cambambe Dam project, located in Cuanza Norte Province, This is also a project to generate income through the production Development of the Community Hanha do Norte in Lobito, develop in partnership with PRODEL, current dam administrator, of soap bars from reused vegetable oil used in the cafeterias through a positive change in the quality of life, enlargement the “Xalenu Kyambote” social responsibility programme. This of Cambambe’s Dam. Although the programme is not yet total of the opportunities for productive inclusion and strengthening programme consists on a set of projects for local development, autonomous, producers started in 2015 managing the project, governance and local citizenship from a self-sustaining with the central focus on income and employment generation, and took some decisions without the Social Programme team perspective. and systematic actions for health promotion and strengthening support. There were also carried out some training actions Number of of the culture and education in the nearest communities of for the promotion of safety procedures at work in soap communities During the two years of existence, the Programme has sought the project area. The name Xalenu Kyambote comes from the production activity. The project has 13 producers belonging to 3 4 to intervene and take actions based on Odebrecht’s sustainable native language “Kimbundu” that means “Be well”. communities, producing 1,314 bars of soap in 2015. policy, and in line with regional, traditional vocations and with Number of the millennium development goals, seeking to strength ties with beneficiaries The main objective of this programme is to contribute to Community health the community and making the members of the community the promotion of communities’ well-being, increasing social The Bwé Health programme is designed to improve the responsible for their own transformation. 5,385 autonomy with continuous improvements during and after the completion of the project. This report intends to describe the communities’ sanitary conditions, contribute to environmental preservation and strength the social structure. In 2015, new The Community Association was formed and legally established activities in implementation, results and highlights identified socioenvironmental development agents were formed, which will with the purpose of managing the proposed actions. Named throughout the year 2015. ensure the maintenance of community health conditions in its Tuyula Lomunga (in Umbumdo), that means “Together we will various aspects, both in environmental health and sanitation, as win”, the association coordinates the employment generation The social project is developed in several areas: in individual health. In schools were carried out actions to promote and Income and social development actions. The income generation actions are consolidated in an Ecologic Soap Factory 646,863 Family Agriculture Project FAP the importance of hand-washing, several environmental health campaigns about the importance of living in a clean environment, and in two Processing Units of Corn Meal and Family Agriculture. and performed cleaning actions and selective separation of waste The main objective of this programme is to increase the income in communities. The actions of social development are focused in the following Investment of farmer’s families from the project’s surrounding communities, programmes: health, adult literacy and citizenship (involving USD by promoting the access to market segments, increase, diversify Education and Training associations, rescue culture and environmental education). and improve production. Handmade sewing workshop The small subsistence farmers are the main beneficiaries of the In 2015, FAP has brought a significant income increase for the In 2015, it began the 5th class of this programme. It is expected programme. However, the agriculture does not have the same families who have benefited from agricultural product sales of the that with training in sewing, families acquire another tool for impact as the other dimensions developed since they all have the programme. This was due to the acquisition of new customers more income generation through the manufacture of handmade same weight and relevance measure. The association employs and new actions that constituted a significant step forward in products in tissue. The Baobá Lines and Washcloths project had directly 25 people and covers 1,200 benefited families by its the programme. This year, the work was developed around the 42 students this year. actions and developed programmes. Monthly, it has a revenue introduction of four new vegetable species and with training of 13,000 USD and, in the last 15 months, produced 92,000 actions and monitoring of crops for farmers. The promotion of Education and culture soap bars, processed 260 tons of corn meal and sold 100 tons the community fairs was essential for the income increase, since The English training and basic computer skills programmes, of agricultural products. Within the social scope, it gathers 458 this is the place where it is allowed to buy and sell products. The encouragement of reading and promotion of culture, benefited alphabetization students, 15 teachers, an advanced civil registry programme was conducted in 2015 with the participation of 92 last year 313 young people, adults and 86 children. outpost, a clinical laboratory, a communitarian cinema and producers from 3 communities. coordinates actions of rescue and valorization of the culture and Support for citizenship local handcraft. The Association has been working on community Environmental Economy Project In partnership with the Administration of the Commune of empowerment, supporting the central government actions. Munenga and the Libolo’s Municipal Palace of Justice, Odebrecht Production and Commercialization of florestal changes in Angola regularly promotes support for the regularization of To learn more about this project, Odebrecht in Angola invites you This project aims to produce forest seedlings to generate civil documentation for the surrounding communities. In 2015, to watch the video http://odebrecht.com/pt-br/odebrechtincome for the surrounding communities of the project. 111 residents were regularized and 51 identity cards, 53 personal apoia-programa-de-desenvolvimento-comunitario-emThese seedlings are produced by small producers and then notes and 31 birth registers were issued. hanha-do-norte-angola used in the Degraded Areas Recovery Programme. In 2015, the following native species were produced: moringa, baobab, hose, splicer, motumeira and several varieties of acacias. 11 producers received technical support from the Odebrecht team and environmental awareness actions were carried out with students from surrounding schools. 70 71 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results Kukula Ku Moxi – SODEPAC Quality of Life Improvement actions Culture Valorization Number of Under the scope of Cambambe’s Dam Programme, it was The current social programme Kukula Ku Moxi is Odebrecht’s Traditional Midwives Programme: Under this programme, 163 communities established a partnership between the Ministry of Culture, Social Programme created under the Society for Development pregnant women and 357 children were assisted and monitored the Electric Energy Production Public Company (Empresa Pública de Produção de Energia Eléctrica PRODEL) and of the Agro Industrial Capanda Pole (SODEPAC). This project has, nowadays, different characteristics that it had initially, as it in the community. The main impact of the activity of this programme over the years has been the significant decrease Number of beneficiaries 28 Odebrecht Infrastructure for the realization of the “Cambambe’s is now being delivered to the community. Initially, the focus of of infant mortality rate in this group of communities, reaching 3,681 Historical Heritage, Archaeological and Culture Revalorization the programme was the family farming, becoming later the Rural the result of 15.4 / 1,000, which is very positive compared to Preservation Programme”. The main objective of this programme Development Programme of the PAC, involving in 2015 about UNICEF’s Index for Angola. It was also signed an agreement is to recover the national history and culture by rebuilding 700 families in 28 communities. This programme articulates between SODEPAC and Cacuso’s municipality Hospital, in which Cambambe’s Ruins – Fortress and Nossa Senhora do Rosário large agro-industrial enterprises and family agriculture that is to it assumes the monthly monitoring of pregnant women and Church, and assure its sustainability through ONU World Heritage be strong and self-sustained. children in neighbourhoods, ensuring the sustainability of the application for Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) in initiative. technical cooperation with the National Historic and Artistic In addition to the production side, the programme focuses on Patrimony Institute (Instituto de Património Histórico e Artístico basic elements of quality of life, such as access to water and Adult Literacy Programme: The first class of the programme 372,307 Nacional IPHAN) in Brazil. preventive health. All this is a result of persistent work that also has done the final examination with a result of 296 students aims to strengthen the collective organization and leadership approved, 98 being Kukula Ku Moxi farmers. This programme is Work is underway and in 2015 it was completed the recovery of training ensuring consolidation and continuity. led by the Bureau of Education, Science and Technology of the Investment part of the church structure. Cacuso City with whom SODEPAC signed in 2015 a cost transfer USD In 2015, the Ku Moxi Kukula programme was marked by three agreement to the municipality. major initiatives: Nº of Spreading programme of the Moringa Oleifera plant: This project communities Programme “Childrens of Earth” aims to spread Moring, a plant with exceptional nourishing 4 Consisted of a training programme for 22 young people from properties, through distribution and planting. In 2015, there Number of the surrounding communities of the PAC, with five months were 424 Moringa plants in growth, planted by 383 families in beneficiaries duration, in the field of rural entrepreneurship, to ensure the 28 communities. In 2016, these plants will be strong enough to sustainability of the PAC family farming programme. be consumed and a new partnership with Lauca’s Dam will be 1,699 By the end of 2015, 4 of the graduates were fully integrated in created to study the impact of this specie in the diet of rural communities of Kukula Ku Moxi. Kukula Ku Moxi’s operating structure, supported by farmers; 4 other were integrated in a project dedicated to create a Through the partnership with Sol Bank, about 800 producers handmade soap factory contributing to the diversification of opened a bank account in their name, benefiting of an opening income generation of the community and the others to increase rate exemption and by September 2015, 100% of the transfers 518,268 the family income through agricultural projects and other complementary projects. of sales to producers were made through bank accounts. 2016 will be a year of transition for Kukula Ku Moxi with its formal Partnership with UNDP in the Agribusiness Supplier transfer into the hands of farmers as an independent entity, Investment Development Programme financially viable and led by the community. The programme USD An agreement, between SODEPAC and the UNDP, was will continue to count with the social partners support, signed to support the development and establishment of including SODEPAC, UNDP, Maersk Oil/ Sonangol, Lauca’s Dam an Agricultural Producers Association in the region with the and Biocom. objective of being totally administered by the community, ensuring continuity and evolution of the PAC Family Farming Programme as an independent entity. 72 73 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results Social Programme of BRT Project– 5.1.2 And afterwards? Luanda’s road network Cleaning and maintenance of road networks One of Odebrecht’s social programmes purposes is to enable The Social Programme of BRT Project (Bus Rapid Transport) For projects related to road constructions, Odebrecht provides populations to improve their quality of life and their levels of has slightly different features than the previous ones, since it is maintenance services to ensure the appropriate conditions of the income, through the promotion of sustainable projects with located in an urban area (Luanda), which determines different road and their surroundings, acting in the cleaning of roads and verges, educational actions that increase the generation of income population characteristics and needs distinct from those maintaining the lightening conditions, benches and small green areas, during their stay in the regions. It is intended that these social experienced by most of the communities of other ongoing among other aspects. In Angola there isn´t a culture of maintenance, projects may persist beyond the time span that Odebrecht projects in 2015. In Luanda, there are more job opportunities, as so this approach coupled with a longer presence of the Company in stays in the regions, being developed for this a cooperative work so it becomes imperative to increase skills related to a healthy Angola ends up influencing the vision of competent authorities in this with the communities in order to make possible the subsistency living relationship with the environment and available resources. field, and Odebrecht believes that should complement the action of of the projects after Odebrecht’s departure. this approach with awareness to populations. Thus, in 2015, some activities and initiatives directed to the local On the other hand, in another facet, Odebrecht promotes the community and for the employees of the project were held, ACREDITAR programme, a professional training programme mainly focused on educational and awareness actions in areas focused on the populations of the areas influenced by their like health, citizenship and environmental responsibility. projects, which aim to educate the community to pursue a job, Nº of existing always the possibility to be then hired by Odebrecht communities Within the BRT+ Education and Citizenship Programme’s scope, for one of their projects. The first edition of the ACREDITAR 5 actions were held for the involvement of the community with programme in Angola was in 2009. In 2015, the programme the project together with community schools. The developed Number of integrated various professionals in Lauca’s Dam work. actions were focused on raising awareness of students beneficiaries about the positive and negative impacts that the project In 2015, it was possible to collect data relating to a project which implementation will have on their daily lives. These actions were attended by 2,600 students from community schools, 1,817 was boosted by Odebrecht in Angola within the project Zango Economic Houses that ended in 2014, but continued to be who attended to lectures about road safety issues and the developed by the community, being a case of success. importance of maintaining the roads, in which playing materials about these topics were distributed. The Visitation Programme to the BRT was initiated and consisted of promoting two visits to the BRT worksite, with the 521,825 goal to introduce the project to the community and explain the positive impacts it will have on their lives. The action consisted of an opening lecture to present the project and answering Investment questions, followed by a visit to the construction site. The USD participants of this action were students from a school of the community and members of the home owners association in the surroundings of the BRT. 74 75 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results Handmade Soap Factory The Zango’s Handmade Soap Factory is in full operation and ACREDITAR – LAUCA’S DAM 2015 and other initiatives Zango it’s managed by the community and has already expanded its production to provinces of Malanje and Bengo. Throughout its stay in Angola, Odebrecht has implemented Capacitated Within the framework of the Zango’s Economic Houses project, the “ACREDITAR” programme in several projects contributing Basic Modules conducted between 2011 and 2014, Odebrecht performed a set Currently, producer groups are composed by 21 members and to the local population development through professional Nº of 1,275 of training programmes in entrepreneurship together with the saturated oil comes, not only from the Resettlement Project training. In the year 2015 we highlight the “ACREDITAR Entries formal and informal leaders of Zango’s community, in the of Populations, but also from the Expressways Project, Vitoria Laúca” programme, which began in 2013, at the start of the second half of 2011. According to Odebrecht’s Sustainability Garden Hotel and from some Belas Shopping restaurants. construction of the project, with the objective to empower 2,803 Policy, these actions were carried out with focus on supporting local workforce, with the possibility of being hiring by sustainability initiatives capable to promote income generation, Odebrecht. The training is structured in modules, basic citizenship and improve the quality of life. training (two modules) and specific training. Basic training is a In the context of one of these trainings, a group of people from prerequisite for access to specific modules. 432 the community was interested in the production of handmade soap, by recycling saturated cooking oil. The dispersal of this 500 Basic training is focused on increasing the level of education and development of the citizen as a professional, personal and Hired Capacitated Revenue Specific Modules oil in the nature can generate a considerable environmental impact, since it only takes one litter of oil to derail 1 million litters (USD/day) Soap bars social individual. It allows the development of skills considered basic to the world of work, and that any professional needs to 898 of potable water, waterproof the soil and damage structures daily production (200gr) enter or improve their employability status in an increasingly and domestic and public plumbing. 577 competitive labour market. The pilot project began in that year, in the backyard of one of The specific modules address the qualifications functions the members of the Community Venceremos (“Venceremos” inherent to the construction activity, such as bricklayer, The Basic Module 1 is entitled “VIDA E TRABALHO” (Life and means we will win in Portuguese) and, since then, has produced carpenter or blacksmith. These have a duration between 60 and Work) because it addresses important topics of professional a small quantity but with great commercial acceptance, with The artisanal factory has received great attention from the 92 hours, depending on the qualification function. and personal lives of the employees, considering expansion studies showing that there is a large repressed demand in media, whether TV, radio or print press. It was the highlight of reading skills, writing skills and mathematical knowledge the area revealing, on the other hand, a great potential for the of the Odebrecht Informa Magazine, of global dissemination, The programme has been recognized and valued by the Client, from a contextualized education to work, covering transversal products to be commercialized in the formal market. and it can be a great opportunity in relation to image for the Community and Government, as a pioneer experience of themes, such as: Quality, Safety, Health, Environment and Work institutions supporting it. generating opportunities in training and qualification of people Psychology. Considering the growing demand for the product, it was that strengthens citizenship and insertion in the productive necessary to create production conditions that allowed world. The Basic Module 2 – “TRABALHO e ORGANIZAÇÃO”, (Work to increase the production and, at the same time, create and Organization), brings knowledge of the TEO Odebrecht sustainable work and health conditions appropriated to Entrepreneurial Technology, Productivity and Labour Relations, the business expansion. Thus, together with the Provincial knowledge that will help understand the principles, values and Government of Luanda (PGL), it was assigned an area in Zango 2013 2015 Odebrecht’s functioning, in an integration perspective in the IV for the implementation of a factory with an immediate company. production capacity of 50,000 soap bars of 200gr and able to double it if necessary. The new facilities of Zango’s Artisanal Capacitated Soap Factory were inaugurated in 2014, with the presence of Basic Modules the municipal administrator and representatives of the Ministry Nº of 2,238 of Environment. Entries Odebrecht boosted the project since its beginning, with 5,242 conditions so that it continues in business and expansion by its own means. After the completion of Zango’s Economic Houses project, Odebrecht still developed management, health and safety, finance and marketing workshops, empowering local entrepreneurs, enabling them to develop business 444 independently. A group of employees of the company have Hired voluntarily supported the institution, both in its formalization as Capacitated Specific Modules in the constitution of the entity, internal regulation establishment, business plan, accounting support and others. 1,352 76 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results CRE7 5.2 COMMUNITY HEALTH In partnership with the Angolan Government and together In relation to programme results in 2015, despite the efforts In 2015, there were no effective cases of people reallocation with other national and international entities, Odebrecht is a to maintain actions in relation to malaria combat there was an on active projects in Angola, however several activities were Odebrecht’s years of activity in Angola allowed the company to member of the Forum of Partners Against Malaria, since 2005, increase in API (Annual Parasite Index) in 2015 over 2014, which carried out under the two ongoing resettlement processes acquire a deeper understanding of the reality of the country´s where it has been promoting actions to prevent and combat, means the increase of positive cases of Malaria in the population relating to Lauca’s Dam and Cambambe’s Dam projects. needs in the health area. Odebrecht in Angola has positioned contributing to the implementation of a national strategy for of Odebrecht in Angola employees in 2015. This increase may be itself from the beginning of its stay in the country as a partner combating the disease. a result of the increased rainfall in 2015 over the previous year, In the case of Lauca’s Dam, the resettlement process of the initiatives promoted by the Angolan government in this allowing the accumulation of stagnant water and consequent involves communities in 10 villages from 3 municipalities in area, seeking to actively contribute to the development of health The Programme to Combat Malaria in Odebrecht in Angola is proliferation of the mosquitoes of malaria. the surrounding area of the project. During the year 2015, promotion actions aligned with the public policies and according part of PI-Sustainability with guidelines and procedures to be the project started, performing the first awareness and to the specific needs of the country. adopted by the projects to reduce the incidence of the disease. HIV/ AIDS prevention programme communication actions with the communities, the first official contacts between local authorities and definition Therefore, Odebrecht in Angola has been developing health The implementation of this programme by Odebrecht in Angola, In order to support the efforts of the Angolan Government in of the resettlement area. It has also launched a public programmes with the communities affected by its activities translates into continuing education activities; early diagnosis the fight against HIV / AIDS, Odebrecht in Angola has developed consultation process directed to communities in relation to to meet the government’s efforts to reduce child mortality, and treatment; vector control and prevention of individual and some activities among the population of employees, promoting new infrastructure building. It was also created the Dondo combating malaria, in preventing the spread of HIV and AIDS collective of our employees, allowing early diagnosis that is lectures about the disease, also offering free trials in their health Reference Centre, which will operate initially as Information Data and most recently in the creation of a higher quality blood bank. essential to combat the disease. support units. Odebrecht in Angola also provides support, Centre about the programme and then will host the agro family Community health programmes promoted by the company are routing and treatment in case of any positive cases. In 2015, programme that is expected to create after the resettlement of the health support team’s responsibility, being integrated into approximately 3,740 employees attended the lectures and was process contributing to the improvement of the population’s each project through the health aspects of their social project. In performed approximately 2,500 HIV/ AIDS tests. quality of life. 2015 the active programmes were: Malaria, HIV and Safe Delivery Total number of positive (related with traditional childbirth safe delivery). However, the cases Safe Childbirth Programme In Cambambe’s Dam, the resettlement process is slightly more Safe Blood programme had no significant activity in 2015. Number 1,419 advanced, having already started the construction of houses for of tests In order to combat the high maternal and child mortality rate the resettlement of affected families, with delivery scheduled Malaria Combat Programme performed in Angola, Odebrecht launched in 2006 the Safe Childbirth for the first half of 2016. In addition, the resettlement process 2015 22,261 Programme. The figure of traditional midwife still plays a very included in the EIA of the project was reassessed and the The corporate programme Malaria Combat is one of the oldest important role in the birth of children in Angola, since about compensation values for the affected families were adjusted. community health programmes promoted by Odebrecht in 50% of the births that occurred, took place outside a formal Angola. Malaria is an endemic disease in Angola, being the most health structure provided by the Government. Odebrecht in important cause for absenteeism and one of the most frequent Angola promotes with traditional midwives, training actions causes of death in local communities. for the adoption of safer practices in delivery procedures, also preventing the transmission of diseases from mother to child. Annual evolution of Odebrecht in Angola In 2015, there were 132 educational activities promoted by the population Annual Parasite Index project. API 5.3 NEW LIFE 14.0 In the E&C activity, particularly in the field of infrastructure, reallocation of people is a common procedure. These processes 11.7 are of the responsibility of the employer, but Odebrecht in 12.0 Angola sometimes assumes an important role supporting its Clients. As so, the Guideline related to Social Programmes in the 10.0 surrounding areas of the projects has specific guidelines about 8.5 the involuntary resettlement of people, in order to guide the 8.0 type of actions to be developed to proceed with the process in the best conditions, including additional guidance in case the 6.0 people being resettled are identified as indigenous people. 4.6 4.0 2.0 0 2013 2014 2015 78 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results +Commitment to Angola The Commitment to Angola remains and Odebrecht intends to continue to be a value aggregation agent, contributing directly through its presence, business, investments, social projects, training initiatives, but also through the instigation to cooperation and network in order to enhance synergies, and sharing Tab Image of knowledge. + Commitment to Angola: South Kwanza Infrastructure 80 81 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results 6. + Commitment to Angola Another portion goes to ultrafiltration, reverse osmosis and Cacuso Unit will be prepared to produce 256,000 tons of sugar. 6.1. + INVESTMENTS 6.1.1. Biocom electrodeionization for production of demineralized water to fill It is expected that this production rate will be associated to the the boilers. generation of 235 gigawatts of electric energy and 33,000 cubic Odebrecht has assumed throughout its stay in Africa and meters of ethanol. particularly in Angola, the commitment to invest long-term in the The boiler converts water into steam that feeds turbo generators. countries where it operates. Through Odebrecht Africa Fund, the The condensed water from the condensation turbo generator In June 2014, Brazil’s Ministry of Labour applied a Civil Public Action Organization has been investing in strategic businesses outside returns to feed the boiler while the backpressure steam feeds to Construtora Norberto Odebrecht S.A. (“Construtora” means E&C business in Angola, contributing to the social and economic the evaporation, condensates and returns to the boiler. The water construction company in Portuguese), Odebrecht Agroindustrial development, generating cross-business opportunities and remains in a closed circuit to obtain a maximum efficiency. S.A. and Odebrecht Serviços e Exportação S.A. (“Serviços e strengthening the relationship with local partners. Exportação” means services and export in Portuguese), for alleged In the process there is water minimal losses, however water is practices similar to forced labour and human international traffic We highlight in this chapter the main investments of Odebrecht piped to the waste water tank and is used for sugarcane irrigation during the implementation works of Biocom Agro-Industrial in Angola, with greater focus on Biocom since 2015 was a of in the field. Unit in Angola.These companies had shown a large number of particularly important year in the life of this investment. documented evidences proving that the charges do not reflect Odebrecht also has a participation in the management of Another sustainability initiative of Biocom is the promotion of the truth. In September 2015 it was issued the first condemnatory various businesses such as nossosuper retail network and native trees seedling cultivation in nurseries for reforestation. court decision. Given this conviction, the defendants brought Belas Shopping center. Odebrecht also has a participation in the an appeal that is still being processed in Regional Labour Court mining business, in Catoca’s Mining Society. Biocom is also committed to the development of its employees. of Campinas / SP without date for trial. Both Biocom, and other BIOCOM, NATURALLY ANGOLAN In this sense, it provides qualification and improvement programmes, developed together with national recognized companies involved, believe that the condemnation decision will be reversed in the Regional Labour Court and the judicial action institutions. This line of action has as its primary objective to add will be dismissed. value to the human being and contribute to its development. Company celebrates obtained results in second season Biocom offers sports, education, culture and recreation programmes for surrounding communities. In one action front, Biocom acts in Angola market as a major sugar, ethanol and through a partnership with Dom Bosco Education Center, electricity producer. In 2015, the company completed its second the company guarantees annually the literacy to 200 people. season, and manufactured 24,770 tons of sugar and 10,234 cubic Students also have the opportunity to attend basic computer meters of ethanol, and produced 70,000 MWH of electric energy. classes. Business success in 2015 projected high expectations for 2016. Through Palancas Negras School, institution that helps 120 It was celebrated in 2015, the product delivery to customers in children, created by Biocom, provides judo classes, Jiu jitsu and full compliance with standards and market rules. During 2015, also cultural activities for children and young people from the Biocom also ministered technical training for the entire team. region, are provided. Because of it, there are already many Angolan members ready to assume leadership positions in certain company areas. To promote sustainable economic development of the local community, Biocom’s social area supports the family farming Economic, social and environmentally sustainable company programme Kukula Ku Moxi, by buying vegetables from small producers to be used daily in their cafeteria. BIOCOM 2021 Goals Biocom activity is aligned with the good practices on agro 256 industrial world. The commitment to good practices is reflected within the entire production chain. From raw materials, to Biocom still heads a social programme for mild soap production. The manufacture of this product is made from used cooking oil, 2,432* Annual Employees *Includes indirect employees 91% Thousand tons products and by-products, all the elements involved in the sugar covering 20 women from Cacuso’s community. of sugar % Angolan manufacturing process are 100% reused. The bagasse from Employees sugarcane is processed in boilers, produces steam and moves The largest Angola private investment is also a development 235 Gigawatts of the electricity turbine generators. Part of that energy supplies the company and the other part is sold to the National Grid of promoter. 60 thousand Electric Energy Electricity Transport (NTE). In other hand, the juice or molasses, Biocom is stated as the largest private investment in Angola, are processed for ethanol production. outside the oil sector. As representative of the national industry, Millions USD 2016 investment 33 000 m3 of ethanol The captured water from Kwanza River goes to filtering on also imposes itself as the country’s development promoter. forecast a treatment area. Part of this water is distributed for the With its member’s talent and support from Angolan people, fermentation process, sugar production and human consumption. Biocom has large goals for the future. In 2021 it is expected that 82 83 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results 6.1.2 nossosuper 6.1.3 Belas Shopping In 2012, Odebrecht in Angola invested in the NRSA – New % Angolan Opened in 2007 and with a building area of near 25,000 m2, Belas % Angolan Supermarkets Network in Angola, assuming the management Members Shopping was the first Angola’s Shopping Center and became, Members of the first retail company in the country (nossosuper chain), in eight years of existence, one of the country’s growth icons, promoting a large restructuring of the existing infrastructures, which included 29 shops in all provinces of the country, which Employees 97% and is recognized as an important project for the South Region. The space for leisure and shopping, has 89 shops and more than Employees* 91% were reopened. Thus, it was possible to respond to the primary 24 kiosks. Belas Shopping currently has a GLA (Gross Letting needs of populations at national level, ensuring the regularity of Area) with a total of 17,002 m2 and a car parking with capacity supply, reasonable prices, quality and food safety. 1,460 for 1,023 cars. 173 With the restructuring and renovation of the existing Within Belas Shopping Expansion Project, to be implemented infrastructures, the NRSA became responsible for promoting from 2016, the concept includes 100 new stores, a new food employment in the country, becoming one of the leading private court and a gourmet square, VIP Cinema, Entertainment Zone 34 113 employers. (Bowling), Gym and 2 international anchor stores of international recognition . The number of car parking spaces will increase to Currently the supermarket network has 34 stores, 13 stores in 1,179 spaces distributed by two levels of deck-park. Luanda Province and 21 distributed in other provinces of Angola. 2016 2016 Investment Investment Forecast Number of shops 2015 Investment Forecast Number 2015 Investment (Billions USD) (NRSA 1.5 Billion USD (Billions of stores (inside 0.9 125 2015: 8 Million USD, invested in expansion and modernization Supermarket) the Shopping) USD)** of stores and supply chain, building 1 new Shop and Bakery Jobs: Industry. Nr. of jobs assigned to current operation: 56 direct jobs + 117 indirect jobs (subcontractors). Jobs: 1,460 members (direct jobs) in 2015, with 97% of Angolans. Construction expansion phase (forecast): 1,500 direct jobs and 3,000 indirect jobs. *Includes indirect employees 2016 Investment prospects: ** in relation to expansion 891,000 USD for improvements in the infrastructure of existing Investment prospects stores. Early expansion prediction: First Semester 2016 (2 years of construction). nossosuper & Sustainability The expansion project of the shopping that was scheduled to NRSA has a constant concern for its people, focusing on the begin in 2015 will be started only in 2016. skills of its employees through training and development of national talents, monitoring and education through work. Belas Shopping & Sustainability The expansion project aims to increase the economic sustainability The NRSA is one of the largest private employers at national of the business, considering: level, with great relevance in education and training in the • The reinvestment in the installation of new equipment, such as retail sector in Angola, since much of its workforce has the the replacement of air conditioning system and the installation Organization as its first job. of a water treatment station. The NRSA contributes to the development of national agriculture • Achieve 100% occupancy rate. by purchasing vegetables from small, medium and large Angolan producers. • The focus on qualifying mix stores. The volume of national products purchased in 2015 was USD 4.3 million, which has contributed to the development of the formal business sector, job creation and national economy growth. 84 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results 6.2 LOOKING TO THE FUTURE In order to continue to develop an activity that meets the following goals and targets for 2016 so that it can continue its Sustainable Development, Odebrecht in Angola has set the operations together with the country. SCOPE GOAL/TARGET 2016 MATERIAL ASPECT SCOPE GOAL/TARGET 2016 MATERIAL ASPECT · Conclusion and delivery of the following projects: · Minimum percentage of training hours in Occupational Health Occupational Health and Safety Operational and economic · Cambambe Economic Performance; (%HTrOH) of 0.25%. performance · Project (Controled Shunt Reactor) CSR Soyo Products and services excellency and quality Sustainability · Belas Business Park V Stage Occupational Health Occupational Health and Safety; · Reducing the incidence of malaria in the workforce Work conditions · Increase of emergency training for employees Occupational Health and Safety Image and reputation · Public recognition of the company’s performance in the country Products and services excellency and quality Ethics and Conduct; · Single Frequency Ambulatory Care Rate · Continue to disseminate the Code of Conduct to the operational Transparency; [SFACR] = 7.05 (Max.) Ethics and Conduct employees Human Rights Protection · Injury Rate without lost days Occupational Health and Safety [IRNLD] = 1.95 (Max) · Injury Rate with lost days Employment creation; [IRWLD] = 1.19 (Max.) Income generation opportunities creation · Total Frequency Rate [TFR] = 10.19 (Max.) Employees education; · Severity Rate [SR] = 25 (Max.) People · Achieve % expatriates / Total Workforce <= 6.5% Community involvement; Occupational Health and Safety; Sustainability – · Zero serious or fatal accidents Occupational Safety Working conditions. · Minimum percentage of training hours about Safety at Work (%HtrSW) Occupational Health and Safety; of 1.5 %. Employees Education Sustainability · Positive evolution of the Occupational Health, Safety at work and Occupational Health and Safety Management environmental management indexes Environmental Responsibility Promotion; · 100% of the ongoing projects practicing and reporting PRÉVER Occupational Health and Safety; (Programa de Prevenção de Eventos Graves Serious Events Environmental Responsibility Promotional Prevention Programme) programme and Management Evaluation System according to its conceptual bases Occupational Health and Safety Environmental Responsibility Promotion; · Increasing the number of deviation observed. · Increase water reutilization percentage in the ongoing projects Sustainable Water use; Sustainability · For the new projects, achieve the water reutilization levels obtained in Sustainable management of other natural Environment Laúca during 2015 resources; Sustainability · Planning of a training course about Human Rights targeting the Biodiversity conservation Human Rights Human Rights Protection security staff. Income generation opportunities creation; Stakeholders engagement; Sustainability · Achieve administrative and financial independency in Cambambe and Community empowerment; Social Programmes SONAREF’s social projects Community Health and Safety; Involvement in the community · Musculoskeletal work related diseases rate [MWRDR] = 3.00 (Max.) Sustainability · Absenteeism related to work diseases rate Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health [ARWDR] = 3.00 (Max.) · Hearing Loss Index [HLI] = 2.00 (Max.) · Absenteeism non-work related rate [ANWRR] = 10.0 (Max.) 86 87 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results Annex 88 89 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-20 G4-21 7.1 Matching between Odebrecht in Angola material themes versus GRI Aspects Odebrecht in Angola Material Themes GRI Aspects Impacts limits Theme/ Aspect Importance Associated to Aspect (Importance of Associated Impacts) Environmental responsability promotion · Overall (Environmental performance) Internal and external The construction activity, mainly in large infrastructures, generates considerable environmental impacts which require conscious action in all phases of the work cycle, Note: This topic is a wide topic since it crosses all environmental GRI themes, however within the environmental GRI themes considered more relevant to · Products and services Internal and external from the planning stage to the demobilization phase. Odebrecht in Angola takes its responsibility in this subject and is aware of the importance of setting an example in a Odebrecht in Angola, shown in this table, only explicitly index to this theme those · Land degradation, contamination, and remediation Internal and external country with lack of environmental infrastructures and with an increasing but poorly rooted environmental culture, through a practice that suppresses these deficiencies who are also too broad or do not cross directly with a more specific Odebrecht material theme. and that invests on environmental awareness among its employees and the community. The construction activity presents a major risk to occupational safety, meaning it’s crucial to adopt a thoughtful management of this subject. Accidents have a very important potential impact for workers and their families, and for the company’s reputation as well. In a country that, despite being gradually improving, has serious Occupational Health and Safety · Occupational Health and safety Internal and external deficiencies in health services and infrastructure management, also preventive health care management and medical emergency responsiveness is of great importance. In 2015 these topics had significant importance as explained in this report. Education and training is one of the Odebrecht’s strategic guidelines. Besides the direct benefit obtained by the employee and the Company, the community also benefits Employees education · Training and Education Internal and external from the employees participation in training activities by the transfer of knowledge, since many employees belong to the community. That knowledge acquired can be applied in activities that benefit the local development. · Employment Internal and external The employment opportunities generation with fair labour and human rights conditions (ensuring the respect for the individuals, human and basic labour rights and · Equal remuneration for Women and Men Internal and external legally acquired, as well as an adequate remuneration considering the local circumstances and associated responsibilities and risks to the exercised function, adequate · Market presence Internal and external facilities and installations to the circumstances and exercised function, and a fair, balanced and non-coercive working environment) is extremely important not only for Working conditions · Labour/ Management Relations Internal employees but also for the reputation and sustainability of the Company and for the communities where it operates. Odebrecht recognizes and assumes the importance · Forced or Compulsory Labour Internal and external of these factors as well as its role in the Angolan society, and, therefore, has been focusing on increasing the number of Angolans in its workforce. · Child Labour Internal and external A performance guided by ethical principles and a code of conduct is essential for the proper functioning of institutions and society in general and might impact it in both negative and positive ways, namely in its reputation and image, which are even more important influential institutions/companies. The TEO, the subscription to the Global · Anti-corruption Internal and external Pact of the United Nations and Odebrecht’s code of conduct reassure the importance that Odebrecht in Angola gives to these issues, establishing the guiding principles Ethics and conduct · Anti-competitive behaviour Internal and external of what should be the practice of the company in this field. To the practices based on these guidelines will be added new ones in 2016, arising from changes in the corporate governance of the organization, which are now in preparation. An open attitude, and communication about these topics will be maintained by the company’s ethical line, by staff training and disclosure, as well as by annual results reports. Odebrecht believes that business growth is only possible if there is a joint development with the surrounding communities where the company develops its ventures. In Community empowerment · Local communities Internal and external a country like Angola any contribution towards development assumes high relevance and will only be sustainable if accompanied by the commitment and training of the surrounding population, which is one of the most exploited factors at Odebrecht in Angola social responsibility programmes. · Diversity and Equal Opportunities Internal and external Employment Creation · Employment Internal and external See “Working conditions” · Market Presence Internal and external Transparency · Public policy Internal and external See “Ethics and Conduct” The main water consumption and effluent discharges of Odebrecht in Angola occur at projects level. Although Odebrecht in Angola’s projects are mainly located in areas · Water Internal and external without shortage of water resources, or a high pressure on them, the lack of pipeline and treatment infrastructures that provide access to drinking water and sewage Water Sustainable use · Effluents and waste Internal and external disposal in reasonable health conditions give importance to its proper management.. See also “Promoting Environmental Responsibility”. The excellence and quality of products and services is essential to maintain market confidence and customer satisfaction and therefore crucial to the success of Products and services excellency and quality · Product and service labeling Internal and external Odebrecht in Angola. The close relationship and satisfaction of each customer needs, coupled with accomplishment of deadlines and a controlled management of budgets are in turn essential for this excellence and quality. NOTE: For the NA (Not Applicable) identified themes there is no direct correspondence with GRI aspects. These issues are reflected in standard disclosures included in the report, as indicated in GRI table. 90 91 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results 7.1 Matching between Odebrecht in Angola material themes versus GRI Aspects Odebrecht in Angola Material Themes GRI Aspects Impacts limits Theme/ Aspect Importance Associated to Aspect (Importance of Associated Impacts) Economic Performance · Economic Performance Internal Economic performance is essential for the sustainability of any organization. As the community empowerment this is one of the main aspects explored in social responsibility programmes of Odebrecht in Angola and which is closely linked with the Income generation opportunities creation · Local Communities Internal and external development vision expressed above see “Community Empowerment”. Only a strong governance model associated to a well-defined and communicated strategy and corporate culture, updated and strengthened whenever circumstances Governance · NA Internal require so, ensures the sustained prosperity of an organization. Thus, the governance model and compliance system are being revised with impact from 2016. Odebrecht‘s Environmental management principles promote the rational use of natural resources and their conservation in a responsible manner, the protection of ecosystems, biodiversity conservation and respect for local cultures. In Angola, energy management is particularly important in terms of strategic options for national · Energy Internal and external policies, given the lack of national electricity production infrastructures, determining a high dependence on diesel generators. Odebrecht has been a key player Other natural resources sustainable management · Materials Internal and external in the implementation of strategic projects for the country in this field. Also the short age of some materials in the domestic market brings additional challenges to companies operating in the market. Odebrecht seeks to stimulate the local market through its investment and social programmes. See also “Promoting Environmental Responsibility” and “Creating Opportunities for income generation.” See “Community Empowerment”. Recognizing the importance of contributing to the development of local communities surrounding their operations, Odebrecht defines Involvement in the community · Local Communities Internal and external social programmes in all projects, which are preceded by diagnosis of the needs and which provide consultation activities and direct involvement of these communities to ensure the success of the implemented actions. · Organization’s operations human rights assessment Internal and external · Supplier human rights assessment Internal and external The TEO, the subscription to the Global Compact of the United Nations and Odebrecht´s Code of Conduct state the importance of human rights protection. · Indigenous rights Internal and external Human rights protection On the other hand, human rights violation within an organization, or indirectly through subcontractors and suppliers entities, has the potential to damage its reputation · Security practices Internal and external and image. · Human rights investments Internal and external · Non-discrimination Internal and external Odebrecht in Angola has had a particularly important role in health, with the participation and promotion of a set of actions aimed to promote interaction with Angola Community health and safety · Local Communities Internal and external Government and other civil society organizations in the search for effective responses to some of the major health problems faced by communities. See “Other natural resources sustainable management”. All projects that are located in higher risk areas of biodiversity losses are always subjected to the completion Biodiversity conservation · Biodiversity Internal and external of an EIA, as defined in the Sustainable Guideline of Odebrecht, in which it is established minimization measures for the biodiversity impacts. Land where the projects are located are previously prepared and, for all, recovering habitats measures are defined. A good relationship with its key Stakeholders is an important element for the success of Odebrecht. The proximity relationship and meeting the needs of each Stakeholders engagement · NA Internal and external stakeholder group is essential to the sustainability of the projects executed and to the business continuity and prosperity. Reconciling the interests of all contributes to create more sustainable value. See “Governance”. TEO is recognized by the stakeholders of Odebrecht in Angola as an example of strong and inspiring corporate culture. They recognize that Odebrecht Corporate culture · NA Internal and external has made a positive contribution to the country through 31 years of activity and presence in this geography, and relate this contribution to its strong corporate culture. Freedom of association · Freedom of association and collective bargaining Internal See “Working Conditions” NOTE: For the NA (Not Applicable) identified themes there is no direct correspondence with GRI aspects. These issues are reflected in standard disclosures included in the report, as indicated in GRI table. 92 93 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-24 G4-26 7.2 Mechanisms and associated frequency of interaction and communication actions with stakeholders Shareholders Clients Suppliers and service providers Local Community Meeting of Shareholders Frequency: Annual Sustainability report Frequency: Annual Participation in events of the sector (fairs, Frequency: Occasional Public consultation Frequency: Required conferences, meetings) Action Plan Frequency: Annual Ethics Line Frequency: Permanent Meetings in Social Programmes Frequency: Required Sustainability report Frequency: Annual Annual Report Frequency: Annual Informative publications of projects Frequency: Bimonthly Social programmes Frequency: Required Ethics Line Frequency: Permanent Sustainability report Frequency: Annual Direct meetings Frequency: Permanent Sustainability report Frequency: Annual Ethics Line Frequency: Permanent Ethics Line Frequency: Permanent Informative publications of projects Frequency: Bimonthly Events directed to stakeholders Frequency: Occasional Society Organizations Government authorities and Regulators Financial Communities Trade Unions Participation in important and relevant Frequency: Required Participation in important and relevant Frequency: Required Sustainability report Frequency: Annual Dialogue with Trade Unions Frequency: Required government events for society government events for society Frequency: Annual Ethics Line Frequency: Permanent Sustainability report Frequency: Annual Sustainability report Sustainability report Frequency: Annual Frequency: Permanent Ethics Line Frequency: Permanent Ethics Line Ethics Line Frequency: Permanent Informative publications of projects Frequency: Bimonthly Participation in media Frequency: Required Media and opinion makers Academic community Members Partners Sustainability report Frequency: Annual Odebrecht Award for Sustainable Frequency: Annual General Assembly Workers Frequency: Monthly Mailing Frequency: Daily Development Ethics Line Frequency: Permanent Dialogue with Trade Unions Frequency: Required Sustainability report Frequency: Annual “Young Partners” programme Frequency: Annual Announcements Frequency: Required Sustainability report Frequency: Annual Ethics Line Frequency: Permanent Sustainability report Frequency: Annual Participation in media Frequency: Required Ethics Line Frequency: Permanent Informative publications of projects Frequency: Bimonthly Ethics Line Frequency: Permanent Odebrecht News Corporate Frequency: Every 2 weeks Newsletter Odebrecht News Angola Frequency: Every 2 weeks Corporative TV Frequency: Weekly Informative publications of projects Frequency: Bimonthly 94 95 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results G4-22 G4-23 7.3 Methodological Notes 7.3.2 SPECIFIC NOTES BY INDICATOR OR INDICATOR GROUP 7.3.1 GENERAL NOTES TO THE REPORT G4-EN1 Consumption data from different materials has been collected in different measurement units, as so it was necessary to convert the amounts to the 1. EXCHANGE RATE same unit (tones), by using materials specific weights, as necessary, in accordance with the following Conversion Table. US Dollar (USD) has been taken as report currency. It was necessary to fix an exchange rate for conversion of monetary amounts in the report. Materials Specific Weight (kg/m3) It has been fixed the exchange rate from AKZ to USD, as used in the organization’s accounts for December 2015. Concrete 2,400 USD AKZ Wood 700 1 134,642 G4-EN3 It was assumed that all energy from electric grid is produced in the hydroelectric power plants, since there is only a little percent of energy produced out G4-EN5 of them. It was not possible to quantify the energy mix for the year 2015. G4-EN6 2. DATA INFORMATION SOURCES FOR INDICATORS CALCULATION Indicators Data Sources G4-EN15 The indicator includes all the active projects between 1 of January and 31 of December of 2015. G4-EN16 Scope 1: Direct emissions from sources controlled by Odebrecht in Angola, e.g.: fuel, waste, wastewater, etc; G4-EN17 Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions from the energy acquisition (e.g. electricity); G4 EN1; G4EN2; The indicators related to the topics of raw materials consumption and GHG emissions were calculated based G4-EN18 Scope 3: Other greenhouse gases (GHG) indirect emissions (e.g. cargo transportation, waste, air travel, commodities, etc.) G4 EN13; G4 -EN15; G4-EN16; on data extracted from CERENSA Inventory Odebrecht emissions. The CERENSA is monthly filled with G4 EN17; G4EN18; G4-EN19 The equivalent CO2 emissions in tons (tCO2e) were calculated according to the methodology proposed in the GHG protocol, and in relation to generated consumption data for each of the projects and the results are consolidated quarterly by Odebrecht SA. In G4-EN30 emissions from energy consumption in which Odebrecht has financial control. relation to waste produced data it was not possible to obtain precise figures, as so information for this year was estimated from data recorded in IDA and also in CERENSA. The GHG emission inventory data were obtained from CERENSA, Odebrecht group GHG emissions data system. G4 EN3; G4 EN5; G4-EN6; The indicators related to energy consumption, water and its origins, as well as those related to mitigation actions of G4-EN22 Each project has monitoring and mitigation actions in place for waste water discharges control, such as installation of wastewater treatment plant on G4-EN8; G4 EN10; G4 EN22 environmental impacts, were obtained from the data reported quarterly by active projects for determining the IDA site for the treatment of domestic waste waters and industrial waste water. In 2015, projects started to have the possibility to register the amount of G4 EN27; G4 EN31; wastewater produced in the new IDA reporting scheme. However, only those with treatment infrastructures can register these quantities accurately. (Environmental Performance Indicator). This report is made in the corporate reporting platform and enables the evaluation of the environmental performance of each of the ongoing projects in the reporting period. Total water The remaining estimate the reported amounts based on the number of tankers transporting wastewater to municipal treatment systems or others. consumption data reported refers to the total water collected for all uses. The reported data does not include the effluent values of the following projects: SONAREF, Project Enhancement Luanda Waters; Rios CCC; CSR project Soyo; South Kwanza Infrastructure, because it was not possible to gather information with consistency. G4 LA5; The indicators related to Occupational Health (OH) and Safety at Work (SW) were obtained from the data reported G4 LA6; by each of the projects in the corporate platform OS and SW. OH and SW indicators are filled in the respective G4-EN31 This value covers voluntary and mandatory actions that can be either structured programmes, isolated actions and sponsorships /donations in the G4 LA7 portals monthly for each active project, and enable the top management periodically to evaluate the performance context of previous actions. Remuneration costs, raw materials and service supplier’s costs related to the covered programmes are also included. of each project in these respects. It was not possible to disaggregate the value in the categories suggested by GRI. G4 EN5; Indicators of energy intensity, intensity of water consumption and carbon intensity were calculated based on the G4 EN18; number of company employees (employees + subcontractors) at December 31, 2015, as a specific metric of the CRE2 Company. G4-LA1 Turnover rate (%)(TR) = Nr. of leaves/ Total nr. of employees*100 G4 -10; Indicators related to manpower characterization were obtained from data provided by the Department of Human Admission rate (%)(AR) = Nr. of new hires/ Total nr. of employees*100 G4 LA12 Resources (HR), in relation to permanent and hired employees by Odebrecht in Angola between January 1 and December 31 of 2015. In relation to the data of sub-contractors population, it was only possible to calculate figures for the total number of workers in this category, not being possible to present a detailed disaggregation by gender, age or job category. This characterization is not possible since the subcontractors control is performed by each project and there is no centralized control at corporate level (of SD). The nature of the E&C business is highly influenced by seasonal variations, including the operational employee’s category, since it is directly related to the project phase. 96 97 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results It was not possible to compile data by gender. The only available data was the total number for employees and subcontractors, since G4-LA9 Training data was compiled based on existing training records. For training in the SW and Occupational health (OH) areas were collected based on G4-LA6 this data is controlled by each project. the information compiled in the respective portals. Data source: Occupational Safety data system reports. Lost Days Total number of days in which the person injured was unable to work, in the reference month G4-LA12 To complement the reported information, the following table presents the evolution of Odebrecht in Angola related to workforce diversity: as a result of accidents with lost days. This figure includes calendar days from the day after accident until medical leave. As so, sundays, bank holidays or any other day that did not work at the construction work site or at any Organization unit as well as any other full day of disability occurred after the return to work and which is a result of the same accident. 2013 2014 2015 Types of injuries Injuries considered: All injury types F M Total F M Total F M Total 2013 2014 2015 Injury rate = [Simple Ambulatory Care Frequency Rate (SAC) + Injury Rate without lost Nationality days (TFSA) + Injury rate with lost days (TFCA)] Angolan 790 8,376 9,166 868 10,305 11,172 705 9,287 9,992 Occupational [(Occupational diseases number + Diseases Related to work)]* 1,000,000/TMH Disease Rate = Expat 95 1,058 1,153 96 1,094 1,191 58 785 843 Lost day rate = [Number of lost days * 1,000,000]/TMH Total 885 9,434 10,319 964 11,399 12,363 763 10,072 10,835 (or severity rate) Absentee rate = Number of Absentee hours./ TMH (or absenteeism rate) F M Total F M Total F M Total 2013 2014 2015 Fatalities Fatal accidents number Age Group TMH Total Man-hours – Sum of all hours actually worked by all employees and Below 30 283 3,743 4,026 344 5,003 5,347 296 4,783 5,079 hours worked by the related effective workforce construction work site or organization unit. This amount includes overtime and excludes unworked paid hours, due to From 30 to 50 40 704 744 37 661 698 438 4,751 5,189 paid absences, leaves, vacation, disease and remunerated rest. Above 50 562 4,987 5,549 583 5,735 6,318 29 538 567 Total 885 9,434 10,319 964 11,399 12,363 763 10,072 10,835 F M Total F M Total F M Total G4-LA7 2013 2014 2015 HHRHearing health rate [Number of aggravation and new cases detected in the occupational exams Professional Category (loss or worsening of (excluding admission) X 100 ]/ [Number of audiometry held (excluding hearing during work) admission)] (employees + subcontractors) Directors and management 112 398 510 119 378 498 101 330 431 MWRDR Musculoskeletic [Total Nr. of Doctor Certificates (off work) for WRD Technical Staff 284 1,648 1,932 257 2,237 2,494 19 322 341 Work related diseases + Medical consultations] X 1,000,000/ [TMH] Other employees 12 60 72 6 60 67 42 121 163 Rate (employees + subcontractors) Operational Staff 477 7,328 7,805 581 8,724 9,305 601 9,299 9,900 API – Annual Parasitic Index Number of malaria cases x 1000/Population (employees + subcontractors) Total 885 9,434 10,319 964 11,399 12,363 763 10,072 10,835 Number and percentage of employees by nationality, age group and professional category G4 EN29; Odebrecht in Angola considers that the value from which the fines and penalties are significant is 100,000 USD. There are no employees with any kind of physical disability at Odebrecht in Angola. G4 SO8; G4 PR9 98 99 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results 7.4 GRI and Global Pact Index 7.4.2 General standard disclosures G4-32 7.4.1 UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI GRI Contents Description Page Contents Code Human rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights; STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Principle 2: Business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 4-5 Labour Practices Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; G4-3 Organization’s name 11 Principle 4: It is required the abolition of all forms of forced labour; G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 11 Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour; G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 19 Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in employment. G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates 10-11 Environmental protection Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to G4-7 Ownership nature and legal form 11-12 environmental challenges; G4-8 Markets served 11 Principle 8: Develop initiatives to promote environmental responsibility; G4-9 Organization scale 9-11, 13 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental G4-10 Workforce 48 friendly technologies. UNGC: Principle 6 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements 52 extortion and bribery. UNGC: Principle 3 G4-12 Supply chain 14 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period in the organization or its supply chain 14-15 G4-14 Precautionary principle 22-23 G4-15 Letters, principles and other external initiatives endorsed or subscribed by the organization 18, 22 G4-16 Associations membership 22 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Organization’s structure and report boundaries 18 G4-18 Definition of report content 18 G4-19 Material aspects 19, 90-93 G4-20 Material aspects boundaries outside the organization 18, 90-93 G4-21 Material aspects boundaries within the organization 18, 90-93 G4-22 Restatement of information provided in previous reports 34, 96-99 G4-23 Significant changes in the scope 34, 96-99 STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholders engaged by the Organization 28-29, 94-95 G4-25 Basis for stakeholders identification and selection 28 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 28-29, 94-95 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised during the stakeholder engagement and measures adopted by the organization 28-29 100 101 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results 7.4.3 GRI Indicators and disclosures on management approach GRI Odebrecht in Angola Material Aspect (P1) GRI G4 Contents Code GRI Contents Description Page GRI Aspect Indicator GRI G4 Indicator Description UNGC Page Code REPORT PROFILE Environmental responsibility promotion G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 18 Disclosures on management approach 22-23, 31, 34, 40, 90-93 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 29 Products and services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts Principle 7 G4-30 Reporting cycle. 18 of products and services Principle 8 40 Principle 9 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 19 Overall (environmental performance) G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and Principle 7 G4-32 GRI “in accordance” version chosen by the Organization 18, 101-107 investments Principle 8 41, 97 Principle 9 G4-33 External assurance 18 Land degradation, contamination and CRE5 Land remediation and in need of remediation for the GOVERNANCE remediation existing or intended land use, according to applicable Principle 8 41 legal designations G4-34 Organization governance structure, including committees of the highest governance body 12 Occupational Health and safety ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Disclosures on management approach 53-55, 58, 90-93 G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of Conduct and codes of ethics 20-23, 34-35, 48, 54, 64-67 Occupational health and safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in N.A. 54, 96 formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work N.A. 57-58, 96, 98 related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases N.A. 59, 96, 98 related to their occupation CRE6 Percentage of the organizational work body operating in verified compliance with an internationally N.A. 31, 35, 57 recognized health and safety management system Employees education and career management Disclosures on management approach 60, 90-93 Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by Principle 6 61, 96, 99 gender, and by employee category G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning N.A. 60-61, 96 that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by Principle 6 52 gender and by employee category Working conditions and people management Disclosures on management approach 51-52, 90-93 Employment G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by N.A 52 significant locations of operation Labour/ management relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in Principle 3 52 collective agreements Equal remuneration for women and men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of Principle 6 52 operation Market presence including local G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant Principle 6 52 locations of operation 102 103 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results Odebrecht in Angola Material Aspect (P1) GRI G4 Odebrecht in Angola Material Aspect (P1) GRI G4 GRI Aspect Indicator Designação GRI G4 Indicator Description do indicador GRI G4 UNGC Page GRI Aspect Indicator GRI G4 Indicator Description UNGC Page Code Code Working conditions and people management Water G4-EN8 Total water collection, by source Principle 7 35-36, 96 Principle 8 Disclosures on management approach 20-22, 90-93 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Principle 8 36 Child labour G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant reused risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to Principle 5 15, 22 contribute to the effective abolition of child labour CRE2 Building Water Intensity Principle 9 36 Forced or compulsory labour G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Principle 4 15, 22 Products and services excellency and quality labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Disclosures on management approach 13, 90-93 ETHICS and conduct Product and service labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring client satisfaction N.A 13 Disclosures on management approach 15, 20-22, 90-93 Omission: There aren’t implemented direct methods for client satisfaction evaluation, however this factor can be N.A Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed Principle 10 15, 20-22 indirectly evaluated through the organization’s image in for risks related to corruption and the significant risks the market, as reported. identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Economic performance Principle 10 15, 21-22, 61 policies and procedures Disclosures on management approach 20, 90-93 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Principle 10 21-22 Economic performance G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government N.A 13 Anti-competitive behaviour G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Economic value directly generated and distributed N.A. 15 G4-EC1 N.A 13 behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Other natural resources sustainable management Community empowerment Disclosures on management approach 34-35, 90-93 Involvement in the community Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Principle 7 38, 96-97 Principle 8 Income generation opportunities creation G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Principle 8 38, 96 Community health and safety Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Principle 7 39, 96-97 Principle 8 Disclosures on management approach 64, 78, 90-93 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Principle 8 39, 96-97 Local communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Principle 1 64-78 community engagement, impact assessments, and G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Principle 8 development programmes 39, 96-97 Principle 9 Employment Creation Human rights protection Disclosures on management approach 24, 48-59, 90-93 Disclosures on management approach 20-21, 90-93 Market presence including local G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation Principle 6 49, 60 Human rights on investments G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment Principle 2 22 agreements and contracts that include human rights Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and clauses or that underwent human rights screening Principle 6 50, 97 employee functional turnover by age group, gender and region G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human Principle 1 21 Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Principle 6 48-51, 99 rights that are relevant to operations, including the employees per employee category according to gender, percentage of employees trained age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Principle 6 22 corrective actions taken Transparency Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Disclosures on management approach 20-21, 90-93 Principle 1 61 organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Public policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and Principle 10 13 recipient/beneficiary Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights Principle 1 22 of indigenous people and actions taken Water sustainable use Operations human rights assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that Principle 1 22 have been subject to human rights reviews or impact Disclosures on management approach 34-35, 90-93 assessments Effluents and waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Principle 8 38, 96-97 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Principle 2 15 human rights criteria G4-EN24 Occurrence of leakages Principle 8 41 104 105 2015 Annual Report Sustainability results Odebrecht in Angola Material Aspect (P1) GRI G4 Odebrecht in Angola Sustainability GRI G4 Indicator GRI G4 Indicator Description UNGC Page GRI Aspects P2 and P3 Indicator GRI G4 Indicator Description UNGC Page GRI Aspect Code Code Biodiversity Conservation Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) and other gases Disclosures on management approach 40-42, 90-93 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Principle 7 Principle 8 42-44, 97 Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or Principle 8 42 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Principle 7 biodiversity value outside protected areas 42-44, 97 Principle 8 G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Principle 8 42 products, and services on biodiversity in protected G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Principle 7 Principle 8 42-44, 97 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 44, 97 G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Principle 8 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Principle 8 42 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Principle 8 43-44, 97 Principle 9 Freedom of association Grievance Mechanisms Disclosures on management approach 20-21, 52, 90-93 Freedom of association and G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right Human rights related grievance G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts collective bargaining to exercise freedom of association and collective mechanisms filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Principle 1 21 Principle 3 52 bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and grievance mechanisms measures taken to support these rights Odebrecht in Angola Sustainability GRI G4 Indicator GRI G4 Indicator Description UNGC Page There are material topics for Odebrecht in Angola that are not reflected into GRI indicators GRI Aspects P2 and P3 Pág. Code However there is information in the report that addresses and responds to the following aspects: Governance 12 Compliance Stakeholders Engagement 28-29, 94-95 Compliance (environmental) G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Principle 8 44 Corporate Culture 20 environmental laws and regulations NOTE: Omissions that have an impact on compliance with the Essential level of the GRI Guidelines are indicated in this table. Nevertheless, other omissions to the GRI criteria associated with specific indicators, are contextualized in 7.3.2 Specific Notes by Indicator or Indicator Group. Compliance (global) G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with N.A 21 laws and regulations Compliance (Products and services) G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and N.A 13 use of products and services Waste management Effluents and waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Principle 8 42 INdirect Economic Impact Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported N.A 68-79 Local communities CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled by development, broken N.A 79 down by project Suppliers Management GOOD Practices Suppliers environmental assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Principle 8 15 environmental criteria Procurement practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant N.A 15 locations of operation 106 107
