ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 A CONTENTS Table of contents The year in brief............................................................................. 1 Mekonomen Group in brief.................................................... 2 CEO’s comments........................................................................... 4 Market performance and trends........................................... 6 Mekonomen Group in the market...................................... 8 Goals and outcomes................................................................... 10 Strategy............................................................................................... 11 Vision, business concept and business model.............. 12 Brands and concepts.................................................................. 14 Group companies......................................................................... 16 Mekonomen Group’s responsibilities................................ 20 The Share.......................................................................................... 26 Administration Report.............................................................. 28 -.Proposed appropriation of earnings................................ 33 -.Corporate Governance Report......................................... 34 -.Board of Directors..................................................................... 39 -.Group Management.................................................................. 40 Financial statements.................................................................... 42 -Consolidated income statement........................................ 42 -Consolidated statement of comprehensive income........................................................... 42 -Consolidated balance sheet.................................................. 43 -Consolidated statement of changes in equity............ 45 -Consolidated cash flow statement................................... 46 -Income statement for the Parent Company............... 47 -Statement of comprehensive income for the Parent Company......................................................... 47 -Balance sheet for the Parent Company......................... 48 -Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the Parent Company......................................................... 50 -Cash flow statement for the Parent Company......... 51 Notes................................................................................................... 52 Signatures.......................................................................................... 77 Auditor’s Report........................................................................... 78 Five-year summary....................................................................... 79 Quarterly overview.................................................................... 81 Annual General Meeting.......................................................... 82 Glossary and definitions........................................................... 83 Addresses.......................................................................................... 84 Mekonomen Group’s formal Annual Report comprises pages 28–78. Only the original version of the formal Annual Report has been reviewed by the company’s auditors. The Annual Report is published in Swedish and English. The Swedish version represents the original version, and has been translated into English. Welcome to visit our website at www.mekonomen.com. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 THE YEAR IN BRIEF The year in brief • Revenue rose 7 per cent to SEK 5,761 M (5,390). Excluding the acquisition of Opus Significant events in 2015 Quarter 1 • Sales of ProMeister accounted Equipment, revenue rose 6 per cent. Adjusted for currency effects and calculated for 10 per cent of spare parts on the comparable number of workdays, revenue rose 8 per cent. sales in the Group. • MECA and HockeyAllsvenskan • EBITA amounted to SEK 726 M (763) and the EBITA margin amounted to 13 per cent (14). launched MECA Hockey Race. • EBIT amounted to SEK 616 M (639) and the EBIT margin amounted to 11 per cent (12). Quarter 2 • Earnings per share, before and after dilution, amounted to SEK 11.77 (12.80). • Kenneth Bengtsson was • Cash flow from operating activities increased to SEK 439 M (413), of which discontinued appointed the new Chairman of the Board of Mekonomen operations accounted for SEK -134 M (-115). Group. • Net debt amounted to SEK 1,626 M (1,629). • Magnus Johansson was appointed the new President and CEO of • The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 7.00 (7.00). Mekonomen Group. During the first quarter 2015, the two last stores in Denmark were discontinued and, in the 2015 annual report, the Danish store operation is • Mekonomen Group expanded presented according to the rules for discontinued operations in IFRS 5. All comparative periods have been recalculated. The Danish store operation to South Korea with sales of the was previously included in the MECA segment. With the exception of cash flow and net debt, all amounts above pertain to continuing operations. proprietary spare part range ProMeister through cooperation REVENUE AND EBIT1) WORKING CAPITAL1) SEK M with a South Korean distributor. SEK M SEK M % 6,000 • Sales growth for Mekonomen 800 1,400 25 Group’s affiliated workshops 700 5,000 1,200 reached 15 per cent in the 20 600 1,000 quarter. 4,000 500 15 3,000 400 800 Quarter 3 600 • The Group acquired Opus 300 10 2,000 Equipment, a comprehensive 200 400 supplier of workshop equipment 1,000 5 100 200 for car workshops and car 0 0 inspection stations. 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20112) 20123) 2013 2014 2015 • The new “Mekonomen share car” service is implemented. Revenue EBIT Working capital % of net sales • Centralisation of the group-wide 1) For all years presented, discontinued store operations in Denmark have been excluded. functions Purchasing, Category 2) Net sales for Sørensen og Balchen 2011 have been recalculated for 12 months. and IT. 3) Net sales for MECA 2012 have been recalculated for 12 months. Quarter 4 Key figures 2015 2014 2013 • Sales of ProMeister accounted Revenue, SEK M1) 5,761 5,390 5,251 for 13 per cent of spare parts EBITA, SEK M1) 726 763 683 sales in the Group. EBIT, SEK M1) 616 639 527 • Mekonomen defended its title as Profit for the year from continuing operations, SEK M1) 430 466 360 Sweden’s strongest brand among car workshops at the Swedish Profit for the year from discontinued operations, SEK M 0 -340 -44 Brand Awards 2015 event. Profit for the year, SEK M 430 127 315 • All workshops in Mekonomen Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK1) 11.77 12.80 9.81 and MECA have acceded to Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK 0.00 -9.46 -1.25 an agreement regarding repair Earnings per share, SEK 11.77 3.34 8.56 terms developed by the Swedish EBITA margin, %1) 13 14 13 Association of Auto Repair EBIT margin, %1) 11 12 10 Shops (SFVF) and the Swedish Cash flow per share, SEK2) 12.2 11.5 15.5 Consumer Agency. Dividend per share, SEK3) 7.00 7.00 7.00 • Lasingoo, the search engine for Return on shareholders’ equity, %1) 20 21 16 workshop services, was launched Equity/assets ratio, % 40 39 41 in Norway. 1) The amounts and key figures pertain to continuing operations. Comparative figures have been recalculated. 2) From operating activities. 3) The Board’s proposal for 2015. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 1 MEKONOMEN GROUP IN BRIEF Mekonomen Group in brief Mekonomen Group is the leading car service chain in the Nordic region and in 2015 comprised the three Group companies MECA Scandinavia, Mekonomen Nordic and Sørensen og Balchen. We offer a wide range of quality products that comprises spare parts CUSTOMERS, SHARE OF TOTAL SALES and accessories for cars as well as workshop services for consumers and businesses. Mekonomen Group has 342 stores and 2,126 affiliated workshops under the Group brands. Mekonomen Group’s share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 29 May 2000 and is traded under the MEKO ticker. Affiliated workshops Other workshops Consumers via stores Partner stores Vision We are the car owner’s first choice and strive for a simpler and more affordable CarLife. Business concept Strengths Mekonomen Group shall offer consumers and • Strong brands and well-known concepts companies solutions for a simpler and more • Broad customer offering affordable CarLife by using clear and innovative • Purchasing strength concepts, high quality and an efficient logistics • ProMeister and the ProMeister Academy chain. • Competent employees Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 2 MEKONOMEN GROUP IN BRIEF Employees Mekonomen Group has around 2,300 employees. The operation is based on shared core values, which are summarised as follows: • Customer orientation • Business orientation • Responsibility • Competency • Flexibility Brands on the Nordic market Sweden Norway Finland Denmark Iceland ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ EQUIPMENT AB ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 3 CEO’S COMMENTS Our workshops – the heart of the business In a market characterised by tough competition, every part of Mekonomen Group presented growth in 2015 and we took market shares in every market. We are continuing efforts for improving operational efficiency, leveraging our size and driving innovation. The beginning of my time as President and CEO of Mekonomen Group has regions and rural areas in how ownership and use look like will also vary been eventful. We made or decided on major changes in how we work with more than they do today. For Mekonomen Group, the number of kilometres logistics, digital sales and product sourcing. This means that in the future we driven is an important key figure, where we have seen the earlier negative can work smarter in the Group, devote more resources to developing our trend beginning to turn. Many of the innovations in this area of service now workshops and continue to gain market shares. being launched by us and others are making it easier for people to have access to a car when they need one. Our size gives us strength – which we will leverage New car sales were strong in our main markets in 2015. This is something A great deal has been done, but there is considerable potential to further that is primarily positive for us over a perspective of a few years. So altogether improve the efficiency of the entire chain of logistics, product sourcing and we see many signs that the car, as a means of transport, will keep the strong IT support. The structure of the Group is characterised by acquisitions position it has historically held. We also see a potential in a somewhat carried out in earlier years. We are now placing considerable focus on opstronger market for 2016. timising the entire chain of logistics, product sourcing and IT. The efficiency improvements will free up resources to develop our communication, sales ProMeister takes market shares and Opus strengthens strength and the Group’s workshop concepts, and increase service to the our workshops customers. For Mekonomen Group, 2015 was a good year. Our brands have different As the leader in the Nordic aftermarket, we have a hard-to-beat purchaspositions and have all successfully grown. This is evidence of the strength that ing power and ability to develop spare parts and equipment under our own we possess. ProMeister brand. The work on the ProMeister product range will result Our group-wide proprietary brand ProMeister continues to grow and in us having the most affordable offering in the market. By having the best sales of ProMeister spare parts amounted to more than SEK 500 M in 2015. product catalogue in terms of quality and price and the best product supply In July 2015, Opus Equipment AB was acquired, a comprehensive supplier out to our workshops combined with the best customer care, we will win of equipment for workshops and car inspection stations. Opus is now a the battle for market shares. part of MECA, which is the Group’s B2B-oriented company. The acquisition is a concrete example of what we do to continuously strengthen our total Digitalisation enables smart services offering to our workshop customers and thereby be able to support them The automotive industry is undergoing major change. As cars are increasand their competitiveness. ingly online connected, both new opportunities and needs arise among the drivers. For our part, this means opportunities to create new offers. IdentiRecord in Norway, tough in Denmark fying new services that meet the needs of both workshops and car owners All of the Group’s companies experienced very strong market development is our most important mission. This is why it is very important to keep and during the year. Particularly notable was the development in our Norwegian develop the innovative corporate culture we have in the company. companies. Sørensen og Balchen had its best year ever for example. In recent years, we have launched initiatives, such as a search engine for The year also entailed challenges. Our Danish operations continued workshop services called lasingoo.se and “Mekonomen share car” that ento cost us money. After the final store was closed in Denmark in the first ables several car drivers to easily co-own a car. We have also launched our quarter of 2015, our business model is based on a more cost-effective group-wide Product Information Management (PIM) platform, meaning that distribution with direct deliveries to the workshops. Now, the challenge is we work with one information flow in the Group instead of three. These to achieve a higher volume in our export business to Denmark and thereby are different ways that show how we use the possibilities of digitalisation to create profitability. We are carefully monitoring the development and will create customer value. I am convinced that as the industry leader we will take the steps necessary regarding Denmark. continue to be on the forefront to develop new services that are adapted to this and the next generation of car drivers. Structural change The way we use and own cars in society will develop, thanks in large part As of 1 January 2016, Mekonomen Nordic was discontinued as a control to the possibilities of digitalisation. The differences between metropolitan and management function. Onwards the sales companies Mekonomen Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 4 CEO’S COMMENTS If we are the best in terms of quality, price and supply chain combined with the best customer care, we will win the battle for market shares. Sweden, Norway and Finland will be operated directly under Mekonomen Group, providing a more effective structure. Leaders and co-workers In 2015, an employee survey was conducted in which both Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) and Leadership Index (LSI) improved and our results are relatively on par with other companies. Competence development is becoming an increasingly important factor to attract and retain co-workers. We have a well-developed entrepreneurial spirit with committed and responsible co-workers. This commitment is crucial to the company’s success and our ambition is to further strengthen our results to be clearly above comparable companies. Need for more competent mechanics – jobs for new arrivals can be found here The supply of mechanics is a tight sector in our entire industry in the Nordic region. As the industry leader, Mekonomen Group has a particularly large interest in, and responsibility for this issue. We are therefore now investing in an own high school education. The existing automotive programmes at high schools are unable to provide the industry with a sufficient number of employable, recently graduated mechanics. The major shortage of mechanics – involving at least 5,000 jobs in the industry until 2020 – is also a major opportunity for providing work for new arrivals. I look forward to a year where we see the effects of the initiatives that we have implemented or decided on in 2015. For me, creating resources to be able to develop together with our workshops is what is absolutely most important. The workshops are the heart of our Group. With competitive advantages from our size, good customer care and an understanding of the customers’ needs, I am convinced that every part of Mekonomen Group can continue to gain market shares and grow profitably. Magnus Johansson President and CEO Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 5 MARKET PERFORMANCE AND TRENDS Stable growth in the market 2015 The Nordic market for spare parts, car accessories and workshop services is growing at a stable rate of 1-2 per cent per year. At the same time, the market is changing in pace with more technically advanced cars, new trends in car ownership and a gradually growing number of cars that run on alternative fuels.This creates demand for a high level of expertise among the players in the industry and creates good possibilities for those who are innovative and are on the forefront of this development. The development in the European aftermarket for car parts and workshop uncertainty how the low oil price will affect the consumers in a longer run. services is less sensitive to economic fluctuations than many other markets. Historical differences between brand-dependent and brand-independent The market is expected to grow somewhat in the next few years, even if players are increasingly being erased and we operate in the same market, fluctuations up and down can occur in the short term. The market is mainly but with different pricing and marketing of our products and services. driven by factors such as the number of cars in the car fleet, the age of the Customers choose the workshop they trust, with a price level they consider cars, the number of kilometres driven, and the longevity of spare parts. affordable. Stable growth Continued consolidation The Nordic car fleet is growing at a stable rate of 1-2 per cent per year. The European spare part market is being consolidated. There is a trend that Sweden and Norway are characterised by a relatively old car fleet, now the large players are acquired to gain synergy effects in form of large purchasing average age of the car fleet is growing in Europe as well. For many years, volumes in combination with more efficient logistics solutions. In the future, there has been a trend of reduced car driving, but in the past two years, we we will see continued consolidation of the European market where there have seen indications of a break in the trend in Sweden. The quality of many will be fewer, but stronger players. car parts is increasing, which contributes to extended intervals between car In the mean time, there is a conversion of the workshop market, where service and repair times. This is weighed up by the vehicles lasting longer and it has become increasingly important for small and medium-sized brand-indemanding repairs over a longer life cycle. dependent workshops to belong to a chain. The technically advanced Altogether, these factors entail an increased need for spare parts and development sets growing demands on further training for mechanics and the Nordic aftermarket for cars is stable with an expected average nominal increased investment in new equipment. Larger players and chains have growth of 1-2 per cent per year. greater opportunities to invest in the competence and advanced equipment The development in the market for car accessories is more sensitive to needed. This development also contributes to more affordable services and economic fluctuations and is affected to a greater extent by the household’s products, which in turn benefits the car owner. consumption patterns. In our largest markets Sweden and Norway, private The VW scandal in 2015 negatively impacted the trust in the industry on consumption rose in 2015. The growth rate in Norway gradually slowed down the short term and it remains to be seen which effect it has on the medium during the year, as a result of a declining oil price and weaker NOK. Private and long term. Hopefully, the discussions begun can lead to greater transparconsumption in Sweden is expected to continue to rise going forward. ency in the car industry, which would be positive for the customers. The development in Norway is also expected to be positive, but there is Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 6 MARKET PERFORMANCE AND TRENDS 1-2% Long term growth in the Nordic region Important trends 2015 • The difference between brand-dependent and brand-independent players has increasingly been erased. • There is a continuing trend in Europe towards greater consolidation to achieve profitability through synergies. • The average age of the European car fleet is increasing. • The number of electric cars and hybrid vehicles is continuing to grow. Technical development creates future opportunities • Demand for a higher degree of technical Greater environmental awareness and more stringent emissions requirements expertise and advanced equipment is have led to growing demand for electric cars and other alternative fuels. In Sweden, the number of electric cars is growing, but from a very low level. In growing, which benefits the players that 2015, nearly 3,000 new electric cars were registered, which is more than twice invest and have the ambition of being on the the number since 2014. At the same time, they account for less than 1 per forefront of development. cent of all new registrations made in 2015. Political decisions in the form of environmental subsidies play a major role in the selection of an environmental • Car sharing is expected to grow. vehicle. For example, Norway has decided to become a global leader in super • The market for digital services is growing fuel-efficient cars.The government provides generous subsidies to those who choose a super environmental car, which speeds up the development and rapidly, with new business models and offerings. more than every six car sold in Norway in 2015 was an electric car.The electric car, together with the hybrid cars that exist, are not alone on the market for cars run on alternative fuels.The hydrogen car being tested on a small scale is an environmentally friendly alternative that may become a guiding factor in the traditional car manufacturers have met tough competition from software future. companies, among others, to develop the self-driving cars of the future. A trend we see is that some drivers have a different attitude towards the car Today, there are self-steering cars in the form of assisted driving such as and are more interested in the function than the status provided by car ownerself-parking, auto stopping for pedestrians and so on, but the development is ship.They want to have access to a car, but do not need to own it. Carpools and leaning towards us being able to choose to travel around with cars that are combination ownership with other people, in “car sharing” is already a reality, entirely self-driving in the future. although on a small scale.This trend opens up for new business opportunities as Other new digital functions will grow in, among other areas, measurethe demand for more services around car ownership will increase. ment of health status of the driver, information on traffic conditions and communication with units in the home. The car – a smartphone on four wheels In telematics, there is major potential for those who are innovative and can Car owners are beginning to increasingly demand wireless telematics in the develop new concepts. Here, the EU plays an important role in ensuring healthy car to make their daily lives easier. Today, there are already functions in new competition in the area so that the major car makers do not lock in new techcars such as turning on heating and unlocking the car over the phone before nology in their own brands and make it unavailable to other players. A “lock-in” use. At the same time, the technology makes it possible for the workshop not only inhibits competition, but also technical development. to take wireless readings of the car’s condition. They can then inform the car owner ahead of time when something is about to break and propose Technically driven service and e-commerce a visit to the workshop instead of the car owner getting stranded with a An ever higher technical content in the cars mean that the profession of a broken-down car. Other wireless functions that are already a reality exist, for mechanic is changing. It is becoming more advanced at the same time that example, in maintenance and navigation. Older cars can be connected up by the industry needs more mechanics. The supply of future mechanics is an installing a hardware that enables communication with the car. important factor for growth in our industry. It is important to get more The market for connected cars is expected to grow strongly and expand people to choose the profession as a mechanic by strengthening the practito many areas. By 2021, it is expected to triple and to reach an estimate of tioners’ expertise and the profession’s attractiveness. more than EUR 120 billion according to a study from PwC. Today, consumer e-commerce accounts for a small part of the total marThe market for traffic safety is a key area and is expected to be the ket and mainly comprises sales of spare parts to “do-it-yourselfers”. In the largest market in connected technology in six years. future, e-commerce will become more important for the industry and more The self-driving car has become all the rage in the car industry. Here, advanced platforms will be necessary for successful e-commerce. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 7 MEKONOMEN GROUP IN THE MARKET Mekonomen Group’s position in the market By extensively focusing on ensuring a high level of quality among the affiliated workshops and the overall experience for both private and business customers, we continued to strengthen its position in the market in 2015. Sales growth in our own ProMeister brand was strong during the year and accounted for 13 per cent of total Group sales of spare parts at the end of the year. In 2015, we took market shares and strengthened its leading position in in the Summer of 2015 is a good example. Through this acquisition, we can the Nordic region. The Group’s focus on raising the quality of the concept supplement our offering with workshop equipment – including installation and workshops and working to be the car owner’s first choice was successful. service – to new and existing customers in the automotive aftermarket. The affiliation of our concept workshops in Sweden, within MECA and Mekonomen, to the Swedish Association of Auto Repair Shops is an example ProMeister continues to grow of how we are raising the bar. Quality combined with affordability is important Demand for high-quality and affordable spare parts led us to launch our in the battle for customers, while the significance of flexibility and capacity for own brand, ProMeister, in 2013. The sales of ProMeister products developed innovation is growing. Key success factors were also the economies of scale in well during the year and led to us regaining market shares among non-affilthe form of large purchasing volumes, smart logistics solutions combined with iated workshops. ProMeister’s share of total spare parts sales in the Group a local presence and a high level of expertise. increased during the year to account for 13 per cent in the fourth quarter. Differentiated concepts meet the needs of Innovation in Mekonomen Group various target groups The use of alternative fuels is growing, as well as the number of electric cars Through the Group’s clear concepts, it is possible to meet the various and hybrid electric vehicles. This trend is being driven by greater environmental customer needs of car owners. An example of this is our new state-ofawareness and more stringent emissions requirements. We are carefully the-art workshop concepts Yehlove and MECA+, where the establishment monitoring developments to be able to offer adequate service and affordaof MECA+ facilities began in 2015. An initial effort has been made in the ble, quality products regardless of what fuel the vehicle runs on. metropolitan regions, where service on heavy trucks was introduced at the The booking site Lasingoo that Mekonomen Group launched in 2014 MECA+ facility in Rosersberg. together with five competing chains is an example of the innovativeness Private customers as well as business customers appreciate being able in the Group and is fully in line with the strategy that it should be easy to easily have their vehicles serviced with a focus on price, quality and good to find, book and compare workshops. The greater transparency created service. For business customers, it is also important that we have the posby Lasingoo benefits workshops with high availability that offer affordable sibility of servicing a large vehicle fleet with a national workshop network. service and products. Our business concept Fleet, which targets business customers, developed The European market is undergoing change where consolidation and well in 2015 and is an important investment for us. new technology are creating new business opportunities. With our size, strong position and local roots, we are well positioned to adapt to the Acquisition of Opus Equipment customers’ needs for products and services on the automotive aftermarket. We have the ambition of growing in spare parts, car accessories and Our ambition is to constantly be on forefront in new areas and we see the workshop services, combined with new business opportunities in related new technologies as an opportunity to create innovative products, services activities that fit our business model. The acquisition of Opus Equip­ment and business models and thereby continue to take market shares. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 8 MEKONOMEN GROUP IN THE MARKET Innovation projects SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2015 in 2015 Mekonomen share car With the carpool project “Mekonomen share car” launched in November 2015, Mekonomen Group meets a new need and behaviour in the market. Growing numbers Acquisition of of people do not view the car as a status Opus Equipment symbol, but rather a function that solves a transport problem. They do not have the same interest in owning a car of their own, Economic factors but become members of carpools instead. have negatively More extensive The market was impacted retail e-commerce efforts negatively affected by ProMeister Academy consumption economic conditions The development of the Group’s training centre ProMeister Academy continued in 2015. At the ProMeister Academy, Mekonomen Group took Greater focus on we secure the quality and skills of our Good development market shares and strengthB2B customers mechanics in all of the Group’s workshop for all of the ened its leading position. chains. The training centre was founded in Group’s concepts 2013 and in 2015 carried out more than in Norway 2,300 training days for mechanics. Lasingoo The Group grew towards Customers require simplicity, transparennon-affiliated workshops cy and constant availability. Mekonomen thanks in large part to the Group’s launch of the Lasingoo booking ProMeister effort site, which was founded in 2014 together with five other competing chains, proved to be successful in 2015 and is one example of how we are always trying to make life easier for our customers. Win-win-win Demand is growing for mechanics with adequate training. Our pilot project Win-win-win, which we started in 2014 in cooperation with the Public Employment Services, is an effort we are pursuing to take advantage of the expertise available among recent arrivals to Sweden. MEKONOMEN GROUP’S MARKET SHARE E-commerce Mekonomen Group has been a leading B2B e-commerce player for a long time and a significant part of our sales come from orders through today’s digital interapprox. approx. faces. With the vision of addressing the entire Group’s sales, we are now building the next generation e-commerce platform, an advanced, group-wide solution that 15% 25% adds new possibilities for greater customer loyalty and value in both B2B and B2C. This solution will thereby also replace Share of the spare parts submarket Share of the spare parts submarket today’s e-commerce solutions towards to workshops in Sweden to workshops in Norway consumers, both for product sales and workshop services. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 9 GOALS AND OUTCOMES Goals and outcomes Mekonomen Group’s overall goal is to develop with good profitability and thereby create value growth for the shareholders. New financial targets for 2016 were adopted by the Board of Directors. Area Goals as of 2016 Growth goal • To achieve annual sales growth of at least 5 per cent, as a combination of organic and acquired growth. Financial goals • To annually achieve an operating margin in excess of 10 per cent. • The equity/assets ratio shall not in the long term be less than 40 per cent. • Net debt / EBITDA shall not in the long term exceed 2,0. Area Goals through 2015 Outcome 2015 Growth goal • Annual sales growth of 10 per cent. Expansion shall occur with retained • Annual sales growth in 2015: 7% (3%) financial stability. Financial goals • The EBIT margin shall exceed 8 per cent. • The EBIT margin in 2015: 11% (12%) • The long-term equity/assets ratio shall be not less than 40 per cent. • Equity/assets ratio in 2015: 40% (39%) Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 10 STRATEGY Strategic development In 2015, Mekonomen Group took a number of steps in our strategic focus areas, which comprise innovation, efficiency enhancements and quality assurance of workshops and concepts. Strategic area Efforts in 2015 Growth and innovation • The workshop portal Lasingoo, which was launched in Sweden in 2014, met expectations and was launched in 2015 in Norway as well. • The carpool project “Mekonomen share car” was launched in November 2015. • As a part of widening Mekonomen Group’s offering to workshops, the Group acquired Opus Equipment in 2015, which supplies equipment to workshops in the form of lifts, tyre machines, etc. and software for operating the machines. Increased proportion • Sales of ProMeister spare parts increased to 13 per cent of spare part sales in the Group in the second half of 2015. of ProMeister sales Continued development • ProMeister Academy has had a strong inflow of mechanics and became a part of the broader ProMeister Solutions of ProMeister Solutions concept during the year, which also comprises standardised support services for proprietary and affiliated workshops in IT, business and booking systems and quality assurance of workshops. Continued development and • New agreements have been established with the workshops, which were inventoried and graded. Requirements were also quality assurance of workshops set on them being members of the trade association, Swedish Association of Auto Repair Shops (SFVF). and concepts Increased coordination • In 2015, the consolidation of group-wide functions continued in purchasing, supply chain, IT and finance and accounting. and efficiency We also centralised our marketing department. • A group-wide PIM solution has been developed and will be implemented in all Group companies in 2016. • Mekonomen Group has begun the development and implementation of a common e-commerce platform where all of the Group’s digital transactions will be handled. • The Group also began the upgrade of its ERP system. Mekonomen Sweden is the first up and in 2015, began to implement the Group’s new platform. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 11 VISION, BUSINESS CONCEPT AND BUSINESS MODEL The first choice for car owners Mekonomen Group is the leading car service chain in the Nordic region with a proprietary wholesale operation, 342 stores and 2,126 affiliated workshops operating under the Group’s strong, well-established brands. Vision We are the car owner’s first choice and strive for a simpler and more Business model affordable CarLife. Our business model is simple and logical. High purchasing volumes combined with an efficient wholesale operation, well-known brands and conBusiness concept cepts, full-range stores and workshops with well-trained personnel give us a Mekonomen Group shall offer consumers and companies solutions for a distinct advantage in being able to meet and exceed our customers’ needs. simpler and more affordable CarLife by using clear and innovative concepts, The keywords are a well-adapted, affordable product range, combined with high quality and an efficient logistics chain. efficient distribution and a high level of service. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 12 VISION, BUSINESS CONCEPT AND BUSINESS MODEL 1. Purchasing 2. Logistics 3. Sales Since 2014, purchasing has been a group-wide In our industry, product availability is very imporMekonomen Group’s revenue is generated by sales function with centrally negotiated purchases. The tant. A structure of efficient logistics solutions of spare parts, tyres, accessories and workshop serlarge volume enables purchasing directly from ensures that the right product is quickly available vices. Sales to our franchise workshops, proprietary subcontractors to established car manufacturers. when it is needed in the local store, workshop or workshops and independent workshops mainly take The basic principle for creating the right online store. place through our online catalogue. Sales to end product range is to achieve the highest possible It is in product sourcing that the largest degree customers: consumers, companies and organisations, coverage of parts and accessories at the best of efficiency enhancements can be made. In take place in stores, workshops or over the Internet. terms. The Group purchases around 75 per cent 2015, Mekonomen Group conducted a project In the future, e-commerce, regardless of whether of the supply of products from 160 suppliers. To to establish a group-wide PIM system (Product it is to a B2B customer or to a B2C customer, enhance the efficiency of product sourcing, a conInformation Management system). Decisions were will become increasingly important and today, the solidation of the supplier base is under way from also made to invest in a group-wide platform for majority of the Group’s sales are already made by a in many cases unique suppliers for each concept all digital commerce. In total, these investments digital transaction. to fewer group-wide alternatives per part. aim to increase efficiency internally at the same 342 A large part of the purchases are made from time that they increase the offering and availability Europe, but the Group also has a purchasing and make it easier for the customer to order. company in Hong Kong with local staff who A large proportion of the products bought are stores know Mandarin Chinese and Korean. As the first distributed to one of the Group companies’ At year-end, there were a total of 342 stores subcontractors accompany European and US car central warehouses. MECA has a fully automated in the chains, of which 257 were proprietary. manufacturers when they establish operations in central warehouse in Eskilstuna, Sweden, that The stores are operated under 3 concepts: Asia, these high-quality suppliers are now present accounts for the product supply for MECA’s • MECA: 85/72 in Asia as well. This is important as we want to workshops and stores in Sweden and Norway as • Mekonomen: 187/150 offer our customers products of high quality well as to Denmark. Approximately 55,000 items • BilXtra: 70/35 and affordability. This is particularly true of our are kept in stock. proprietary quality brands ProMeister for spare Mekonomen Nordic has a central warehouse 2,126 parts and Carwise for accessories. in Strängnäs, Sweden, that accounts for the product supply for Mekonomen’s stores in Sweden, Norway and Finland. Approximately 67,000 items workshops are kept in stock. Sørensen og Balchen has a central warehouse At the end of 2015, 2,126 car workshops in Oslo that accounts for the product supply were affiliated with one of the Group’s 5 to BilXtra’s stores and workshops in Norway. workshop concepts, including: Approximately 60,000 items are kept in stock. • Mekonomen Bilverkstad: 923 Mekonomen’s and BilXtra’s stores deliver to • MECA Car Service: 676 workshops and over the counter to consumers. • BilXtra: 246 MECA’s departments deliver to workshops. • MekoPartner: 261 • Speedy: 20 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 13 BRANDS AND CONCEPTS Differentiation of the brands creates growth We are convinced that the combination of a strong central purchasing function and clearly differentiated concepts and brands towards selected target groups generates growth. Mekonomen Group’s three Group companies MECA, Mekonomen Nordic In 2015, great focus was placed on offering security in the service transacand Sørensen og Balchen generally operate in the same geographic markets, tion, becoming clearer in what each brand offers and taking responsibility for but with different concepts, offerings and solutions for meeting the needs of the customer experience in the entire chain. different target groups. MECA Mekonomen Nordic1) Sørensen og Balchen MECA has a clear B2B focus and caters B2B accounts for 70 per cent of Mekonomen’s Sørensen og Balchen is a wholesale opermainly to the workshops as a business sales and the largest B2B customers are ation, with stores and workshops under partner. The company also sells directly Mekonomen Bilverkstad, MekoPartner and other the Bilxtra brand name. Car accessories to companies and organisations and has workshops. Other workshops account for 33 per account for 30 per cent of the sales. been successful in terms of taking market cent of the B2B segment. 30 per cent of sales are shares in the public sector. generated from the consumer segment (B2C) through Mekonomen’s stores. Brands Geographic Sweden and Norway. In Denmark, the Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark and Iceland. Norway distribution market is being processed with direct deliveries from regional and central warehouses under the brands Mekonomen Autoteknik and MekoPartner. Offering Workshop services, fleet agreements, Workshop services, fleet agreements, spare parts, Workshop services, spare parts, tyres and spare parts, tyres, tools and workshop tools, workshop equipment, tyres and automotive automotive accessories. equipment. accessories. Target groups Workshops, especially for the brands Mekonomen is a strong brand among consumers as The brand attracts younger drivers, mainly MECA Car Service and Bosch Car well as corporate customers, and the fleet business men ages 20-30. Service. The company has a wide base segment is growing strongly. In consumer sales, of other B2B customers. Sells to petrol families with children and women are two main stations and convenience stores among target groups. others. The target group mainly comprises men interest in cars and knowledge concerning cars. End-customer A person who views the car as something A person who wants reliability and complete A person very interested in cars who prefbehaviour more than a means of transport, who likes solutions. Mekonomen shall be a “one-stop shop” erably wants to personify the look of his/ to work on it themselves and/or is very for customers who say “Fix it!” her car with different kinds of accessories. interested in cars. 1) The Group-level Mekonomen Nordic was removed as a control and management function as of 1 January 2016. The sales companies Mekonomen Sweden, Norway and Finland will be operated directly under Mekonomen Group going forward. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 14 BRANDS AND CONCEPTS ProMeister – the Group’s own brand for spare parts ProMeister is Mekonomen Group’s group-wide quality brand for spare parts for cars. It is developed jointly by the Group’s companies and is sold today by Mekonomen Nordic, Meca and Sørensen og Balchen. ProMeister was launched in the Summer of 2013 and quickly became a hit among workshops and consumers. The ProMeister concept is also offered to independent workshops. The product range in ProMeister consists of affordable, high-quality spare parts for the modern European car fleet. This includes generators, brake pads, brake fluid, brake discs, chemicals for cars, gas springs, shock absorbers, spark plugs, and more. ProMeister is the only spare parts brand in the market to offer a five-year warranty. At the same time, average prices are 15 per cent lower than equivalent brand products, and significantly lower than in brand-dependent workshops. All development and manufacturing takes place under the supervision of the Group and all products in the product range have undergone stringent testing to meet the market’s high standards. All spare parts are also produced in large volumes, which provides lower production costs and thereby lower prices for the consumer. Carwise Intermeko test lab Carwise is the Group’s own brand To ensure the high level of quality of for car accessories with high quality the ProMeister and Carwise products, and affordability as the strongest Mekonomen Group, together with the focus. company Inter Cars, is a co-owner of a The product range includes roof testing lab in Poland called Intermeko. racks, bike holders, snow chains, rims, jacks, wrenches, polishing tools, The lab tests and evaluates the products degreasing agents, electrical equipment like chargers, and more. The accesbefore they are approved and become available for purchase in the Group. sories are sold through Mekonomen’s, MECA’s and BilXtra’s stores. The tests take place, in part, through comparisons with product specifications to ensure that the parts do not deviate in quality and function. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 15 GROUP COMPANIES Group companies Mekonomen Group consists of three Group companies. MECA Scandinavia, Mekonomen Nordic and Sørensen og Balchen. Collaboration between the Group companies takes place within purchasing and logistics, among other areas. There is full competition in the market, however. The Group companies all have strong brands, distinct concepts and continued individual development focus. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 1616 GROUP COMPANIES MECA Scandinavia MECA Scandinavia is a market leader in auto spare parts, tools and workshop equipment. The operation is based on an efficient distribution network via 85 departments in Sweden and Norway to professional workshops. Logistics are controlled from a central warehouse in Eskilstuna. MECA is also the fastest growing workshop concept in Sweden and Norway, with 676 affiliated workshops under the MECA Car Service brand. In Denmark, sales in the workshop market are conducted under the Mekonomen Autoteknik and MekoPartner brands. Significant events during the year NUMBER OF WORKSHOPS NUMBER OF STORES 817 85 In 2015, MECA Scandinavia acquired Opus Equipment to become a complete supplier to the auto workshops. With Opus Equipment, all workshop concepts in Mekonomen Group can offer sales and installation of equipment for workshops and inspection stations. The business idea is to sell a complete service with associated services. The concept has also been launched in Norway. During the year, MECA also began the leading workshop concept MECA+. This is a concept for customers who want one-stop shopping there. These workshops use the latest equipment and the mechanics continuously develop their skills in the Group’s own training operation ProMeister Academy. Three MECA+ workshops were established in 2015. 20151) 20141) Net sales (external), SEK M 1,871 1,679 EBITA, SEK M 258 268 EBIT, SEK M 245 243 33% EBITA margin, % 14 16 EBIT margin, % 13 14 Number of stores/of which proprietary 85/72 87/72 Number of MECA Car Service workshops 676 628 Number of Mekonomen Service Centres 102 195 Number of MekoPartner Workshops 39 153 SHARE OF THE GROUP’S Average number of employees 699 614 NET SALES 1) Excluding discontinued store operations in Denmark. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 17 GROUP COMPANIES Mekonomen Nordic Mekonomen Nordic is one of the leading industry players in the Nordic region, with operations in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Iceland. Through a nationwide store network, Mekonomen offers the best availability in the industry with a total of 187 stores. Mekonomen Nordic has 1,025 affiliated workshops under the brands Mekonomen Bilverkstad, MekoPartner and Speedy. A central warehouse in Strängnäs is responsible for logistics and stocks some 67,000 items. NUMBER OF WORKSHOPS NUMBER OF STORES Significant events during the year 1,025 187 In December, a leading workshop concept was initiated for Mekonomen called Mekonomen Yehlove.This is an aggressive investment in “state-of-the-art” workshops for customers who seek complete trouble-free service with a “fix-it focus”. Mekonomen Yehlove’s target group is mainly in the urban regions. For the second consecutive year, Mekonomen has been named the strongest brand in the industry for “Car parts and auto workshops”. The award was handed out at the Swedish Brand Award 2015. The award was based on an extensive survey among Swedish consumers regarding customer satisfaction and brand awareness. 2015 2014 Net sales (external), SEK M 2,817 2,692 EBITA, SEK M 412 422 50% EBIT, SEK M 393 401 EBITA margin, % 14 15 EBIT margin, % 13 14 Number of stores/of which proprietary 187/150 192/151 Number of Mekonomen Service Centres 803 863 Number of MekoPartner Workshops 222 202 SHARE OF THE GROUP’S Average number of employees 1,099 1,089 NET SALES Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 18 GROUP COMPANIES Sørensen og Balchen Sørensen og Balchen conducts wholesale, store and workshop operations in Norway. The company is a leading distributor of spare parts and accessories and now represents many of the most renowned manufacturers in the world. Sørensen og Balchen has 70 stores and 246 affiliated workshops under the BilXtra brand in Norway. Logistics are controlled from a central warehouse in Oslo, which stocks more than 60,000 items. Significant events during the year NUMBER OF WORKSHOPS NUMBER OF STORES 246 70 Sørensen og Balchen experienced strong sales growth to affiliated BilXtra workshops and also had strong sales growth in accessories, such as through higher sales of the proprietary brand Carwise. The operating profit was the strongest to-date for Sørensen og Balchen. 2015 2014 Net sales (external), SEK M 729 712 13% EBITA, SEK M 117 109 EBIT, SEK M 116 109 EBITA margin, % 16 15 EBIT margin, % 16 15 Number of stores/of which proprietary 70/35 71/34 Number of BilXtra workshops 246 232 SHARE OF THE GROUP’S Average number of employees 273 252 NET SALES Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 19 MEKONOMEN GROUP’S RESPONSIBILITIES Strategy for Sustainability efforts should contribute to business value sustainable As an industry leader, our decisions and priorities have a direct impact on our employees and customers, but also on our developindustry and our surrounding world. Consequently, we have to take responsibility and be on the forefront with regard to sustainability in our industry. Sustainability should be an integrated part of the business ment operations where set targets contribute to creating value for the company. Our sustainability efforts should contribute to: • Higher sales and growth • Reduced business risks • Greater expertise and quality in our workshops In 2015, a new sustainability strategy was • Securing the future supply of mechanics developed that will guide our work until • Strong, well-developed leadership and committed employees who are our ambassadors 2020. The focus areas have been prioritised based on the Group’s values and our continuous dialogue with stakeholders. Focus areas Mekonomen’s sustainability strategy builds on our materiality analysis, The Group’s sustainability work is divided into seven focus areas with which we continuously work on and update. The materiality analysis regard to quality, environment and social conditions in every stage – is an important tool for identifying internal and external stakeholdfrom production to sales. ers’ views of the sustainability factors that are most important for Mekonomen Group. In 2014, Mekonomen Group conducted an initial Customer satisfaction materiality analysis in which Group Management, managers and em• We conduct a continuous dialogue with our customers to ensure ployees in Mekonomen Group participated. It was then supplemented that they experience a high level of customer service, quality and with a gap analysis, which shows the Group’s work in relation to the affordability. United Nations Global Compact, of which the Mekonomen Group Product and workshop quality has been a participant with since 2013. Participation means that the • We ensure a high level of quality through extensive product testing Group commits to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the and continuous internal and external quality audits in our workareas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. shops. The materiality analysis was also translated into a wider perspective, in which consideration was given to national and international trends, Training standards, expectations, guidelines and laws that are relevant to a • We offer courses and further training for mechanics through the responsible and sustainable business. Group’s training centre ProMeister Academy. This work resulted in seven focus areas that describe the Group’s Managers and employees most important issues and priorities in the sustainability area. They are • We offer a developing workplace that creates committed and Customer Satisfaction, Product and Workshop Quality, Training, Maninvolved managers and employees. agers and Employees, Diversity, Responsible Purchasing, and Transports and Energy Consumption. A number of targets have been set for Diversity these areas, which are to be achieved by 2020. The areas that primarily • Our workplaces should reflect our customer groups and society at concern external stakeholders are Customer Satisfaction, Transports large. and Energy Consumption, Responsible Purchasing, Product and WorkResponsible purchasing shop Quality and Training in connection with affiliated workshops. All • We continuously improve our follow-up processes to ensure confocus areas also concern internal stakeholders and are addressed and sideration and compliance to human rights, working conditions, and have an impact within the Group. In 2016, we will further develop our environmental and anti-corruption regulations in our supply chain. materiality analysis through more stakeholder dialogues with external stakeholders. Transports and energy consumption • We continuously improve the efficiency of our operations to reduce Read more in our separate sustainability report at www.mekonomen.com CO² emissions and energy consumption. 20 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 SOCIETY Diversity and education We strive for employees at our workplaces Education project to reflect our customer target groups and “Win win win” society in general. Our diversity work is also Together with the Public Employment Services, Mekonomen a direct solution to the problem of a shortGroup initiated a practical placement and training programme in 2014 for new arrivals to Sweden who want to work as automoage of mechanics in our industry. tive mechanics. The first pilot project was completed in autumn 2015 with the result that nearly 50 per cent of the participants Large need for mechanics were offered employment in the Group after a bit more than one The trend in recent years indicates a growing need for mechanics in the year of studies and practical placement. workshops, while interest in being a mechanic as a career has fallen and fewer The objective of the training programme is to integrate new mechanics are graduating from Swedish high schools. The employability of arrivals to the Swedish labour market and at the same time the mechanics who graduate from high school is low in some cases due to secure the future growth of mechanics in our workshops. The insufficient expertise. An apprenticeship period is necessary, which is costly for project entails considerable business value for our core business the workshops. In our assessment, we will need 500 mechanics within a few and benefits the individual and society. years. The corresponding figure in our industry is 5,000 mechanics. To cover Improvements in the education model take place continuously the future need for expertise, we have initiated the training project “Win win to improve the employment possibilities after the first year win” together with the Public Employment Services. We will also establish our of studies and practical placement. The second round of the own high school education programme for mechanics. programme began in winter 2015 with eight participants. Already before the next training programme, we are confident of the posOwn high school for mechanics sibilities of scaling up the number of participants significantly. The vocational training for mechanics needs to be modernised to meet the skills requirements in today’s workshops. Mekonomen Group is therefore establishing its own high school within the Group’s existing training centre larger amount of on-the-job training than traditional high school programmes ProMeister Academy. This endeavour is taking place together with Lärande i offer. Students who are advanced and need to be challenged will be able to Sverige AB which currently operates the Realgymnasiet network of vocational be offered a transition to an upper-secondary apprenticeship within the scope high schools in Sweden with permits to offer an automotive programme. of the ProMeister programme. The apprenticeship track makes it possible Mekonomen Group is taking the primary responsibility for ensuring that the for workshops to follow and shape students over an extended period of quality and content of the programme meets the needs of the workshops, time, which offers good employment possibilities after graduation. In contrast which will also improve the employment possibilities for the recently graduato other educational operators, the ProMeister programme will guarantee ted mechanics. Traditionally, the relationship is the opposite, where the school that all students offered a transition to apprenticeship training have achieved operator is responsible for the programme’s quality and content and courts a certain level of knowledge. The students who remain in the ProMeister business for small-scale collaboration and isolated efforts. This initiative is in line programme’s teacher-led school activities have the opportunity of a faster with the government’s ambition regarding a future characterised by “vocational development by having more time with their teachers and greater room to high schools in collaboration” that aim for greater cooperation between grow through practice in the training workshops set up for the endeavour. schools and business. A competence profile in relation to the competence analysis in the industry The ProMeister programme is based on the results of needs analyses that will also accompany the student after programme completion in order to be are carried out in modern workshops. The goal of the programme is to better supplemented by future employers as the mechanic develops in working life. prepare the students for the profession as a mechanic based on the student’s The programme is scheduled for launch in autumn 2017 in Stockholm and Lund. individual circumstances. This means that the programme will comprise a Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 21 EMPLOYEES Attractive workplace with the possibility of development cover new technologies, customer service, professionalism and in-depth Mekonomen Group has an entrepreneurial spirit characterised by commitknowledge on specific car models. The training centre was founded in ment, in which all employees have opportunities for personal development 2013 and 2,300 training days for mechanics are provided annually. The and new challenges in their working life. We are highly adaptable and vision for 2020 is for 95 per cent of the Group’s mechanics to undergo pragmatic and have great confidence in the ability of each individual. Our training at ProMeister Academy every year. managers’ and employees’ commitment is a prerequisite for the Group’s success. In addition to the daily dialogue at the workplaces, in-depth talks Establishing support for the Group’s values take place on the employee’s goals, work situation and development Internally, business ethics are handled today in employment contracts opportunities. The employee gets feedback on his or her work and has and in the Group’s Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct was apthe opportunity to provide feedback on his or her manager’s leadership. proved by the Board and has been translated to every Nordic language Internal recruitment is an important model to retain skilled expertise and as well as English. A review of the Code of Conduct is done every year. a possibility for managers and employees to develop and accept new Upon updates, it is sent out to all employees by e-mail and posted on challenges in the Group. Within MECA, there is also a Talent Management digital intranet platforms and externally on the website mekonomen. Programme that resulted in several examples of employees who had the com. The Code of Conduct also provides information on the Group’s opportunity of leadership development and being pulled up into managewhistle-blower function that was implemented in 2011. To further ment roles. establish business ethics among all of the employees, in 2016, we will In 2015, the Group began a review of the HR work with a focus on develop e-learning courses on the Group’s Code of Conduct, the developing leadership and introducing clearer structures for recruitment whistle-blower function and anti-corruption policy. All employees are and follow-up, among other aspects. This work has mainly been initiated to have taken the courses before the end of 2017. in Mekonomen Sweden and takes place as a part of increasing satisfaction at the workplace and improving earnings for the Group. Despite the lack of complete data, there is an indication that Mekonomen Group in total Employee survey has a low personnel turnover and that sickness absence is at a very low The Group’s employee surveys include questions about job satisfaclevel. More than 97 per cent of the total number of employees in Sweden tion and working conditions, management, commitment and whether are covered by collective agreements. In Norway, collective bargaining individual employees are able to influence their work situation. The agreements are not as common in every industry and the proportion of survey is an important tool to identify improvement areas in the affiliated employees is therefore lower than in Sweden. The Group’s total Group, all the way from an overall perspective down to one’s own number of employees who are affiliated with collective agreements in the group or unit. Employee surveys are conducted every two years. The Nordic region will be reported in future sustainability reports. latest survey was conducted in 2015 and the results show a general positive development, including greater employee satisfaction (ESI). By having employees and managers with varying experience and 2013 GLOBAL 2015 expertise, we improve the possibility of ESI VALUE BENCHMARK ESI VALUE meeting the customers’ needs. Diversity is also important in order to create renewal and change in a traditional industry. 84 86 86 Diversity contributes to greater business value Our values We strive for our workplaces to reflect the diversity of our customer Responsibility groups and society in general. By having employees and managers with varWe assume responsibility for our operating environment, ying experience and expertise, we improve the possibility of meeting the shared resources and the environment, and we have conficustomers’ needs. Diversity is also important in order to create renewal dence in the knowledge and ability of our employees. Our and change in a traditional industry. For us, diversity is about the value customers associate us with high quality. of differences among our employees when it comes to gender, foreign Competency backgrounds, age, education and experience. We have high professional qualification within the areas Mekonomen has an age distribution in which around 50 per cent of the in which we operate and that results in our customers employees are under the age of 35, about 30 per cent of the employees perceiving us as reliable and knowledgeable. are between 35 and 50, and around 20 per cent of the employees are Customer orientation over 50. A major challenge for us is to create an even gender distribution We place the customer first and satisfy our customers’ in a traditionally male industry. The proportion of women in Mekonomen expectations, which means that our customers understand Group is currently about 20 per cent. In order to get a more even distrithat we have a comprehensive view. bution, work is under way to introduce clearer processes in recruitment. Flexibility Among other things, we strive to identify both male and female final We seek new ideas and continuously evolve to meet the candidates when filling positions. It is important to set an example at every needs of existing and prospective customers. This results level in the company, not least in the management groups. Our vision for in our customers perceiving us as innovative. 2020 is to have 35 per cent women in management positions. Business orientation We achieve strong financial results, with a balance between Competence development – the ProMeister Academy short-term and long-term earnings. We are perceived as ProMeister Academy is the Group’s training centre that secures the quality offering value for money by the customer. and skills of our mechanics in all of the Group’s workshop chains. Courses are offered both through classroom instruction and through e-learning and 22 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 SUPPLIERS Quality and environment Mekonomen Group mainly purchases spare Risks and risk assessment in the supply chain Purchases of the product range under our own brands ProMeister (spare parts and accessories from the large Europeparts) and Carwise (accessories) largely take place from Europe. The peran suppliers in the automotive industry. By centage of purchases made through direct imports from Asia is below 10 per cent of the total purchasing volume. The Group has a well-developed being a customer of major and recognised range of spare parts and accessories for more than 9,000 car models. We suppliers, we benefit from the strict environstock more than 60,000 items in our wholesale inventory and through contract suppliers have access to another 500,000 items. In order to promental, health and safety and quality requirevide the broad range of parts that our customers demand, Mekonomen ments already exercised by these players. Group does business with a large number of suppliers. To monitor compliance of the large number of suppliers to the UN Global Compact, the Group has introduced a risk assessment process Product quality where particular focus is placed on the supplier’s that are deemed to conQuality forms the basis of Mekonomen Group’s offering. We mainly purstitute the largest sustainability risks. In the supply chain, direct purchases chase spare parts from the same suppliers that serve the car makers. We from small and medium-sized enterprises in Asia make up the largest risk. set high standards on documentation that ensures the level of quality and Mekonomen Group has a purchasing office in Hong Kong to be present that the product is an original part or of equivalent quality. For all spare closer to the production in Asia and develops the product range under our parts, the concept of quality encompasses the parameters: material, design, own brands. Through the purchasing office, internal audits are also conductfunction, durability and health and safety. Spare parts made of metal are ed in the suppliers’ factories. also covered by parameters such as rust proofing and density. FurtherFor the past two years, all new supplier agreements contain a clause more the quality assurance for these products takes place through the on compliance to the UN Global Compact. The work of updating already follow-up of complaints, warranty claims and measurement of frequently existing agreements is continuously under way. Today, suppliers that account returned items. Suppliers that deviate from the rules have to present corfor 90 per cent of spare part sales have agreed to compliance to the UN rective actions and demonstrate an improved trend. We also conduct our Global Compact, or have presented an equivalent code of conduct of their own and independent tests to guarantee continued quality compliance. own that matches these principles. Our own tests are done in the Group’s testing laboratory in Poland, which Mekonomen Group owns together with the Polish car part company Inter Anti-corruption Cars. Although the risk is considered higher in certain markets and certain In the development of our own brands, we ourselves assume a greater industries, corruption is not geographically limited. Mekonomen Group responsibility for the quality assurance of the products. Our own spare part applies zero tolerance. Today, we make purchases from markets where brand ProMeister stands for premium quality, which means that we choose corruption is a well-known problem, which requires that we actively suppliers with high levels of quality. distance ourselves from these practices. Through a central purchasing In all factories that manufacture ProMeister spare parts, internal audits organisation that secures all major purchasing agreements for our three take place to ensure that they comply with legal requirements, quality Group companies, we have better control over suppliers and the flow of requirements and the UN Global Compact. The product range also comproducts. Our supplier agreements contain clauses that include anti-corprises the industry’s longest warranty period – five years. ruption by referring to the United Nations Global Compact. In 2015, Mekonomen had no reported cases of corruption. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 23 SUPPLIERS & ENVIRONMENT Greater control and follow-up in the operations The Group’s environmental impact in the Nordic region mainly takes place in the areas of energy, transportation and the handling of chemicals. Our proprietary operations in MECA Sweden, MECA Norway and Mekonomen Sweden have made the most progress in environmental work, and all of these facilities hold ISO 14001 certification. Mekonomen’s proprietary operations in Sweden have also been certified for occupational health and safety (OHSAS 18001) and quality management (ISO 9001). Certifications of the operations have entailed better control with clear processes to discover and manage deviations. We intend to report energy consumption and CO² in greater detail in the 2016 sustainability report. Environmental work Environmental work comprises surveys of the most significant environmental impact of the operations, and includes environmental policies, certified environmental management systems and environmental manuals describing procedures, monitoring and responsibilities. Environmental management systems undergo external audits every year, and environmental goals and monitoring procedures are determined for each financial year. Within the Group, several courses Deficiencies in the are offered in the environmental area, such as the handling and transportation of hazardous goods (ADR) and national legislation related production chain to chemicals and CE marking. Products are checked at several stages regarding, for example, their compliance with national requirements and registration. Specifications on content, labelling and safety data In connection with Mekonomen Group’s acare also produced. The agreements signed with suppliers include a quisition of Opus Equipment in July 2015, the number of documents concerning environmental standards, such as the EU REACH regulation, which also require compliance. Group became the owner of a factory premises with some ten employees. Mekonomen Energy audit Mekonomen Group has registered as subject to the Act on Energy Group’s internal audit before the acquisition Audits in Large Companies. We have begun an energy audit of the showed deficiencies in the working environoperations according to a process from the Swedish Energy Agency with the aim of identifying steps to reduce energy consumption in the ment and labour law conditions. After the Group. The work mainly concerns Sweden, but will in the future be acquisition, Mekonomen Group took a number implemented in part or in whole in the Norwegian operations. The regulation is based on an EU directive for the Member States and of steps to ensure that the operation complies means that an audit is to be conducted at least once every four years. with the Group’s sustainability requirements and the principles for human rights. • Ensured that labour law rules are followed • Ensured that employment contracts and insurance policies are established in accordance with local regulations and the Group’s requirements • Ensured that contracts and accounts are Bulb quality prepared in accordance with the Group’s In 2015, quality deficiencies were discovered in bulbs under the requirements ProMeister brand. Parts of the range did not have the correct geometry, resulting in the filament’s position being incorrect. The deficien• Continuous internal audits at the factory cies led to a sales stop and after additional independent testing, the • More suitable premises are sought for the decision was made to recall ProMeister H1, H4 and H7 bulbs. We view the quality deficiencies at the supplier in question operations seriously and have further expanded our own controls in the entire ProMeister range. In autumn 2015, it was ensured that the quality problem was isolated to this category of automotive bulbs. 24 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 CUSTOMERS Customer care and quality Our customer promises are based on our values. We put the customer first and focus on always meeting our customers’ expectations. The customer associates us with high quality, affordability and innovation. Dialogue with our customers The most important dialogue with our customers takes place in our stores and workshops. In order to understand the customer’s perceptions and to measure the quality of our operations, we use Mystery Shopping. We conduct customer surveys by SMS, e-mail or phone after the customer visits a workshop. On our websites, we encourage our customers to submit opinions, questions and suggestions on improvement areas. The customer as our ambassador We want our customers to be our ambassadors and recommend us to others. In 2016, we intend to introduce the customer rating tool Net Promoter Score (NPS) where the result shows what percentage of the customers are ambassadors for Mekonomen Group. Today, 95 per cent of MECA’s and Mekonomen’s customers answer yes to the question of whether they would recommend the workshop to others. An equal number would consider making an appointment for their car at the same workshop again. Quality and value for money We sell quality spare parts that come from the same suppliers that deliver parts to the car makers. The parts match the quality of an original part, but most often at a lower price than at brand-dependent vendors. We also offer an extensive network of stores with knowledgeable employees who can give our customers advice and help regarding the car and associated products. To offer the same high quality at an even lower price, we have developed a proprietary spare parts brand, ProMeister. We set high standards on ProMeister suppliers and conduct careful quality controls, in part through Mekonomen Group’s testing laboratory in Poland. In order for the customers to be secure in choosing ProMeister, we have introduced the industry’s longest warranty period of five years. Quality in the workshops is guaranteed through continuous follow-up of quality assurance processes, controls and skills development among the Group’s mechanics. Through our own training centre ProMeister Academy, more than 2,300 training days for mechanics were carried out in 2015. Mekonomen Group’s workshops most often offer a lower price on service and repairs than brand-dependent players offer. Mekonomen’s concept workshops in Sweden also offer a price guarantee both on service and repairs that mean that the customer gets back twice the difference if a less expensive service or repair alternative is available at ordinary price at an authorised car service centre. 95% of MECA’s and Mekonomen’s customers answer yes to the question of whether they would recommend the workshop to others. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 25 THE SHARE The Mekonomen share Mekonomen’s share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Nordic Exchange in Stockholm, in the Mid Cap segment and is traded under the MEKO ticker. At 31 December 2015, the total market value of the company was SEK 6.2 DIVIDEND AND EARNINGS PER SHARE billion. In 2015, the share’s highest closing price was SEK 232.0 on 18 May SEK and the lowest closing price was SEK 173.0 on 30 December. The average 11 SEK 11 share price was SEK 206.3. At 31 December 2015, there were 9,373 10 10 shareholders. 9 9 As per 31 December 2015, Mekonomen’s share capital amounted to 8 8 7 SEK 90 M (90) and comprised 35,901,487 shares (35,901,487) at a quotient 7 6 6 value of SEK 2.50 per share (2.50). 5 5 Each share carries one vote at the Annual General Meeting and all shares 4 4 carry equal entitlement to a share in the company’s profits and assets. Each 3 3 shareholder is entitled to vote for all their shares with no restrictions and 2 2 1 1 the shares are not included in any transfer restrictions. 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 n Dividend/share Earnings/share Nominal value, Share capital, total, HOLDING PER OWNERSHIP CATEGORY1) Year Transaction SEK Shares, total SEK 1990 Formation of company 100.00 1,000 100,000.00 1998 Bonus issue 100.00 400,000 40,000,000.00 1998 Split 1:10 10.00 4,000,000 40,000,000.00 1999 New share issue 10.00 5,434,444 54,344,440.00 2000 New share issue 10.00 7,252,626 72,526,260.00 2001 Redemption of convertible bonds 10.00 7,286,626 72,866,260.00 2002 Redemption of convertible bonds 10.00 7,385,226 73,852,260.00 2003 Redemption of convertible bonds 10.00 7,397,326 73,973,260.00 2003 Split 2:1 5.00 14,794,652 73,973,260.00 2003 Redemption of convertible bonds 5.00 14,869,150 74,345,750.00 n Foreign owners, 20% 2004 Redemption of convertible bonds 5.00 15,304,618 76,523,090.00 Swedish owners of which: 2004 New share issue 5.00 15,434,411 77,172,055.00 n Fund managers, 22% 2005 Split 2:1 2.50 30,868,822 77,172,055.00 n Foundations, 0% 2011 New share issue 2.50 32,814,605 82,036,512.50 n Other legal owners, 38% 2012 New share issue 2.50 35,901,487 89,753,717.50 n Other physical owners, 20% 1) Source: Modular Finance Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 26 THE SHARE 15 LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS, 30 DEC 20151) HOLDING PER SIZE CLASS, 30 DEC 20151) Number Votes and Number of Number Name of shares capital, % Size class shareholders of shares Holding, % Axel Johnson AB 9,516,235 26.5 1 – 100 3,758 170,242 0.5% Handelsbanken Fonder 3,131,633 8.7 101 – 200 1,411 242,701 0.7% Lannebo Fonder 2,607,312 7.3 201 – 300 648 175,383 0.5% Eva Fraim Påhlman 2,009,176 5.6 301 – 400 998 388,459 1.1% Fjärde AP-Fonden 1,665,721 4.6 401 – 500 464 225,283 0.6% Kempen Capital Management 1,315,125 3.7 501 – 1,000 1,026 833,247 2.3% Columbia Wanger Asset Management 1,140,016 3.2 1,001 – 2,000 552 857,701 2.4% Ing-Marie Fraim Sefastsson 1,000,000 2.8 2,001 – 5,000 284 943,926 2.6% Swedbank Robur Fonder 652,897 1.8 5,001 – 10,000 98 727,127 2.0% Catella Fonder 550,000 1.5 10,001 – 20,000 44 655,404 1.8% Henderson Fonder 420,669 1.2 20,001 – 50,000 37 1,186,735 3.3% Wasatch Advisors 415,200 1.2 50,001 – 100,000 18 1,237,734 3.4% Fidelity Fonder 335,400 0.9 100,001 – 500,000 26 5,774,172 16.1% Leif Möller 319,700 0.9 500,001 – 1,000,000 3 2,202,897 6.1% SEB Fonder 318,930 0.9 1,000,001 – 5,000,000 5 10,764,241 30.0% Total 15 largest shareholders 25,398,014 70.8 5,000,001 – 10,000,000 1 9,516,235 26.5% Others 10,503,473 Total 9,373 35,901,487 100.0% DATA PER SHARE Amounts in SEK per share unless otherwise stated 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Earnings, continuing operations 11.77 12.80 9.81 11.57 9.79 Earnings, discontinued operations 0.00 -9.46 -1.25 -0.76 1.60 Earnings 11.77 3.34 8.56 10.80 11.39 Cash flow 12.23 11.51 15.51 14.93 7.98 Shareholders’ equity 59.7 57.5 62.1 64.2 46.9 Dividends2) 7 7 7 7 8 Share of profit paid, % 59 210 82 65 69 Share price at year-end 173.0 204.0 198.0 206.5 225.0 Share price, highest for the year 234.5 207.0 233.0 246.0 257.5 Share price, lowest for the year 170.0 139.0 189.0 180.0 157.0 Direct yield, % 4.0 3.4 3.5 3.4 3.6 P/E ratio at year-end, multiple 14.7 61.1 23.1 19.1 19.8 Average number of shares after dilution effects 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 34,692,458 32,436,258 Number of shares at end of period 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 32,814,605 Number of shareholders at year-end 9,373 9,664 8,355 8,138 7,735 1) Source: Modular Finance 2) The Board’s proposal for 2015. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 27 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Administration Report The Board of Directors and President of Mekonomen AB (publ.) corporate identity number 556392-1971, hereby submit the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for the 2015 financial year. General one more workday in Norway and Finland and an unchanged number of Mekonomen Group is the leading car service chain in the Nordic region with workdays in Denmark compared with the preceding year. Calculated on proprietary wholesale operations and comprises the three Group companies comparable workdays and adjusted for currency effects, revenue increased MECA Scandinavia, Mekonomen Nordic and Sørensen og Balchen. We offer 8 per cent. Sales in comparable units rose 5 per cent. a broad and easily accessible range of affordable and innovative solutions Other operating revenue mainly comprises of rental income, marketing and products for consumers and companies. Mekonomen Group has subsidies and exchange-rate gains. approximately 350 stores and more than 2,100 affiliated workshops under the Group brands. Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, The Parent Company has its registered office in Stockholm. The address EBITA of the head office is Box 19542, SE-104 32 Stockholm, Sweden. Visiting EBITA for continuing operations amounted to SEK 726 M (763) and the address: Solnavägen 4, 10th floor. The Parent Company’s share is listed on EBITA margin amounted to 13 per cent (14). Profit was negatively impacted Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap segment. The three largest owners in the Parent by non-recurring effects of SEK 22 M (10). MECA’s export business to Company as per 31 December 2015 are the Axel Johnson AB Group, Denmark negatively impacted EBITA by SEK 31 M. Currency effects on the with 26.5 per cent, Handelsbanken Fonder, with 8.7 per cent and Lannebo balance sheet positively impacted EBITA by SEK 0 M (negative: 14). Fonder, with 7.3 per cent. Operating profit, EBIT Financial year EBIT for continuing operations amounted to SEK 616 M (639) and the The 2015 financial year was characterised by a stable market growth where EBIT margin amounted to 11 per cent (12). Profit was negatively impacted all Group companies took market shares during the year. by non-recurring effects of SEK 22 M (10). MECA’s export business to In 2015, Mekonomen Group’s revenue for continuing operations increased Denmark negatively impacted EBIT by SEK 31 M. Currency effects on the 7 per cent and operating profit (EBIT) amounted to SEK 616 M (639). balance sheet positively impacted EBIT by SEK 0 M (negative: 14). After the final store was closed in Denmark in the first quarter of 2015, the Group’s business model is based on a more cost-effective distribution Profit after financial items with direct deliveries to the workshops. Profit after financial items for continuing operations amounted to SEK 594 M In July 2015, Opus Equipment AB was acquired, a comprehensive supplier (620). Net interest expense amounted to SEK 27 M (35) and other financial of workshop equipment for workshops and car inspection stations. Opus is items to SEK 5 M (16). Other financial items were positively impacted by now a part of MECA, which is the Group’s B2B-focused company. non-recurring effects of SEK 7 M (10). Sørensen og Balchen, Mekonomen Norway and MECA, excluding the Danish export business, strengthened their earnings in 2015. Profit for the year In 2015, Mekonomen Group was negatively impacted by a weakening of Profit after tax amounted to SEK 430 M (466) for continuing operations, the NOK, the export business to Denmark and non-recurring costs. At the SEK 0 M (loss: 340) for discontinued operations and SEK 430 M (127) in same time, Mekonomen Group strengthened its position in the market and total. Earnings per share, before and after dilution, amounted to SEK 11.77 initiated important efforts for the future. (12.80) for continuing operations, SEK 0.00 (loss: 9.46) for discontinued The group-wide proprietary brand ProMeister continues to develop and operations and SEK 11.77 (3.34) in total. Of profit for the year, SEK 423 M sales of ProMeister spare parts amounted to more than SEK 500 M in 2015. (120) is attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders and SEK 8 M (7) The total number of stores in the chains at the end of the period was to non-controlling interests. 342 (351), of which 257 (258) were proprietary stores. The number of affiliated workshops totalled 2,126 (2,304), of which 34 (28) were proprietary Seasonal effects workshops. Mekonomen Group has no actual seasonal effects in its operations. However, the number of workdays affects both sales and profit. Revenue Revenue for continuing operations rose 7 per cent to SEK 5,761 M (5,390). MECA Excluding the acquisition of Opus Equipment, revenue increased 6 per cent. Net sales (external) amounted to SEK 1,871 M (1,679). The currency effect Adjusted for negative currency effects of SEK 95 M, revenue increased in net sales against the NOK was a negative SEK 34 M. The underlying net 9 per cent. There were two more workdays in Sweden during the full-year, sales increased 13 per cent. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 28 ADMINISTRATION REPORT EBITA amounted to SEK 258 M (268) and the EBITA margin amounted to Sørensen og Balchen 14 per cent (16). MECA’s operating profit amounted to SEK 245 M (243) and Net sales (external) amounted to SEK 729 M (712). The underlying net sales the EBIT margin was 13 per cent (14). increased 6 per cent. The currency effect in net sales against the NOK was a The number of stores amounted to 85 (87), of which 72 (72) were proprietary. negative SEK 29 M. After the final store was closed in Denmark in the first quarter of 2015, Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed the Group’s business model is based on a more cost-effective distribution assets (EBITA) amounted to SEK 117 M (109) and the EBITA margin inwith direct deliveries to the workshops. Net sales for the export business creased to 16 per cent (15). Operating profit (EBIT) amounted to SEK 116 to Denmark amounted to SEK 54 M during the year. As of 1 January 2015, M (109) and the EBIT margin increased to 16 per cent (15). the former store operations in Denmark are presented as discontinued During the year, Sørensen og Balchen had strong growth in sales to affilioperations and therefore are not included in the MECA segment; comparated BilXtra workshops and strong sales growth in accessories, which had a ative figures have been recalculated. Significant sales efforts combined with negative effect on the gross margin, however. discounts in the export business to Denmark negatively impacted MECA’s The number of stores amounted to 70 (71), of which 35 (34) were EBIT by SEK 31 M during the year. proprietary. A strong sales increase to MECA Car Service workshops was an important factor behind MECA’s sales growth during the year. The sales growth for Acquisitions and start-ups ProMeister also contributed to higher volumes during the year. MECA acquired Opus Equipment AB, a comprehensive supplier of workConsolidation of Opus Equipment took place as of 1 July 2015 and shop equipment for workshops and car inspection stations. Delivery of impacted net sales by SEK 66 M, EBITA by SEK 4 M and EBIT by SEK 3 M workshop equipment is a new business in Mekonomen Group that offers during the year, excluding acquisition-related costs. Acquisition-related costs equipment with installation and maintenance service to new and existing for Opus Equipment impacted MECA’s EBIT negatively by SEK 1 M. customers on the automotive aftermarket. The purchase price for the shares Non-recurring effects concerning provisions for returns in Sweden and amounted to SEK 41 M and the assumed net debt was SEK 10 M. ConsoliNorway negatively impacted profit by SEK 2 M (0). In addition to this, dation of the company took place as of 1 July 2015 in Mekonomen Group. MECA had a negative effect on the gross margin from a higher proportion MECA also acquired a partner store and workshop in Köping, Sweden. of sales to large customers. Profit was negatively impacted by personnelMekonomen Nordic acquired non-controlling interests in 21 stores, 18 in related non-recurring costs in the 2014 comparison period in an amount of Sweden and 3 in Norway, for a minor value. In Sweden, three partner stores SEK 9 M. in Kiruna, Linköping and Karlskrona were acquired, and three workshops in Härnösand, Ljusdal and Lidingö in Stockholm. Mekonomen Nordic also Mekonomen Nordic acquired a partner store in Iceland. Net sales (external) amounted to SEK 2,817 M (2,692). The underlying net Sørensen og Balchen acquired all non-controlling interests in DinDel sales increased 5 per cent. The currency effect in net sales against the NOK Norway and established a store in Mysen, Norway. was a negative SEK 32 M. Meko Service Nordic acquired a workshop in Karlskrona and non-conOperating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets trolling interests in a workshop in Sweden. (EBITA) amounted to SEK 412 M (422) and the EBITA margin amounted to 14 per cent (15). Operating profit (EBIT) amounted to SEK 393 M (401) Investments and the EBIT margin amounted to 13 per cent (14). Investments in fixed assets amounted to SEK 103 M (75) during the year, of EBIT was negatively impacted by non-recurring costs of SEK 18 M which discontinued operations accounted for SEK 0 M (5). Depreciation and (1). Non-recurring effects concerning transition costs in Mekonomen impairment of tangible fixed assets amounted to SEK 57 M (61) in continuing Sweden comprising changes in working methods and sales organisation, operations. Company and business combinations amounted to SEK 68 M the establishment of a new field sales organisation and the closure of two (65). Acquired assets totalled SEK 79 M (21) and assumed liabilities SEK 38 stores impacted profit negatively by SEK 10 M (0). Non-recurring effects M (8). In addition to goodwill, which amounted to SEK 16 M (35), surplus concerning provisions for returns in Sweden, Norway and Finland negavalues on intangible fixed assets of SEK 0 M (4) were identified pertaining tively impacted profit by SEK 2 M (0). Non-recurring effects concerning to brands and SEK 0 M (1) pertaining to capitalised expenditure for IT impairment to inventory in Sweden and Finland also negatively impacted systems and SEK 12 M (13) for customer relations. Deferred tax liabilities profit by SEK 6 M (0). attributable to acquired intangible fixed assets amounted to SEK 1 M (1). Mekonomen Sweden’s net sales (external) amounted to SEK 1,874 M Acquired non-controlling interests amounted to SEK 17 M (6) and divested (1,746) and operating profit was SEK 259 M (274). non-controlling interests to SEK 9 M (3). Mekonomen Norway’s net sales (external) amounted to SEK 803 M (791) and operating profit was SEK 152 M (133). Financial position and cash flow The sales trend for ProMeister and a new sales organisation contributed The cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 439 M (413), of to higher volumes to other workshops, mainly in Mekonomen Sweden. which discontinued operations accounted for SEK -134 M (-115). Tax paid In Mekonomen Norway, the most important driver of growth was sales to amounted to SEK 189 M (160). Cash and cash equivalents at year-end was Mekonomen Bilverkstad. In Sweden, the quality assurance work conducted SEK 295 M (258). The equity/assets ratio was 40 per cent (39). Long-term led to a somewhat lower number of affiliated workshops, which had a negainterest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 1,469 M (1,404). Current tive impact on sales to the customer group of affiliated workshops. interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 461 M (495). Long-term interThe number of stores amounted to 187 (192), of which 150 (151) were est-bearing liabilities increased during the year, mainly as a result of higher proprietary. utilisation of credit facilities in an amount of SEK 200 M. Within Mekonomen Nordic, a decision has been made to merge the Net debt amounted to SEK 1,626 M (1,629) at year-end. The largely wholly owned store companies in Sweden and Norway. In total, approxiunchanged net debt is an effect of the dividend of SEK 261 M, of which SEK mately 60 store companies in Sweden and 29 store companies in Norway 251 M is a dividend to the Parent Company shareholders, repayments, invest­ are planned to be merged. The mergers are estimated to be completed in ments and acquisitions, and a positive operating cash flow. During the year, 2016. For more information, refer to Note 26. loans have been repaid in an amount of SEK 148 M, of which SEK 11 M per­ tains to repayment of loans in the acquired company Opus Equipment AB. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 29 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Employees The company is to offer an attractive basic salary in the market, in The number of employees in continuing operations at the end of the year the form of a fixed cash monthly salary. This comprises remuneration for was 2,348 (2,140) and the average number of employees during the year dedicated work performance at a high professional level that creates added was 2,290 (2,131). value for Mekonomen’s customers, owners and employees. Mekonomen Group has well-developed HRM (Human Resource ManIn addition to basic salary, short-term and long-term variable cash agement) work that includes equal opportunities plans, action programmes remuneration is to be offered, both of which are based on fulfilment of against discrimination in the workplace, clear goals and goal follow-ups, Mekonomen’s goals for: reporting and explicit segregation of responsibilities. • the Group’s earnings, and • individual qualitative parameters. Multi-faceted organisation Mekonomen Group has participated in several external projects relating The distribution between basic salary and variable remuneration is to be to issues in such areas as diversity and the labour market for a number of proportionate to the senior executive’s responsibilities and authorities. years. The aim is for Mekonomen Group’s work sites to reflect our customer The short-term variable remuneration is maximised to a certain percenttarget groups and the society in which we live, and thus create business age of fixed annual salary. The percentage is linked to the position of each value in a credible manner. individual and varies between 33 and 60 percentage points for members of Group Management. Employee surveys The Board is proposing to the 2016 Annual General Meeting a new, The Group’s employee surveys include questions about job satisfaction and profit-based bonus programme. The long-term variable remuneration is to working conditions, and whether individual employees are able to influence be calculated on the Group’s profit for the 2016-2018 financial years. A their work situation. Since the employee survey captures the views of all number of selected, business-critical senior executives will be offered the employees, the results can be used at several levels to introduce operational opportunity to participate in this long-term programme, in addition to the improvements, from an overall level down to individual group/unit level. seven members of Group Management. The criteria for determining the variable remuneration portion for each individual is decided by the Board’s Training – ProMeister Academy Remuneration Committee, and for the President by the Board in its entirety. Mekonomen Group’s skills and development initiatives are intended not The company’s total cost for the long-term programme may amount to a only to meet today’s needs but also to anticipate the future challenges of tomaximum of SEK 32 M for the entire period. Furthermore, an additional morrow’s society: a fossil-free car fleet, a service society, urbanisation and a requirement to the above is that the average price paid for the Mekonomen shared economy. In this way, Mekonomen Group can ensure future competishare on Nasdaq Stockholm on the last trading day in December 2018 is tiveness for the Group and the skills of individual employees in proprietary to exceed the Nasdaq Stockholm PI index for the programme period. The and affiliated workshops. A fundamental approach at Mekonomen Group is remuneration may fall out completely, partially or not at all depending on to capitalise on the skills available in the Group and develop them through the results of Mekonomen Group during the term of the long-term remufurther training and opportunities for new challenges within the Group. Inneration programme. ternal recruitment within and between Group companies is highly successful. When the remuneration programme is resolved upon by the Annual The ProMeister Academy training platform secures the quality and skills of General Meeting, the previous long-term remuneration programme for the our mechanics in all of the Group’s workshop chains. ProMeister Academy was period 2014–2016 shall expire. No payments based on this programme has founded in 2013 and 2,300 training days for mechanics are provided annually. been made. The right to variable remuneration is conditional upon the executive still Remuneration of senior executives being employed at the Annual General Meeting 2019. Remuneration of senior executives is presented in Note 5. The Board of Other benefits refer primarily to company cars. Pension premiums are Directors will propose the following guidelines for remuneration of senior paid in an amount that is based on the ITP plan or a corresponding system executives to the 2016 Annual General Meeting. for employees outside Sweden. For the President, pension provisions acThe Board considers it very important to ensure that there is a clear link cording to the employment agreement are paid in an amount correspondbetween remuneration and the Group’s values and financial goals in both ing to 30 per cent of basic salary. Pensionable salary comprises basic salary. the short and the long term. The Board’s proposals for guidelines for remuThe period of notice for the President is six months if employment is terneration entail that the company is to offer market-based remuneration that minated by the company, and six months if terminated by the President. The allows the Group to recruit and retain the right executives, and entail that period of notice for other members of Group Management is 12 months if the criteria for determining remuneration is to be based on the significance employment is terminated by the company, and six months if terminated by of work duties and employees’ competencies, experience and performance. the employee. In addition, severance pay of a maximum of 12 months salary Remuneration is to comprise: may be paid in the event of termination of employment by the company. • fixed basic salary, • variable remuneration, Sensitivity analysis • pension benefits, Mekonomen Group’s earnings are affected by a number of factors, such as • other benefits and severance pay. sales volume, currency fluctuations on imported goods and sales to foreign subsidiaries, margins on purchased products, salary changes, etc. Imports The guidelines encompass Group Management, which currently comprises mainly take place from Europe where the currencies are generally EUR, seven individuals including the President. SEK and NOK. Purchases in EUR comprised approximately 37 per cent Remuneration is determined by the Board’s Remuneration Committee. of the purchased volumes. The table below shows the currency effects on However, remuneration of the President is determined by the Board in its the net flow for each currency. NOK and DKK impact internal sales from entirety. Mekonomen Grossist AB and from MECA Car Parts AB to each country Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 30 ADMINISTRATION REPORT and profit for the year in Norway and Denmark. Risk exposure to DKK Operational risks decreased during 2015 due to restructuring in Denmark. Refer to Note 37 The company is highly aware that the increasingly centralised IT structure for more detailed information on how the Group manages currency risk. could provide the Group with major advantages and improved opportunities. This also entails major risks in the form of operational stops in Factors pertaining to profit before tax Impact, SEK M1) central functions pertaining to the Group’s systems for order and inventory management. Sales volumes +1% 31 Major emphasis is placed on the Group’s fire prevention work since a fire Exchange-rate fluctuations at any of the Group’s central warehouses would have a major impact on the NOK +10% 85 service to the Group’s customers. EUR +10% -90 DKK +10% -2 Cash management risk Gross margin plus a percentage point 57 Since the Group’s operations include cash management, this entails a risk Personnel costs +1% -14 of theft, with respect to stores and transportation of cash to the bank. MeInterest rate2) +1% -12 konomen Group strives to provide the same level of solutions for security services, security systems and cash management for all companies within the 1) All things being equal, profit before tax for the 2015 financial year. Group. 2) The effect is based on the Group’s net debt of SEK 1,626 M as per 31 December 2015 adjusted for the interest-rate swap of SEK 450 M. Shrinkage The Group’s operations include sales and storage of a large number of products. Since a large portion of these products are theft-prone, there The Group’s currency exposure in the translation of assets and liabilities is always a risk of shrinkage. At Mekonomen Group, work is continuously in foreign currencies was mainly against NOK and EUR as of the closing in progress to define scrapping, internal consumption and actual theft. date. The effects on earnings in the translation of financial assets and liabiliThe work to combat shrinkage is based on the idea that it is important to ties that existed at 31 December 2015 are presented below: focus on all types of shrinkage, for example, by reviewing order procedures, • If EUR had strengthened by 10 per cent in relation to SEK, keeping all delivery checks and unpacking of goods. This will improve knowledge of other variables constant, profit before tax would have been negatively procedures to manage shrinkage, while providing a basis for higher vigilance impacted by SEK 14 M, largely as a result of losses in the translation of on goods that are particularly theft-prone. accounts payable. • If NOK had strengthened by 10 per cent in relation to SEK, keeping all Financial risks other variables constant, profit before tax would have been positively Through its operations, Mekonomen Group is exposed to currency, credit, impacted by SEK 3 M, largely as a result of gains in the translation of interest-rate and liquidity risks. Refer to Note 37 for a description of the accounts receivable. financial risks identified and managed by Mekonomen Group. The above estimated effects as per 31 December 2015, vary from month to Parent Company and “Other” month depending on the size of the balance sheet items at the closing date. The Parent Company’s operations comprise mainly Group Management and finance management. The Parent Company’s loss after net financial items Risks and uncertainties amounted SEK 50 M (loss: 37), excluding impairment of participations in Competition subsidiaries of SEK 35 M (486) and excluding dividends of SEK 489 M (888) Mekonomen Group’s primary competitors are players in the so-called from subsidiaries. The average number of employees was 15 (15). During brand-dependent segment, which traditionally had a high market share in the year, Mekonomen AB (publ) sold products and services to Group comthe aftermarket for passenger cars. panies totalling SEK 37 M (42). Competition in spare parts sales to workshops is considerable from both “Other” consists of Mekonomen AB, the purchasing company in Hong brand-dependent and brand-independent players. In the brand-independent Kong, Meko Service Nordic, joint venture in Poland (InterMeko Europa), the trade in Sweden, there are more than 400 stores, where the five largest associated company Automotive Web Solutions AB, Mekonomen Group players, including Mekonomen Nordic and MECA, and all have a range that Inköp AB, and group-wide functions and eliminations. M by Mekonomen covers most vehicle brands. The situation is similar in both Norway and was divested in 2015. Operating loss for “Other” amounted to SEK 138 M Denmark with a few large players offering a comprehensive range but with (loss: 114). Acquisition-related items attributable to Mekonomen AB’s direct competition from a number of smaller players. Brand-dependent players acquisitions were re-allocated from the MECA and Sørensen og Balchen also compete with Mekonomen Group in the market for car part sales. segments to “Other”; the comparative figures have been recalculated. In this market, availability is very important, which means that the rate of Current acquisition-related items are amortisation of acquired intangible delivery is a key competitive factor. assets of SEK -77 M (-78) regarding the acquisitions of MECA and Sørensen In terms of accessories, Mekonomen Group competes with a large numog Balchen, which were reversed in EBIT for these segments and instead ber of players from various industries, such as petrol stations, the convenirecognised in EBIT for Other. The Group’s EBIT is not affected by this reence-goods trade, stores for products for children, stores for accessories for allocation. pets, electronic chains, etc. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 31 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Environment of SEK 50 M annually from 2020. The tied up capital is expected to decrease The Group does not conduct any operations that require permits according with SEK 80 M with full effect from 2020. Before a final contract is signed to the Swedish Environmental Code. The Group’s environmental impact in the involved companies in Mekonomen Group will undertake the necessary the Nordic region mainly takes place in the areas of energy, transportation negotiations with relevant unions. and the handling of chemicals. Our wholesale facilities, proprietary stores No other significant events occurred after the end of the financial year. and workshops in MECA Sweden and Norway and Mekonomen Sweden have achieved the most with their environmental work, for example, all of Future development these facilities hold ISO 14001 certification. Mekonomen’s proprietary operThe market trend was stable compared with the preceding year and for ations in Sweden have come one step further by also holding occupational 2016, the conditions are that we have a somewhat larger car fleet after health and safety (OHSAS 18001) and quality management (ISO 9001) new car sales in Sweden achieved an all-time high. We see a potential in a certifications. somewhat stronger market for 2016. Environmental work includes surveys of the most significant environmenThe work of improving the quality of the Group’s affiliated workshops tal impact of the operations, and includes environmental policies, certified remains in focus as well as the investment in the Group’s digital business, environmental management systems and environmental manuals describing with a group-wide e-commerce platform for B2B and B2C. In the future, procedures, monitoring and responsibilities. Environmental management greater focus will also be placed on reviewing possible synergies in the systems undergo external audits every year, and environmental goals and Group’s logistics function, although with retention of the delivery reliability monitoring procedures are determined for each financial year. that is one of the cornerstones of our offering to workshops. Accounting policies – discontinued operations The share The financial information for 2014 has been revised compared with the Share capital and ownership structure official annual report according to the rules for discontinued operations in As per 31 December 2015, the share capital of Mekonomen AB IFRS 5. Discontinued operations comprise the former Danish store business, (publ) amounted to SEK 90 M (90) and comprised 35,901,487 shares which was previously included in the MECA segment. Total operations refer (35,901,487) at a quotient value of SEK 2.50 per share (2.50). Each share to discontinued and continuing operations. Also refer to information in the carries one vote at the Annual General Meeting and all shares carry equal Discontinued operations section in the accounting policies and in Note 34. entitlement to a share in the company’s profits and assets. Each share­ holder is entitled to vote for all their shares with no restrictions and the Events after the end of the year shares are not included in any transfer restrictions. On 16 February 2016 the Board of directors has adopted the following Axel Johnson AB represents 26.5 per cent of the voting rights. For inforfinancial goals for Mekonomen Group: mation about the 15 largest shareholders as per 31 December 2015, refer • to develop with good profitability and thereby create value growth for to the table on page 27. the shareholders • to achieve annual sales growth of at least 5 per cent, as a combination of Authorisation organic and acquired growth The Annual General Meeting resolved in April 2015 to authorise the Board, • to annually achieve an operating margin in excess of 10 per cent for the period until the next Annual General Meeting, on one or more • the equity/assets ratio shall not in the long term be less than 40 per cent occasions, with or without preferential rights for shareholders, to make • net debt / EBITDA shall not in the long term exceed 2.0 decisions on new share issues of not more than 3,590,149 shares. At the end of the financial year, no new shares were issued under this Decisions were made regarding changes in Group Management. As of authorisation. 1 March 2016, Group Management comprises the following individuals: Magnus Johansson, President and CEO of Mekonomen AB Dividend policy Marcus Larsson, Executive Vice President, Mekonomen AB It is the Board’s intention that Mekonomen Group will pay dividends correMorten Birkeland, President, Sørensen og Balchen sponding to not less than 50 per cent of profit after tax. When determining Örjan Grandin, Supply Chain Director, Mekonomen AB future dividends, consideration is primarily given to investment needs, but Per Hedblom, CFO, Mekonomen AB. other factors deemed significant by the Board are also considered. David Larsson, COO, Mekonomen AB Pehr Oscarson, President, MECA Shareholder agreements As far as the Board of Mekonomen AB (publ) is aware, no shareholder The Mekonomen Nordic segment has ceased as of 1 January 2016. As of agreements exist or other agreements between Mekonomen’s shareholders the first quarter of 2016, the operations that were a part of Mekonomen for joint influence over the company. As far as the Board of Mekonomen Nordic will instead be reported in the new segments Mekonomen Sweden AB (publ) is aware, there are no agreements or similar that may result in a and Mekonomen Norway as well as in Other. change in the control of the company. Mekonomen Group has signed a Letter Of Intent (LOI) with the intention of investing in an automated central warehouse solution in Strängnäs. Share dividends As a part of streamlining the logistics structure Mekonomen Group intends The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 7.00 (7.00) per share. to centralise the structure of the central warehouses in Sweden. The plan The Board proposes 14 April 2016 as the record day for the dividend. If is that the existing building in Strängnäs will be expanded to include a comthe Annual General Meeting resolves to approve the proposal, the dividend mon automated central warehouse. The estimated size of the investment is will be paid on 19 April 2016. The final day for trading the company’s shares SEK 250 M during the period 2016-2018 with full EBIT effect from savings including the right to dividends is 12 April 2016. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 32 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Board of Directors’ work 2015 Proposed appropriation of profit The Annual General Meeting on 14 April 2015 resolved that the Board Parent Company was to comprise seven ordinary members with no deputy members. In accordance with the Nomination Committee’s proposal, the Annual The following profit is available for distribution by the Annual General General Meeting resolved to re-elect Fredrik Persson (Chairman), Kenneth Meeting, SEK 000s: Bengtsson (Executive Vice Chairman), Caroline Berg, Kenny Bräck, Helena Profit brought forward 2,090,284 Skåntorp and Christer Åberg to the Board and to elect Malin Persson as Profit for the year 592,014 a new Board member. Prior to the 2015 Annual General Meeting, Marcus TOTAL 2,682,298 Storch had withdrawn his name for re-election. At the ordinary Board meeting on 12 May 2015, Fredrik Persson withdrew from his assignment as Mekonomen’s Chairman of the Board and the The Board of Directors and President propose that profits be distributed as Board elected Kenneth Bengtsson as its Chairman and Caroline Berg as its follows: Executive Vice Chairman until the 2016 Annual General Meeting. Dividend to shareholders (SEK 7.00 per share) 251,310 During 2015, the Board held 12 (12) meetings, of which one was a To be carried forward 2,430,987 statutory meeting. The Board meetings during the year addressed the fixed TOTAL 2,682,298 items of each meeting agenda, such as business situation, financial reporting and investments. Other issues discussed in the Board during the year were strategies, market development, acquisitions, the Danish operations and reThe Board’s statement concerning the cruitment of a new President. In addition, selected Board meetings discussed proposed dividend issues relating to annual accounts, interim reports and budget. Following the proposed dividend, the Parent Company’s equity/assets The Board has established a Remuneration Committee and an Audit ratio will amount to 56 per cent and the Group’s equity/assets ratio to 37 Committee. The Committees’ work mainly comprises preparing issues and per cent calculated on the balance-sheet date of 31 December 2015. The providing consultation, although the Board can delegate authority to make equity/assets ratio is satisfactory considering that the company’s and the decisions in specific cases. The members and Chairmen of the Committees Group’s operations are continuing to operate profitably, which means that are appointed at the statutory Board meeting held directly after the election the equity/assets ratio following dividend payment in April 2016 will exceed of Board members. For more information, refer to page 36. the above-stated levels. It is estimated that cash and cash equivalents in the company and the Group will remain at a satisfactory level. Auditors The Board is of the opinion that the proposed dividends do not prohibit The auditors of the company are elected annually at the Annual General the Parent Company or other Group companies from fulfilling their obliMeeting. According to a resolution of the Annual General Meeting, auditors’ gations in the short or long term. Neither do the dividends influence the fees are paid according to approved invoices. The Group’s auditors report Group’s ability to implement required investments. Taking into account the to the Board as required, but at least once a year. The Group’s external above and other circumstances known to the Board, the Board believes auditors also participate at the meetings of the Audit Committee. that a comprehensive assessment of the company’s and Group’s financial At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, PricewaterhouseCoopers AB position entails that this dividend is justified taking into consideration the (PwC), with Authorised Public Accountant Lennart Danielsson as Auditor in demands imposed by the nature, scope and risks of the operations on the Charge, was re-elected as the auditing firm until the 2016 Annual General amount of equity in the company and the Group, and the other consoliMeeting. dation requirements, liquidity and position of the company and the Group operations. For further information regarding the company’s and the Group’s earnings and financial position, refer to the following income statement, balance sheet, cash-flow statements and accompanying notes. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report Mekonomen Group comprises approximately 200 companies that conduct business operations primarily in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland. The Parent Company of the Group is the Swedish public limited liability company Mekonomen AB, whose shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm. Principles for corporate governance Mekonomen Group’s corporate governance concerns how the operations are Both internal and external regulations are used as a foundation for the governance of governed, managed and controlled in order to create value for the company’s Mekonomen Group. shareholders and other stakeholders.The aim of corporate governance is to create the conditions for active and responsible company bodies, to clarify roles External regulations Internal regulations and segregation of responsibilities and to ensure true and fair reporting and Swedish Companies Act Articles of Association information. Mekonomen Group applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code and Annual Accounts Act Board’s rules of procedure applied the Code except for item 2.4 in the Code in the 2015 financial year. Other relevant laws Board’s instruction for the President The Board member Caroline Berg is also the Chairman of the Nomination Nasdaq Stockholm AB’s Rule book for issuers Policies, guidelines and instructions Committee, which deviates from the Code provision that a Board member shall not be the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.The explanation of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code) Code of Conduct and Core Values deviation is as follows:The Nomination Committee appointed Caroline Berg as the Nomination Committee Chairman as it can be considered to be a natural choice considering the ownership structure of Mekonomen.This Corporate Governance Report is part of the company’s Administration Report. In general terms, Corporate Governance can be illustrated as follows: SHAREHOLDERS AND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Nomination Committee External auditor Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee President & Group Management Internal audit MECA Mekonomen Nordic Sørensen og Balchen Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Shareholders to be paid as follows: SEK 60,000 to the Chairman of the Audit CommitThe Mekonomen share has been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm, Mid Cap tee, SEK 35,000 to each of the other members of the Audit Committee, segment since 29 May 2000. Share capital amounted to SEK 89,753,718 on SEK 35,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 31 December 2015, represented by 35,901,487 shares. The total market 25,000 to each of the other members of the Remuneration Committee value for the company on 31 December 2015 amounted to SEK 6.2 billion, • to re-elect Fredrik Persson as Chairman of the Board based on the closing price of SEK 173.00. All shares provide the same voting • to re-elect Board members Kenneth Bengtsson, Caroline Berg, Kenny rights and equal rights to the company’s profit and capital. The company’s Bräck, Helena Skåntorp and Christer Åberg and to elect Malin Persson as Articles of Association do not include any restrictions on how many votes a new Board member each shareholder can cast at a General Meeting. • to re-elect the auditing firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers AB as the company’s The number of shareholders on 31 December 2015 was 9,373 (9,664). auditor for the period until the close of the 2016 Annual General Meeting On the same date, the ten largest shareholders controlled 65.7 per cent • to adopt proposals for guidelines regarding the composition of the Nomi(57.4) of the capital and voting rights and the participation of foreign ownnation Committee ers accounted for 19.7 (28.0) per cent of the capital and voting rights. • to adopt the Board’s proposals for guidelines regarding remuneration of Shareholders which directly or indirectly represent at least one-tenth senior executives of the voting rights for all shares in Mekonomen are Axel Johnson AB and • to adopt the Board’s proposals concerning employees’ acquisition of subsidiaries, whose shareholding on 31 December 2015 amounted to 26.5 shares in subsidiaries per cent (26.5). For further information on Mekonomen’s shares and share• to adopt authorisation for the Board, for the period until the next Annual holders, refer to pages 26-27. General Meeting, on one or more occasions, with or without preferential rights for shareholders, to make decisions on new share issues of not General Meeting more than 3,590,149 shares The General Meeting is Mekonomen Group’s highest governing body, at which every shareholder is entitled to participate. The Annual General Nomination Committee Meeting is to be held within six months of the close of the financial year. The In accordance with the guidelines established at the Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting approves the income statement and balance sheet, on 14 April 2015, Mekonomen Group has established a Nomination Comthe appropriation of the company’s profit, decides on discharge from liability, mittee. The company is to have a Nomination Committee comprising four elects the Board of Directors and auditors, and approves fees, addresses members. The four largest shareholders of the company were contacted other statutory matters as well as making decisions pertaining to proposals by the company’s Board based on the list of registered shareholders on 31 from the Board and shareholders. The company announces the date and August 2015 as provided by Euroclear Sweden AB. location of the Annual General Meeting as soon as the Board has made For the 2016 Annual General Meeting, the Nomination Committee will its decision, but not later than in connection with the third-quarter report. comprise Caroline Berg, Axel Johnson Aktiebolag, Jonathan Mårtensson, Information pertaining to the location and time is available on the company’s Handelsbanken Fonder, Mats Gustafsson, Lannebo Fonder, and Annika website. Shareholders that are registered in Euroclear’s shareholders register Andersson, Swedbank Robur Fonder. Caroline Berg was elected Chairman on the record date and have registered participation in adequate time are of the Nomination Committee. Mekonomen’s Chairman, Kenneth Bengtsson, entitled to participate in the Annual General Meeting and vote according was co-opted to the Nomination Committee. Fees are not paid to members to their shareholdings. All information concerning the company’s meetings, of the Nomination Committee. such as registration, entitlement for items to be entered in the agenda in the In accordance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, the Nomnotification, minutes, etc., is available on the company’s website. ination Committee is to have at least three members, one of whom is to be With regard to participation in the Annual General Meeting, the Board has appointed Chairman. The majority of these members are to be independent deemed it is currently not financially justifiable to allow shareholders to parin relation to the company and company management and at least one ticipate in the Annual General Meeting through any means other than physical of the Nomination Committee members is to be independent in relation presence. It is the company’s aim that the General Meeting be a consummate to the company’s largest shareholders in terms of the number of votes. body for shareholders, in accordance with the intentions of the Swedish Mekonomen Group’s Nomination Committee comprises four members, all Companies Act, which is why the objective is that the Board in its entirety, the of whom are deemed to be independent in relation to the company and representative of the Nomination Committee, the President, auditors and othcompany management. Mekonomen Group’s Nomination Committee also er members of Group Management must always be present at the Meeting. meets other independence requirements. Annual General Meeting 2015 The Nomination Committee’s task is to present proposes to the Annual The Annual General Meeting was held in Stockholm on 14 April 2015. General Meeting concerning: The complete minutes of the Annual General Meeting are available on the • the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting, Mekonomen website at mekonomen.com. In brief, the Annual General • the number of members of the Board and deputy members, Meeting resolved: • fees to the Board and auditors, and any special remuneration for commit• to adopt the income statement and balance sheet, the consolidated tee work, income statement and the consolidated balance sheet • the Chairman of the Board and other Board members, • to pay a dividend of SEK 7.0 per share to shareholders • auditors, and • to discharge the members of the Board and the President from liability • guidelines on the composition of the Nomination Committee, etc. • that the number of members of the Board elected by the Annual General Meeting be seven with no deputy members • to pay total Board fees of SEK 2,010,000, of which SEK 400,000 relates to fees to the Chairman of the Board and SEK 310,000 relates to the Exec2016 Annual General Meeting utive Vice Chairman, and also SEK 260,000 relates to fees to each of the The Annual General Meeting will be held at 3:00 p.m. on 12 April 2016, at other Board members elected by the Annual General Meeting who are Skandiascenen at Cirkus in Stockholm (Djurgården). not employed by the Group. Furthermore, fees for Committee work are Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In conjunction with its task, the Nominating Committee is to perform the The Board’s working procedures duties incumbent on nomination committees in accordance with the SwedThe Board is responsible for the company’s organisation and management ish Corporate Governance Code, and at the request of the Nomination and is to also make decisions pertaining to strategic issues. The Board held 12 Committee, the company is to provide human resources, such as a secretary meetings in 2015, of which one was a statutory meeting. The minutes of the function for the Committee, to facilitate its work. If necessary, the company meetings were recorded by the Board’s secretary, who is the Group’s CFO. is also to pay reasonable costs for external consultants deemed necessary Relevant meeting documentation was sent to all members prior to each by the Nomination Committee for it to perform its duties. meeting, which were then held in accordance with the approved agenda. Mekonomen Group has not established any specific age limit for Board On occasions, other senior executives participated in Board Meetings in members or time limits pertaining to the length of time Board members a reporting capacity, as necessary. No dissenting opinions to be recorded may sit on the Board. Auditors are elected annually when the matter is in the minutes were expressed at any of the meetings during the year. The submitted to the Annual General Meeting. Board meetings during the year addressed the fixed items of each meeting agenda, such as business situation, financial reporting and investments. Specific information about the Board’s work Other issues discussed in the Board during the year were strategies, market Size and composition development, acquisitions, the Danish operations and recruitment of a new According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors is to comPresident. In addition, selected Board meetings discussed issues relating to prise three to seven members and not more than three deputy members. annual accounts, interim reports and budget. The company’s Articles of Association have no specific provisions relating to the appointment and discharge of Board members or amendments to the Assignments Articles of Association. The Board of Directors is to be elected annually at In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Board’s aim was to the Annual General Meeting. devote particular attention to establishing overall goals for the operations The Annual General Meeting on 14 April 2015 resolved that the Board and decide on strategies by which to achieve these goals and to continuouswas to comprise seven ordinary members with no deputy members. In ly evaluate the operating management, with the aim of ensuring the comaccordance with the Nomination Committee’s proposal, the Annual General pany’s governance, management and control. The Board is responsible for Meeting resolved to re-elect Fredrik Persson (Chairman), Kenneth Bengtsensuring that suitable systems are in place for the monitoring and control son (Executive Vice Chairman), Caroline Berg, Kenny Bräck, Helena Skåntorp of the company’s operations and the risks to the company associated with and Christer Åberg to the Board and to elect Malin Persson as a new Board its operations, that control is implemented of compliance with laws, internal member. Marcus Storch declined re-election at the 2015 Annual General guidelines and other regulations and that the provision of external inforMeeting. mation is open, objective and relevant. The tasks of the Board also include At the ordinary Board meeting on 12 May 2015, Fredrik Persson withestablishing necessary guidelines for the company’s conduct in society with drew from his assignment as Mekonomen’s Chairman of the Board and the the aim of securing its long-term value-creating ability. Board elected Kenneth Bengtsson as its Chairman and Caroline Berg as its There are written instructions that regulate the internal rules of Executive Vice Chairman until the 2016 Annual General Meeting. procedure in the Board and the distribution of assignments between the All ordinary members are independent in relation to the company and Board and the President, and for the reporting process. The instructions are its management in accordance with the definition in the Swedish Corporate reviewed annually and are primarily: the rules of procedure for the Board’s Governance Code. Five of the Board members are independent also in work, instructions for the President and authorisation regulations. relation to major shareholders. The President is not a member of the Board The Board evaluates its work every year and it is the duty of the and neither is any other member of Group Management. A more detailed Chairman of the Board to ensure that evaluation is performed. In 2015, the presentation of the Board members is provided on page 40. Chairman organised a written questionnaire for all Board members. The collective opinion based on the 2015 evaluation is that the Board’s work Board members functioned well and that the Board fulfilled the Code’s requirements regardIn the opinion of the Nomination Committee, the Board has a suitable coming assignment of the Board. position considering the company’s operations, financial position, stage of The Annual General Meeting resolved, in accordance with the proposal development and circumstances otherwise. An important starting point for from the Nomination Committee, to allocate Board fees amounting to SEK the proposal of Board members was that the Board’s composition should 2,010,000, of which SEK 400,000 to the Chairman of the Board and SEK reflect and provide space for the different knowledge and experience that 310,000 to the Executive Vice Chairman, and SEK 260,000 to each of the the company’s strategic development and governance may demand. The other Board members. Furthermore, fees for Committee work are to be Nomination Committee has particularly observed the requirement of dipaid as follows: SEK 60,000 to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, SEK versity and breadth in the Board and the requirement of striving for an even 35,000 to each of the other members of the Audit Committee, SEK 35,000 gender distribution. According to the Nomination Committee, the composito the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 25,000 to each tion is suitable to be able to meet such needs in the company’s operations. of the other members of the Remuneration Committee. Chairman Board Committees The Chairman of the Board, Kenneth Bengtsson, is not employed by the The Board has established a Remuneration Committee and an Audit company and does not have any assignments with the company beyond his Committee. The Committees’ work mainly comprises preparing issues and chairmanship. It is the opinion of the Board that Kenneth Bengtsson ensures providing consultation, although the Board can delegate authority to make that the Board conducts its assignments efficiently and also fulfils its duties in decisions in specific cases. The members and Chairmen of the Committees accordance with applicable laws and regulations. are appointed at the statutory Board meeting held directly after the election of Board members. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Remuneration of senior executives The Audit Committee’s main duties comprise: It is considered very important to ensure that there is a clear link between • Monitoring the company’s financial reporting and the effectiveness of the remuneration and the Group’s values and financial goals in both the short company’s internal control, internal audit and risk management regarding and the long term. The guidelines for remuneration of senior executives the financial reporting approved by the 2015 Annual General Meeting entail that the company is • Performing annual risk analyses together with the President and Group to offer market-based remuneration that allows the Group to recruit and CFO to govern the resources of the internal audit towards key risk areas retain the right executives, and entail that the criteria for determining remu• Establishing an audit plan for internal audits and preparing an audit plan for neration is to be based on the significance of work duties and employees’ the Board for external audits and ensuring coordination between them competencies, experience and performance. • Evaluating the work of the external auditors Remuneration is to comprise: • Preparing guidelines for the other non-audit services that the company • fixed basic salary, may procure from the company’s auditors and, where necessary, grant • variable remuneration, pre-approval when the company’s auditors are engaged for assignments • pension benefits, other than audit assignments • other benefits and severance pay • Evaluating the objectivity and independence of the external auditors • Supporting the Nomination Committee by providing proposals on elecThe guidelines encompass Group Management, including the President. tion of external auditors and fees to auditors Remuneration is determined by the Board’s Remuneration Committee. However, remuneration of the President is determined by the Board in The Audit Committee comprises three Board members: Helena Skåntorp its entirety. (Chairman), Kenneth Bengtsson and Christer Åberg. Mekonomen Group’s Board of Directors makes decisions pertaining In 2015, the Audit Committee held five meetings. The respective to remuneration of the President Magnus Johansson. The President has a member’s participation is presented in the table on page 40. The Group’s fixed cash basic salary per month and a short-term cash variable salary external auditors and the Group’s CFO and Head of internal audit also portion, which is based on the company’s earnings and individual qualitative participated at the meetings. parameters and that can amount to a maximum of 60 per cent of the basic annual salary. Under the pension terms, payment of pension premiums is Remuneration Committee made in the amount corresponding to 29 per cent of basic salary. Other The task of the Remuneration Committee is to discuss, decide on and benefits consist of a company car. The period of notice for the President is present recommendations on the salaries, other employment terms and six months if employment is terminated by the company, and six months incentive programmes for company management. However, the Board in its if terminated by the President. If termination is initiated by the company, entirety determines the remuneration and other employment terms for the severance pay amounting to 12 months’ salary is paid. President. The work of the Remuneration Committee is based on resoluThe distribution between basic salary and variable remuneration is to tions by the Annual General Meeting pertaining to guidelines for remunerabe proportionate to the senior executive’s responsibilities and authorities. tion of senior executives. The short-term variable remuneration for other senior executives is based Until 14 April 2015, the Remuneration Committee comprised Fredrik on the Group’s earnings and on individual qualitative parameters and can Persson (Chairman), Marcus Storch and Caroline Berg. From 14 April 2015 amount to a maximum of a certain percentage of the fixed annual salary. to 12 May 2015, the Remuneration Committee comprised Fredrik Persson The percentage is linked to the position of each individual and varies (Chairman), Malin Persson and Caroline Berg. From 12 May 2015, the between 33 and 60 percentage points for members of Group Management. Remuneration Committee comprised Kenneth Bengtsson (Chairman), Malin Other benefits refer primarily to company cars. Pension premiums are paid Persson and Caroline Berg. The Remuneration Committee held four meetin an amount that is based on the ITP plan or a corresponding system for ings in 2015, of which two were before 14 April and two after 12 May. The employees outside Sweden. Pensionable salary comprises basic salary. The respective member’s participation is presented in the table on page 40. In period of notice is 12 months if employment is terminated by the company, addition, the company’s President at the time, Håkan Lundstedt, was present and six months if terminated by the employee. Severance pay for terminaat one of these meetings and President Magnus Johansson was present at tion on the part of the company may amount to a maximum of one annual two of these meeting. The Group’s CFO was the Committee’s secretary. salary. Furthermore, a long-term variable remuneration programme was adoptGroup Management ed by the 2014 Annual General Meeting. Group Management and a number President’s assignment of selected, business-critical senior executives may receive long-term The President is appointed and may be discharged by the Board and his work variable remuneration from the company. The criteria for determining the is continuously evaluated by the Board, which occurs without the presence variable remuneration portion for each individual is decided by the Board’s of Group Management. Mekonomen Group’s President and CEO, Magnus Remuneration Committee, and for the President by the Board in its entirety. Johansson, is also a member of the Boards of Insamlingsstiftelsen En Frisk GenThe long-term variable remuneration is to be profit-based and calculated eration and Intermeko Europe, and has no shareholdings or partial ownership on the Group’s earnings for the 2014-2016 financial years. The entire bonus in companies with significant business ties with Mekonomen Group. programme, as an expense for the company, is to amount to a maximum of SEK 24 M for the period. Furthermore, an additional requirement to Group Management the above is that the average price paid for the Mekonomen share on At 31 December 2015, Group Management consisted of the President Nasdaq Stockholm on the last trading day in December 2016 is to exceed and CEO, the Executive Vice President, the CFO, the President of Sørensen the Nasdaq Stockholm PI index for the programme period. The right to og Balchen, the President of MECA Scandinavia and the President of Mereceive variable remuneration expires if the senior executive resigns (before konomen Nordic. A more detailed presentation of Group Management is payment). No bonus was reserved as per 31 December 2015 pertaining to found on page 41. this bonus programme. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Other than the above, the Board has not decided on any other share or Audit share-price based incentive programs for Group Management. The rules of procedure decided annually by the Board include detailed inAccording to the guidelines approved by the 2015 Annual General Meeting, structions on, for example, the financial reports and the type of financial inthe President shall receive a pension benefit amounting to a maximum of formation to be submitted to the Board. In addition to financial statements, 29 percentage points of the basic salary. In conjunction with the terms in the interim reports and annual reports, the Board examines and evaluates new President’s employment contract, the Board decided, in deviation from comprehensive financial information that pertains to the Group as a whole the guidelines, that the pension benefit shall be payable in an amount of 30 and to the various units included in the Group. percentage points as of 15 June 2015. The Board also examines, primarily through the Board’s Audit Committee, the most significant accounting policies applied to the financial reporting Auditors by the Group, and significant changes to policies in the reporting. The Audit The auditors are appointed at the Annual General Meeting and are charged Committee’s duties also include examining internal and external audit with reviewing the company’s financial reporting and the Board’s and Presreports regarding internal control and the processes for financial reporting. ident’s management of the company. At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, The Group’s external auditors report to the Board as required, but at PricewaterhouseCoopers AB (PwC), with Authorised Public Accountant least once a year. At at least one of these meetings, the President and CFO Lennart Danielsson as Auditor in Charge, was appointed as the auditing firm leave after presenting their formal reports to enable Board members to until the 2016 Annual General Meeting. PwC has an organisation comprisconduct discussions with auditors without the participation of senior execing broad and specialised competency that is well-suited to Mekonomen utives. The Group’s external auditors also participate at the meetings of the Group’s operations and has been the company’s auditing firm since 2014. Audit Committee. The Audit Committee reports back to the Board after In addition to Mekonomen Group, Lennart Danielsson is the Auditor in every meeting. All Audit Committee meetings are minuted and the minutes Charge of Studsvik AB. are available for all Board members and the auditors. PwC submits an auditor’s report for Mekonomen AB (publ.) and for the company’s subsidiaries. The auditors also perform a review of the Internal control third-quarter interim report. The audit is conducted in accordance with Mekonomen Group’s internal control process is designed to manage and International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing minimise the risk of errors in the financial reporting. In accordance with standards in Sweden. The audit of annual report documents for legal entities the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance outside Sweden is conducted in accordance with statutory requirements Code, the Board of Directors is responsible for internal control. This section and other applicable rules in each country. was prepared in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code and Companies Act. Fees to auditors, SEK M 2015 2014 The report is limited to addressing internal control over financial reporting. PwC Control environment Fees for audit assignments 7 6 The control environment represents the basis for the internal control over Audit-related services other than the financial reporting. An important part of the control environment is that audit assignment 1 0 decision paths, authorities and responsibilities must be clearly defined and communicated between various levels in the organisation and that the Tax advice 0 0 control documents are available in the form of internal policies, handbooks, Other services 0 0 guidelines and manuals. Thus, a key part of the Board’s work is to prepare Total fees to PwC1) 8 6 and approve a number of fundamental policies, guidelines and frameworks. These include the Board’s rules of procedure, Instructions for the President, 1) Including discontinued operations SEK 1 M (1). Investment policies, Financial policies and the Insider policy. The aim of these policies is to create a basis for sound internal control. Reporting and audit Furthermore, the Board focuses on ensuring that the organisational Reporting structure provides distinct roles, responsibilities and processes that benefit The Board supervises the quality of the financial reporting through instructhe effective management of the operation’s risks and facilitate goal fulfilment. tions to the President. It is the President’s duty, jointly with the Group’s CFO, Part of the responsibility structure includes an obligation for the Board to to review and quality-assure all external financial reporting including financial evaluate the operation’s performance and results on a monthly basis, through statements, interim reports, annual reports and press releases with financial appropriate report packages containing income statements, balance sheets, content, as well as presentation material in connection with meetings with analyses of important key figures, comments pertaining to the business status the media, shareholders and financial institutions. of each operation and also quarterly forecasts for future periods. The Board Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE has established an Audit Committee to assist the Board specifically in the Information and communications financial reporting. To help strengthen the internal control, Mekonomen Group Policies and guidelines are particularly important for accurate accounting, has prepared a financial handbook that provides an overall view of existing reporting and dissemination of information. Policies and guidelines on the policies, rules and regulations and procedures within the financial area. This is financial process are continuously updated at Mekonomen Group. Such a living document, which is updated continuously and adapted to internal and updates mainly take place in each Group function for the various operations external changes. In addition to the financial handbook, there are instructions through e-mails, but also at regular CFO meetings in which representatives that provide guidance on daily work in stores and the rest of the organisation, from the Group finance function participate. For communication with internal for example, pertaining to stock taking and cash-register reconciliation, etc. and external parties, a communications policy is in place that states guidelines for conducting communication. The aim of the policy is to ensure that all inforRisk assessment mation obligations are complied with in a correct and complete manner. Mekonomen Group conducts continuous surveys of the Group’s risks. During these surveys, a number of items were identified in the income Follow-up statement and balance sheet in which the risks of errors in the financial The Board continuously evaluates the information submitted by Group reporting are elevated. The company works continuously on these risks by Management and auditors. In conjunction with this, the Audit Committee strengthening controls. Furthermore, risks are addressed in a special forum, was responsible for the preparation of the Board’s work to quality assure including questions related to start-ups and acquisitions. For a more detailed the Group’s financial reporting. The CEO and CFO hold monthly reviews description of risks, refer to Risks and uncertainties in the Administration of financial position with each Head of Operations. Group finance function Report and in Note 37 Financial risks. also cooperates closely with the Group company finance managers and controllers of Group companies on matters pertaining to accounting and Control activities reporting. The follow-up and feedback concerning possible deviations arising Risks of errors in the financial reporting are reduced through a high level in the internal controls are a key part of the internal control work, since this of internal control over the financial reporting, with specific focus on signifis an efficient manner for the company to ensure that errors are corrected icant areas defined by the Board. Within Mekonomen Group, the control and that the control is further strengthened. structures comprise an organisation with clear roles that enables effective and, from an internal control perspective, suitable division of responsibilities, specific control activities that aim to identify and prevent risks of misstatements in the reporting in time. The control activities include reconciliation of accounts, analytic follow-up, comparison between income statements and Additional information balance sheets and control stock-taking in warehouses and stores. The company website at mekonomen.com includes: • Articles of Association Internal audit • Code of Conduct Mekonomen Group has an internal audit function, which is an independent • Information from previous Annual General Meetings, from 2006 and objective hedging and advice unit that generates value and improves the • Information about the Nomination Committee Group’s operations. This is done by evaluating and proposing improvement • Information about principles of remuneration of senior executives in such areas as risk management, compliance with policies and efficiency • The Board’s evaluation of guidelines for remuneration of programmes for in the internal control over the financial reporting. The function works variable remuneration throughout the Group. The Head of the internal audit reports to the Audit • Corporate Governance Reports from 2006 Committee, the President and the CFO and informs management in each • Information about the 2016 Annual General Meeting business area and other units on the results of the audits performed. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Kenneth Bengtsson Caroline Berg Kenny Bräck Malin Persson Helena Skåntorp Christer Åberg Board position Chairman of the Board. Executive Vice Chairman. Board member. Board member. Member of Board member. Board member. Chairman of Mekonomen’s Member of Mekonomen’s Mekonomen’s RemuneraChairman of Mekonomen’s Member of Mekonomen’s Remuneration Committee. Remuneration Committee. tion Committee. Audit Committee. Audit Committee. Member of Mekonomen’s Audit Committee. Education Upper secondary school B.A. Media/Communication Upper secondary school MSc in Engineering, Graduate in Business IHM Business School Stockeducation and training in and psychology, Middlebury education. Chalmers University of Administration, Stockholm holm and training courses at the ICA system. College, Vermont, US. Technology. University. Unilever. Elected in 2013 2014 2007 2015 2004 2014 Born 1961 1968 1966 1968 1960 1966 Position and Board assignments Chairman of the Board Chairman of the Board of Self-employed. Chairman of the Board of President of Lernia AB. CEO of Hilding Anders of Ahlsell AB (publ), Clas Axel Johnson AB and the Minority owner and Board RO-Gruppen Förvaltning Board member of 2E Group. Board member of Ohlson AB (publ), Ersta Erik and Göran Ennerfelt member of Motorsport AB. Member of the Boards Group AB and AB Svenska Spel. diakoni, Eurocommerce, Foundation for InternaAuctions Ltd. of Getinge AB (publ), Bemanningsföretagen. Systembolaget, Junior tional Studies for Young Becker Industrial Coatings Chairman Achievement Sweden and Swedes. Board member Test and Development Holding AB, Hexatronic in a number of Lernia World Childhood Foundaof AxFast AB, Axfood AB Driver for McLaren Group AB, HEXPOL AB AB’s subsidiaries and tion. Member of the Boards (publ), Axstores AB and Automotive. (publ), Magnora AB, Mobile Chairman and of Synsam and Herenco. Stockholm School of EcoClimate Control Group CEO of nomics Advisory Board. Holding AB, Ahlström CapSkåntorp & Co AB. ital Oy, Konecranes Plc and Kongsberg Automotive ASA. Work experience Employed at ICA for more Employed at Axel Johnson Former professional racing President of Volvo TechnolFormer President and CEO President of Orkla Confecthan 30 years, 11 of which AB since 2005, most recently driver. ogy AB and the Chalmers of SBC Sveriges Bostadstionary & Snacks, President as CEO. as Vice President Human University of Technology rättsCentrum AB. President of Arla Foods AB, President Resources and CommunicaFoundation. Many years and CEO of Jarowskij, CFO of Atria Scandinavia AB, tions and member of Group of experience from large of Arla, Authorised Public senior positions at Unilever. Management 2006-2014. Swedish industrial compaAccountant at Öhrlings/ Prior to that, many years of nies, including Aktiebolaget PwC. experience in film, television, SKF, ASG and the Volvo and media in Sweden and US. Group. Total remuneration, SEK 470,000 335,000 260,000 285,000 320,000 295,000 Attendance at Board meetings 11/12 12/12 11/12 8/8 (newly elected). 11/12 12/12 Attendance at Audit Committee meetings 5/5 – – – 5/5 5/5 Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings 2/2 (newly elected) 2/4 – 2/2 (newly elected) – – Own shareholdings and shareholdings of related parties 2,000 None 1,000 1,000 2,000 2,500 Independent of the company/company management Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Independent of major shareholders Yes No, dependent in relation Yes Yes Yes Yes to major shareholders of the company. Marcus Storch declined re-election prior to the 2015 Annual General Meeting. At the ordinary Board meeting on 12 May 2015, Fredrik Persson withdrew from his assignment as Mekonomen’s Chairman of the Board and the Board elected Kenneth Bengtsson as its Chairman and Caroline Berg as its Executive Vice Chairman until the 2016 Annual General Meeting. Marcus participated in four of four Board meetings before the Annual General Meeting. Fredrik participated in six of six Board meetings up to 12 May 2015. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group Management Magnus Johansson Per Hedblom Marcus Larsson Morten Birkeland David Larsson Pehr Oscarsson Role President and CEO. CFO. Executive Vice President. President COO. President Sørensen og Balchen. MECA Scandinavia. Born 1972 1967 1970 1964 1973 1963 Education Master of Science in BusiMSc in Industrial EngiMaster of Economics, Degree in Economics, Oslo Graduate in Business Technical upper secondary ness and Economics, Lund neering and Management, School of Economics and Business School. Administration, Uppsala school, supplemented University. Chalmers University of Management, Lund UniverUniversity. with short economics and Technology. sity, FEM programme, IFL MBA Helsinki School of management courses. MBA INSEAD. Sigtuna. Economics. Employed 2014 2007 2003 2008 2013 2001 Work experience President of Mekonomen Partner of Centigo, AssociSelf-employed consultant, Head of Marketing Nordic Senior positions in Senior positions at Nordic, ate Director of Arkwright, Head of Purchasing, Head at Stabburet, Marketing Microsoft: COO Microsoft MECA since 2001, President of Coop Inköp & Consultant at Accenture, of Business Development Director and Operations Norway, Vice CFO MicroPresident of Swecar AB. Kategori, President of Invest in Sweden Agency. at Volkswagen Group. Director at Intersport, Sales soft Latin America, CFO Lantmännen Cerealia, Director at Tine, Division Microsoft Sweden. Marketing Director Director at NetCom Lantmännen AXA. Commercial and Private markets, Group Director Sales and Marketing ISS. Board appointments Member of the Board of Member of the Boards of Deputy Chairman of Insamlingsstiftelsen Intermeko Europe, Association of Swedish En frisk generation. Lasingoo Sverige AB Wholesalers of Automotive Board member of and Automotive Web Parts and Accessories (SBF). Intermeko Europe. Solutions AB. Member of the Board of Fresks Holding AB and Oscarson Invest Aktiebolag. Own shareholdings and shareholdings of related parties 3,000 1,000 3,000 0 0 2,000 Changes in Group Management The Board of Directors of Mekonomen appointed Magnus Johansson as the new President and CEO to begin on 15 June 2015. Magnus succeeded Håkan Lundstedt who moved on to a different external position. Gunilla Spongh, International Business Director, resigned from her position in Mekonomen Group during the year for a different external position. David Larsson is a member of Group Management as of 1 September 2015 and was the acting President for the Group company Mekonomen Nordic from 1 September until 31 December 2015. As of 1 March 2016, Örjan Grandin, Supply Chain Director for Mekonomen Group, is also a member of Group Management. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 41 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial statements Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2015 2014 Continuing operations: Net sales 3 5,624 5,262 Other operating revenue 137 128 Total revenue 5,761 5,390 Operating expenses Goods for resale 17 -2,529 -2,337 Other external costs 4 -1,167 -1,044 Personnel costs 5 -1,282 -1,185 Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets 6 -57 -61 Amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets 6 -110 -124 EBIT 9 616 639 Financial income and expenses Interest income 6 6 Interest expenses -33 -41 Other financial items 9 5 16 Profit after financial items 594 620 Tax on profit for the year 10 -164 -153 Profit for the year from continuing operations 430 466 Discontinued operations: Profit/loss for the year from discontinued operations1) 34 0 -340 Profit for the year 430 127 Profit for the year attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders 423 120 Non-controlling interests 8 7 Total profit for the year 430 127 Earnings per share attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders From continuing operations, SEK 11.77 12.80 From discontinued operations, SEK 0.00 -9.46 Earnings per share, SEK2) 11.77 3.34 Average number of shares2) 35,901,487 35,901,487 1) For 2014, non-recurring costs as a result of the adopted structure change in Denmark are included in an amount of SEK 280 M in the loss from discontinued operations. 2) No dilution is applicable. For further information on data per share, refer to pages 26-27. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2015 2014 Profit of the year 430 127 Other comprehensive income: Components that will not be reclassified to profit for the year: Actuarial gains and losses 2 -7 Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: Exchange-rate differences from translation of foreign subsidiaries -88 -20 Cash-flow hedging1) -1 0 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax2) -87 -27 Comprehensive income for the year 343 100 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 336 93 Non-controlling interests 7 7 Comprehensive income for the year 343 100 Total comprehensive income attributable to Parent Company shareholders arises from Continuing operations 337 437 Discontinued operations -1 -344 336 93 1) Holding of financial interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes, valued according to level 2 defined in IFRS 13. 2) For information about tax recognised directly against items in other comprehensive income, refer to Note 15. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 42 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 ASSETS Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 12 Goodwill 1,835 1,862 Brands 322 328 Franchise contracts 21 27 Customer relations 467 538 Capitalised expenditure for IT systems 88 57 Total intangible fixed assets 2,734 2,813 Tangible fixed assets Improvement costs, third-party property 13 33 38 Equipment and transport 14 148 163 Total tangible fixed assets 182 201 Financial fixed assets Deferred tax assets 15 55 55 Investments accounted for using the equity method 27 2 3 Other financial fixed assets 11, 16 49 62 Total financial fixed assets 106 120 Total fixed assets 3,022 3,134 Current assets Goods for resale 17 1,226 1,223 Current receivables 11, 18, 19 818 769 Cash and cash equivalents 11, 20 295 258 Total current assets 2,339 2,250 TOTAL ASSETS 5,361 5,384 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 43 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity 28 Share capital 90 90 Other capital contributions 1,456 1,456 Reserves -234 -145 Profit brought forward including profit for the year 831 665 Total shareholders’ equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 2,143 2,066 Non-controlling interests 12 14 Total equity 2,155 2,080 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions, interest-bearing 11, 21 1,466 1,397 Deferred tax liabilities 15 169 168 Provisions 22 10 10 Total long-term liabilities 1,645 1,575 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions, interest-bearing 11, 21 461 495 Tax liabilities 95 96 Other current liabilities, non-interest-bearing 11, 23, 24 990 1,016 Provisions 22 14 121 Total current liabilities 1,560 1,728 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 5,361 5,384 Memorandum items Pledged assets 25 – 3 Contingent liabilities 25 41 62 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 44 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated statement of changes in equity Total attributOther Profit able to Parent NonTotal shareShare capital conbrought Company’s controlling holders’ SEK M capital tributions Reserves forward shareholders interest equity OPENING BALANCE ON 1 JANUARY 2014 90 1,456 -125 807 2,228 12 2,240 Comprehensive income for the year: Profit for the year 120 120 7 127 Other comprehensive income: Components that will not be reclassified to profit for the year: Actuarial gains and losses -7 -7 -7 Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: Exchange-rate differences from translation of foreign subsidiaries -20 -20 -20 Cash-flow hedging1) 0 0 0 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax2) -20 -7 -27 0 -27 Comprehensive income for the year -20 113 93 7 100 Dividends -251 -251 -11 -262 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests -4 -4 6 2 CLOSING BALANCE ON 31 DECEMBER 2014 90 1,456 -145 665 2,066 14 2,080 OPENING BALANCE ON 1 JANUARY 2015 90 1,456 -145 665 2,066 14 2,080 Comprehensive income for the year: Profit for the year 423 423 8 430 Other comprehensive income: C  omponents that will not be reclassified to profit for the year: Actuarial gains and losses 2 2 2  omponents that may later be reclassified to profit C for the year: Exchange-rate differences from translation of foreign subsidiaries -88 -88 0 -88 Cash-flow hedging1) -1 -1 -1 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax2) -89 2 -87 0 -87 Comprehensive income for the year -89 424 335 7 343 Dividends -251 -251 -9 -261 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests -7 -7 0 -7 CLOSING BALANCE ON 31 DECEMBER 2015 90 1,456 -234 831 2,143 12 2,155 1) Holding of financial interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes, valued according to level 2 defined in IFRS 13. 2) For information about tax recognised directly against items in other comprehensive income, refer to Note 15. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 45 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated cash-flow statement SEK M Note 2015 2014 Operating activities Profit after financial items including discontinued operations 594 250 Adjustments for items not affecting liquidity 30 188 461 782 711 Tax paid -189 -160 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 594 552 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+) / increase (-) in inventories -19 -59 Decrease (+) / increase (-) in receivables -11 -62 Decrease (-) / increase (+) in liabilities -124 -17 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in working capital -154 -138 Cash flow from operating activities 439 413 Investments Acquisition of subsidiaries 31 -67 -63 Divestment of subsidiaries 31 9 0 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 13.14 -48 -56 Divestment of tangible fixed assets 8 6 Acquisition of intangible fixed assets 12 -55 -19 Acquisition/sale of participations in associated companies and joint ventures 27 2 -3 Divestment of financial fixed assets 0 6 Increase (-) / decrease (+) of long-term receivables 5 8 Cash flow from investing activities -146 -121 Financing activities Acquisition of non-controlling interests 31 -17 -6 Divestment of non-controlling interests 31 9 3 Change in overdraft facilities -32 227 Loans raised 21 202 12 Amortisation of loans -148 -284 Dividends paid -261 -262 Cash flow from financing activities -245 -309 Cash flow for the year 48 -17 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 258 279 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents -11 -4 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 20 295 258 Cash flow pertains to total operations, i.e. both continuing and discontinued operations. Interest received amounted to SEK 6 M (5) and interest paid amounted to SEK 33 M (45). Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 46 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statement for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2015 2014 Net sales 3, 32 34 40 Other operating revenue 44 55 Total revenue 78 95 Operating expenses Goods for resale -4 -2 Other external costs 4 -80 -78 Personnel costs 5 -46 -44 Depreciation/amortisation of tangible and intangible fixed assets 6 0 0 EBIT -52 -29 Financial income and expenses Result from participations in Group companies 7 454 403 Interest income 28 42 Interest expenses -35 -50 Other financial items 9 9 1 Profit after financial items 404 365 Appropriations 8 226 396 Profit before tax 630 761 Tax on profit for the year 10 -37 -27 Profit for the year 592 734 Statement of comprehensive income for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2015 2014 Profit for the year 592 734 Other comprehensive income: Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: Exchange-rate differences, net investments in foreign operations -3 3 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax -3 3 Comprehensive income for the year 589 737 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 47 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheet for the Parent Company SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 ASSETS Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets Improvement costs, third-party property 13 0 1 Equipment and transport 0 0 Total tangible fixed assets 1 1 Financial fixed assets Participations in Group companies 26 3,004 3,031 Receivables from Group companies 85 55 Deferred tax assets 15 57 53 Total financial fixed assets 3,146 3,139 Total fixed assets 3,147 3,140 Current assets Current receivables Accounts receivable 10 8 Receivables from Group companies 1,583 1,207 Tax assets 36 – Other receivables 12 9 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 10 12 Total current receivables 1,650 1,235 Cash and cash equivalents 20 210 162 Total current assets 1,860 1,397 TOTAL ASSETS 5,007 4,537 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 48 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance sheet for the Parent Company SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity 28 Restricted shareholders’ equity Share capital 90 90 Statutory reserve 3 3 Total restricted shareholders’ equity 93 93 Non-restricted shareholders’ equity Fair value reserve 0 3 Profit brought forward 2,090 1,607 Profit for the year 592 734 Total non-restricted shareholders’ equity 2,682 2,344 Total shareholders’ equity 2,775 2,437 Untaxed reserves 175 114 Provisions 22 2 0 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 21 1,460 1,396 Total long-term liabilities 1,460 1,396 Current liabilities Overdraft facilities 21 323 355 Other liabilities to credit institutions 21 136 136 Accounts payable 4 7 Liabilities to Group companies 117 67 Current tax liabilities – 4 Other liabilities 1 1 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 15 19 Total current liabilities 596 590 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 5,007 4,537 Memorandum items Pledged assets 25 None None Contingent liabilities 25 95 79 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 49 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the Parent Company Restricted shareholders’ Non-restricted shareholders’ equity equity Total shareStatutory Fair value Profit brought holders’ SEK M Share capital reserve reserve forward equity OPENING BALANCE ON 1 JANUARY 2014 90 3 0 1,858 1,951 Profit for the year 734 734 Other comprehensive income: Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: Exchange-rate differences, net investments in foreign operations 3 3 Total other comprehensive income 3 3 Comprehensive income for the year 3 734 737 Transactions with shareholders Dividends -251 -251 Total transactions with shareholders -251 -251 CLOSING BALANCE ON 31 DECEMBER 2014 90 3 3 2,341 2,437 OPENING BALANCE ON 1 JANUARY 2015 90 3 3 2,341 2,437 Profit for the year 592 592 Other comprehensive income: Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: Exchange-rate differences, net investments in foreign operations -3 -3 Total other comprehensive income -3 -3 Comprehensive income for the year -3 592 589 Transactions with shareholders Dividends -251 -251 Total transactions with shareholders -251 -251 CLOSING BALANCE ON 31 DECEMBER 2015 90 3 0 2,682 2,775 The number of shares as at 31 December 2015 amounted to 35,901,487 (35,901,487) with a quotient value of SEK 2.50 (2.50) per share. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 50 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash-flow statement for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2015 2014 Operating activities Profit after financial items 404 365 Adjustments for items not affecting liquidity 30 34 485 438 850 Tax paid -81 -45 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 357 805 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+) / increase (-) in receivables -49 -192 Decrease (-) / increase (+) in liabilities -2 26 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in working capital -51 -166 Cash flow from operating activities 306 639 Investments Capital contributions paid 26 -9 -363 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 13 0 -1 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in long-term receivables -30 -10 Cash flow from investing activities -39 -374 Financing activities Change in overdraft facilities -32 227 Loans raised 21 200 12 Amortisation of loans -136 -272 Dividends paid -251 -251 Cash flow from financing activities -219 -284 Cash flow for the year 48 -19 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 162 181 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 20 210 162 Profit after financial items includes dividends received from subsidiaries of SEK 489 M (888). Interest received amounted to SEK 28 M (42) and interest paid amounted to SEK 35 M (50). Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 51 NOTES Notes this right. The recognition for the lessor will essentially remain unchanged. The standard NOTE 1 Accounting policies is to be applied to financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The EU has not yet adopted the standard. The Group has not yet evaluated Accounting and measurement policies the effects of IFRS 16, but assesses that it can be expected to have a material impact on The most important accounting policies that were applied to the preparation of these total assets. consolidated financial statements are stated below. These policies were consistently Other new standards, amendments or interpretations of existing standards that have applied for all years presented, unless otherwise stated. not come into effect are not relevant to the Group at present or are deemed to not The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the Annual have any material effect on the Group’s earnings or financial position. Accounts Act, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as approved by the EU and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee that apply for financial Consolidated financial statements years beginning on 1 January 2015. Furthermore, the Swedish Financial Reporting Subsidiaries Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Regulations for Groups was The consolidated financial statements include the Parent Company and all companies applied. (including structured companies) over which the Parent Company has a controlling inThe financial information for 2014 has been revised compared with the official anfluence. The Group controls a company when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, nual report according to the rules for discontinued operations in IFRS 5. Discontinued variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those operations comprise the former Danish store business, which was previously included returns through its power over a company. Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated in the MECA segment. Total operations refer to discontinued and continuing operations. financial statements from the point in time at which controlling influence is achieved Also refer to information in the Discontinued operations section in the accounting and excluded from the consolidated financial statements from the point in time at policies and in Note 34. which the controlling influence ceases. The functional currency of the Parent Company is Swedish kronor (SEK), which The purchase method was used for recognising the Group’s business combinations. is also the Group’s presentation currency. All amounts are stated in SEK M, unless The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary is measured at fair otherwise stated. value on transferred assets, liabilities arising in the Group from previous owners of The items in the Annual Report are measured at cost, with the exception of certain the acquired company and the shares issued by the Group. The purchase considerafinancial instruments, which are measured at fair value. tion also includes the fair value of all assets or liabilities resulting from an agreement The Parent Company’s financial statements were prepared in accordance with the on contingent consideration. Identifiable acquired assets and assumed liabilities in a Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. business combination are initially measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. For Preparing financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain each acquisition meaning, acquisition by acquisition the Group decides whether key estimates for accounting purposes. Furthermore, management is required to make the non-controlling interests in the acquired company are measured at fair value or certain assessments in the application of the consolidated accounting policies. The areas proportionate to the holding’s share of the carrying amount of the acquired company’s that include a high degree of complicated assessments or areas where assumptions and identifiable net assets. estimates are of material significance to the consolidated financial statements are stated Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as they arise. in Note 2. If the business combination is a step acquisition, the earlier equity shares in the acquired company are re-measured to its fair value on the date of acquisition. Any gains Amended and new accounting policies for 2015 or losses arising are recognised in profit or loss. The Group applies a number of new standards and interpretations as of 1 January 2015, Each contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is measured at fair which are annual improvements to IFRSs, improvement cycle 2013 and IFRIC 21 Levies. value on the date of acquisition. The subsequent changes in fair value of contingent None of the new standards and interpretations applied by Mekonomen Group as of consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Contingent consideration classified as 1 January 2015 has had any significant impact on the consolidated financial statements. shareholders’ equity is not re-measured and the subsequent adjustment is recognised in shareholders’ equity. Amended accounting policies 2016 and later Goodwill is initially measured at the amount by which the total purchase consideraA number of new standards and amendments of interpretations and existing standards tion and fair value for the non-controlling interests exceeds the fair value of identifiable come into effect for financial years beginning on 1 January 2015 and were not applied acquired assets and assumed liabilities. If the purchase consideration is lower than the in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The most important amendfair value of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference is recognised directly in ments for Mekonomen Group are: profit or loss. Where necessary, subsidiaries’ accounting is adjusted to comply with the same IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers policies applied by the other Group companies. All internal transactions between Group IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers regulates how revenue is to be companies and Group intermediaries are eliminated when preparing the consolidated recognised. The principles on which IFRS 15 is based are to provide users of financial financial statements. statements with more informative, relevant disclosures of the company’s revenue. The Transactions with non-controlling interests that will not result in a loss of control are expanded disclosure requirements entail that information is to be provided about the recognised as shareholders’ equity transactions – meaning, transactions with shareholdnature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a coners in their roles as owners. In acquisitions from non-controlling interests, the difference tract with a customer. Under IFRS 15, revenue is to be recognised when the customer between the fair value of purchase consideration paid and the actual acquired portion controls the sold good or service and can use and obtain the benefits from the good of the carrying amount of the subsidiary’s net assets is recognised in shareholders’ equior service. ty. Profits or losses from divestments to non-controlling interests are also recognised in IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts, and associated shareholders’ equity. SICs and IFRICs. IFRS 15 will come into effect on 1 January 2018. Early adoption is When the Group no longer has controlling influence, each remaining holding is permitted. The Group is yet to assess the effect of the standard. The standard has not measured at fair value on the date controlling influence ceases. The change in the yet been approved by the EU. carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss. The fair value is used as the initial carrying amount and is the basis for continued recognition of the remaining holding in associated IFRS 9 Financial Instruments companies, joint ventures or financial assets. All amounts pertaining to the divested unit The standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised as if the Group had assets and financial liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. It directly divested the assets or liabilities in question. This may result in the amount previreplaces the parts of IAS 39 that addressed the classification and measurement of finanously recognised in other comprehensive income being reclassified to profit or loss. cial instruments and introduces a new impairment model. The standard is to be applied to financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted. Associated companies The Group is yet to assess the effect of the standard. The standard has not yet been Associated companies are all companies over which the Group has significant influence approved by the EU. but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies are recognised using IFRS 16 Leases the equity method. Mekonomen Group has only one small associated company with a In January 2016, IASB published a new leasing standard that will replace IAS 17 Leases marginal impact on the Group. and associated interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The standard requires that assets and liabilities attributable to all leases, with a few exceptions, are recognised in Joint arrangements the balance sheet. This recognition is based on the view that the lessee has a right to Under IFRS 11, holdings in a joint arrangement are to be classified as either a joint use an asset during a specific time period and at the same time an obligation to pay for operation or a joint venture depending on each investor’s contractual rights and Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 52 NOTES obligations. Mekonomen Group has only one small joint arrangement with a marginal premium to a separate legal entity, has fulfilled its commitments towards the employee. impact on the Group and has determined that it is a joint venture. Joint ventures are Defined-contribution plans are recognised as an expense in the period to which the recognised in accordance with the equity method. premiums paid are attributable. Pension expenses for defined-benefit plans are calculated using the Projected Unit Translation of transactions in foreign currencies Credit Method whereby expenses are distributed over the employee’s period of emTransactions in foreign currencies are translated into Swedish Kronor (SEK) based on ployment. These commitments, meaning the liabilities that are recognised, are measured the exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Monetary items (assets and liabilities) at the present value of expected future payments, taking estimated future salary increasin foreign currencies are translated into SEK according to the exchange rate on the es into account, applying a discount rate corresponding to the interest on first-class balance-sheet date. Exchange-rate gains and losses that arise in connection with such corporate bonds issued in the same currency as the pension is to be paid in, with a translations are recognised in profit or loss as Other operating revenue and/or Other remaining duration that is comparable to the current commitment and with deductions operating expenses. Exchange-rate differences that arise in foreign long-term loans and for the fair value of plan assets. In countries where there are no functioning markets for liabilities, and in the translation of bank accounts in currencies other than the accounting corporate bonds, a discount rate corresponding to the interest rate on mortgage bonds currency, are recognised in financial income and expenses. is used. Consequently, a discount rate established by referring to the interest rate on mortgage bonds is used for the Group’s defined-benefit pension plans in Norway. The Translation of foreign subsidiaries most important actuarial assumptions are stated in Note 22. If a net asset arises, it is be When the consolidated financial statements were prepared, the Group’s foreign oprecognised only to the extent that it represents future financial benefits, for example, in erations’ balance sheets were translated from their functional currencies to SEK based the form of repayments or reduced future premiums. on the exchange rates on the balance-sheet date. The income statements and other One of the Group’s defined-benefit pension plans comprises a so-called mulcomprehensive income were translated at the average exchange rate for the period. ti-employer defined-benefit pension plan (ITP plan in Alecta). In accordance with Translation differences that arose were recognised in other comprehensive income Mekonomen Group’s accounting policies, a multi-employer defined-benefit plan is against the translation reserve in shareholders’ equity. The accumulated translation recognised based on the rules of the plans and recognises its proportional share of the differences were transferred and recognised as part of capital gains or capital losses in defined-benefit pension obligations and of plan assets and expenses related to the plan cases where foreign operations were divested. Goodwill and adjustments to fair values in the same manner as for any other similar defined-benefit pension plan. However, attributable to acquisitions of operations using functional currencies other than SEK are Alecta has not been able to present sufficient information to facilitate reporting as a treated as assets and liabilities in the acquired operations’ currencies and translated at defined-benefit plan, which is why the ITP plan is recognised as a defined-contribution the exchange rates on the balance-sheet date. plan in accordance with IAS 19.34. In addition to the defined-benefit pension plans via Alecta described above, the Segment reporting Group has defined-benefit pension plans for employees in Norway. Actuarial gains and Operating segments are reported to correspond with the internal reporting provided losses on the defined-benefit pension plans for employees in Norway are recognised in to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the function their entirety over comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. responsible for the allocation of resources and assessing the earnings of the operating Remuneration in connection with termination of employment can be paid when an segments. In the Group, this function has been identified as the company’s President employee has been served notice of termination prior to the expiration of the normal and CEO. date of retirement or when an employee accepts voluntary retirement. The Group recognises liabilities and expenses in connection with a termination of employment, Revenue recognition when Mekonomen Group is unquestionably obligated to either terminate employment Revenue from external customers derives primarily from the sale of goods, representing prior to the normal termination date or to voluntarily pay remuneration to encourage approximately 96 per cent (96) of net sales. The remaining net sales derive from workearly retirement. shop services, as well as annual and license fees to affiliated stores and workshops. Mekonomen Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses when there are Sales of goods are recognised at delivery/handover of products to the customer, legal or informal obligations, based on earlier practice, to pay bonuses to employees. in accordance with conditions of sale. Sales are recognised net after deduction of discounts, returns and value-added tax. Tax Revenue from the sale of workshop services is recognised in the period in which the The Group’s total tax expense comprises current tax and deferred tax. Current tax service took place. Revenue is recognised based on the degree of completion on the is tax that is to be paid or received pertaining to the current year and adjustments of balance-sheet date (percentage of completion). prior years’ current tax. Deferred tax is calculated based on the difference between Revenue from licensing agreements is allocated over the term of the agreement. the carrying amounts and the values for tax purposes of company assets and liabilities. Other operating revenue mainly comprises of rental income, marketing subsidies and Deferred tax is recognised according to the balance-sheet method. Deferred tax exchange-rate gains. liabilities are recognised in principle on all taxable temporary differences, while deferred Interest income is recognised over the term by applying the effective interest method. tax assets are recognised to the extent that is probable that the amount can be utilised against future taxable surplus. Leasing The carrying amount on deferred tax assets is assessed at each accounting year-end A financial lease agreement is an agreement according to which the financial risks and and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable surplus benefits associated with ownership of an object are essentially transferred from the will be available to be utilised either in its entirety or partially against the deferred tax lessor to the lessee. Leasing objects mainly comprise company vehicles and distribution asset. vehicles. Deferred tax is calculated based on the tax rates that are expected to apply for the Operating leases primarily comprise leased premises. period when the asset is recovered or the debt settled. Deferred tax is recognised as revenue or expenses in profit or loss, except in cases when it pertains to transactions Group as lessee or events that are recognised against other comprehensive income or directly against Assets held under financial lease agreements are measured as fixed assets in the shareholders’ equity. The deferred tax is then also recognised against other comprehenconsolidated balance sheets at fair value at the beginning of the leasing period or at sive income or directly against shareholders’ equity. Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities the present value of minimum leasing fees if this is lower. The liability that the lessee has are offset when they are attributable to income tax that is charged by the same authorto the lessor is recognised in the balance sheet under the heading “Lease agreement” ity and when the Group intends to pay the tax with a net amount. divided into long-term and short-term liabilities. Leasing payments are divided between interest and amortisation of liabilities. Interest is divided over the leasing period so that Discontinued operations each reporting period is charged with an amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate A discontinued operation is a part of a company that has either been divested or of the liability recognised during each period. Interest expenses are recognised directly is classified as being held for sale and that the operation represents an independent in profit or loss. Lease fees that are paid during operating lease agreements are systemoperating segment or a significant operation within a geographic area or is a subsidiary atically expensed over the leasing period. acquired solely for the purpose of being sold on. Classification as a discontinued operation takes place upon divestment or at an earlier point in time when the operation Remuneration of employees meets the criteria to be classified as being held for sale. Profit after tax from disconThe Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans. A detinued operations is recognised on a separate line in the income statement. When an fined-benefit pension plan is a pension plan whereby the Group guarantees an amount, operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the format of the comparison year’s which the employee receives as pension benefits upon retirement, normally based on income statement is changed so that it is presented as if the discontinued operation had several different factors, for example, salary and period of service. A defined-contribeen discontinued at the opening of the comparison year. The format of the statement bution pension plan is a pension plan in which the Group, after having paid its pension of financial position for the current and previous years is not changed correspondingly. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 53 NOTES The discontinued operation’s cash flows are included in the consolidated cash flow used in the operation, plus the present value of the net realisable value at the end of statement. All notes to the income statement refer to continuing operations unless the useful life. If the estimated recoverable amount falls below the carrying amount, the otherwise stated. For further description and separate financial information on disconasset is impaired to the recoverable amount. The impairment is recognised in profit or tinued operations, refer to Note 34. loss in the period it is determined. Refer also to Note 12 for information on how impairment testing is performed. Goodwill Previously recognised impairment is reversed only if there has been a change to the Goodwill is initially measured at the amount by which the total purchase consideration assumptions that served as the basis for determining the recoverable amount in conand fair value for the non-controlling interests exceeds the fair value of identifiable acnection with the impairment. If this is the case, a reversal will be conducted to increase quired assets and assumed liabilities. If the purchase consideration is lower than the fair the carrying amount of the impaired asset to its recoverable amount. A reversal of value of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference is recognised directly in profit an earlier impairment takes place in an amount that does not allow the new carrying or loss. Goodwill has an indefinite useful life and is recognised at cost less any accumuamount to exceed what would have been the carrying amount (after impairment) if the lated impairment. In the divestment of an operation, the portion of goodwill attributable impairment had not taken place. Impairment of goodwill is never reversed. to this operation is recognised in the calculation of gain or loss on the divestment. Inventories Other intangible assets Inventories are recognised at the lower of the cost and net realisable value. The cost is Expenditure for the development and implementation of IT systems can be capitalised established by using the first in/first out principle (FIFO). if it is probable that future financial benefits will accrue to the company and the cost for A provision for estimated obsolescence in inventories is established when there the asset can be calculated in a reliable manner. is an objective basis to assume that the Group will be unable to receive the carrying Brands, customer relations and franchise contracts acquired through business combiamount when inventories are sold in the future. The size of the provision amounts to nations are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the value of expected future Acquired brands attributable to the acquisitions of Sørensen og Balchen and MECA cash flows. The reserved amount is recognised in profit or loss. The inventory value was have been deemed to have an indefinite useful life and are recognised at cost less any reduced by the value included in the inter-company profit from goods sold from the accumulated impairment losses. Customer relations, other brands, franchise contracts Group’s central warehouse to the company’s own stores on the goods that are still in and strategic IT investments have definite useful lives and are recognised at cost less stock. Furthermore, the inventory value was also reduced by the value of the remaining accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is applied according to the straight-line method portion of the supplier bonus on goods that are still in stock. over the assets’ estimated useful life. Customer relations, other brands and franchise contracts are deemed to have a useful life of five to ten years. Financial instruments IT investments are deemed to have a useful life of three to ten years from the start Financial assets recognised as assets in the balance sheet include loan receivables, of operation. accounts receivable and cash and cash equivalents. Liabilities in the balance sheet include long-term and short-term loans and accounts payable. A currency derivative is Tangible fixed assets recognised either as an asset or liability, depending on changes in the exchange rate. A Tangible fixed assets are recognised as assets in the balance sheet if it is probable that financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the company future financial benefits will be accrued to the company and the cost of the asset can becomes party to the contractual conditions. Accounts receivable are recognised when be calculated in a reliable manner. Tangible fixed assets, primarily comprising equipment, an invoice is sent and accounts payable are recognised when an invoice has been recomputers and transport, are recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and any ceived. With the exception of cash and cash equivalents, only an insignificant portion of impairment. Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is recognised as an expense so that the financial assets is interest-bearing, which is why interest exposure is not recognised. the asset’s value is depreciated according to the straight-line method over its estimated The maximum credit risk corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. useful life. The terms for long-term and short-term loans are stated in separate note disclosures; other financial liabilities are non-interest-bearing. A financial asset, or portion thereof, is The following percentages were applied for depreciation: eliminated when the rights contained in the contract are realised or mature. A financial liability, or portion thereof, is eliminated as it is regulated when the commitment in the agreement has been fulfilled or has been terminated in another manner. Fixed assets % Improvement costs, third-party property1) 10 Calculation of fair value, financial instruments When establishing the fair value of derivatives, official market listings at year-end are Equipment 10–20 used. If no such information is available, a measurement is conducted applying estabVehicles 20 lished methods, such as discounting future cash flows to the quoted market rate for Servers 20 each term. Translation to SEK is based on the quoted exchange rate at year-end. Workplace computers 33 Long-term receivables 1) Depreciation takes place over the shorter period corresponding to 10 per cent per year and the Long-term receivables comprise primarily deposits and lease-purchase agreements. remaining duration of the contract. These are recognised at the amortised cost. A provision for probable losses on accounts receivable is made when there are objective indications to assume that the The residual value of assets and useful life are tested at the end of each reporting Group will not receive all the amounts that are due for payment in accordance with period and adjusted when necessary. the receivables’ original conditions. The size of the provision amounts to the difference An asset’s carrying amount is immediately depreciated to its recoverable amount if between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of expected future cash the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its assessed recoverable amount. flows. The reserved amount is recognised in profit or loss. Gains and losses from divestments are determined by comparing the proceeds and the carrying amount and recognised net in profit or loss. Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are recognised net after provisions for probable bad debts. The Impairment expected term of accounts receivable is short, which is why the amount is recognised at Assets with an indefinite useful life, for example, goodwill and intangible assets that are nominal value without discounting in accordance with the method for amortised cost. not ready for use are not impaired but tested annually for any impairment requireA provision for probable bad debts on accounts receivable is made when there are obments. The brands that were added through the acquisitions of Sørensen og Balchen jective indications to assume that the Group will not be able to receive all the amounts and MECA have been deemed to have indefinite useful lives, which is why these are that are due for payment in accordance with the receivables’ original conditions. The size also tested at least annually for any impairment requirements. of the provision amounts to the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the Assets impaired are measured in terms of value decline whenever events or changes value of expected future cash flows. The reserved amount is recognised in profit or loss. in conditions indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If this occurs, a calculation of the asset’s recoverable amount is performed. Cash and cash equivalents The recoverable amount comprises the highest of the value in use of the asset in Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash funds held at financial institutions and current the operation and the value that would be received if the asset was divested to an liquid investments with a term from the date of acquisition of less than three months, independent party, net realisable value. The value in use comprises the present value of which are exposed to only an insignificant risk of fluctuations in value. Cash and cash all in and out payments attributable to the asset during the period it is anticipated to be equivalents are recognised at nominal amounts. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 54 NOTES Derivative instruments Amended accounting policies 2015 Mekonomen Group applies hedge accounting to receivables in foreign currencies. During 2015, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board issued a new version of the RFR Hedging is conducted using currency derivatives with a maximum term of three 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. The amendments to RFR 2 did not have any material months. Hedged receivables in foreign currencies are recognised at the closing day rate impact on the Parent Company’s financial statements. and hedging instruments are recognised separately at fair value in the balance sheet and the change in value is recognised in profit or loss. Classification and presentation format The Group signed derivative instruments aimed at hedging interest payments attribThe income statement and balance sheet comply with the presentation format utable to loans at floating interest rates (cash-flow hedges). The Group applies hedge specified in the Annual Accounts Act. This means they are slightly different to the conaccounting to these derivative agreements. The derivatives are measured at fair value solidated financial statements, for example, balance-sheet items are more specified and in the balance sheet. Value changes are recognised in Other comprehensive income to subitems are given different designations in shareholders’ equity the extent they are effective and accumulated as a separate component in shareholders’ equity until the hedged item impacts earnings. The portion of unrealised value changes Shares and participations in subsidiaries that is ineffective is recognised in profit or loss. Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company according to the cost method. Acquisition-related costs for subsidiaries, expensed in the consolidated Accounts payable financial statements, are included as part of the cost for participations in subsidiaries. The expected term for accounts payable is short, which is why the debt is recognised at Contingent considerations are measured based on the probability that the purchase nominal amount without discounting according to the method for amortised cost. consideration will be paid. Any changes in the provision/receivable will be added/deducted from the cost. In the consolidated financial statements, contingent consideration Loans is measured at fair value with changes in value in profit or loss. The carrying amount for Liabilities to credit institutions, overdraft facilities and other liabilities (loans) are initially participations in subsidiaries is tested pertaining to any impairment requirements when measured at fair value net after transaction costs. Thereafter, loans are recognised at there are indications of impairment needs. amortised cost. Any transaction costs are distributed over the loan period applying the effective interest method. Long-term liabilities have an estimated term longer than one Tax year while short-term liabilities have a term of less than one year. The amounts reserved as untaxed reserves consist of taxable temporary differences. Due to the link between accounting and taxation, the deferred tax liabilities that are Share capital attributable to the untaxed reserves are not recognised separately in a legal entity. Ordinary shares are classified as share capital. Transaction costs in connection with a The changes in untaxed reserves are recognised in accordance with Swedish practice new rights issue are recognised as a deduction, net after tax, from proceeds from the in profit or loss for individual companies under the heading “Appropriations.” The rights issue. accumulated value of provisions are recognised in the balance sheet under the heading “Untaxed reserves,” of which 22 per cent is regarded as deferred tax liabilities and 78 Provisions per cent as restricted shareholders’ equity. Provisions differ from other liabilities since there is uncertainty regarding the date of payment and the amount for settling the provision. Provisions are recognised in Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions the statement of financial position when Mekonomen Group has a legal or informal Shareholders’ contributions paid are recognised as an increase in the value of shares obligation as a result of an event that has occurred and it is probable that an outflow and participations. An assessment is then conducted as to whether impairment requireof resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the ments exist for the value of the shares and participations in question. amounts can be made. Provisions are recognised in an amount corresponding to the Group contributions are recognised according to the alternative rule, entailing that all most reliable estimate of the payment required to settle the commitment. When an Group contributions, both paid and received, are recognised as appropriations. outflow of resources is expected to be required far later in the future, the expected future cash flow and provision are recognised at present value. Pensions Restructuring reserves are recognised when the Group has both decided on a deDefined-benefit and defined-contribution pension plans are recognised in accordance tailed restructuring plan and implementation has begun or the main features have been with the current Swedish accounting standard, which is based on the regulations in the announced to the parties concerned. Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Cash-flow statement Leasing The cash-flow statement was prepared in accordance with the indirect method. The All lease agreements, regardless of whether they are financial or operational, are recogrecognised cash flow comprises only transactions that result in inward and outward nised as operational lease agreements (rental agreements), which means that the leasing payments. charges are distributed according to the straight-line method across the leasing period. Parent Company accounting policies Other information The Parent Company complies with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish The financial statements are in SEK M, unless otherwise stated . Rounding off may result Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. in some tables not tallying. Application of RFR 2 means that, in the annual accounts for a legal entity, the Parent Company is to apply all of the IFRS and statements that have been approved by the EU where this is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and taking into account the link between accounting and taxation. The recommendation specifies the exceptions and additions that are to be made from IFRS. The differences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting policies are stated below. Financial instruments exist to a limited extent and are recognised in the Parent Company based on cost in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The policies have been applied consistently for all years presented, unless otherwise stipulated. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 55 NOTES NOTE 2 Significant estimates Restructuring costs Restructuring costs include required impairment of assets and other non-cash items, esand assessments timated costs for employees redundancies and other direct costs related to the closure of operations. Cost calculations are based on detailed action plans that are expected to The preparation of the annual accounts and application of various accounting standards improve the Group’s cost structure and productivity. are based to a certain extent on management’s assessments or assumptions and Measurement of reserves for restructuring costs is subject to significant estimates estimates that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. These assumptions and assessments. and estimates are frequently based on historic experience but also on other factors, Information about restructuring costs and associated provisions is found in Note 22. including expectations on future events. The results could differ if other assumptions and estimates were used and the actual outcome will, in terms of definition, rarely agree Deferred tax with the estimated outcome. The assumptions and appreciations made by Mekonomen When preparing the financial statements, Mekonomen Group calculates the income Group in the 2015 annual accounts, and which had the greatest impact on earnings and tax for each tax jurisdiction in which the Group operates and the deferred taxes assets and liabilities, are discussed below. attributable to temporary differences. Deferred tax assets that are primarily attributable to loss carryforwards and temporary differences are recognised if tax assets can be Goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible fixed assets expected to be recovered based on future taxable income. Changes in assumptions When assessing the impairment requirement for goodwill and other intangible assets regarding forecast future taxable earnings, and changes in tax rates, may result in with an indefinite useful life, the carrying amount is compared with the recoverable significant differences in the measurement of deferred taxes. At 31 December 2015, amount. The recoverable amount is the highest of an asset’s net realisable value and the Mekonomen Group recognised deferred tax liabilities in excess of deferred tax assets value in use. Since there are normally no listed prices that may be used to assess the at a net amount of SEK 114 M (113). Further information about deferred taxes is found net realisable value of an asset, the value in use will normally be the value that is used to in Note 15. compare with the carrying amount. Calculation of the value in use is based on assumptions and assessments. Key assumptions are the future trends for revenue and margins, including trends for prices and volumes, utilisation of operating capital employed, as well NOTE 3 Segment information as yield requirements, which are used to discount future cash flows. These assumptions are described in more detail in Note 12 Intangible fixed assets. Operating segments are reported to correspond with the internal reporting provided On the whole, this means that the measurement of goodwill and intangible assets to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the function items with an indefinite useful life is subject to significant estimates and assessments. responsible for the allocation of resources and assessing the earnings of the operating segments. In Mekonomen Group, this function has been identified as the company’s Company acquisitions President and CEO. In conjunction with acquisitions, analyses are prepared in which all identifiable assets Mekonomen Group is divided into three Group companies: MECA, Mekonomen and liabilities, including intangible assets, are identified and measured at fair value on Nordic and Sørensen og Balchen. The Group companies have separate organisations the date of acquisition. In accordance with IFRS 3, acquired identifiable intangible assets, that act independently in the market with individual brands, competition between for example, customers, franchise contracts, brands and customer relations, are to be themselves and governed through Boards. The chief operating decision maker monitors separated from goodwill. This applies if these fulfil the criteria as assets, meaning that it the operation based on this distribution. is possible to separate them or they are based on contractual or other formal rights, Mekonomen Nordic includes Mekonomen Sweden, Mekonomen Norway, and that their fair values can be established in a reliable manner. An examination is Mekonomen Fleet, Marinshopen, Mekonomen Finland, Mekonomen Island, Mekonomen conducted at each acquisition. The remaining surplus value is allocated to goodwill. Services and Mekonomen Norden AB. Measuring identifiable assets and liabilities in acquisition assessments is subject to imporAs of 1 January 2015, store operations in Denmark are presented as discontinued tant estimates and assessments. Information about company acquisitions and acquisition operations and therefore are not included in the MECA segment in the table below; analyses is found in Note 31. comparative figures have been recalculated. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, refer to Note 34. Reserves for inventories, doubtful receivables and guarantee commitments Other consists of the Parent Company Mekonomen AB (publ), M by Mekonomen The Group operates in several geographic markets, with sales to consumers and (discontinued in the third quarter of 2015), the purchasing company in Hong Kong, companies and with a wide range to many different customer groups. In order to satisfy Meko Service Nordic, joint venture in Poland (InterMeko Europa), the associated customers’ needs, there must be a sufficiently large inventory of products and also company Automotive Web Solutions AB, Mekonomen Group Inköp AB (as of June various types of guarantees that the products function as they should. With this type 2015) and group-wide operations and eliminations. Mekonomen AB’s operations mainly of operation that is conducted within the Group, there is a risk of customer loss and comprise Group Management and finance management. Meko Service Nordic operates that some of the Group’s stocked products cannot be sold at their carrying amounts, proprietary workshops under the Mekonomen Service Centre and Speedy concepts. and also the risk that the company has guarantee commitments that extend further The CEO assesses the results of the operating segments at an EBIT level. Financial than the reserves for these commitments. The Group has established policies for items are not distributed in segments since they are impacted by measures implementreserves for accounts receivable, obsolescence provisions and provisions for guarantee ed by central finance management. The distribution of assets and liabilities at segment is commitments. These policies per se are estimates of historic outcome and evaluated not reported regularly. continuously to ensure that they correspond to actual outcome in terms of customer losses, obsolescence and guarantee commitments. Further information about reserves for customer losses is found in Note 18. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 56 NOTES NOTE 3 continued Mekonomen Sørensen og MECA1) Nordic Balchen Other Group SEK M 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Revenue External net sales 1,871 1,679 2,817 2,692 729 712 208 180 5,624 5,262 Internal revenue 40 16 130 128 27 26 -197 -170 0 0 Other revenue 10 6 71 68 9 6 47 48 137 128 Total revenue 1,921 1,701 3,018 2,888 765 744 58 58 5,761 5,390 Operating profit/loss before amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets (EBITA) 258 268 412 422 117 109 -60 -36 726 763 Operating profit/loss (EBIT)2) 245 243 393 401 116 109 -138 -114 616 639 Financial items – net -22 -19 Profit before tax 594 620 Investments, tangible assets3) 10 12 33 33 2 3 3 2 48 50 Investments, IT systems3) 8 8 47 11 0 1 0 0 55 19 Depreciation and impairment (tangible assets) 12 10 37 41 4 5 5 4 57 61 Amortisation and impairment (intangible assets)2) 4) 13 26 19 20 0 0 78 79 110 124 Average number of employees for the period 699 614 1,099 1,089 273 252 219 176 2,290 2,131 Number of proprietary stores 72 72 150 151 35 34 0 1 257 258 Number of partner stores 13 15 37 41 35 37 0 0 85 93 Number of stores in the chain 85 87 187 192 70 71 0 1 342 351 Key figures EBITA margin, %5) 14 16 14 15 16 15 13 14 EBIT margin, %5) 13 14 13 14 16 15 11 12 Change in sales, %5) 11 5 5 1 2 2 7 3 Revenue per employees, SEK 000s 2,748 2,770 2,746 2,652 2,802 2,952 2,516 2,529 Operating profit/loss per employee, SEK 000s 351 396 358 368 425 433 269 300 1) MECA’s EBITA for 2014 was positively impacted in an amount of SEK 11 M due to re-allocation of costs for IT systems regarding the discontinued Danish store operations. Impairment losses on intangible fixed assets had a corresponding negative impact and the effect on EBIT was therefore neutral. 2) Acquisition-related items attributable to Mekonomen AB’s direct acquisitions have been re-allocated from the MECA and Sørensen og Balchen segments to “Other”; the comparative figures have been recalculated. Current acquisition-related items are amortisation of acquired intangible assets regarding the acquisitions of MECA in an amount of SEK 60 M (60) and Sørensen og Balchen in an amount of SEK 17 M (18), which were reversed in EBIT for these segments and instead recognised in EBIT for Other. Consolidated EBIT is unchanged. 3) Investments do not include company and business combinations. 4) Including amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets. 5) Internal sales were excluded from the calculation of the operating margin and the sales increase for the segments. Sales between segments take place on market-based terms and conditions. Revenue The company has its registered office in Sweden. The distribution of revenue from from external customers that is reported to Group Management is measured in the external customers in Sweden and other geographic markets is presented in the table same manner as in the income statement. below: Net sales from external customers derived primarily from the sale of goods, representing approximately 96 per cent (96) of net sales. The remaining net sales derived from workshop services, as well as annual and license fees to affiliated stores and Net sales 2015 2014 workshops. Sweden 3,137 2,909 Net sales derived from the sale of goods from external customers are distributed Norway 2,381 2,315 according to the following customer groups: Other 106 38 Total 5,624 5,262 2015 2014 Analysis of net sales by customer groups, %: The Group has no individual customers that account for 10 per cent or more of the Affiliated workshops1) 34% 33% Group’s revenue. All fixed assets, other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets (there are no Other workshops 40% 39% assets in connection with benefits after terminated employment or rights according to Consumer 20% 20% insurance agreements), located in Sweden amounted to SEK 2,287 M (2,284) and the Partner stores 7% 8% total of such fixed assets located in other countries amounted to SEK 629 M (730), of which SEK 622 M (707) in Norway. Total net sales 100% 100% 1) Sales in proprietary workshops are included in sales to affiliated workshops. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 57 NOTES NOTE 4 Audit expenses Group Parent Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 PwC Audit assignment 6 5 1 1 Audit-related services other than the audit assignment 1 0 0 0 Tax advice 0 0 0 0 Other services 0 0 0 0 Total1) 7 5 1 1 1) In addition to this, PwC received SEK 1 M (1) for the audit of discontinued operations in Denmark for the Group. NOTE 5 Average number of employees, salaries, other remuneration and social security contributions 2015 2014 Average number of employees No. of employees Of whom, men % No. of employees Of whom, men % Parent Company Sweden 15 53 15 60 Total in Parent Company 15 53 15 60 Subsidiaries Sweden 1,423 82 1,320 83 Norway 794 83 772 83 Other countries 58 72 24 83 Total in subsidiaries 2,275 82 2,116 83 Group total 2,290 82 2,131 83 Soc. security Soc. security Salaries and other expenses (of which Salaries and other expenses (of which Salaries, remuneration, etc. SEK 000s remuneration pension costs) remuneration pension costs) Parent Company 26,892 20,812 28,181 14,661 (8,368) (4,657) Subsidiaries 934,824 279,842 881,913 250,551 (51,111) (42,975) Group total 961,716 300,654 910,094 265,212 (59,479) (47,632) Board and PresBoard and PresSalaries and other remuneration distributed between the ident1) (of which Other ident1) (of which Other President and Board members and other employees, SEK 000s bonus, etc.) employees bonus, etc.) employees Parent Company Mekonomen AB 10,181 16,711 11,161 17,020 (1,065) (1,375) (2,754) (2,171) Total in Parent Company 10,181 16,711 11,161 17,020 (1,065) (1,375) (2,754) (2,171) Subsidiaries in Sweden 32,880 514,185 33,880 463,233 (1,935) (3,606) (1,580) (3,416) Subsidiaries abroad Norway 23,939 343,117 23,381 350,726 (1,500) (5,969) (980) (3,912) Other countries 1,248 19,455 2,744 7,949 (143) (0) (400) (0) Total in subsidiaries 58,067 876,757 60,005 821,908 (3,578) (9,575) (2,960) (7,328) Group total 68,248 893,468 71,166 838,928 (4,643) (10,950) (5,714) (9,499) 1) Remuneration to the Board and President includes the Parent Company and, where applicable, subsidiaries in each country. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 58 NOTES NOTE 5 continued Remuneration of senior executives The variable remuneration for senior executives, excluding the President, is based partly Fees are paid to the Chairman of the Board and Board members in accordance on the Group’s earnings and partly on individual qualitative parameters and can amount with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting. The annual Board fee totalling to a maximum of a certain percentage of the fixed annual salary. The percentage is SEK 2,010,000 (1,950,000) was determined in accordance with the resolution of the linked to the position of each individual and varies between 33 and 60 percentage 2015 Annual General Meeting. Of this, SEK 400,000 (400,000) represents fees to the points for members of Group Management. Other benefits refer primarily to company Chairman of the Board, SEK 310,000 (300,000) to the Executive Vice Chairman, and cars. SEK 260,000 (250,000) to each of the remaining Board members. For members of the Pension premiums are paid in an amount that is based on the ITP plan or a correBoard’s Audit Committee, SEK 60,000 (60,000) is paid to the Chairman of the Audit sponding system for employees outside Sweden. Pensionable salary comprises basic Committee and SEK 35,000 (35,000) is paid to the other members of the Audit Comsalary. Severance pay for termination on the part of the company can total a maximum mittee. For members of the Board’s Remuneration Committee, SEK 35,000 (35,000) is of one annual salary. Matters pertaining to remuneration of company management paid to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 25,000 (25,000) is paid are resolved by the Board’s Remuneration Committee. However, remuneration of the to the other members of the Remuneration Committee. President is determined by the Board in its entirety. No fees are paid to the Boards of other subsidiaries. Furthermore, a long-term variable remuneration programme was adopted by The President, Magnus Johansson, has a basic salary of SEK 390,000 per month and the 2014 Annual General Meeting. Group Management and a number of selected, a variable salary portion, which is based on the company’s earnings and can amount to business-critical senior executives may receive long-term variable remuneration from a maximum of 60 per cent of the basic annual salary. Pension provisions are paid in an the company. The criteria for determining the variable remuneration portion for each amount corresponding to 30 per cent of the basic salary. individual is decided by the Board’s Remuneration Committee, and for the President by Other benefits consist of a company car. The period of notice is six months if emthe Board in its entirety. The long-term variable remuneration is to be profit-based and ployment is terminated by the company, and six months if terminated by the President. calculated on the Group’s earnings for the 2014-2016 financial years. The entire bonus If termination is initiated by the company, severance pay amounting to 12 months’ salary programme, as an expense for the company, is to amount to a maximum of SEK 24 M is paid. For other senior executives, remuneration follows the policies adopted at the for the period. Furthermore, an additional requirement to the above is that the average 2015 Annual General Meeting. This means that the company is to strive to offer its price paid for the Mekonomen share on Nasdaq Stockholm on the last trading day senior executives market-based remuneration, that the criteria for this is to be based in December 2016 is to exceed the Nasdaq Stockholm PI index for the programme on the significance of work duties, skills requirements, experience and performance and period. The right to receive variable remuneration expires if the senior executive resigns that remuneration is to comprise the following parts: (before payment). No bonus was reserved as per 31 December 2015 pertaining to this – fixed basic salary bonus programme. – variable remuneration Other than the above, the Board has not decided on any other share or share-price – pension benefits based incentive programs for company management. – other benefits and severance pay Basic salary1) Bonus Board fees2) Other benefits Pension premiums Executives/category, SEK 000s 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Kenneth Bengtsson, Chairman of the Board3) 470 285 Caroline Berg, Executive Vice Chairman3) 335 275 Kenny Bräck, Board member 260 250 Malin Persson, Board member 285 – Helena Skåntorp, Board member 320 310 Christer Åberg, Board member 295 285 Fredrik Persson, Chairman of the Board until 12 May 20153) – 435 Marcus Storch, Executive Vice Chairman until 14 April 2015 – 325 President, Magnus Johansson as of 15 June 2015 2,599 – 772 – 41 – 770 – President, Håkan Lundstedt until 15 June 20154) 4,552 6,242 293 2,754 65 90 1,145 1,720 Other senior executives, 5 (4)5) 11,588 7,861 2,043 1,907 529 396 2,353 1,678 Total 18,739 14,103 3,108 4,661 1,965 2,165 635 486 4,268 3,398 1) Basic salary in this table includes holiday bonus. 2) Board fees include fees to members of the Board’s Committees. 3) At the ordinary Board meeting on 12 May 2015, Fredrik Persson withdrew from his assignment as Mekonomen’s Chairman of the Board and the Board elected Kenneth Bengtsson as its Chairman and Caroline Berg as its Executive Vice Chairman until the 2016 Annual General Meeting. 4) Including remuneration during the period of notice until 15 September 2015. 5) Group Management’s composition changed during the year. As of 1 September 2015, Group Management consists of the President as well as five other people, of whom 0 (1) are women. The average number of people in Group Management, except the President, amounted to 5 (4) people during 2015. One member of Group Management is covered by a defined-benefit pension plan. The net obligation at 31 December 2015 amounted to SEK 1 M (-). The number of senior executives at 31 December 2015 was six, which also constitute Group Management. Besides the President and CEO, they are the Group’s Executive Vice President, the CFO, the President of Sørensen og Balchen, the President of MECA Scandinavia and the COO (President of Mekonomen Nordic until 31 December 2015). As of 1 March 2016, Örjan Grandin, Supply Chain Director for Mekonomen Group, is also a member of Group Management. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 59 NOTES NOTE 6 Depreciation/amortisation and NOTE 10 Tax on profit for the year impairment of tangible and Group Parent Company intangible fixed assets 2015 2014 2015 2014 Group Parent Company Current tax Sweden -59 -97 -40 -80 2015 2014 2015 2014 Other countries -103 -95 – – Depreciation of tangible fixed assets according to plan -57 -61 0 0 Total current tax -162 -192 -40 -80 Total depreciation and impairment Changes in deferred tax, of tangible fixed assets -57 -61 0 0 temporary differences -2 38 3 53 Recognised tax expenses -164 -153 -37 -27 Amortisation, brands 0 0 – – Tax on profit for the year Amortisation, customer Recognised profit before tax 594 620 630 761 relationships -77 -75 – – Tax according to applicable tax Amortisation, franchise rate -149 -153 -139 -167 contracts -4 -5 – – Tax on standard interest on tax Amortisation, capitalised expenditure allocation reserves 0 0 0 0 for IT systems -29 -34 – – Tax effects on expenses that are Impairment, capitalised not tax deductible expenditure for IT systems – -11 – – Other non-deductible expenses -5 -1 -7 -108 Total amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed Other non-taxable revenue 0 3 108 195 assets -110 -124 0 0 Effects on adjustments from preceding year 1 0 – – Total continuing operations -167 -185 0 0 Effects of non-capitalised loss carryforwards -11 -3 – – Effect of change in the Norwegian tax rate 0 – – – NOTE 7 Result from participations in Effects of capitalised loss Group companies carryforwards1) Recognised tax expenses -164 – -153 – -37 1 53 -27 Parent Company 2015 2014 1) Capitalised loss carryforwards in 2015 and 2014 in the Parent Company pertain in their entirety to loss carryforwards attributable to the Danish operations and correspond to the portion of loss carryforwards Dividends 489 888 in Denmark that is deemed to be able to be utilised based on future Group deductions in Sweden. Gains from divestment of participations 0 0 The weighted average tax rate amounted to 25.1 per cent (24.7). This increase is primarily Impairment -35 -486 attributable to a higher percentage of tax in Norway with a higher tax rate than in Sweden. Total 454 403 NOTE 11 Supplemental disclosures, NOTE 8 Appropriations financial risk management Parent Company Disclosures on financial instruments measured at fair value in the balance sheet 2015 2014 The financial instruments that were measured at fair value in the balance sheet are Group contributions received 331 370 showed below. Measurement is divided into three levels: Level 1: Fair value is determined according to listed prices in an active market for the Group contributions paid -44 -20 same instrument. Changes in tax allocation reserve -61 46 Level 2: Fair value is determined based on wither direct (prices) or indirect (derived Changes in excess depreciation/amortisation 0 0 from prices) observable market data not included in Level 1. Level 3: Fair value is determined base on inputs not observable in the market. Total 226 396 All of Mekonomen’s financial instruments are included in Level 2. NOTE 9 Exchange-rate differences – net Calculation of fair value The following summarises he main methods and assumptions used to determined the fair value of the financial instruments shown in the table below. Exchange-rate differences were recognised in profit or loss as follows: Fair value of listed securities, where appropriate, is determined based on the asset’s Group Parent Company listed average price on the balance-sheet date with no additions for transaction costs on the acquisition date. 2015 2014 2015 2014 For currency contracts, fair value is determined on the basis of listed prices. Fair Exchange-rate differences in value for interest-rate swaps is based on discounting estimated future cash flows in acEBIT 0 -10 0 1 cordance with the contract terms and due dates, and on the basis of the market interExchange-rate differences in net est rate for similar instruments on the balance-sheet date. If discounted cash flows have financial items 8 12 12 3 been used, future cash flows are calculated on company management’s best assessment. The discount rate applied is a market-based interest rate on similar instruments on the Total 8 3 12 4 balance-sheet date. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 60 NOTES NOTE 11 continued All valuation techniques applied are accepted on the market and take into account Group’s derivative instruments measured all parameters which the market would take into consideration when pricing. The at fair value in balance sheet 2015 2014 techniques are reviewed regularly with a view to ensuring their reliability. Assumptions applied are followed up against actual results so as to identify any need for adjustments Financial liabilities to measurements and forecasting tools. Derivatives: Currency swaps – 1 For methods of payment, receivables and liabilities with variable interest rates, and current assets and liabilities (such as accounts receivable and accounts payable), fair Interest-rate swaps 3 2 value is equivalent to the carrying amount. Total 3 2 Net gains on derivative instruments, held for trading amounted to SEK 1 M (2). Derivative Loans and Other Total Non-finanTotal Financial assets and liabilities by measurement category, 31 instrureceivafinancial carrying cial assets Balance Dec. 2015 ments bles liabilities amount Fair value and liabilities sheet Financial assets Other long-term receivables – 49 – 49 49 2 51 Accounts receivable – 453 – 453 453 – 453 Other current receivables – – – 0 0 365 365 Cash and cash equivalents – 295 – 295 295 – 295 Total – 798 – 798 798 367 1,164 Financial liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing 3 – 1,466 1,469 1,469 – 1,469 Current liabilities, interest-bearing – – 461 461 461 – 461 Accounts payable – – 540 540 540 – 540 Other current liabilities – – – 0 0 559 559 Total 3 – 2,467 2,470 2,470 559 3,029 NonFinancial assets and liabilities Derivative Loans and Other Total financial Total by measurement category, instrureceivafinancial carrying assets and Balance 31 December 2014 ments bles liabilities amount Fair value liabilities sheet Financial assets Other long-term receivables – 62 – 62 62 3 65 Accounts receivable – 450 – 450 450 – 450 Other current receivables – – – 0 0 319 319 Cash and cash equivalents – 258 – 258 258 – 258 Total – 770 – 770 770 322 1,092 Financial liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing – – 1,404 1,404 1,404 – 1,404 Current liabilities, interest-bearing 2 – 493 495 495 – 495 Accounts payable – – 558 558 558 – 558 Other current liabilities – – – 0 0 676 676 Total 2 – 2,455 2,457 2,457 676 3,133 Group’s maturity structure for undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities and derivatives 31 Dec. 2015 Nominal amount 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Total Liabilities to credit institutions, bank borrowing 154 152 844 490 0 1,641 Liabilities to leasing companies 2 1 0 0 0 3 Overdraft facilities 327 0 0 0 0 327 Derivatives 0 0 0 3 0 3 Accounts payable 540 0 0 0 0 540 Total 1,023 153 844 493 0 2,514 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 61 NOTES NOTE 11 continued Group’s maturity structure for undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities and derivatives 31 Dec. 2014 Nominal amount 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total Liabilities to credit institutions, bank borrowing 160 158 156 649 491 1,615 Liabilities to leasing companies 3 1 0 0 0 4 Overdraft facilities 361 0 0 0 0 361 Derivatives 2 0 0 0 0 2 Accounts payable 558 0 0 0 0 558 Total 1,084 159 156 649 491 2,540 Time when hedged cash flows in the hedging reserve are expected to occur and affect profit for the year 2016 Q1 2016 Q2 2016 Q3 2016 Q4 2017 2018 and later Total Currency swap 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Interest-rate swap 0 0 0 0 0 -3 -3 Total 0 0 0 0 0 -3 -3 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Derivative contracts are subject to legally binding framework agreements on netting. This information is limited as the amounts are of minor value. NOTE 12 Intangible fixed assets Franchise Customer Goodwill Brands contracts relations IT investments Total Group 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 1,891 1,856 331 327 45 45 741 729 182 149 3,190 3,106 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – – 13 – 13 Acquisitions – – – – – – – – 55 19 55 19 Acquisitions in connection with acquired operation 16 35 – 4 – – 12 13 5 1 33 53 Divestments/disposals -28 – – – – – – – -13 – -41 0 Translation difference, currency -44 0 -5 0 -4 0 -11 -1 – – -64 -1 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 1,835 1,891 325 331 41 45 742 741 229 182 3,173 3,190 Opening acc. amortisation and impairment, 1 January -28 – -2 -2 -18 -13 -204 -130 -125 -80 -378 -226 Divestments/disposals 28 – – – – – – – 13 – 41 0 Amortisation for the year, continuing operations – – 0 0 -4 -5 -77 -75 -29 -34 -110 -114 Amortisation for the year, discontinued operations – – – – – – – – – 0 – 0 Impairments for the year, continuing operations 1) – – – – – – – – – -11 – -11 Impairments for the year, discontinued operations – -28 – – – – – – – – – -28 Translation difference, currency – – 0 0 2 0 5 1 – – 7 1 Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment, 31 December 0 -28 -2 -2 -20 -18 -276 -204 -141 -125 -440 -378 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 1,835 1,862 322 328 21 27 467 538 88 57 2,734 2,813 1) Impairment losses in 2014 on IT systems in an amount of SEK 11 M pertain to the MECA segment. Re-allocation of costs for IT systems related to the discontinued Danish operations had a corresponding positive impact and the effect on EBIT was therefore neutral. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 62 NOTES NOTE 12 continued The carrying amounts of intangible fixed assets are distributed among operating segments as follows: Franchise Customer Goodwill Brands contracts relations IT investments Total Group Carrying amount for 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. operating segment for 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 MECA 1,104 1,097 270 270 – – 396 453 15 13 1,786 1,833 Mekonomen Nordic 282 280 – – – – 8 4 72 42 362 326 Sørensen og Balchen 383 422 51 56 21 27 61 79 1 2 517 586 Other 66 64 1 2 – – 2 2 – – 69 68 1,835 1,862 322 328 21 27 467 538 88 57 2,734 2,813 Testing of impairment requirement for goodwill and other intangible assets to retain and further develop. The brands that have been identified and evaluated with indefinite useful period essentially pertain to the acquisition of MECA in 2012 and the acquisition of Sørensen Goodwill is distributed among the Group’s cash-generating units (CGU) identified by og Balchen in 2011, with the associated BilXtra brand. Other brands are amortised and operating segments. In addition to goodwill, the Group has acquired brands that are their carrying amount at year-end was SEK 1 M (2). A summary of goodwill and brands deemed to have indefinite useful period. The useful period is deemed indefinite when it with indefinite useful period at operating segment level is provided in the table below. pertains to well-established brands in their individual markets, which the Group intends Goodwill 2015 Brands (indefinite useful period) 2015 Translation Translation Operating Test level 1 Dec. AcquisiImpairDivestdifference, 31 Dec. 1 Dec. AcquisiImpairdifference, 31 Dec. segments CGU 2015 tions ment ments currency 2015 2015 tions ment currency 2015 MECA Operating segment 1,097 8 – – 0 1,104 270 – – – 270 Mekonomen Mekonomen Nordic Sweden 223 7 – – – 230 – – – – – Mekonomen Norway 57 – – – -5 52 – – – – – Mekonomen Finland – – – – – – – – – – – Operating segment 280 7 – – -5 282 – – – – – Sørensen og Operating Balchen segment 422 – – – -39 383 56 – – -5 51 Other Operating segment 64 2 – – – 66 – – – – – 1,862 16 – – -44 1,835 326 – – -5 321 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 63 NOTES NOTE 12 continued Goodwill 2014 Brands (indefinite useful period) 2014 Translation Translation Operating 1 Dec. AcquisiImpairDivestdifference, 31 Dec. 1 Dec. AcquisiImpairdifference, 31 Dec. segments Test level CGU 2014 tions ment ments currency 2014 2014 tions ment currency 2014 MECA MECA Group 1,094 3 – – 0 1,097 270 – – – 270 MECA Denmark 26 – -28 – 2 0 – – – – – Operating segment 1,120 3 -28 – 2 1,097 270 – – – 270 Mekonomen Mekonomen Nordic Sweden 204 18 – – – 223 – – – – – Mekonomen Norway 55 2 – – 0 57 – – – – – Mekonomen Finland – – – – – – – – – – – Operating segment 259 20 – – 0 280 – – – – – Sørensen Operating og Balchen segment 421 4 – – -2 422 53 4 – 0 56 Other Operating segment 56 9 – – – 64 – – – – – 1,856 35 -28 – 0 1,862 323 4 – 0 326 The impairment of goodwill in 2014 of SEK 28 M is attributable to the MECA Discount rate (WACC) segment’s discontinued Danish store operations and is recognised under discontinued The present value of the forecast cash flows was calculated by applying a discount rate operations in the income statement. of 7.5 per cent (7.4) after tax, corresponding to a discount rate before tax of approxiTesting impairment requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets with indefimately 9.1 per cent (9.0). nite useful period takes place in the fourth quarter annually or more frequently if there The conditions that apply for the various markets in which Mekonomen operates do are indications of value depreciation. The recoverable amount for a cash-generating unit not deviate significantly from each other, which is why the same rate is used for all units. is established based on calculations of the value in use. The value in use is the present value of the estimated future cash flows. Growth rate Cash-flow forecasts are based on an assessment of the anticipated growth rate and The growth rate does not exceed the long-term growth rate for the market segments the trend of the EBITDA margin, based on the budget that was adopted in December in which each cash-generating unit operates. for the next year, forecasts for the next three years, managements’ long-term expectations of the operation, and historic trends. The cash-flow forecasts for the second to Total price and volume trend fourth years are based on an annual growth rate of 2 per cent (2). Cash flows beyond In the event of a change, assumptions about future price and volume trends have a this four-year period were extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2.5 per cent major impact on the cash flow. In plans that are used as the basis for the cash flows, (2.5). management assumes that the average price and volume trend over the period until Calculated value in use is most sensitive to changes in assumptions for growth-rate, 2019 will not exceed 2.0 per cent per year. EBITDA margin and the relevant discount rate (WACC, Weighted Average Cost of Capital), which is used to discount future cash flows. The significant assumptions used to Margin trend calculate the value in use for 2015 and 2014, respectively, are summarised as follows: The gross margin is assumed to be in line with current and historic levels throughout the forecast period. It is assumed that the operations’ other expenses will follow the same rate of growth as revenue. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2015 2014 Sensitivity analysis Discount rate (WACC) before tax 9.1% 9.0% An increase in the discount rate by 2 percentage points, a reduction in the assumed long-term growth rate by 2 percentage points or a decrease in the EBITDA margin by 2 Discount rate (WACC) after tax 7.5% 7.4% percentage points would not individually result in any impairment requirement. Growth rate beyond the forecast period 2.5% 2.5% According to implemented impairment testing, there is no impairment requirement Total price and volume trend years 2-4 of forecast for goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite periods of use as per 31 Decemperiod 2.0% 2.0% ber 2015. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 64 NOTES NOTE 13 Improvement costs, third-party property Group Parent Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 75 69 1 0 Purchases, rebuilding and extensions, conversions 5 7 0 1 Sales/disposals 0 -1 – – Translation difference, currency 0 0 – – Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 80 75 1 1 Opening accumulated depreciation, 1 January -37 -27 0 0 Sales/disposals 0 1 – – Depreciation for the year -10 -11 0 0 Translation difference, currency 0 0 – – Closing accumulated depreciation, 31 December -47 -37 -1 0 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 33 38 0 1 NOTE 14 Tangible fixed assets Equipment and transport Financial leasing Total Group Group Group 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 580 542 27 68 607 610 Purchases 39 45 5 5 44 50 Purchase in connection with acquired operation 5 3 – – 5 3 Reclassifications1) – 26 – -26 – – Sales/disposals -136 -43 -8 -20 -144 -63 Translation difference, currency -15 7 – – -15 7 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 473 580 24 27 497 607 Opening acc. depreciation and impairment, 1 January -420 -360 -24 -44 -444 -404 Sales/disposals 122 32 8 20 130 52 Reclassifications1) 0 -7 0 7 – – Depreciation for the year, continuing operations -42 -43 -5 -7 -47 -50 Depreciation for the year, discontinued operations – -14 – – – -14 Impairments for the year, discontinued operations – -25 – – – -25 Translation difference, currency 11 -3 – – 11 -3 Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment, 31 December -329 -420 -21 -24 -350 -444 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 145 161 3 3 148 163 1) Pertains to leased equipment acquired during the year. Operational lease agreements Group Parent Company Operating leases primarily comprise leased premises. Future leasing fees for irrevoGroup Parent Company cable lease agreements falling 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. due for payment: 2015 2014 2015 2014 Information about leasing expenses, operational leasing 2015 2014 2015 2014 Within one year 311 305 2 1 Premises rent 311 298 1 1 Later than one year but within five years 683 784 3 2 Leasing expenses, other 39 30 1 1 After five years 139 187 – – Total 350 328 2 2 1,133 1,276 5 3 Of the future lease fees, rent for premises represented SEK 1,075 M (1,225) for the Group and SEK 4 M (1) for the Parent Company. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 65 NOTES NOTE 15 Deferred tax NOTE 16 Other financial fixed assets Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when a legal right of offGroup set exists for current tax assets and tax liabilities and when deferred taxes refer to the same tax authority. Below, deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented gross, without 31 Dec. 31 Dec. consideration to offsets done in the same tax law jurisdiction. 2015 2014 Rental deposits paid 4 7 Group Parent Company Hire-purchase contracts 42 52 Deferred tax assets (+)/tax 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Other 3 3 liabilities (-) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Total 49 62 Capitalised loss carryforwards1) 57 60 54 53 Temporary differences on Group inter-company profits 53 56 – – 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Temporary differences, inventory Hire-purchase contracts 2015 2014 obsolescence 15 16 – – Hire-purchase contracts 59 80 Temporary differences on pension commitments 1 2 – – Provisions for doubtful hire-purchase contracts -17 -28 Temporary differences, other 14 10 3 – Total 42 52 Total deferred tax assets 140 144 57 53 Group Untaxed reserves -49 -33 – – Surplus value in intangible fixed Provisions for doubtful hire-purchase assets (through acquisition) -183 -205 – – contracts 2015 2014 Temporary differences on reProvision for doubtful receivables at the beginning versed net asset goodwill -22 -20 – – of the year -28 -14 Total deferred tax liabilities -254 -258 0 0 Impairment for the year, continuing operations -2 -1 Total (net) -114 -113 57 53 Impairment for the year, discontinued operations 0 -12 Receivables written off during the year as non-colGroup Parent Company lectable 9 0 Earlier impairment recovered, discontinued Gross change in deferred tax operations 3 0 assets/tax liabilities 2015 2014 2015 2014 Translation difference, currency 1 -1 Opening balance -113 -188 53 0 Total -17 -28 Translation difference, currency 2 4 – – Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 -1 – – Interest income on hire-purchase contracts during the year was SEK 1 M (1). Recognition in income statement, continuing operations1) -2 38 4 53 Recognition in income statement, discontinued operations 0 31 – – NOTE 17 Inventories Tax recognised in comprehensive Group income -2 2 – – At year-end -114 -113 57 53 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2015 2014 1) Capitalised loss carryforwards in the Parent Company pertain in their entirety to loss carryforwards Goods for resale 1,226 1,223 attributable to the Danish operations and correspond to the portion of loss carryforwards in Denmark that is deemed to be able to be utilised based on future Group deductions in Sweden. Total 1,226 1,223 The cost of inventories expensed is included in the item goods for resale in the income Taxable loss carryforwards statement for continuing operations and amounted to SEK 2,529 M (2,337). Provisions At the end of the financial year, tax loss carryforwards amounted to SEK 0 M (0) in the for obsolescence are induced in the value of inventories. Parent Company and SEK 501 M (466) in the Group. For deficits amounting to SEK 66 M (48), there is a time limit of 10 years. All other deficits run without limit in time. Deferred tax assets pertaining to tax loss carryforwards in the Group amounted to SEK 57 M (60) on the balance-sheet date, of which SEK 54 M (53) was attributable to the Danish operations. Deferred tax assets on the remaining deficit was not assigned a value in the balance sheet. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 66 NOTES NOTE 18 Current receivables NOTE 20 Cash and cash equivalents Group Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Accounts receivable 453 450 Cash and bank balances 295 258 210 162 Tax assets 66 25 Total 295 258 210 162 Other receivables 68 59 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 231 235 Total 818 769 NOTE 21 Liabilities to credit institutions Group Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Accounts receivable 2015 2014 Long-term 2015 2014 2015 2014 Accounts receivable 502 513 Liabilities to credit institutions, Provisions for bad debts -49 -63 bank borrowing 1,462 1,396 1,460 1,396 Total 453 450 Liabilities to leasing companies 1 1 – – Derivatives, interest-rate swaps 3 – – – Group Total long-term liabilities, interest-bearing 1,466 1,397 1,460 1,396 Provisions for bad debts 2015 2014 Provision for bad debts at the beginning Group Parent Company of the year -63 -63 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Change in net impairment for the year, Current 2015 2014 2015 2014 continuing operations -10 -16 Change in net impairment for the year, Liabilities to credit institutions, discontinued operations 10 -15 bank borrowing 136 136 136 136 Change in provision, net in balance sheet 12 33 Overdraft facilities 323 355 323 355 Translation difference, currency 2 -2 Liabilities to leasing companies 2 3 – – Total -49 -63 Derivatives, currency and interest-rate swaps – 2 – – Total current liabilities, Group interest-bearing 461 495 459 491 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Receivables that are past due but not impaired 2015 2014 Total borrowing 1,927 1,892 1,919 1,887 Accounts receivable Receivables due between 0–30 days 58 41 Overdraft facility limit 627 606 627 606 Receivables due between 31-60 days 8 9 Of which, unutilised portion 304 251 304 251 Receivables due longer than 61 days 1 9 Total 67 59 All interest rates, excluding interest-rate swaps, are variable or have a maximum fixed period of three months. During the financial year, the interest level varied up to just below 2 per cent. Interest-rate swaps have been entered into in an amount of SEK 450 Fair value of accounts receivable agrees with the carrying amounts. Credit quality of M to hedge the cash flows in the loans Mekonomen AB has falling due in 2019. unreserved receivables is assessed to be good. Long-term interest-bearing liabilities increased during the year, mainly as a result Interest income on accounts receivable during the year was SEK 4 M (3). of higher utilisation of credit facilities in an amount of SEK 200 M. In 2015, loans have been repaid in an amount of SEK 148 M, of which SEK 11 M pertains to repayment of loans in the acquired company Opus Equipment AB. The Group’s maturity structure is NOTE 19 Prepaid expenses and accrued specified in Note 11. Mekonomen AB’s borrowing from banks is subject to certain conditions, known as income covenants, all of which Mekonomen AB meets. The Group’s long-term borrowing occurs mainly under credit frameworks with long-term lines of credits, but with short-term Group Parent Company fixed-interest periods. The Group’s interest payments pertaining to borrowing amounted to SEK 33 M (45). Refer also to the sensitivity analysis pertaining to interest-rate risks 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. in the sensitivity analysis section in the Administration Report and in Note 37. Existing 2015 2014 2015 2014 overdraft facilities are in SEK, NOK, EUR and DKK. Other loans are essentially in SEK. Prepaid rents 46 44 0 0 Prepaid lease fees 2 1 – – Prepaid insurance 3 3 1 0 Accrued supplier bonus 130 137 – – Other interim receivables 50 50 9 11 Total 231 235 10 12 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 67 NOTES NOTE 22 Provisions Group 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Group Parent Company Present value of funded commitments 46 52 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Fair value of plan assets -42 -44 2015 2014 2015 2014 Deficit in funded plans 4 8 Provision for restructuring 14 121 – – Present value in unfunded commitments – – Provision for pensions 4 8 – – Net debt in the balance sheet 4 8 Other provisions 6 2 2 – Group Total 24 131 2 0 Present value of commitments 2015 2014 Opening balance 52 42 Other Restructuring provisions Gross pension cost for the year 3 3 Interest expenses 0 0 Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 121 2 Pension payment -2 -2 Recognised in the income statement: Actuarial gains and losses1) -2 10 New provisions 0 5 Exchange-rate differences -5 -1 Reversed provisions 0 0 Closing balance 46 52 Amounts utilised during the period -105 0 Currency effects -2 0 Group Carrying amount at year-end 14 6 Fair value of plan assets 2015 2014 Provisions comprise: Opening balance 44 42 Group Parent Company Expected return 1 2 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Payments 3 3 2015 2014 2015 2014 Pension payment -2 -2 Long-term portion 10 10 2 0 Actuarial gains and losses1) 0 -1 Short-term portion 14 121 0 0 Exchange-rate differences -4 0 Total 24 131 2 0 Closing balance 42 44 Restructuring Restructuring provisions are first established when on the balance-sheet date Net pension commitments 4 8 Mekonomen Group has a detailed formal restructuring plan and has also informed those concerned about the content of the plan. Amounts are calculated based on company 1) Changes in demographic and financial assumptions are not specified on the basis of a materiality management’s best estimates and adjusted when changes are made to these estimates. assessment. Restructuring provisions include costs that are expected to arise as a result of Group Mekonomen Group’s comprehensive structural changes in the Group’s Danish operations. Costs recognised in profit or loss 2015 2014 The recognised restructuring provisions in the Danish operations are primarily attributable to personnel costs and costs for premises. Total costs for restructuring amounted to Pension vesting for the year including SEK 0 M (280) for the financial year and have in their entirety been recognised under contributions 3 2 discontinued operations in the income statement; for further information, refer to Note Administration fees 0 0 34. Remaining restructuring provisions are expected to be utilised in 2016. Interest expenses 0 0 Pensions 3 2 Alecta The ITP 2 scheme’s defined-benefit pension obligations for old-age and family pensions Group (or family pension) for salaried employees in Sweden are secured through insurance with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR Composition of plan assets 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 10 Recognition of ITP 2 Pension Plans Financed through Insurance with Alecta, this is a Equities 9% 9% multi-employer defined-benefit plan. In the 2015 financial year, the company did not have access to such information that made it possible to recognise its proportional share of the Bonds 74% 73% plan’s obligations, plan assets and costs, which means that it was not possible to recognise Property 14% 15% this as a defined-benefit plan. ITP 2 pension plans that are secured through insurance with Other 3% 3% Alecta are therefore recognised as defined-contribution plans. The anticipated fees for the next reporting period for ITP 2 policies signed with Alecta amounts to SEK 14 M (11). Total 100% 100% The collective consolidation level comprises the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial methods Group and assumptions, which are not in agreement with IAS 19. Alecta’s surplus, in the form of the collective consolidation level, amounted to 153 per cent (143) at year-end 2015. Actuarial assumptions 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Discount rate 2.50% 2.30% Pension commitments Future salary increases 2.50% 2.75% All pension commitments pertain to employees in the subsidiary in Norway. The Group is obliged to provide pension provisions according to the Norwegian act on occupational Future pension increases 0.00% 0.00% pensions. The Group has a total of five defined-benefit pension plans which jointly include 63 (65) gainfully employed individuals and 47 (47) pensioners. Pension benefits are largely Assumptions regarding future length of life are based on public statistics and experience dependent on the number of years of service, salary level at retirement and the amount from mortality studies in the country concerned, and set in consultation with actuarial of the benefit. This obligation is covered via insurance companies. Employer contributions experts. are included in the net pension obligation. The amounts recognised in the balance sheet Through its post-employment defined-benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed have been calculated as follows: to a number of such risks as asset volatility, changes in returns and length of life commitMekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 68 NOTES ments. The company actively monitors how terms of and expected returns on investments match expected payments arising from its pension commitments. The Group has NOTE 25 Memorandum items not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous periods. The Group does not use derivative instruments to manage its risk. Investments are highly diversified. Group Parent Company Contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the 2016 financial year are expected to amount to SEK 3 M. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. A sensitivity analysis and weighted average term for the pension commitments 2015 2014 2015 2014 and term analysis for undiscounted payments have not been provided since they are Pledged assets deemed to be insignificant. Other pledged assets – 3 – – Total – 3 – – NOTE 23 Other current liabilities, Contingent liabilities non-interest-bearing Guarantee commitments, divested properties 22 22 22 22 Group Other guarantee commitments 11 8 – – 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Rental commitments – 20 – – 2015 2014 Guarantees on behalf of subsidAccounts payable 540 558 iaries – – 73 57 Other liabilities 137 131 Other sureties 9 12 – – Accrued expenses and deferred income 313 327 Total 41 62 95 79 Total 990 1,016 NOTE 26 Participations in Group NOTE 24 Accrued expenses and companies deferred income Parent Company Group Parent Company 2015 2014 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Opening cost 3,542 3,179 2015 2014 2015 2014 Capital contributions paid1) 9 363 Accrued personnel-related costs 198 212 12 16 Acquisitions during the year – – Accrued bonuses/contract fees 67 62 – – Closing accumulated cost 3,551 3,542 Accrued interest expenses 2 2 2 2 Prepaid rental income 7 6 – – Opening impairment -511 -25 Other interim liabilities 39 45 1 1 Impairment1) -35 -486 Total 313 327 15 19 Closing accumulated impairment -546 -511 Closing residual value 3,004 3,031 1) Impairment of SEK -26 M (-486) and capital contributions paid of SEK 0 M (363) pertain to Mekonomen A/S in Denmark. NOTE 26 continued Corp. ID Number of Book value Book value Name of company/registered office, Sweden number Share of equity, % stores 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 MECA Scandinavia AB/Malmö 556218-3037 100 2,033 2,033 Mekonomen Norden AB/Stockholm 556724-9254 100 0 0 Mekonomen Grossist AB/Stockholm 556062-4875 100 40 40 Mekonomen Detaljist AB/Stockholm 556157-7288 100 15 5 5 Meko Service Nordic AB/Stockholm 556179-9676 100 1 1 Mekonomen Fleet AB/Stockholm 556720-6031 100 2 2 Speedy Autoservice AB/Malmö 556575-9858 100 31 31 Mekonomen Nya Affärer AB/Stockholm 556821-5981 100 0 0 Mekonomen Services AB/Stockholm 556840-9428 100 0 0 Name of company/registered office, Finland Mekonomen Oy/Helsinki 2259452-4 100 0 0 Name of company/registered office, Denmark Mekonomen A/S/Odense 30 07 81 28 100 28 54 Name of company/registered office, Norway Mekonomen AS/Oppegård 980 748 669 100 24 24 Sørensen og Balchen AS/Oslo 916 591 144 100 840 840 Participations in Group companies, total 15 3,004 3,031 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 69 NOTES NOTE 26 continued Mekonomen Eskilstuna AB/Eskilstuna Mekonomen Falkenberg AB/Falkenberg 556613-5637 556213-1622 100 91 1 1 Mekonomen Falköping AB/Falköping 556272-1497 100 1 Within Mekonomen Nordic, a decision has been made to merge the wholly owned Mekonomen Falun AB/Falun 556559-3927 100 2 store companies in Sweden and Norway. In total, approximately 60 store companies in Bilverkstad i Härnösand AB/Härnösand 556528-4766 100 – Sweden and 29 store companies in Norway are planned to be merged. The mergers are estimated to be completed in 2016. For further information, please refer to the Mekonomen FKV AB/Stockholm 556775-9831 87.5 – table below regarding companies where mergers are under way as per 31 December Mekonomen Flen AB/Flen 556769-8542 87.5 2 2015. In 2015, four store companies in Denmark were also liquidated. Mekonomen Butikerna AB/Gislaved 556261-4676 100 – Mekonomen Globen AB/Stockholm2) 556794-8905 100 – Indirect participations in Corp. ID Share of No. of Mekonomen Gränby AB/Uppsala 556821-6062 100 – subsidiaries number equity, % stores Mekonomen Gärdet AB/Stockholm 556821-6104 100 – MECA Mekonomen Gärdet Café AB/Stockholm 556840-9436 100 – MECA Car Parts AB/Malmö 556169-0412 100 – Mekonomen Gävle AB/Gävle 556353-6803 91 1 MECA Sweden AB/Malmö 556356-5612 100 48 Mekonomen Hedemora AB/Hedemora 556308-8011 100 1 MECA Bilservice i Köping AB/Köping 559012-2478 100 – Mekonomen Helsingborg AB/ MECA Norway AS/Gjøvik, Norway 935682525 100 24 Helsingborg 556044-4159 100 1 Opus Equipment AB/Gothenburg 556884-6504 100 – Mekonomen Helsingborg Södra AB/ J&B Maskinteknik AB/Gothenburg 556490-2996 100 – Helsingborg 556613-6007 100 1 J&B Maskinteknikk AS/Gjøvik, Norway 915971865 100 – Mekonomen Häggvik AB/Stockholm 556840-9410 100 1 Opus Instrument (Foshan) 44060040 Mekonomen Härnösand AB/Härnösand 556217-2261 80 1 Co. Ltd/Foshan China 000987 100 – Mekonomen Hässleholm AB/Hässleholm 556678-0622 91 1 Opus Asia Ltd/Hong Kong 1077601 100 – Mekonomen Högsbo AB/Gothenburg 556887-1999 51 1 ProMeister Solutions AB/Malmö 559034-6929 100 – Mekonomen Infra City AB/Stockholm 556840-4437 100 1 ProMeister Sweden AB/Malmö 556509-7861 100 – Mekonomen Järfälla AB/Stockholm 556660-3196 100 1 72 Mekonomen Jönköping AB/Jönköping 556237-5500 100 2 Denmark Mekonomen Kalmar AB/Kalmar 556236-8349 100 1 Mekonomen Grossist Danmark A/S/ Mekonomen Karlshamn AB/Karlshamn 556649-9090 100 – Odense 33 38 01 27 100 – Mekonomen Karlskoga AB/Karlskoga2) 556196-2605 100 – 0 Mekonomen Karlskrona AB/Karlskrona2) 556649-9082 100 – Finland – Mekonomen Nordic1) Mekonomen Karlstad AB/Karlstad 556786-9457 100 – Mekonomen Viiki Oy/Helsinki 2359722-5 100 – Mekonomen Katrinelund AB/Malmö 556530-7237 100 – Mekonomen Tammisto Oy/Vantaa 2359731-3 100 1 Mekonomen Kramfors AB/Kramfors 556496-1810 91 1 Mekonomen Renkomäki Oy/Lahti 2429678-2 100 1 Mekonomen Kristianstad AB/Kristianstad 556171-9203 100 1 Mekonomen Levänen Oy/Kuopio 2462875-9 100 1 Mekonomen Kungsbacka AB/ Mekonomen Grossist Oy/Vantaa 2445185-0 100 – Kungsbacka 556887-2336 51 1 3 Mekonomen Landskrona AB/Landskrona 556646-4813 100 1 1) All companies in Finland have their registered offices in Helsinki; the place of business is stated above. Mekonomen Lidköping AB/Lidköping 556761-3012 75 1 Mekonomen Linköping AB/Linköping 556202-9545 100 2 Iceland Mekonomen Nordic Mekonomen Ljungby Odlaren AB/ Mekonomen ehf/Gardabaer 411214-0520 100 – Ljungby2) 556111-9719 100 – Mekonomen Gardabae ehf/Gardabaer 411214-0790 71 1 Mekonomen Ljusdal AB/Ljusdal 556786-1066 100 2 1 Mekonomen Ludvika AB/Ludvika 556470-4210 91 1 Sweden Mekonomen Nordic1) Mekonomen Luleå AB/Luleå 556338-4071 100 2 Mekonomen Alingsås AB/Alingsås 556596-3690 95 1 Mekonomen Lund AB/Lund 556531-0108 91 1 Mekonomen Arvika AB/Arvika 556528-3750 80 5 Mekonomen Lycksele AB/Lycksele 556687-8095 75 1 Mekonomen B2C AB/Stockholm 556767-7405 100 – Mekonomen Malmö Fosie AB/Malmö 556493-7018 100 1 Mekonomen Backaplan AB/ Mekonomen Mariestad AB/Mariestad 556261-0179 75 1 Gothenburg 556226-1338 91 1 Mekonomen Mjölby AB/Mjölby 556362-0565 100 1 Mekonomen Barkarby AB/Stockholm 556758-7679 100 1 Mekonomen Mora AB/Mora 556363-2487 100 1 Mekonomen Bilverkstad AB/Stockholm 556607-1493 100 – Mekonomen Motala AB/Motala 556311-8750 100 1 Mekonomen Bilverkstad Båstad AB/ Mekonomen Märsta AB/Sigtuna 556596-3674 100 – Båstad 556462-0416 100 – Mekonomen Mölndal AB/Mölndal 556887-2294 51 1 Mekonomen Bilvård AB/Stockholm2) 556561-6751 100 – Mekonomen Bilverkstad Lidingö AB/ Mekonomen Blekinge AB/ Sölvesborg 556649-9017 51 4 Lidingö 556204-0294 100 – Mekonomen Bollnäs AB/Bollnäs 556827-3675 91 1 Mekonomen Norrköping AB/Norrköping 556376-2797 100 2 Mekonomen Boländerna AB/Uppsala 556767-8916 100 – Mekonomen Norrtull AB/Stockholm2) 556821-6088 100 – Mekonomen Borås City AB/Borås 556078-9447 100 1 Mekonomen Norrtälje AB/Stockholm 556178-9719 60 1 Mekonomen Bromma AB/Stockholm2) 556230-5101 100 – Mekonomen Nyköping AB/Nyköping 556244-0650 75 1 Mekonomen BV Härlöv AB/Gislaved2) 556758-7646 100 – Mekonomen Nässjö AB/Nässjö 556187-8637 100 1 Mekonomen Båstad AB/Båstad 556594-1951 100 2 Mekonomen Osby AB/Osby 556408-8044 91 1 Mekonomen Enköping AB/Enköping 556264-2636 91 1 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 70 NOTES Mekonomen Oskarshamn AB/ Mekonomen Drammen AS/Drammen 924843543 100 1 Oskarshamn 556631-8589 75 1 Mekonomen Elverum AS/Elverum 993562629 100 1 Mekonomen Partille AB/Gothenburg 556731-1401 100 2 Mekonomen Grenland AS/Porsgrund 984690703 100 1 Mekonomen Piteå AB/Piteå 556659-8966 100 1 Mekonomen Hadeland AS/Hadeland 996446956 100 1 Mekonomen Sala AB/Sala 556882-0905 100 1 Mekonomen Hamar AS/Hamar 984006047 100 1 Mekonomen Sandviken AB/Sandviken 556201-1295 91 1 Mekonomen Harstad AS/Harstad 982952379 100 1 Mekonomen Segeltorp AB/Huddinge 556580-2351 100 – Mekonomen Haugesund AS/Haugesund 983509622 100 1 Mekonomen Skellefteå AB/Skellefteå 556389-4095 91 1 Mekonomen Horten AS/Horten 990815798 100 1 Mekonomen Skåne Ystad AB/Ystad2) 556565-3085 100 – Mekonomen Jessheim AS/Jessheim 987696109 100 1 Mekonomen Sollefteå AB/Sollefteå 556216-9424 80 1 Mekonomen Kongsberg AS/Kongsberg 937161786 75 1 Mekonomen Solna AB/Stockholm2) 556213-3073 100 – Mekonomen Kongsvinger AS/ Mekonomen Strömstad AB/Strömstad 556775-9849 100 1 Kongsvinger 992102217 100 1 Mekonomen Sundsvall Birsta AB/ Mekonomen Larvik AS/Larvik 981929276 100 1 Sundsvall 556201-1675 100 1 Mekonomen Lillestrøm AS/Lillestrøm 993561428 100 1 Mekonomen Sundsvall Nacksta AB/ Mekonomen Molde AS/Molde 985793417 100 1 Sundsvall 556777-4863 100 1 Mekonomen Moss AS/Moss 939161260 100 1 Mekonomen Söderhamn AB/Söderhamn 556509-4132 100 – Mekonomen Oslo AS/Oslo 938215103 100 1 Mekonomen Södertälje AB/Södertälje 556405-5498 100 1 Mekonomen Sandefjord AS/Sandefjord 990815844 100 1 Mekonomen Sölvesborg AB/Sölvesborg 556216-4250 100 – Mekonomen Sandvika AS/Sandvika 982707862 100 1 Mekonomen Torslanda AB/Gothenburg 556583-3893 91 1 Mekonomen Sarpsborg AS/Sarpsborg 910155520 100 2 Mekonomen Tranås AB/Tranås 556770-0041 100 1 Mekonomen Ski AS/Ski 983098525 100 1 Mekonomen Trollhättan AB/Trollhättan 556515-0298 100 2 Mekonomen Stavanger AS/Stavanger 983935214 100 1 Mekonomen Täby AB/Täby 556632-9958 100 1 Mekonomen Steinkjer AS/Steinkjer 984318677 100 1 Mekonomen Uddevalla AB/Uddevalla2) 556550-5004 100 – Mekonomen Sørlandsparken AS/ Mekonomen Umeå AB/Umeå 556483-3084 81.8 1 Kristiansand 981508939 100 1 Mekonomen Uppsala AB/Uppsala 556092-4218 100 – Mekonomen Tromsø AS/Tromsø 942591322 100 1 Valdemarsvik Butiksbolag AB/ Mekonomen Trondheim AS/Trondheim 979462026 100 1 Valdemarsvik 556963-4966 100 1 Mekonomen Tønsberg AS/Tønsberg 934256867 75 1 Mekonomen Varberg AB/Varberg 556261-0161 75 1 Mekonomen Fleet AS/Oppegård 895917052 100 – Mekonomen Verkstadscenter Älvsjö AB/ Lasingoo Norge AS/Oslo 914835585 100 – Stockholm 556192-0314 91 1 32 Mekonomen Verkstadscenter Luleå AB/ Luleå2) 556770-0033 100 – Norway – Sørensen og Balchen Mekonomen Vetlanda AB/Vetlanda 556653-4219 91 1 Rønneberg Autoindustri AS/Ålesund 981015150 100 5 Mekonomen Vimmerby AB/Vimmerby 556232-5877 100 1 BilXtra Kristiansund AS/Kristiansund 999255876 91 1 Mekonomen Vänersborg AB/ Bilvarehusene Nor AS/ Skårer 880553852 100 9 Vänersborg 556770-0058 91 1 BilXtra AS/Moss 983032133 100 4 Mekonomen Värnamo Norra AB/ BilXtra Kristiansand AS/Kristiansand 979438761 100 1 Värnamo 556530-9266 75 1 Bilutstyr Arendal AS/Arendal 961171067 100 1 Mekonomen Västerås AB/Västerås 556344-5492 100 2 Østfold Bilutstyr AS /Sarpsborg 987586788 100 1 Mekonomen Växjö AB/Växjö 556192-0439 60 2 Telemark Bilutstyr AS/Skien 986980415 100 1 Mekonomen Åkersberga AB/Österåker 556632-9966 100 – Rogaland Rekvisita AS/Stavanger 936043119 100 2 Mekonomen Älvsjö AB/Huddinge2) 556758-7661 100 – Jahre Motor Hamar AS/Hamar 935614031 91 1 Mekonomen Örebro AB/Örebro 556344-0717 100 3 Askim Bilrekvisita AS/Askim 885049702 100 2 Mekonomen Örnsköldsvik AB/ Steglet Bilutstyr AS /Kongsberg 988210196 100 1 Örnsköldsvik 556465-6287 51 1 Jøntvedt Bilutstyr AS/Tønsberg 887813752 100 1 Mekonomen Östersund AB/Östersund 556296-5243 100 2 Oppland Bilutstyr AS/Gjøvik 987600659 100 1 Primexxa Strängnäs AB/Stockholm 2) 556422-3872 100 – Høistad Bildeler AS/Lillehammer 981015142 100 1 Marinshopen RM AB/Stockholm 556829-5066 100 1 Vest Bilutstyr AS/Bergen 980281450 100 2 Mekonomen Utveckling AB/Stockholm2) 556777-4871 100 – Autoproducts AS/Trondheim 995080125 50 1 Mekonomen Group Inköp AB/Stockholm 559009-7837 100 – DINDEL NORWAY AS/Bærum 913284607 100 – 99 1) Includes the Marinshopen store BilXtra Autogården Kongsberg AS/ 2) Merger under way Kongsberg 914746345 80 – 35 Norway – Mekonomen Nordic Sweden – Meko Service Nordic Mekonomen Arendal AS/Arendal 982434696 100 1 Mekonomen BilLivet AB/Stockholm 556845-2196 100 – Motor Norge AS/Alta 945481668 51 1 Mekonomen BilLivet Akalla AB/ Mekonomen Askim AS/Askim 974209772 100 1 Stockholm 556882-0772 100 – Mekonomen Bjørkelangen AS/ Mekonomen BilLivet Bromma AB/ Bjørkelangen 989903551 100 1 Stockholm 556864-3455 100 – Mekonomen Bodø AS/Bodø 986489576 100 1 Mekonomen BilLivet Gävle AB/Gävle 556864-3448 100 – Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 71 NOTES Mekonomen BilLivet Haninge AB/ Stockholm 556882-0947 91 – NOTE 28 Shareholders’ equity Mekonomen BilLivet Infra City AB/ A specification of changes to shareholders’ equity can be found in the statement of Stockholm 556864-3471 100 – changes in consolidated and Parent Company’s shareholders’ equity (see pages 45 and Mekonomen BilLivet Johanneshov AB/ 50, respectively). Stockholm 556882-0780 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Katrinelund AB/ Share capital Malmö 556882-0954 91 – At the end of the financial year, share capital amounted to SEK 89,754 (89,754) thousand and comprised 35,901,487 shares (35,901,487) at a quotient value of SEK 2.50 per Mekonomen BilLivet Sisjön AB/ share (2.50). There were no outstanding shareholders’ equity instruments that could reGothenburg 556863-9909 91 – sult in a dilution of the share capital as per 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014. Mekonomen BilLivet Högsbo AB/ Gothenburg 556909-4906 91 – Other capital contributions Mekonomen BilLivet Södertälje AB/ Other capital contributions included contributions the company received from shareStockholm 556882-0939 100 – holders and which are not recognised as share capital. Mekonomen BilLivet Täby AB/Stockholm 556882-0962 91 – Mekonomen BilLivet Backaplan AB/ Other capital contributions Gothenburg 556756-1146 91 – Opening balance on 1 January 2014 1,456 Mekonomen BilLivet Gärdet AB/ Stockholm 556821-6047 100 – Closing balance on 31 December 2014 1,456 Promotor Åkersberga AB/Åkersberga 556819-5019 91 – Opening balance on 1 January 2015 1,456 Speedy Bilservice Östermalm AB/ Stockholm 556953-2434 91 – Closing balance on 31 December 2015 1,456 Speedy Bilservice Mölndal AB/Mölndal 559004-5711 51 – Reserves Meko Service Hemmesta AB/Stockholm 556428-1102 100 – The item consists of translation differences attributable to the translation of foreign subMeko Service Susannes Bilverkstad i sidiaries in accordance with IAS 21 and cash-flow hedges as shown in the table below: Härlöv AB/Stockholm 556964-0641 60 – Meko Service Tyresö AB/Stockholm 556961-2319 100 – Translation 0 Reserves differences1) Hedges Total Hong Kong Opening balance on 1 January 2014 -124 -1 -125 ProMeister Global Limited/Hong Kong 1988735 100 – Exchange-rate differences on transla0 tion of foreign subsidiaries -20 – -20 Cash-flow hedges – 0 0 Total number of stores 257 Closing balance on 31 December 2014 -144 -1 -145 Including the Parent Company, Mekonomen Group comprises a total of 219 companies, 257 proprietary stores and 34 proprietary workshops. Currently, 89 wholly-owned Opening balance on 1 January companies run 205 stores and 43 partly-owned companies run 52 stores. Furthermore, 2015 -144 -1 -145 16 wholly-owned companies and 11 partly-owned companies run 34 workshops. Exchange-rate differences on translaThe Group has no subsidiary with non-controlling interests that is of individual tion of foreign subsidiaries -88 – -88 significance to Mekonomen Group. Cash-flow hedges – -1 -1 Closing balance on 31 December NOTE 27 Investments accounted for 2015 -232 -2 -234 using the equity method At 31 December 2015, the accumulated translation reserve regarding Denmark amounted to 1) SEK -17 M. The translation reserve for Denmark will be reclassified within shareholders’ equity through profit and loss to the amount current at the time when the Danish company is liquidated. The amounts recognised in the balance sheet comprise the following: For additional information regarding discontinued operations, refer to Note 34. Group Profit brought forward 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 The profit brought forward item corresponds to the accumulated profits and losses Associated companies 0 2 generated in total in the Group. Joint ventures 2 1 Total 2 3 Profit brought forward Opening balance on 1 January 2014 807 The amounts recognised in profit or loss comprise the following: Comprehensive income for the year: Group Profit for the year 120 2015 2014 Actuarial gains and losses -7 Associated companies 0 0 Comprehensive income for the year 113 Joint ventures 0 0 Dividends -251 Total 0 0 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests -4 Closing balance on 31 December 2014 665 Holdings in joint ventures and associated companies are recognised in accordance with the equity method. The Group has only one small associated company and a small joint venture with an insignificant impact on the Group. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 72 NOTES Opening balance on 1 January 2015 665 NOTE 31 Effects of acquisitions Comprehensive income for the year: Profit for the year 423 implemented Actuarial gains and losses 2 Acquisitions in 2015 Comprehensive income for the year 424 MECA acquired Opus Equipment AB, a comprehensive supplier of workshop equipment for workshops and car inspection stations. Delivery of workshop equipment Dividends -251 is a new business in Mekonomen Group that offers equipment with installation and Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests -7 maintenance service to new and existing customers on the automotive aftermarket. The Closing balance on 31 December 2015 831 purchase price for the shares amounted to SEK 41 M and the assumed net debt was SEK 10 M. Consolidation of the company took place as of 1 July 2015 in Mekonomen Dividend to Parent Company’s shareholders Group. MECA also acquired a partner store and workshop in Köping, Sweden. The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 7.00 per share (7.00), leading to a Mekonomen Nordic acquired non-controlling interests in 21 stores, 18 in Sweden total dividend of SEK 251,310,409 (251,310,409). and 3 in Norway, for a minor value. In Sweden, three partner stores in Kiruna, Linköping and Karlskrona were acquired, and three workshops in Härnösand, Ljusdal and Lidingö in Stockholm. Mekonomen Nordic also acquired a partner store in Iceland. Sørensen og Balchen acquired all non-controlling interests in DinDel Norway and NOTE 29 Capital established a store in Mysen, Norway. Meko Service Nordic acquired a workshop in Karlskrona and non-controlling interMekonomen Group manages its capital to ensure that the units in the Group are able ests in a workshop in Sweden. to continue operating, while dividends to shareholders are maximised through a sound The company acquired, Opus Equipment AB, impacted consolidated net sales in an balance between liabilities and shareholders’ equity. The Group’s capital comprises amount of SEK 66 M, and EBITA in an amount of SEK 4 M and EBIT in an amount of shareholders’ equity, as well as short and long-term borrowing. The proportions of SEK 3 M, excluding acquisition costs. The impact of other acquisitions on consolidated shareholders’ equity and changes during the year are described in the changes in consales and earnings was marginal. solidated shareholders’ equity on page 45 and Note 28 Shareholders’ equity. Information on corporate acquisitions is provided in aggregate form since each indiAt least once per year, the Board reviews the capital structure and takes this into vidual acquisition is not deemed to be of such a size as to warrant separate recognition. account when making decisions on, for example, dividends or raising new loans. The key All acquisitions were paid in cash. figure company management primarily assesses regarding capital structure is net debt relative to EBITDA. This key figure is continuously followed up in the internal reporting Total to Group Management and the Board. As of 2016, Mekonomen Group’s financial tarAcquisitions in 2015 acquisitions gets include that net debt/EBITDA shall not exceed 2.0 over the long term. In addition, the long-term equity/assets ratio shall not be less than 40 per cent. Value of acquired assets and liabilities Intangible fixed assets 5 Tangible fixed assets 5 NOTE 30 Adjustments for items not Deferred tax assets 2 affecting liquidity Inventories Current receivables 44 21 Group Parent Company Cash and cash equivalents 1 2015 2014 2015 2014 Long-term liabilities -1 Depreciation/Amortisation 167 188 0 0 Current liabilities -37 Impairment of intangible fixed Acquired net assets 40 assets – 39 – – Customer relations 12 Impairment of tangible fixed Goodwill 16 assets – 25 – – Deferred tax liabilities -1 Impairment of financial fixed Acquired non-controlling interests, surplus value assets 2 12 35 486 recognised against shareholders’ equity 17 Impairment of inventories – 75 – – Total identifiable net assets and goodwill 84 Impairment of accounts receivTotal purchase price 84 able – 12 – – of which, cash portion 84 Provision for discontinuation costs – 116 – – Cash and cash equivalents in the acquired companies 1 Other provisions 5 – 2 – Impact on Group’s cash and cash equivalents 83 Capital gain/loss from divestment No store or workshop managers entered as part-owners in the respective store or of fixed assets 2 -3 – – workshop companies during the year. Other items not affecting liquidity 12 -1 -3 -1 188 461 34 485 Cash flow pertains to total operations, i.e. both continuing and discontinued operations. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 73 NOTES NOTE 31 continued Acquisition Participating interest Acquired subsidiaries/operations 2015 Country date and share of voting rights Object Partner store, Kiruna Mekonomen Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 Assets and liabilities Partner store, Linköping Mekonomen Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 Assets and liabilities Partner store, Iceland Mekonomen Nordic Iceland Quarter 1 100 Assets and liabilities Workshop, Lidingö Mekonomen Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 Assets and liabilities Workshop, Härnösand Mekonomen Nordic Sweden Quarter 2 100 Assets and liabilities Workshop, Ljusdal Mekonomen Nordic Sweden Quarter 2 100 Assets and liabilities Partner store, Köping MECA Sweden Quarter 2 100 Assets and liabilities Workshop, Köping MECA Sweden Quarter 2 100 Assets and liabilities OPUS Equipment AB, Gothenburg MECA Sweden Quarter 3 100 Company Partner store, Karlskrona Mekonomen Nordic Sweden Quarter 4 51 Assets and liabilities Workshop, Karlskrona Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 4 100 Assets and liabilities Acquisitions in 2014 Participating Mekonomen Nordic in Sweden acquired a store and share in a workshop in ValdemarsAcquisiinterest and vik, a store in Torsby, a partner store in Löddeköpinge, a partner store in Strömstad, a Acquired subsidiaries/ tion share of partner store in Ängelholm and the establishment of a store in Töcksfors. In Norway, operations 2014 Country date voting rights Object a partner store was acquired in Larvik. Mekonomen Nordic acquired non-controlling interests in seven Swedish stores for a minor amount during the year. DINDEL NORWAY AS/ Assets Sørensen og Balchen acquired one company in Østerås, Norway. Bærum Sørensen og and In Sweden, MECA acquired stores in Mora and Leksand, Vällingby in Stockholm and a Balchen Norway Quarter 1 75 liabilities partner store in Hässleholm. Workshop, Tyresö Meko ComMeko Service Nordic acquired three workshops in Sweden. Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 60 pany The impact of these acquisitions on consolidated sales and earnings was marginal. Information on corporate acquisitions is provided in aggregate form since each indiPartner store, LödAssets vidual acquisition is not deemed to be of such a size as to warrant separate recognition. deköpinge Mekonomen and All acquisitions were paid in cash. Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities Store, Torsby Assets Mekonomen Nordic and Total Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Acquisitions in 2014 acquisitions Store, Mora MECA Assets Value of acquired assets and liabilities and Tangible fixed assets 3 Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Inventories 17 Store, Leksand MECA Assets and Current receivables 0 Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 2 Store, Vällingby MECA Assets Long-term liabilities 0 and Current liabilities -8 Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Acquired net assets 14 Workshop, Härlöv Meko Assets Service Nordic and Brands 4 Sweden Quarter 2 60 liabilities Customer relations 13 Workshop, Hemmesta Assets IT systems 1 Meko Service Nordic and Goodwill 35 Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Deferred tax liabilities -1 Partner store, Assets Hässleholm MECA and Acquired non-controlling interests, surplus value Sweden Quarter 3 100 liabilities recognised against shareholders’ equity 6 Partner store, Larvik MeAssets Total identifiable net assets and goodwill 71 konomen Nordic and Total purchase price 71 Norway Quarter 3 100 liabilities of which, cash portion 71 Partner store, Strömstad Assets Cash and cash equivalents in the acquired companies 2 Mekonomen Nordic and Sweden Quarter 3 100 liabilities Impact on Group’s cash and cash equivalents 69 Partner store, Ängelholm Assets In Sweden, 0 (2) store and workshop managers became partners in their store/workMekonomen Nordic and shop companies. Their shareholdings amounted to 9 per cent per company. The total Sweden Quarter 4 100 liabilities purchase consideration for these shareholdings amounted to SEK 0 M (0). Store, Valdemarsvik MeComkonomen Nordic Sweden Quarter 4 100 pany Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 74 NOTES NOTE 32 Information concerning Cash flow from discontinued operations in summary 2015 2014 revenue and expenses Cash flow from operating activities -134 -115 between Group companies Cash flow from investing activities 29 -1 Cash flow from financing activities 0 0 During the year, the Parent Company Mekonomen AB sold products and services to Group companies totalling SEK 37 M (42). Purchases relating to goods and services Cash flow from discontinued operations -105 -116 from Group companies amounted to SEK 63 M (54). NOTE 35 Events after the end of the year NOTE 33 Transactions with relatedOn 16 February 2016 the Board of directors has adopted the following financial goals parties for Mekonomen Group: • to develop with good profitability and thereby create value growth for the shareIn 2015, Mekonomen Group acquired goods and services worth SEK 0 M (3) and holders supplied goods and services worth SEK 0 M (0) to the Axel Johnson companies. • to achieve annual sales growth of at least 5 per cent, as a combination of organic Mekonomen Group also acquired goods and services at a value of SEK 2 M (0) from and acquired growth companies where Mekonomen Group has significant influence or joint controlling • to annually achieve an operating margin in excess of 10 per cent influence. Agreements on goods and services with related parties are made on • the equity/assets ratio shall not in the long term be less than 40 per cent market-based terms. There were no receivables from or liabilities to related parties as • net debt / EBITDA shall not in the long term exceed 2,0 at the balance-sheet date. No other transactions with related parties took place. For information on remuneration of senior executives, refer to Note 5. Decisions were made regarding changes in Group Management. As of 1 March 2016, Group Management comprises the following individuals: NOTE 34 Discontinued operations Magnus Johansson, President and CEO of Mekonomen AB Marcus Larsson, Executive Vice President, Mekonomen AB A decision on comprehensive structural changes and repositioning of the Group’s Morten Birkeland, President Sørensen og Balchen Danish operations was made in December 2014. All of the stores, which are also local Örjan Grandin, Supply Chain Director, Mekonomen AB warehouses, and the Danish head office have been closed. The franchise workshops are Per Hedblom, CFO, Mekonomen AB. retained and these now receive their deliveries of spare parts directly from the central David Larsson, COO, Mekonomen AB warehouse in Sweden and from regional warehouses, meaning that efficient logistics are Pehr Oscarson, President MECA achieved without intermediaries in the distribution chain. In March 2015, the two last stores were discontinued, and the Danish store operaThe Mekonomen Nordic segment has ceased as of 1 January 2016. As of the first tions are presented according to the rules for discontinued operations in IFRS 5 as of quarter of 2016, the operations that were a part of Mekonomen Nordic will instead be the first quarter of 2015. All comparable periods have been recalculated. The Danish reported in the new segments Mekonomen Sweden and Mekonomen Norway as well store operations were previously a part of the MECA segment. as in Other. In the consolidated income statement, the discontinued store operations are recogMekonomen Group has signed a Letter Of Intent (LOI) with the intention of investnised as an item under “Discontinued operations.” This means that the discontinued oping in an automated central warehouse solution in Strängnäs. As a part of streamlining eration has been excluded from all income statement items in the consolidated income the logistics structure Mekonomen Group intends to centralise the structure of the statement and that only net earnings from the discontinued operation have been stated central warehouses in Sweden. The plan is that the existing building in Strängnäs will be on the line “Earnings from discontinued operations.” Cash flow from discontinued operexpanded to include a common automated central warehouse. The estimated size of ations is included in the consolidated cash-flow statement and is recognised separately the investment is SEK 250 M during the period 2016-2018 with full EBIT effect from below. The consolidated balance sheet has not been recalculated. savings of SEK 50 M annually from 2020. The tied up capital is expected to decrease As at 31 December 2015, the accumulated translation reserve pertaining to Denwith SEK 80 M with full effect from 2020. Before a final contract is signed the involved mark was a negative SEK 17 M. The translation reserve pertaining to Denmark will be companies in Mekonomen Group will undertake the necessary negotiations with reclassified in shareholders’ equity via the income statement in the current amount at relevant unions. the time when the Danish company is liquidated. The liquidation, which was previously No other significant events occurred after the end of the reporting period. scheduled for 2016 will be postponed. Separate financial information is presented below with regard to the discontinued store operations in Denmark. NOTE 36 Approval of the Annual Report Profit/loss and other comprehensive income from discontinued operations 2015 2014 The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board on 16 March 2016. The consolidated income statement, statement of Revenue 36 534 comprehensive income and balance sheet and the Parent Company’s income statement, Expenses -36 -904 statement of comprehensive income and balance sheet will be subject to approval by Profit/loss from discontinued operations the Annual General Meeting on 12 April 2016. – before tax 0 -370 Tax 0 31 Profit/loss from discontinued operations – after tax1) 0 -340 Other comprehensive income: Exchange-rate differences on translation of foreign subsidiaries -1 -5 Comprehensive income/loss from discontinued operations -1 -344 1) For 2014, non-recurring costs as a result of the structure change in Denmark are included in an amount of SEK 280 M in the profit. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 75 NOTES NOTE 37 Financial risks Financing and liquidity risks Financing risk is seen as the risk of the cost being higher and financing opportunities limited when loans are renewed and payment obligations cannot be met as a result of Through its operations, Mekonomen Group is exposed to currency, credit, interest-rate insufficient liquidity or difficulties in securing financing. According to the finance policy, and liquidity risks. The management of these risks is regulated in accordance with the refinancing risks are to be managed by signing long-term and flexible credit agreements. finance policy adopted by the Board. Credit risk relating to customer commitments is As per 31 December 2015, the Group’s total loan financing amounted to SEK managed, according to central frameworks, decentralised locally. Other risks are mainly 1,921 M (1,887), of which the long-term portion is SEK 1,462 M (1,396). The Group’s managed centrally by the Group’s Treasury unit. borrowing from banks is subject to certain conditions, known as covenants, all of which Mekonomen AB meets. Currency risk Currency risks occur when currency fluctuations have a negative impact on the Group’s See the maturity structure excluding amortisation in the graph below. earnings and shareholders’ equity. Currency exposure arises in connection with cash flows in foreign currencies (transaction exposure), as well as in translation of loans/ receivables in foreign currencies and in the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ balance Mekonomen Group’s external loans without backup facilities sheets and income statements into SEK (translation exposure). as per 31 December 2015. In 2015, currency fluctuations had a positive impact on the Group’s profit before tax totalling SEK 8 M (3). The most important currency in terms of transaction exposure MSEK is EUR, which represents 37 per cent (33) of goods purchases in the Group, as well as 800 NOK pertaining to internal sales from wholesale companies in Mekonomen Nordic and MECA to Norway. NOK is the most important currency with regard to translation 600 exposure. Translation exposure to DKK decreased during 2015 due to restructuring in Denmark. The management of currency risks is regulated in the finance policy with a 400 hedging period of between 0 and 3 months. With regard to foreign shareholders’ equity, the principal rule is that Mekonomen Group does not hedge this exposure. However, if major foreign investments are made 200 that require separate financing, a decision may be made to recognise all or part of the financing in the acquisition currency. For more detailed information on currency expo0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 sure, refer also to the sensitivity analysis section in the Administration Report. Credit risk Maturity structure excluding amortisation. The Group’s financial transactions give rise to credit risks in relation to financial counterparties. Credit risks or counterparty risks refer to the risk of loss if the counterparty does not fulfil its commitments. Mekonomen Group’s credit risks primarily comprise accounts receivable, which are distributed over a large number of counterparties and Total amortisation of the loans is SEK 136 M per year. In addition, the Group has a small portion of long-term hire-purchase contracts. For each new customer, or in the overdraft facilities totalling SEK 627 M (606). The Group’s cash and cash equivalents event an existing customer wants to increase the credit limit, a credit rating is conductare invested short term and any excess liquidity is to primarily be used for amortising ed according to the Group’s established policies. The maximum credit risk corresponds loans. According to the finance policy, investments may be made in SEK, NOK, EUR and to the carrying amount of financial assets. Specifications of impairment of accounts DKK. Investments may be made with or in securities issued by the Swedish Government receivable for the year and long-term hire-purchase contracts are found in Notes 16 or Swedish and foreign banks with at least an A rating, according to the definition of and 18. Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Interest-rate risk Fair value Interest-rate risks refer to the risk that changes in market interest rates will have a negaNo financial assets or liabilities were recognised at a value that significantly deviated tive impact on the Group’s net interest expense. The rate at which interest rate changes from fair value. affect the net interest expense depends on the period of fixed interest for the loan. According to the finance policy, the fixed-interest period is normally to be 12 months, with an exception mandate of +6/-9 months. As per 31 December 2015, Mekonomen’s net debt is SEK 1,626 (1,629). A fixed-interest period is available with a term of less than one year. In addition to this, interest-rate swaps have been entered into in an amount of SEK 450 M to hedge the cash flows in the loans Mekonomen AB has falling due in 2019. See also the table in the Sensitivity analysis section of the Administration Report. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 76 SIGNATURES The Board of Directors and President hereby certify that the Annual Report was prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 and provides a true and fair view of the company’s financial position and earnings and that the Administration Report provides a true and fair view of the performance of the company’s operations, position and earnings and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by the company. The Board of Directors and President hereby certify that the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as approved by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and earnings and that the Administration Report or the Group provides a true and fair view of the performance of the Group’s operations, position and earnings and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by the companies included in the Group. Stockholm, 16 March 2016 Kenneth Bengtsson Caroline Berg Kenny Bräck Chairman of the Board Executive Vice Chairman Board member Malin Persson Helena Skåntorp Christer Åberg Board member Board member Board member Magnus Johansson President and CEO Our Auditors’ Report was submitted on 18 March 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Lennart Danielsson Authorised Public Accountant Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 77 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, To the Annual General Meeting of Mekonomen and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance AB, corporate identity number 556392-1971 statement on pages 34-41. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders adopt the Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Mekonomen AB for the year 2015 except for the corporate governance statement on pages 34-41. The Report on other legal and regulatory requirements annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included in the printed In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have version of this document on pages 28–77. also audited the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Mekonomen AB Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director for the annual for the year 2015. We have also conducted a statutory examination of the corporate accounts and consolidated accounts governance statement. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts in accordance with the Annual Accounts Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Act and of the consolidated accounts in accordance with International Financial ReportThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposed appropriations of the ing Standards , as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are recontrol as the Board of Directors and the Managing Director determine is necessary to sponsible for administration under the Companies Act and ensuring that the corporate enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from governance report on pages 34-41 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Accounts Act. Auditor’s responsibility Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and consolidated Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the proposed accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the administration based on our Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the in Sweden. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriaudit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consoliations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned dated accounts are free from material misstatement. statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. and disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. The procedures As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition to our audit selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we examined significant decisions, material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due actions taken and circumstances of the company in order to determine whether any to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal conmember of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director is liable to the company. trol relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts We also examined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing and consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in Director has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by provide a basis for our opinions. the Board of Directors and the Managing Director, as well as evaluating the overall Furthermore, we have read the corporate governance statement and based on presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. that reading and our knowledge of the company and the group we believe that we We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to have a sufficient basis for our opinions. This means that our statutory examination of provide a basis for our audit opinions. the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally Opinions accepted auditing standards in Sweden. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Opinions parent company as of 31 December 2015 and of its financial performance and its We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit be appropriated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 Deliability for the financial year. cember 2015 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended A corporate governance statement has been prepared, and its statutory content is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Stockholm, 18 March 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Lennart Danielsson Authorised Public Accountant Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 78 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY Five-year summary The tables below present financial information in summary for the financial years 2011-2015. For all years presented, the income statement and certain key indicators were recalculated considering the discontinuation of the store operations in Denmark. Balance sheets and cash flows have not been recalculated. Income statements, SEK M 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Continuing operations: Net sales 5,624 5,262 5,129 4,591 3,381 Other revenue 137 128 122 133 96 Goods for resale -2,529 -2,337 -2,275 -2,015 -1,435 Other operating expenses -2,506 -2,290 -2,293 -2,070 -1,545 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets, EBITA 726 763 683 639 498 Amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets -110 -124 -156 -73 -25 Operating profit, EBIT 616 639 527 566 473 Net financial items -22 -19 -39 -55 -14 Profit after financial items 594 620 489 511 459 Tax on profit for the year -164 -153 -129 -101 -131 Profit for the year from continuing operations 430 466 360 410 328 Discontinued operations: Profit for the year from discontinued operations1) 0 -340 -44 -28 52 Profit for the year 430 127 315 382 380 Balance sheets, SEK M 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Assets Intangible fixed assets 2,734 2,813 2,881 3,086 1,116 Other fixed assets 288 321 347 381 302 Inventories 1,226 1,223 1,213 1,203 934 Accounts receivable 453 450 439 495 411 Other current assets 365 319 285 302 225 Cash and cash equivalents 295 258 279 241 67 Total assets 5,361 5,384 5,444 5,708 3,054 Equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity, Parent Company’s shareholders 2,143 2,066 2,228 2,303 1,539 Non-controlling interests 12 14 12 13 17 Long-term liabilities 1,645 1,575 1,872 2,059 511 Current liabilities 1,560 1,728 1,332 1,333 988 Total equity and liabilities 5,361 5,384 5,444 5,708 3,054 Condensed cash-flow statement, SEK M 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Cash flow from operating activities 439 413 557 518 259 Cash flow from investing activities -146 -121 -54 -1,510 -512 Cash flow from financing activities -245 -309 -442 1,165 246 Cash flow for the year 48 -17 61 173 -7 Data per share2), amounts in SEK per share unless otherwise stated 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Earnings, continuing operations 11.77 12.80 9.81 11.57 9.79 Earnings, discontinued operations 0.00 -9.46 -1.25 -0.76 1.60 Earnings 11.77 3.34 8.56 10.80 11.39 Cash flow 12.23 11.51 15.51 14.93 7.98 Shareholders’ equity 59.7 57.5 62.1 64.2 46.9 Dividends3) 7 7 7 7 8 Share of profit paid, % 59 210 82 65 69 Share price at year-end 173.0 204.0 198.0 206.5 225.0 Share price, highest for the year 234.5 207.0 233.0 246.0 257.5 Share price, lowest for the year 170.0 139.0 189.0 180.0 157.0 Direct yield, % 4.0 3.4 3.5 3.4 3.6 P/E ratio at year-end, multiple 14.7 61.1 23.1 19.1 19.8 Average number of shares after dilution effects4) 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 34,692,458 32,436,258 Number of shares at end of period 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 32,814,605 Number of shareholders at year-end 9,373 9,664 8,355 8,138 7,735 1) For 2014, non-recurring costs as a result of the adopted structure change in Denmark are included in an amount of SEK 280 M in the profit/loss from discontinued operations. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, refer to Note 34. 2) For information on financial definitions, refer to page 83. 3) The Board’s proposal for 2015. 4) No dilution is applicable. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 79 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY Key figures1)3) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Sales growth, % 7 3 12 36 30 Gross margin, % 55 56 56 56 58 EBITA margin, % 13 14 13 14 14 EBIT margin, % 11 12 10 12 14 Profit margin, % 10 11 9 11 13 Capital employed, SEK M 4,086 3,980 4,176 4,432 2,203 Operating capital, SEK M 3,791 3,722 3,898 4,191 2,136 Return on capital employed, % 15 16 13 16 25 Return on operating capital, % 16 16 13 16 27 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 20 21 16 21 23 Return on total capital, % 12 12 10 12 18 Equity/assets ratio, % 40 39 41 41 51 Net debt/equity ratio, multiple 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.4 Interest-coverage ratio, multiple 19 16 11 12 25 Net debt, SEK M 1,626 1,629 1,642 1,849 580 Average number of employees2) Sweden 1,438 1,335 1,342 1,287 1,076 Norway 794 772 775 690 475 Other countries 58 24 21 24 15 Group 2,290 2,131 2,138 2,001 1,566 Number of stores/of which proprietary2) Mekonomen Sweden 134/113 137/113 137/109 143/115 144/114 Mekonomen Norway 45/32 46/33 47/32 51/35 53/36 Mekonomen Finland 6/3 6/3 6/3 7/4 3/3 Mekonomen Iceland 1/1 1/0 1/0 1/0 1/0 Marinshopen 1/1 2/2 2/2 2/2 1/1 Total Mekonomen Nordic 187/150 192/151 193/146 204/156 202/154 Sørensen og Balchen – Norway 70/35 71/34 74/34 78/36 77/35 MECA Sweden 61/48 63/48 61/44 64/43 – MECA Norway 24/24 24/24 25/24 25/24 – Total MECA 85/72 87/72 86/68 89/67 – M by Mekonomen – 1/1 1/1 1/1 1/1 Group 342/257 351/258 354/249 372/260 280/190 Number of Mekonomen Service Centres2) Sweden4) 457 485 489 484 438 Norway 345 378 384 387 380 Denmark 102 195 212 219 215 Finland 19 17 12 4 3 Group 923 1,075 1,097 1,094 1,036 Number of MekoPartner – workshops2) Sweden 125 129 116 137 128 Norway 97 73 72 73 78 Denmark 39 153 190 216 214 Group 261 355 378 426 420 Number of BilXtra workshops Norway 246 232 243 225 219 Group 246 232 243 225 219 Number of Speedy workshops Sweden 20 14 12 11 11 Group 20 14 12 11 11 Number of MECA Car Service workshops Sweden 404 377 344 334 – Norway 272 251 226 212 – Group 676 628 570 546 – Total number of affiliated workshops in the Group 2,126 2,304 2,300 2,302 1,686 1) The key figures refer to continuing operations. Comparative figures have been recalculated. The balance sheet has not been recalculated for discontinued operations. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, refer to Note 34. 2) The number of employees and numbers of stores are reported excluding the discontinued store operations in Denmark. Comparative figures have been recalculated. With regard to workshops, the workshops that are affiliated with Mekonomen Group’s concepts also continue to be presented. MECA sells directly to these workshops in Denmark. 3) For information on financial definitions, refer to page 83. 4) Includes 18 (17) proprietary workshops in Meko Service Nordic. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 80 QUARTERLY OVERVIEW Quarterly overview 2015 2014 Continuing operations, SEK M Full-year Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Full-year Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Net sales1) MECA2) 1,871 489 466 473 444 1,679 435 414 419 411 Mekonomen Nordic 2,817 710 682 761 664 2,692 685 671 700 634 Sørensen og Balchen 729 159 179 201 191 712 176 176 188 171 Other3) 208 57 47 55 48 180 50 45 47 39 Group 5,624 1,415 1,374 1,489 1,346 5,262 1,347 1,306 1,354 1,255 EBITA MECA2) 258 52 54 80 71 268 72 73 76 47 Mekonomen Nordic 412 78 119 129 86 422 97 121 108 95 Sørensen og Balchen 117 26 30 35 25 109 22 29 34 24 Other3) -60 -19 -8 -20 -13 -36 -8 -10 -9 -10 Group 726 138 196 224 169 763 184 214 210 156 EBIT MECA2)4) 245 49 51 77 68 243 57 69 73 44 Mekonomen Nordic 393 72 115 124 82 401 93 117 104 88 Sørensen og Balchen4) 116 26 30 35 25 109 22 29 34 24 Other3) -138 -38 -27 -39 -33 -114 -27 -29 -28 -29 Group 616 109 168 197 142 639 145 186 182 126 Investments5) MECA2) 17 5 2 2 8 20 5 6 5 4 Mekonomen Nordic 80 26 17 19 18 44 20 6 11 7 Sørensen og Balchen 3 1 0 1 1 4 1 0 1 1 Other3) 3 1 0 2 0 2 0 1 0 1 Group 103 33 19 24 28 70 27 14 17 13 EBITA margin, % MECA2) 14 11 12 17 16 16 16 18 18 11 Mekonomen Nordic 14 11 17 16 13 15 14 17 15 14 Sørensen og Balchen 16 16 16 17 13 15 12 16 18 14 Group 13 10 14 15 12 14 13 16 15 12 EBIT margin, % MECA2)4) 13 10 11 16 15 14 13 17 17 11 Mekonomen Nordic 13 10 16 16 12 14 13 17 14 13 Sørensen og Balchen4) 16 16 16 17 13 15 12 16 18 14 Group 11 8 12 13 10 12 11 14 13 10 Quarterly data, Group6) Total revenue 5,761 1,447 1,405 1,527 1,382 5,390 1,373 1,340 1,387 1,290 EBITA 726 138 196 224 169 763 184 214 210 156 EBIT 616 109 168 197 142 639 145 186 182 126 Net financial items -22 0 -15 -9 2 -19 -3 -12 -1 -4 Profit after financial items 594 109 154 188 144 620 142 174 181 123 Tax -164 -32 -42 -50 -39 -153 -40 -38 -44 -31 Profit/loss for the period 430 76 111 138 105 466 102 135 137 92 Gross margin, % 55 54 56 55 55 56 56 55 55 56 EBITA margin, % 13 10 14 15 12 14 13 16 15 12 EBIT margin, % 11 8 12 13 10 12 11 14 13 10 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK 11.77 2.14 3.01 3.74 2.88 12.80 2.87 3.69 3.74 2.50 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK 0.00 0.03 0.00 -0.02 -0.01 -9.46 -7.55 -0.49 -0.75 -0.67 Earnings per share, SEK 11.77 2.17 3.01 3.72 2.87 3.34 -4.68 3.20 2.99 1.83 Shareholders’ equity per share, SEK 59.7 59.7 58.4 56.9 61.0 57.5 57.5 65.0 60.9 64.6 Cash flow per share, SEK 12.2 5.4 4.3 3.8 -1.3 11.5 5.0 3.2 5.4 -2.0 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 20.0 20.0 20.9 21.9 21.3 20.6 20.6 18.3 17.2 16.6 1) Net sales for each segment are from external customers. 2) As of 1 January 2015, store operations in Denmark are presented as discontinued operations and therefore are not included in the MECA segment; comparative figures have been recalculated. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, refer to Note 34. EBITA for Q4 2014 and full-year 2014 was positively impacted in an amount of SEK 11 M due to re-allocation of costs for IT systems regarding the discontinued Danish operations. Impairment losses on intangible fixed assets had a corresponding negative impact and the effect on EBIT was therefore neutral. 3) “Other” consists of the Parent Company Mekonomen AB (publ), M by Mekonomen (discontinued in the third quarter of 2015), the purchasing company in Hong Kong, Meko Service Nordic, joint venture in Poland (InterMeko Europa), the associated company Automotive Web Solutions AB, Mekonomen Group Inköp AB (as of June 2015) and group-wide operations and eliminations. Mekonomen AB’s operations mainly comprise Group Management and finance management functions. 4) Acquisition-related items attributable to Mekonomen AB’s direct acquisitions have been re-allocated from the MECA and Sørensen og Balchen segments to “Other”; the comparative figures have been recalculated. Current acquisition-related items are amortisation of acquired intangible assets regarding the acquisitions of MECA and Sørensen og Balchen, which were reversed in EBIT for these segments and instead recognised in EBIT for Other. Consolidated EBIT is unchanged. 5) Investments do not include company and business combinations. 6) All amounts and key figures refer to the continuing operations except cash flow. For information on financial definitions, refer to page 83. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 81 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Annual General Meeting The shareholders of Mekonomen Aktiebolag (publ), corporate identity number 556392-1971, are hereby invited to attend the Annual General Meeting at 3:00 p.m. on 12 April 2016 at Cirkus, Skandiascenen, Djurgårdsslätten 43-45, Stockholm, Sweden. Registration for the Annual General Meeting will open at 2:00 p.m. Registration Financial calendar 2016–2017 Shareholders wishing to participate the Annual General Meeting must: Information Period Date • be registered in the shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear Interim report January–March 2016 11 May 2016 Sweden AB not later than 6 April 2016, and Interim report January–June 2016 26 August 2016 • notify the company of their intention to attend the meeting no later Interim report January–September 2016 11 November 2016 than 6 April 2016. Year-end report January–December 2016 15 February 2017 Notification may be given via the company’s website, www.mekonomen.com. Notification may also be made in writing to Årsstämma i Mekonomen Aktiebolag, c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, PO Box 7842, SE-103 98 Stockholm, Sweden or by phone + 46 8 402 90 47 between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Investor relations contacts weekdays. Notification must include the shareholder’s name and personal identity number or company name and corporate identity number, address, Magnus Johansson telephone number and the number of any assistants accompanying the President and CEO shareholder to the Meeting (maximum of two). Mekonomen AB Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 Nominee-registered shares E-mail: magnus.johansson@mekonomen.se In addition to notifying their attendance, shareholders who have nominee-registered shares through a bank or other nominee must temporarily re-register Per Hedblom the shares in their own name in the shareholders’ register by 6 April 2016 in CFO order to be entitled to participate in the Annual General Meeting. ShareholdMekonomen AB ers should notify their nominees of this well in advance of this date. Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 E-mail: per.hedblom@mekonomen.se Proxies Shareholders who are represented by proxy must issue a written and dated Helena Effert power of attorney for their proxy. If the power of attorney is issued by a Head of Investor Relations legal entity, copies of authorization documents (certificate of registration Mekonomen AB or similar) must be enclosed. To facilitate registration at the Annual General Mobile: +46 72 234 29 58 Meeting, the power of attorney, in original, and any authorization documents E-mail: helena.effert@mekonomen.se should be sent by post well in advance of the Annual General Meeting to the following address: Årsstämma i Mekonomen Aktiebolag, c/o Euroclear Analysts Sweden AB, PO Box 7842, SE-103 98 Stockholm, Sweden. Proxy forms are The analysts below continuously monitor Mekonomen. Please note available for download from company’s website: www.mekonomen.com. that these analysts’ estimates, forecasts or other opinions do not represent Mekonomen or its company management. Dividends The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 7.00 (7.00) per share to the Annual Name Company General Meeting. The Board proposes Thursday, 14 April 2016 as the record Andreas Lundberg ABG Sundal Collier day for the dividend. If the Annual General Meeting adopts the proposal, the Fredrik Villard Carnegie dividend is expected to be paid on 19 April 2016. Robin Santavirta Handelsbanken The final day for trading the company’s shares including the right to Stellan Hellström Nordea dividends is Tuesday, 12 April 2016. Erik Paulsson Pare to Securities Stefan Cederberg SEB Printed Annual Report Mats Liss Swedbank Printed Annual Reports will be distributed only to shareholders requesting them approximately one week before the Annual General Meeting. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 82 GLOSSARY Glossary and definitions Financial definitions Shareholders’ equity per share Sales in comparable units Return on shareholders’ equity Shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling interests in Sales in comparable units comprise external sales in majoriProfit for the period, excluding non-controlling interests, relation to the number of shares at the end of the period. ty-owned stores, wholesale sales to partner stores, external as a percentage of average shareholders’ equity excluding sales in majority-owned workshops and Internet sales. non-controlling interests. Cash flow per share Cash flow from operating activities in relation to the Sales to customer group Affiliated workshops Return on operating capital average number of shares. Sales to affiliated workshops and sales to proprietary Operating profit as a percentage of average operating workshops. capital. Net debt Current and long-term interest-bearing liabilities for borSales to customer group Consumers Return on total capital rowing less cash and cash equivalents, meaning excluding Cash sales from proprietary stores to other customer Profit after net financial items plus financial costs as a pensions, leasing, derivatives and similar obligations. groups than the above, as well as the Group’s e-compercentage of the average total assets. merce sales to consumers. Net debt/equity ratio Capital employed Net debt divided by shareholders’ equity including Sales to customer group Other workshops Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities and non-controlling interest. Sales to business customers that are not affiliated to any provisions including deferred tax liabilities. of Mekonomen Group’s concepts, including sales in the Sales per employee fleet operations. Return on capital employed Sales relative to the average number of employees. Profit after net financial items plus interest expenses as a Comparable units percentage of average capital employed. Sales growth Stores, majority-owned workshops and Internet sales that Increase in the total revenue as a percentage of the total have been in operation for the past 12 month period and Equity/assets ratio revenue of the previous year. throughout the entire preceding comparative period. Shareholders’ equity including non-controlling interest as a percentage of total assets. Operating capital Concept workshops Capital employed less cash and cash equivalents and Affiliated workshops. Gross margin short-term investments. Net sales less costs for goods for resale, as a percentage Group companies of net sales. Interest-coverage ratio The MECA, Mekonomen Nordic and Sørensen og Profit after net financial items plus interest expenses Balchen segments. EBIT margin divided by interest expenses. Operating profit (EBIT) as a percentage of total revenue. PIM Company-specific definitions Product Information Management system. EBITA Affiliated workshops EBITA after depreciation according to plan but before Workshops that are not proprietary owned, but conduct ProMeister amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets. business under the Group’s brands/workshop concept Mekonomen Group’s proprietary brand for high quality (Mekonomen Service Centre, MekoPartner, MECA Car spare parts with five-year warranties. EBITA margin Service, BilXtra and Speedy). EBITA as a percentage of total revenue. Spare parts for cars Proprietary stores Parts that are necessary for a car to function. EBITDA Stores with operations in subsidiaries, directly or indiOperating profit before depreciation/amortisation and rectly majority owned, by Mekonomen AB. Partner stores impairment of tangible and intangible fixed assets. Stores that are not proprietary, but conduct business Proprietary workshops under the Group’s brands/store concepts. EBITDA margin Workshops with operations in subsidiaries, directly or EBITDA as a percentage of total revenue. indirectly majority owned, by Mekonomen AB. Accessories for cars Products that are not necessary for a car to function, but Earnings per share Fleet operations enhance the experience or extend use of the car, for Profit for the period excluding non-controlling interests, Mekonomen Group’s offering to business customers example, car-care products, roof boxes, car child seats, etc. in relation to the average number of shares. comprising service and repairs of cars, sales of spare parts and accessories and tyre storage. Underlying net sales Sales adjusted for the number of comparable working days and currency effects. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 83 ADDRESSES Addresses Mekonomen Group MECA Scandinavia Postal address: Postal address: Box 19542 Box 9225 SE-104 32 Stockholm, Sweden SE-200 39 Malmö, Sweden Visiting address: Visiting address: Solnavägen 4, 10th floor, Stenåldersgatan 27, Malmö, Sweden Stockholm, Sweden Tel: +46 40 671 60 60 Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 E-mail: info@meca.se E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.meca.se www.mekonomen.com Mekonomen Sweden Postal address: Box 19542 SE-104 32 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Solnavägen 4, 10th floor, Stockholm, Sweden Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.mekonomen.se Mekonomen Norway Postal address: Postboks 524 Bedriftsenteret NO-1411 Kolbotn, Norway Visiting address: Rosenholmveien 25, NO-1414 Trollåsen, Norway MECA Scandinavia Tel: +47 66 81 76 90 E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.mekonomen.no Sørensen og Balchen Postal address: Postboks 134 Holmlia NO-1203 Oslo, Norway Visiting address: Rosenholmveien 12, NO-1252 Oslo, Norway Tel: +47 22 76 44 00 E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.sogb.no Mekonomen Group’s 2015 Annual Report was produced by Mekonomen Group in cooperation with Narva. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet, Mölndal, 2016. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 84 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2015 86
