Engineering: people’s work Annual Report 2015 Breda The Netherlands Lent The Netherlands Engineering: people’s work Annual Report 2015 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In 2015, Witteveen+Bos N.V. undertook steady pace in 2015, particularly international2016. No major changes are expected in the numerous challenging projects in all parts ly. The office we opened in Ghana in connecfinancing of our company in 2016. of the world, thus helping to solve major tion with the WASH project (Water, Sanitation social challenges. Most of the domestic & Hygiene) was given permanent status after We performed a materiality analysis in 2015 markets in which Witteveen+Bos operates completion of the project. We have noted in order to obtain a clear picture of the conare stable, while the international markets many exciting challenges and opportunities tribution that Witteveen+Bos can make to offer opportunities for growth. The organfor growth in this West African nation. We also achievement of the SDGs. The results showed isation has grown from 977 to 1,056 emopened a new office in London that will focus that Witteveen+Bos can achieve the greatployees, revenue has increased from 119 specifically on providing advice for cycling est impact through its projects. Karin: ‘One million to 130 million euros, and in 2015 infrastructure projects. The city has major moof the external stakeholders we interviewed we realised a sound net profit of 14.3 milbility and liveability issues which we can help remarked that Witteveen+Bos achieves far lion euros. Directors Karin Sluis and Henk to address. In 2015 the Belgian firm MAVA greater impact through its consultancy and Nieboer look back on a successful year. AES, with a staff of 50 professionals providing design activities than through its operational environmental and soil consultancy services, processes. The analysis also showed that our Karin: ‘In 2000, the United Nations adopted the joined Witteveen+Bos. This merger will enable professional competencies and knowledge UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). us to broaden and deepen our environmental position are essential to generate impact, and Among other things, these goals are aimed at expertise. We expect our international growth that we can contribute to employment and eradicating poverty, improving public health, to continue in the coming period. Most growth economic development through sustainable and ensuring environmental sustainability. In opportunities for the engineering industry are growth.’ 2015 the UN observed that a lot of work recurrently found outside the Netherlands, for inmains to be done, although great strides have stance in emerging markets in Asia and Africa. The materiality analysis has prompted us to been made in the past fifteen years. SevenBut I would also like to emphasise once more further develop our non-financial key perforteen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that the Netherlands is and will remain our mance indicators and expand their use. The have therefore been defined that are aimed at “home base”, where we will continue to work application of our six sustainable design prinensuring a socially, ecologically and economion projects of all sizes to gain valuable expericiples remains a key focus area. In 2015 we cally sustainable world by 2030.’ ence and further develop our expertise.’ included in our Quality Manual a commitment to apply these principles in all our projects Henk: ‘As an international engineering and With the projects it worked on in 2015, Witworldwide. ‘Our concern for sustainable develconsultancy firm, Witteveen+Bos wants to teveen+Bos realised a total turnover of 130 opment is not confined to our projects’, Henk make an effective contribution to the attainmillion euros, representing an 8.8 % increase continues. ‘Staff regularly visit colleges and ment of these goals through our projects. For compared to 2014. Growth was mainly schools to talk about their work, while initiainstance, we seek to make clean water and achieved through international projects. Our tives such as the Discovery Centre and Girls sanitary facilities available to all, design safe total revenue outside the Netherlands rose Day bring young people into contact with variand sustainable cities, ensure sustainable to 50 million euros in 2015, and is for the ous aspects of technology. And every year we production and consumption, and protect ecofirst time associated with substantial foreign present the Witteveen+Bos Art+Technology systems and biodiversity. Furthermore, togethcurrency risks. These risks are reduced by Award to an innovative artist. This year’s winer with other companies we can play a key role concluding contracts in euros or US dollars as ner was Renzo Martens, who is collaborating in achieving the objective of economic growth far as possible, by entering into contracts with with us to promote economic growth through and employment for all.’ subcontractors in the same currency, and by art and technology in the Democratic Republic agreeing arrangements about compensation of the Congo, one of the world’s poorest counThe projects that Witteveen+Bos worked on with clients. tries.’ in 2015 clearly demonstrate our contributions to the realisation of the SDGs. In Kazakhstan, The growth of the organisation and the inKarin concludes: ‘We are pleased to inform for instance, we designed a treatment plant creasing number of large projects are resulting readers about our work and results in 2015. for the recycling of production water for oil and in increased pressure on our working capital. For the first time we have combined our Angas consortium NCOC. In Belgium we worked We therefore devoted extensive attention to nual Report and Corporate Responsibility on the Oosterweel Link, a tunnel that will comproject management in 2015. In 2015 we also Report, providing an integrated overview of plete the ring road around Antwerp and thus decided to introduce a new accounting and our financial and non-financial performance. improve accessibility and reduce air pollution project administration system, which will be For us, good financial results are not so much and noise nuisance in the city. Towards the end implemented in 2016. All our staff worldwide a goal in themselves as they are a necessary of 2015, the Witteveen+Bos-designed ‘Room will start working with this system in 2017. precondition to do our real job: contributing for the River’ project in Deventer was completThe system will enable project leaders to gain to the achievement of the SDGs through our ed. Additional room was created for the IJssel more insight into working capital, and provide projects. This report also includes interviews River in order to decrease the risk of flooding them with additional tools to limit expenditure. with the members of four project teams, who in the city, while providing additional scope for explain with enthusiasm how they have connature development and recreation. The City Our growth also means that Witteveen+Bos tributed to these goals. After all, an engineer’s of Amsterdam commissioned us to produce a has qualified as a “large” company for several work is all about people.’ design and supervise the performance of work years now. We expect the organic growth of for the renovation of a number of historic quay the company to continue in the coming years. Deventer, the Netherlands, 8 March 2016 walls, to ensure that the city remains safe and In 2015 we therefore made preparations for Board of Directors of Witteveen+Bos N.V. attractive for local residents and tourists. the establishment of a Supervisory Board. The members will be appointed during the General Karin Sluis Henk: ‘Our company continued to grow at a Meeting of Shareholders to be held in April Henk Nieboer 2 3 CONTENTS 6 Mission, vision and strategy 8 Objectives 10 Interview with project team for ‘Room for the River’ 14 Built Environment 16 Deltas, Coasts and Rivers 18 Energy, Water and Environment 20 Infrastructure and Mobility 22 Interview with project team for NCOC water treatment plant 26 Notable projects in 2015 29 Summarised annual results 2015 30 Notes to the annual results 2015 31 Financial key figures 2015 32 Personnel key figures 2015 41 Social performance indicators 2015 44 Personnel key figures 2015 46 Interview with project team for Damrak quay wall 54 Interview with project team for Oosterweel Link 58 Stakeholder panel 10 22 20 38 4 14 19 46 54 52 58 5 MISSION, VISION EN STRATEGY The world faces many challenges: flood risks, ongoing urbanisation and the depletion of natural resources, to name but three. As an international engineering and consultancy firm, we are keen to make a contribution to resolving these issues by placing our expertise at the service of society. In this way we can help to realise the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Mission We have a clear mission statement: ‘Witteveen+Bos offers its clients value-added consultancy and top-quality designs for water, infrastructure, environment and construction projects. We use our highend expertise to resolve complex issues and are a committed partner for our clients. We attach great importance to our independence and to our corporate culture, which allows all our employees to excel, utilise their talents to the full, and maximise value for clients.’ Vision Witteveen+Bos is an engineering consultancy that seeks to offer the very highest level of quality, because we believe that a commitment to excellence is key to developing sustainable solutions for today’s challenges. We aim to be very good at what we do. Our staff are experts in their respective disciplines and pursue ongoing innovation. We work with expert partners and maintain a culture of entrepreneurship and trust. Clients Both publicand private-sector clients call on us to help resolve the challenges they face. We provide advice to contractors, engineering and architectural firms, energy and water companies, railway and port authorities, and industry. In the public sector, we work for national governments, water boards, and provincial and local authorities. Our activities cover the entire chain, from policy-making and design to contracting and supervising the performance of work. We aim to establish long-term relationships with our clients that enable us to meet their needs and expectations as effectively as possible while delivering maximum added value. Organisational structure Witteveen+Bos has nearly 1,100 employees, based in six cities in the Netherlands and more than ten international offices in other countries. All are close to our clients, projects, partners and the employment market. Over 30 small organisational units the Product-Market Combinations or PMCs are responsible for contract management and acquisition. These PMCs are clustered into four business lines: Built Environment; Deltas, Coasts and Rivers; Energy, Water and Environment; and Infrastructure and Mobility. This organisational structure enables staff from various disciplines and different countries to work closely alongside each other, thus ensuring that our knowledge and experience are readily available worldwide. 6 Knowledge and innovation Talent development and growth Leading expertise is essential in order to By making the best possible use of everyone’s devise sustainable solutions to complex chaltalents, we can maximise our contribution to lenges in the field of water, infrastructure, the solving global challenges. Witteveen+Bos environment and construction. Witteveen+Bos wishes to help all employees (and potential maintains excellent contacts with educational employees) achieve their full potential and reand knowledge institutions. We also organise alise their dreams and ambitions. Our human various internal and external meetings, such resources strategy is geared towards allowing as lab sessions and symposia, to encourage all staff to gain experience in challenging the development of new knowledge and to projects and to take advantage of various promote innovation. In our projects, we contraining opportunities. New staff take part in sciously address the impact of our decisions an induction programme, while the majority on people and society. of management positions are filled by means of internal promotion. For many years, WitteSustainable design principles veen+Bos has applied a strategy of organic In our projects we apply our six sustainable growth. This has enabled us to maintain our design principles, which are based on the identity and independence, while bolstering UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. They employees’ sense of involvement and enhelp us to promote sustainability in practice gagement. by: Aiming to develop nature-inclusive and Human rights, employment conditions and climate-proof designs business ethics Applying the Trias principle to develop Witteveen+Bos endorses the ten principles sustainable solutions of the United Nations Global Compact. Our Applying an approach that considers the Company Code states that ‘assignments in entire supply chain contravention of national and international Pursuing optimisation of functions laws and regulations will not be accepted’. We Recognising the importance of participation support and respect the protection of internaby stakeholders and end-users tionally proclaimed human rights, and devote Devoting attention to social sustainability as due attention to safe and healthy working a guiding principle in the design process conditions for employees. Our Company Code prohibits forced and compulsory labour in our operations. Witteveen+Bos endorses the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We will not engage in bribery and we will not accept any assignment which has been assigned to us on dubious grounds. The Employee Regulations provide employees with clear guidance on our policy in this area. An Integrity Committee oversees compliance with our Company Code and employees can contact a confidential adviser (appointed by the Board of Directors) to report any issues or dilemmas. Witteveen+Bos has been makSustainable collaboration ing active efforts for years to help eliminate The issues we tackle are becoming increasdiscrimination in respect of employment and ingly complex. To devise sustainable solutions occupation. to these challenges, our staff work in multidisciplinary project teams alongside colleagues Ownership from various backgrounds. Good cooperation Witteveen+Bos has a noteworthy ownership is essential, both within the company and with structure. An employee share ownership external partners. In many cases, cooperation system was introduced in 1992 whereby the has been formalised in strategic alliances or company is wholly owned by its staff. This joint ventures with other leading consultancies arrangement provides a major incentive for and complementary organisations. Examstaff engagement and entrepreneurship. We ples include Tunnel Engineering Consultants strive to maintain a sound financial basis and (TEC), Railinfra Solutions (RIS), and the Strastable profit levels to safeguard long-term tegic European Expertise Network (SEEN). continuity. Each year, 100 % of the net profit Witteveen+Bos is also an active member of is disbursed through a profit-sharing scheme EcoShape and Duurzaam GWW, a consortifor all employees and dividend distribution to um of government authorities, private-sector all shareholders. This reflects a central tenet organisations and research institutes workof the Witteveen+Bos philosophy: everyone ing on sustainable solutions in the fields of within the company contributes to our suchydraulic engineering and road and railway cess, and hence everyone should derive the construction. benefits of that success. 7 OBJECTIVES Witteveen+Bos wants to provide added to society through its projects (GRI G4-20 and value to society. Good financial results are 21). In our projects we factor in aspects like a precondition enabling us to do our real climate change, future re-use (chain approach / job: devising solutions for challenges in the circular economy) and the efficient and sustainfields of water, infrastructure, the environable use of materials. We also contribute to the ment and construction. We therefore manrestoration of natural habitats, an affordable, reage our activities based on financial as well liable and sustainable energy supply, protection as non-financial performance indicators. of the environment, and human well-being. We are supported in our efforts by the application of Financial targets our six sustainable design principles in our proA financially healthy company is essential to jects. In 2015 we performed a baseline survey the long-term continuity of our operations. Our among project leaders to gain more insight into first financial Key Performance Indicator (KPI) the extent to which these design principles are is growth: we aim for our workforce and revenue actively applied in our projects. In late 2015 we to grow at an annual rate of 3 to 5 %, so that we included a provision in our Quality Manual statcan offer attractive career opportunities to more ing that the sustainable design principles are to people and help more clients in addressing the be applied in all our projects. issues they face. Our performance in 2015 was well above this KPI target, as the size of our We also provide added value to society in other workforce increased by 8.1 % while our reveways. In 2015, for instance, Witteveen+Bos nue grew by 9.2 %. Our second financial KPI director Henk Nieboer in 2015 accepted a concerns our profit margin: to ensure sufficient non-company position as director of EcoShape. scope for innovation and other new developIn this role, he will focus on the practical appliments, we aim to realise a net profit margin of cation of the ‘Building with Nature’ approach at least 8 %. As in previous years, we more than and sharing of expertise. Together with a numsucceeded in achieving this target in 2015 with ber of other parties, Witteveen+Bos is a partica net profit margin of 11.1 %. ipant in S-Sharing.com, a web-based platform devoted to ‘making sustainability measurable’. Non-financial targets In addition, one of our employees serves on the Our non-financial targets are classified into board of the UN Global Compact Network for three categories: the Netherlands. Witteveen+Bos is also a parProjects ticipant in the Human Cities Coalition. People Operations We have identified the following KPIs for 2016: A properly substantiated discussion of the six In 2014 we defined a number of KPIs for these Witteveen+Bos sustainable design principles categories. We report on our performance in must be included in all project plans, in accoraccordance with the G4 guidelines of the Globdance with the Quality Manual. al Reporting Initiative (GRI). Further information Fifty project leaders must participate in at on our application of the GRI G4 guidelines may least one internal ‘garage session’. These sesbe found on page 43 of this report. A number of sions are held at least five times per year and the relevant indicators are explicitly mentioned focus on fleshing out and applying the design in this report (GRI G4-22). In 2015 we perprinciples in our projects. formed a materiality analysis to “flesh out” our At least 50 external customer assessments KPIs. Suppliers, clients, business partners, civof project results must be conducted, focusing il-society organisations and other internal and on the extent to which application of the susexternal stakeholders jointly selected our KPIs tainable design principles has added value for in the categories Projects, People and Operasociety. We aim for an average score of at tions (GRI G4-18 and 19). The relevant targets least ‘satisfactory’. have been adjusted and approved by the Board At least one ‘garage session’ is to be of Directors. The CSR team periodically producorganised where our main subcontractors are es management information in order to monitor informed about and involved in the application whether the required performance levels are of the six sustainable design principles by being achieved. As in previous years, we conWitteveen+Bos. sulted a panel of stakeholders and asked them to review this combined Annual Report and People Corporate Responsibility Report (GRI G4-24, Developing top talent is another key objective 25 and 26). The panel’s feedback may be found of Witteveen+Bos (GRI G4-20 and 21). We are on page 58. committed to training and developing top talent, promoting diversity, and ensuring an adequate Projects inflow of technical professionals. We pursue The materiality analysis clearly showed that these aims by providing ‘learning and coaching Witteveen+Bos provides the most added value on the job’, supporting career development op8 portunities for female employees, and involving young people in our work. In 2015 we increased the number of job performance interviews, with 522 Witteveen+Bos employees attending such interviews in the Netherlands. In 2015 we appointed a female staff member as location head of our office in The Hague. We also organised a wide range of activities for pupils and students, including a workshop on ‘Girls Day’ where a group of forty girls aged between 10 and 15 were given an opportunity to create their own design for the ZuidasDok project in Amsterdam. The Works Council represents the interests of all employees of Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende Ingenieurs B.V. A number of new Works Council members were elected in mid-2015. The Council devoted attention to the theme of ‘working in the future’, and has requested input from employees who are closely involved in internationalisation through a posting abroad. We have identified the following KPIs for 2016: Job performance interviews are to be held with at least 80 % of all employees who have been with the company for one to two years, and with at least 50 % of all employees who have worked at Witteveen+Bos for two to ten years. A ‘Talent Development Score’ will be included in all job performance reviews. Employees can use this metric to indicate whether they have been given every opportunity to utilise and develop their talents. We aim for an average score of at least ‘satisfactory’. Every year, we will organise at least three events aimed at the general public. We aim for female staff members to account for 25 % of future partner appointments, a male-female ratio that corresponds to the ratio among new colleagues joining the company. The increase in the number of interns and final-year students must at least keep step with the growth of our company. We organise at least five business courses for students per year. Operations Our third social objective concerns reducing the environmental impact of our own operations (GRI G4-20 and 21). We seek to achieve this aim by promoting sustainable business travel and the reduction of CO2 emissions throughout the supply chain. In 2015 our CO2 Awareness Certificate was extended at Level 5 of the CO2 Performance Ladder of the Foundation for Climate-Friendly Procurement and Business (SKAO). We have identified the following KPIs for 2016: The reduction in CO2 emissions from our own operations must be in line with our general target of 30 % emissions reduction by 2020 compared to the reference year 2007. We will engage in dialogue with our five main suppliers about achieving CO2 emissions reduction throughout the supply chain. We will maintain our CO2 Awareness Certificate at Level 5 of the SKAO CO2 Performance Ladder, and obtain certification in accordance with our new Quality Manual 3.0. 9 INTERVIEW 10 ‘Room for the River’ programme The Netherlands Hydraulic engineers are working in Kampen on a shared goal: a fine and safe IJssel delta that provides space for recreation and where local residents are kept dry. To the team, it is less important who their formal employer is. Boundaries between client, contractor, cooperating partners and the general foreman have blurred in the old school that has been turned into the nerve centre of Room for the River Kampen. ‘To be a team, you must see each other’ 11 from left to right: Gert Jan Koppelman, Engbert van der Weide, Alice van de Werfhorst, Joost Lansink, Richard de Boer, Rob Lohrmann and Robin van Alphen There were numerous highpoints ures are being taken to improve work obviously requires an integral Lohrmann, project leader on bein Room for the River projects in water safety and spatial quality. approach to design and construchalf of Witteveen+Bos, says: ‘My 2015. The secondary channels in The River IJssel is being deeption, with due attention to integral role is to make sure that the best Nijmegen-Lent were delivered, the ened and the floodplains reconfigsafety, archaeology and ecology. Witteveen+Bos team works on the floodplain digging near Meinersured. A bypass is being built south Stakeholders in the surroundings project. It’s a question of continuwijk/Arnhem and the spur lowering of Kampen to form a link between are being actively involved by local ously finding out internally who is on the River Waal were finished the River IJssel and Drontermeer area management. The way of best suited to doing what needs to and Room for the River Deventer Lake. It consists of new dikes sepworking in this project is special: be done and who is available for was delivered. Witteveen+Bos had arated by a channel and a nature the Room for the River Kampen the job, continuously liaising with a hand in all of these projects. spot. Various civil engineering team moved into a previously unthe contractor group about manWork was also performed in 2015 works like locks, a bridge, a head occupied school in 2015. Clients, power requirements and, last but on ensuring the safety of the river gate and pumping stations are contractors and foremen totalling not least, making sure that everyarea in Veessen-Wapenveld and also being constructed, while the around 100 people now work body enjoys working on this terrific Kampen. Follow-on work will be road network and water managealongside each other. So the comproject.’ Richard de Boer, design carried out there at Kampen in the ment in the area are undergoing position of the team and cooperaleader on behalf of Boskalis withcoming years. A variety of measthorough renovation. All of this tion are important subjects. Rob in the Isala Delta project, adds: 12 ‘You can’t fail when you have a team behind you’ ‘We try to mould a team, to draw soapbox session where the proabout what they need from me in colleague.’ Rob adds: ‘It’s also a from the best colleagues of all the ject manager keeps everybody a design. It works a lot better way of letting younger colleagues partners. In terms of knowledge informed of the status of the prowhen you can drop in on each develop. Through this close coland skill, Witteveen+Bos is a ject. Together we celebrate sucother instead of e-mailing and laboration, they experience the good agency, one in tune with the cesses and milestones and there phoning back and forth or schedproject from A to Z. They see that drive of Boskalis to deliver a solid is also time to hear about personuling a formal appointment. We taking initiative has its rewards: piece of work. But I have to say al news.’ According to Robin, one can immediately get down to you get opportunities but you are that here in Kampen it makes of the reasons for the sense of business with each other.’ Workalso allowed to make mistakes. absolutely no difference who teamwork is that everybody is ing together in one building is a Then you solve them a team, beworks for whom, because togethworking in one and the same logical choice, says Richard. ‘To cause you can’t fail when you er we are one team.’ Robin van building. ‘I work on temporary be a team, you must see each have a team behind you!’ Alphen, a Witteveen+Bos designstructures, on such matters as other. You discover sooner toucher, continues: ‘We share with temporary work floors and water points between different tracks each other the progress throughmanagement. It’s great to be able within the project and people are out the project. Every Tuesday to consult directly with the work able to learn easier from the afternoon during lunch there is a planners, foremen and surveyors knowledge of their immediate 13 BUILT ENVIRONMENT Resilient and sustainable cities The Built Environment business line plans and designs resilient and sustainable urban areas. As the world’s population and the proportion of people living in urban environments continues to grow, economic, cultural and recreational activities are increasingly clustered in and around cities. This process of urbanisation whether planned or not may greatly strain the quality of life in urban areas. Measures are therefore required, particularly to address challenges relating to water management, drinking water supplies, air quality, heat stress, accessibility, noise nuisance, and the conversion of areas and buildings for other uses. We take a comprehensive view of design projects in urban environments. The challenges of the future require ongoing innovation and familiarity with new technologies. This applies to such developments as climate adaptation, the use of sustainable materials, energy efficiency, and 3D modelling. Projects aimed at creating healthy and resilient urban areas must consider a wide range of aspects, from complex area redevelopment to the conversion of individual buildings, and from master planning to site supervision of civil engineering projects. + Exporting knowledge of cycling With its Dutch roots, Witteveen+Bos has ample knowledge of cycling and cycling infrastructure. Examples of exports of our cycling knowledge include a master class on cycling infrastructure in Latvia and speeches at conferences in Singapore and Kuala Lumpur. There is considerable interest in our cycling expertise in other countries as well and in our home country, for example in the Apeldoorn-DevenSeveral locations Worldwide ter express cycling route. + Replacing foil construction in Doornboslaan Reconstruction of the railway underpass in Doornboslaan is progressing robustly. This is a highly challenging project because of the method of construction, right in the centre of the city nearby railway lines. The project includes replacing the oldest civil foil construction in the Netherlands. Construction is being undertaken according to the U-polder principle, whereby the new foil construction will be placed under water in an excavation with vertical sheet piling. + Helping frame the Environment and Planning Act With the introduction of the new Environment and Planning Act, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment is endeavouring to improve and simplify local planning laws in the Netherlands. The Ministry has engaged Witteveen+Bos and AT Osborne Consultants & Managers to indicate how subjects contained in ministerial regulations under local planning law can be re-divided into a smaller number of new regulations and which possibilities exist to accomplish the improvements being pursued through the overhaul of the system. 14 Breda The Netherlands Various locations The Netherlands 15 Cotonou Benin Kampen The Netherlands 16 DELTAS, COASTS AND RIVERS Safety in delta regions Our Deltas, Coast and Rivers business line focuses on the challenges encountered wherever land meets water. We adopt an integral approach that takes safety, nature, economic development, liveability and sustainability into account, with the overall aim of ‘living with water’. To this end we design ‘soft’ solutions such as dunes and wave-absorbing embankments as well as ‘hard’ hydraulic engineering structures like dikes, pumping stations, locks and ports. Our work increasingly focuses on anticipating potentially hazardous situations, since prevention rather than cure (reconstruction after the event) allows resources to be used more efficiently. The interplay between land and water plays a key role in delta regions. Safety is by no means guaranteed here. The natural characteristics of a delta, with its low-lying areas and significant natural values, can be difficult to reconcile with the interests of urbanisation and economic development. Witteveen+Bos works to find answers to the challenges of living and working in a delta region. We do so throughout the world, applying the latest insights in delta technology, flood safety, ecology, hydraulic engineering and water management. Our expertise is in demand in countries with major deltas, such as Bangladesh and Indonesia. + Port Master Plan The existing port at Cotonou lacks efficiency, among other things because an outdated quayside, fragmentation of the port site and cumbersome procedures. Witteveen+Bos and Maritime & Transport Business Solutions B.V. are working on a master plan to configure and use the present port more efficiently, and its possible enlargement to facilitate the expected doubling of transhipment to approximately seventeen millions tons. + Putting up dikes New dikes are being built around Reevediep for the Room for the River Kampen project. The dikes must assure the safety of local residents at high water. The dikes are being made of sand brought up for the lowering of the low water bed of the River IJssel. The sand will be sprayed on from spraying quays and then put in place by bulldozers. + Improving infrastructure The infrastructure that connects the northern side of the Caspian Sea with the oil-rich inland regions is limited at Volkerak-Zoommeer The Netherlands present. Following the successful completion of the first phase consisting of designing an access canal, a transhipment port and a connecting dam to a central terminal site with associated facilities, a start was made in the second phase on the detailed engineering of the project. 17 ENERGY, WATER AND ENVIRONMENT Health, economy and sustainability The Energy, Water and Environment business line is dedicated to assuring safe and liveable areas with the sustainable use of water, energy and raw materials. Our projects help to ensure the availability of sufficient clean water, efficient and low-energy production processes, a healthy living environment and a robust ecosystem. This work facilitates economic development in tandem with good living conditions. We deploy our knowledge worldwide from a strong home base in the Netherlands, where we hold a leading position in water and environmental projects. At various places in Africa and Asia, we are helping to create reliable, safe drinking water supplies and sanitation. Deployment of our expertise in water treatment, re-usage and asset management in the oil and gas industries is reducing the need for water and increasing production. Our leading position in environmental technology in the Netherlands enables us to put forward solid solutions worldwide for tackling the waste problem and remediating contaminated areas. Sentosa Island Singapore + Improving bay water quality Sentosa Development Corporation is considering turning Palawan Beach into a closed lagoon in order to improve water quality. After reviewing the design, Witteveen+Bos concluded that the proposed measures had been insufficiently validated to be able to guarantee water of good quality. in a follow-up project, we examined the ecological and hydro-morphological functioning of the bay in order to optimise the design. + Reducing ammonia emissions To protect nature the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment is stimulating the development of innovative cattle housing systems that reduce emissions of ammonia. Witteveen+Bos examined possibilities for optimising the method used to determine the emissions, with the aim of establishing a broadly supported protocol for follow-up measurements. + Managing water safety information The Water Information House is a co-operative venture of Rijkswaterstaat, water authorities and provincial governments. Witteveen+Bos was involved in streamlining and standardising the information about water safety. Various programmes and projects are gathering and analysing information about this subject. The Water Information House and Witteveen+Bos structured all of the information flows to enable optimum sector-wide cooperation. 18 Amersfoort The Netherlands Various locations The Netherlands 19 Rødbyhavn Denmark Lent The Netherlands 20 INFRASTRUCTURE AND MOBILITY Growing demand for mobility The Infrastructure and Mobility business line supports our clients in improving accessibility and mobility by devising sustainable, safe and economical solutions for all transport modalities. In all project phases, we provide advice on infrastructure, underground construction, tunnel safety, railway infrastructure, road construction, and traffic and transport. Our comprehensive approach and leading expertise enable us to offer the best advice and make us an effective collaboration partner. Following major investments in the past few decades, a slight shift is visible in the Netherlands from building infrastructure to managing and maintaining assets. Witteveen+Bos also devotes extensive attention to developments such as ‘timetable-free’ train services and wireless inductive charging systems for electric vehicles. Elsewhere in the world, notably Various locations The Netherlands in South East Asia, South America and Central America, ongoing urbanisation is creating an increased demand for all types of infrastructure, including bridges, tunnels, and various underground facilities. + Extending the Waal Bridge Traffic has been driving over the Extended Waal Bridge since June 2015. The bridge is part of the Room for the Waal project, for which Witteveen+Bos provided the engineering. The post-tensioned concrete bridge cast in situ is 280 metres long, with two lanes on each side of the road. The bridge is an extension of the historical Waal Bridge between Nijmegen and Lent that dates from 1936. + Creating Fehmarn Belt, the longest immersed tunnel Through a collaborative venture called Tunnel Engineering Consultants (TEC), Witteveen+Bos is involved in designing and preparing the contract for an immersed tunnel 18.5 km long between Denmark and Germany. The new tunnel will reduce travel time by at least 30 minutes. The tunnel is a combined road and rail link and will be the world’s longest immersed tunnel. + Ensuing safety and security of civil engineering works For the IMPAKT project, Witteveen+Bos, RHDHV and Pilz are working on improving the functional safety and security of almost all critical civil engineering works in the infrastructure in the Netherlands, all of which are also being inspected. Some 1600 packages of measures have already been drawn up and work is in full swing. IMPAKT is a Dutch acronym for ‘booster programme for tackling critical engineering infrastructure’. 21 INTERVIEW 22 NCOC waterplant Kazakhstan Creating a Front-End Engineering Design (FEED) for an industrial wastewater treatment plant in a short period of time that was the challenge posed by oil and gas company NCOC to Witteveen+Bos. The teams in Atyrau and Deventer were happy to tackle the project head-on. Together they developed a design for a treatment plant that maximises reuse of production water. ‘Everyone was given an opportunity to grow’ 23 from left to right: Michel Bretveld, Azadeh Rahimpour, Hans Smit, Debbie Sprakel, Arjen van Nieuwenhuijzen and Chris Roose North Caspian Operating Comtion of demineralised water and professional experience but also in Atyrau, or at the customer’s pany (NCOC) treats wastewater steam. The installations will be loat their personalities. We knew office.’ Hans’ Kazakh colleague produced by its oil and gas procated in a new facility that will be the work would be challenging Daniyar Kaliyev worked on the cessing plant, which is located heated in a sustainable manner and would be carried out under project in Atyrau as a mechanical 40 km east of the city of Atyrau in in winter, using the heat released considerable time pressure, so engineer. He draws attention to Kazakhstan. The plant processes by the power supply. Project manwe took personal qualities and the exchange of knowledge inoil and gas supplied by pipelines ager Hans Smit was responsible skills into account.’ Because the volved in the project: ‘The team from drilling platforms in the for assembling the team. ‘After project was carried out by a joint members learned a great deal Caspian Sea. Every day, the new the contract was awarded to us, Kazakh-Dutch team, ‘exchange’ from each other. Everyone had plant will treat over 7,000 m3 of we first examined which experand communication were importheir own role of course, but we stripped sour water and a brine tise was required and how many tant themes. ‘We devoted particualso made every effort to share flow using innovative treatment people we would need during the lar attention to ensuring that the knowledge. In this way you can methods, including membrane different stages. In putting togethteam worked at the same physical make it clear to the entire team technology. The resulting clean er the extensive project team, location during key stages of which link you form in the chain, water can be used for the producwe looked not only at people’s the process: either in Deventer, so to speak. I gained a great deal 24 ‘Everyone is proud to be contributing to this project’ of professional knowledge and approaches, and we provide them contributing to this project. That ed as a team and we also took was also able to enhance my with opportunities to contribute to creates a bond, helped by the fact some steps to encourage that by personal skills as the leader of the project under the guidance of that we worked in the same locaholding a joint kick-off, organising the local engineering team and an experienced engineer.’ Hans is tion as much as possible. In this exchanges between the Neththe link between the colleagues backed up by his colleague Azaway, you can immediately see the erlands and Kazakhstan, and in Atyrau and Deventer.’ Knowldeh Rahimpour, who helped to impact that your work has on your celebrating project milestones edge development was a key perform the hydraulic calculations colleagues, so you can help each together. There was a clear drive element in the project. Hans: ‘We in the Netherlands: ‘Everyone was other and resolve any issues to complete this project according believe that experienced and given an opportunity to grow, and together.’ Hans also noted the to schedule and to a high level of seasoned colleagues should work to learn from the different steps in sense of team spirit: ‘We worked quality.’ together with young and more the process. We always resolved together very closely. It was great flexible employees. This allows any difficulties as a team.’ ‘I’ve noto see that colleagues stayed on us to make use of each other’s ticed there is a real sense of team to chat on Friday afternoon after strong points. We challenge the spirit’, Azadeh continues. ‘For a week of hard work, instead of younger colleagues to try out new a start, everyone is proud to be going home. We definitely bond25 PROJECTS IN 2015 Norway 2 projects Sweden 12 projects Denmark 4 projects United Kingdom 2 projects Netherlands (6 offices) Belgium 3,059 projecten (2 offices) 547 projects Austria 1 project Croatia 3 projects Portugal Italy 1 project 2 projects United States 5 projects Egypt 1 project Niger Jamaica Saint Lucia 2 projecten 1 project 5 projecten Aruba Curacao 6 projecten 8 projects Nigeria Colombia 2 projects Ghana 5 projects 6 projects Congo 1 project Brazile 7 projects Angola 1 project Chile 1 project 26 Finland 1 project Russia Latvia 4 projects 17 projects Lithuania Germany 1 project 8 projects Romenia 5 projects Georgia Kazakhstan Montenegro 2 projects (3 offices) Albania 1 project 35 projects 1 project Azerbaijan Turkey 4 projects Japan Cyprus 6 projects 2 projects Jordan 2 projects Palestine 1 project 2 projects China 6 projects Qatar Dubai 5 projecten Bangladesh 8 projects Hong Kong 5 projecten Oman 1 project 1 project Saudi Arabia 3 projects India 9 projects Vietnam 9 projects Philippines 5 projects Benin Sri Lanka 1 project South Sudan 1 project 1 project Malaysia 3 projects Seychelles Singapore Burundi 1 project 5 projects Kiribati 1 project 1 project Tanzania Indonesia 1 project 57 projects Comores 1 project Mozambique 3 projects South Africa 1 project Offices Witteveen+Bos 27 Markermeer The Netherlands 28 SUMMARISED ANNUAL RESULTS 2015 Consolidated balance sheet (before profit appropriation) 31 december 2015 31 december 2014 ASSETS Intangible fixed assets 1,448 829 Tangible fixed assets 14,818 14,800 Financial fixed assets + 3,807 2,360 Fixed assets 20,073 17,989 Work in progress 8,762 9,266 Accounts receivable 26,972 28,047 Cash and cash equivalents + 6,429 11,748 Current assets + 42,163 49,061 62,236 67,050 LIABILITIES Group equity 29,002 31,828 Provisions 4,755 4,601 Long-term liabilities 5,844 6,219 Current liabilities + 22,635 24,402 Total liabilities + 28,479 30,621 62,236 67,050 Consolidated profit-and-loss account 2015 2014 NET TURNOVER Net turnover including changes in work in progress 129,567 119,069 Costs Subcontracted work 34,006 26,164 Salaries and wages 46,797 44,078 Social security and pension premiums 11,544 11,036 Depreciation of (in)tangible fixed assets 1,780 1,702 Other operating costs + 15,897 15,901 110,024 98,881 OPERATING RESULT 19,543 20,188 Interest paid (on balance) 284 207 Result before taxation 19,259 19,981 Results of other participations 7 + 103 Result before taxation 19,252 20,084 (including other participations) Taxation 4,904 4,810 NET PROFIT 14,348 15,274 (amounts in thousands of euros) 29 NOTES TO THE ANNUAL RESULTS 2015 Criteria for summarising the annual results Independent auditor’s report This Integrated Annual Report contains the balance sheet To the Board of Directors of Witteveen+Bos N.V. and the profit-and-loss account of Witteveen+Bos N.V., as well as the general principles for preparing the consolidated The annual results for 2015 presented on page 29, which annual results. To obtain a complete insight into the assets comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 Decemand the results of Witteveen+Bos N.V., the reader is advised ber 2015, the consolidated profit-and-loss account and the to inspect the consolidated annual results for 2015 filed at accompanying notes, are derived from the audited financial the Trade Register of the Enschede Chamber of Commerce. statements of Witteveen+Bos N.V. for 2015. We expressed an unqualified audit opinion on those financial statements in Preparation of the consolidated annual results our report dated 8 March 2016. Those financial statements, The financial statements have been prepared in accordance and the summarised annual results, do not reflect the efwith Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. They are fects of events that occurred subsequent to the date of our based on historical costs, with the exception of buildings report on those financial statements (8 March 2016). and land, which are valued at fair value (i.e. replacement value or, if lower, the value in use). The summarised annual results do not contain all the disclosures required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Consolidation Reading the summary financial statements, therefore, is not Insofar as actual policy-making influence exists, subsidiara substitute for reading the audited financial statements of ies have been included in the consolidated annual accounts. Witteveen+Bos N.V. Joint ventures have been consolidated proportionately according to the share held in the company. Responsibility of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of Principles for the valuation of assets and liabilities a summary of the audited financial statements on the basis Land and buildings are valued at fair value (i.e. replacement of the principles described in the notes to the consolidated value or, if lower, the value in use). Fair value is determined annual results for 2015. on the basis of price indices and periodic valuations. Depreciation of fixed assets is based on the estimated economic Auditor’s responsibility life. Financial fixed assets include unconsolidated interests Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the summain participations and partnership firms. Participating interised annual results based on our procedures, which were rests are valued according to the equity method. Projects conducted in accordance with Dutch law, including the in progress for third parties are valued based on incurred Dutch Standard on Auditing 810 ‘Engagements to report on costs, plus the profit assignable to the performed projects, summary financial statements’. minus losses foreseeable at the balance sheet date. Profits for projects in progress are recognised based on the Opinion percentage of completion of the projects at the balance In our opinion, the summarised annual results for sheet date. Invoiced instalments for projects in progress 2015 derived from the audited financial statements of are deducted from the projects in progress. Trade accounts Witteveen+Bos N.V. for the year ended 31 December 2015 receivable included in receivables are recognised less a are consistent, in all material respects, with those financial provision for doubtful accounts. Provisions are created for statements, in accordance with the principles described in deferred tax liabilities, tax risks, warranties and claims, the notes to the consolidated annual results. deferred employee remuneration, and liabilities in respect of participating interests. Zwolle, 8 March 2016 Deloitte Accountants B.V. Principles for determination of the consolidated M.H.J. Klein Haarhuis RA financial result Net turnover and changes in work in progress include the services invoiced excluding value-added tax, and include the changes in work in progress. Revenues of projects are presented in proportion to the work completed. Salaries include remuneration paid to the Board of Directors. The pension obligations are valued according to the ‘valuation to the pension fund’ approach. 30 FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES Turnover (in thousands of euros) 2015 129,567 2014 119,069 2013 110,958 2012 99,386 2011 98,099 Operating result before interest and taxes (in thousands of euros) 2015 19,536 2014 20,291 2013 19,243 2012 12,456 2011 15,722 Net profit (in thousands of euros) 2015 14,348 2014 15,274 2013 14,160 2012 9,830 2011 10,393 Net profit margin (in %) 2015 11.1 % 2014 12.8 % 2013 12.8 % 2012 9.9 % 2011 10.6 % EBITDA (in thousands of euros) 2015 21,315 2014 21,993 2013 20,959 2012 14,281 2011 17,607 31 PERSONNEL KEY FIGURES Number of employees (as of 31 December 2015) 2015 1,056 2014 977 2013 967 2012 935 2011 924 Average number of staff in Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs) and male/female ratio* 2015 985 73 % male 27 % female 2014 899 71 % male 29 % female 2013 875 74 % male 26 % female 2012 860 75 % male 25 % female 2011 856 75 % male 25 % female * This is the male/female ratio worldwide (2011-2013: male-female ratio in the Netherlands only). Staff age distribution in 2015 (worldwide) 3 % is over 60 years of age 25 % is under 30 years of age 22 % is between 45 and 59 years of age 50 % is between 30 and Average age in 2015 (worldwide) 44 years of age 37.6 year Sick leave rate (The Netherlands) 2015 2.9 % 2014 2.7 % 2013 2.6 % 2012 3.3 % 2011 2.9 % Participation in employee share ownership scheme at 1 July 2015 16 % of shares held by participants (513) 62.1 % of shares held by senior partners (17) and premium partners (11) 21.9 % of shares held by partners (80) Internal price of Witteveen+Bos N.V. share at 1 July 2015 EUR 5.99 (EUR 5.59 at 1 July 2014) 32 + Giving an ecological lift to Markermeer Lake From an ecological point of view, Markermeer Lake is in a poor condition. Creating the Marker Wadden is a way of giving this area an ecological lift with space for recreational activities. Together with consortium partners, Witteveen+Bos developed for Rijkswaterstaat and Natuurmonumenten (the Dutch Society for Nature Conservation) an archipelago of nature islands and underwater landscapes. The construction work is being undertaken by applying the Building with Nature principle. + Restoring mangrove forests + Assessing environmental impact in Eemshaven Large parts of the mangrove forests on the north coast of Java have been cut down The municipality of Eemsmond is working out a new zoning plan to make way for fish ponds. This has caused extensive erosion because the coast for Eemshaven especially for logistical and energy-related activis no longer properly protected. Together with consortium partners, Witteveen+Bos ities. Witteveen+Bos produced the Environmental Impact Report developed a sustainable solution by applying the Building with Nature principle, i.e. (EIR). The south-east side of the port is being enlarged by more semi-permeable dams and bamboo piles with brush works between them. This allows than 180 hectares. An EIR will also be drawn up for this area, the mangrove forest to recover naturally and reassume the function of coastal defence. linked to a zoning plan. Demak Indonesia Eemsmond The Netherlands 34 + Planning the Blankenburg Link + Redevelopment of contaminated brownfield site Witteveen+Bos worked for Rijkswaterstaat on elaborating a plan for the BlankMAVA AES supervised the redevelopment of a brownfield site conenburg Link, a new motorway between the A15 Maasvlakte/Mainport Rotterdam taminated with chlorinated solvents, aromatics and minerals. The motorway and the A20 Westland/Haaglanden motorway. We cooperated in this contamination source zones were identified during the demolition project with wUrck and Rotterdam Engineering. A special feature of this project work using various methods including EnISSA (Enhanced In Situ was the integral approach: the knowledge of Rijkswaterstaat and Witteveen+Bos Soil Analysis), and were immediately excavated. The post-remediwas merged, especially in the fields of tunnel construction, road design, planning ation of the groundwater is carried out by means of biodegradation studies and local area management. (injection of a carbon source and a graft). Rotterdam The Netherlands Grobbendonk Belgium 35 + Developing energy and raw materials factories + Setting up smart crossroads The development of energy and raw materials factories has been driven by the wish to For the North Holland provincial government, we set up and oversaw be self-sufficient and to use raw materials as efficiently as possible. Energy factories fit a successful pilot project for vehicle detection techniques, making it in well with the principle of the circular economy, with biogas being produced at waste easier and cheaper to regulate traffic compared with conventional inwater treatment plants as a source of energy and residual substances like phosphorus ductive vehicle detection loops. Work has been speeded up on introbeing reused to the fullest extent possible. In 2015, Witteveen+Bos worked on energy ducing cooperative intelligent traffic systems (C-ITS) under the Better factories in countries including the Netherlands, Ghana and the Philippines. Usage project of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. Hengelo The Netherlands North Holland The Netherlands 36 + Creating a private port + Studying 3D concrete printer King Abdullah Port will be Saudi Arabia’s first completely private3D printing technology is commonplace for many everyday goods and is likely ly-owned port. The financiers engaged Witteveen+Bos in perforalso to play a significant role in the construction industry. The Eindhoven Unimance of the due diligence study into various contracts for what versity of Technology is conducting research into possibilities for using a conis planned to be the region’s largest port. The intended annual crete printer to print sustainable concrete structures. Witteveen+Bos is the only container transhipment volume will be 20 million TEU and the port engineering firm taking part in this project. The knowledge being acquired has will also have Ro-Ro and bulk terminal facilities. attracted attention as far away as Singapore. King Abdullah Economic City Saudi Arabia Eindhoven The Netherlands 37 + Identifying ship emissions + Designing the Stadsbaan Tunnel Hamburg is Germany’s largest port. Air quality in and around the city is greatly The Stadsbaan Tunnel opened on 1 December 2015. It is the city of affected by emissions caused by ships. To obtain a more accurate picture of ship Utrecht’s first tunnel and is intended to stimulate the growth of the emissions, Witteveen+Bos is cooperating with the Helmholtz-Zentrum Geesthcentral part of the Leidsche Rijn neighbourhood. Witteveen+Bos acht centre for materials and coastal research and the Port of Hamburg with a and Sweco produced the design for the 490-metre long tunnel, in view to implementing an emission model similar to the one already developed for accordance with the National Tunnel Standard. We also supervised the Port of Antwerp. work on the technical systems of the tunnel and commissioning. Hamburg Germany Utrecht The Netherlands 38 + Creating an overnight port for bargees + Advising on sustainable buildings in Kazakhstan’s service chain The Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment has decided Chagala Group has the ambition of becoming the most sustainable service chain that bargees must be able to stop for the night every 30 kilometres. in Kazakhstan. Witteveen+Bos is advising the company on the best way to achieve To meet this requirement, Witteveen+Bos is developing plans and this goal. We are elaborating an energy strategy, including recommendations for preparing the contract for a new overnight port. The port must the sustainability certification of buildings. The focus is on energy savings, using provide moorings for 17 inland vessels and the fleet of Giesbeek renewable energy sources (in accordance with the Trias Energetica principle) and bargees. reducing water consumption. Giesbeek The Netherlands Atyrau Kazakhstan 39 Prorva region Kazakhstan 40 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Energy consumption (worldwide)*** 2015 2014 District heating (hot water in GJ) 143 355 Gas consumption in office buildings (m3) 250,977 273,590 Use of company cars for business purposes (litres of fuel) 272,192 261,652 Use of company cars for business purposes (km)* 20,281 14,812 Use of company cars for commuting purposes (km)* 332,180 316,670 Electricity consumption (kWh) 1,591,193 1,732,911 Air travel (km) 8,705,177 7,941,327 Use of private cars for business purposes (km)* 3,240,101 3,408,089 Paper use (kg)** 33,081 45,784 Use of private cars for commuting purposes (km)* 2,633,642 2,434,895 Use of public transport (km) 7,125,765 6,762,392 * For our carbon emissions inventory, we use the following units: litres of fuel for the use of company cars for business purposes, kilometres for the use of hybrid cars for business purposes, and kilometres for the use of private cars for business and commuting purposes. ** This category only includes office paper; printed books and brochures are excluded. *** This is the total energy consumption of all Witteveen+Bos offices worldwide. The figures were calculated based on data collected for our offices in the Netherlands and Jakarta, Indonesia. The figures for the other offices have been extrapolated based on the data for the offices in the Netherlands and Jakarta. Emissions per scope in tonnes of CO2 (worldwide) 2015 2014 2007* Scope 1 Use of company cars for business purposes 832 789 628 Gas consumption 473 515 266 Subtotal for scope 1 1,305 1,304 894 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 10 10 981 Air travel 1,430 1,325 645 District heating 2 4 Use of private cars for business purposes 656 690 657 Subtotal for scope 2 2,097 2,029 2,283 Scope 3 Paper use 3.1 4.3 4 Use of private cars for commuting purposes 532 493 392 Use of public transport 314 298 280 Use of company cars for commuting purposes 64 63 91 Subtotal for scope 3 913 858 767 Total for Scope 1, 2, 3 4,315 4,192 3,944 * This footprint was calculated based on data for the Netherlands. 41 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Emissions per activity in tonnes of CO2 (worldwide) 7 % public transport <1 % paper 34 % business travel by car 11 % heating <1 % electricity 14 % commuting by car 33 % business travel by airplane Emissions per FTE in tonnes of CO2 (worldwide) 2015 985 4.38 2014 899 4.66 2007* 690 5.72 Number of employees (annual average in FTEs) Emissions per FTE * This concern emissions per FTE in tonnes of CO2 based on national FTE data. CO2-emissions reduction schedule up to 2020 (worldwide) 2020 30 % 2015 29 % 23 % 2015 18 % 2014* 14 % 2013* 2012 25 % 27 % 2012* 2011 17 % 18 % 2011* 2010 9.5 % 6 % 2010* Reduction planned compared to 2007 levels Reduction achieved compared to 2007 levels * This concerns the reduction in CO2 emissions achieved based on national data. 42 REPORTING IN ACCORDANCE WITH GRI G4 GUIDELINES Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility require Carbon footprint accountability. Witteveen+Bos adheres to the guidelines of The carbon footprint for 2015 has been calculated using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to ensure maximum conversion factors derived from the website transparency in our CSR reporting. Our Annual Report www.co2emissiefactoren.nl. The emissions of our interna2015 has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 tional offices have been included in the data for 2014 and guidelines. The GRI sustainability reporting guidelines were 2015 (GRI G4-23). The figures for the office in Jakarta are drawn up by the Global Reporting Initiative with the aim of based on collected data. The figures for the other offices making reporting on economic, environmental and social have been extrapolated based on the data for the offices in performance by all organisations as routine and comparathe Netherlands and Jakarta. The carbon footprint per FTE ble as financial reporting. The GRI has prescribed that all relates to all Witteveen+Bos employees worldwide. A reannual reports must meet the requirements of its G4 guideduction of 23 % in emissions per capita has been achieved lines (previously G3) as of 1 January 2016. In this chapter compared to the reference year 2007. On the whole, CO2 we discuss the six main indicators defined in the GRI G4 emissions due to commuting and business travel (including guidelines, in order to provide an overview of our perforair travel) continue to rise. Witteveen+Bos will take addimance in 2015 and how this performance was achieved. tional measures in 2016 in order to curb this increase. The full GRI index is available on our website at Employment www.witteveenbos.com/CR. The table provides an Our workforce (2015 average: 985 FTEs worldwide) forms overview of all the GRI indicators used. the basis for our sustained success. At 31 December 2015, Witteveen+Bos had 1,056 employees. In 2015 a total of Economic nine persons were employed under an on-call contract. Figures on our financial performance may be found in this The workforce may be classified according to employment Integrated Annual Report 2015. In 2015 Witteveen+Bos contract (temporary or permanent), employment type (fullinvested € 94,705 in various projects in the fields of sports, time or part-time), or country. This breakdown shows that education, health, renewable energy and culture (including a large majority (89 %) of the Witteveen+Bos workforce in the Witteveen+Bos Art+Technology Award). the Netherlands is employed under a permanent contract. The average length of service in the Netherlands was 7.6 Environmental years. We do not publish figures on our employee turnover Environmental protection entails more than just complying by region. The approximate breakdown of the total worldwith legislation and official regulation. We carefully manage wide workforce by gender was 73 % male and 27 % female. our environmental impact at all project stages, from The composition of our workforce in the Netherlands in business operations to the impact of our designs. To ensure terms of educational levels is 48 % with university degrees, a systematic approach in our business operations, we have 33 % with higher vocational qualifications, and 19 % with implemented an environmental management system based intermediate vocational and accounting qualifications. Witon international guidelines and standards. We apply teveen+Bos does not register composition of governance sustainable design principles to our products and services. bodies according to gender or age group. Witteveen+Bos does not register minority group membership. In our comMaterials pany, employees with a temporary contract and regular In 2015 Witteveen+Bos used 33,081 kg of photocopying part-time employees receive the same benefits as full-time paper. Although the paper does not contain any recycled employees. In the Netherlands, Witteveen+Bos has taken materials, it is FSC-certified and produced in a carbonout an accident insurance policy that provides life and disneutral manner in an integrated pulp and paper mill, where ability/invalidity coverage for all full-time and part-time emno fossil fuels but only natural fuels are used to meet the ployees. We also offer collective health insurance, pregnanremaining energy requirement. The paper is produced cy/paternity/parental leave and a company pension plan to using wood that originates from sustainably managed all full-time or part-time employees. The share ownership forests, and has been awarded the EU Ecolabel and the scheme forms an exception: participation in this scheme is Nordic Swan certificate. We encourage digital working restricted to employees with a permanent contract. methods in order to further reduce paper use. Witteveen+Bos has a system of in-company training Energy courses for its employees. Additionally, the company We use natural gas to heat our offices in the Netherlands. contributes financially to relevant external courses of The remaining direct energy consumption results from the study undertaken by employees and to external seminars, use of fuel by our vehicle fleet. The chapter ‘Objectives’ workshops and training sessions. As the different business describes a number of company initiatives aimed at segments have specific training needs and training prodeveloping energy-efficient or renewable-energy-based grammes that are not centrally managed, Witteveen+Bos products and services. is not able to report company-wide statistics on the annual average number of training hours. In 2015 Witteveen+Bos spent € 485,869 on leadership and employee development. 43 PERSONNEL KEY FIGURES Level of education (The Netherlands) 2015 48 % University 33 % Higher Voc-ed* 19 % Intermediate Voc-ed* 2014 46 % University 34 % Higher Voc-ed* 20 % Intermediate Voc-ed* 2013 45 % University 33 % Higher Voc-ed* 22 % Intermediate Voc-ed* 2012 43 % University 34 % Higher Voc-ed* 23 % Intermediate Voc-ed* 2011 43 % University 34 % Higher Voc-ed* 23 % Intermediate Voc-ed* * Voc-ed = vocational education In-company training and education and number of interns / final-year students (The Netherlands) 2015 2014 Number of employees who received in-company training or education 489 457 Money spent on training and education per employee (in euros) 559 544 Number of interns and final-year students 127 112 Employee turnover by age group and gender 2015 (worldwide) 2015 (NL) 2014 (NL) Employees leaving 100 69 77 Male employees leaving 59 48 47 Female employees leaving 41 21 30 Employees below the age of 30 leaving 24 12 17 Employees in the age of 30 to 45 leaving 58 43 48 Employees over the age of 45 leaving 18 14 12 Average number of years with the company 5,7 7,6 8,7 Total workforce by employment contract (temporary and permanent), employment type (full-time and part-time), and country (31 December 2015) 2015 2014 Full-time (The Netherlands) 548 529 Part-time (The Netherlands) 321 325 Fixed-term contract (The Netherlands) 93 91 Indefinite-term contract (The Netherlands) 776 763 The Netherlands 869 854 Belgium (including MAVA AES N.V. as of 2015) 66 13 Dubai 7 1 Indonesia 37 28 Kazakhstan 71 67 Latvia 8 8 Russia 3 2 Singapore 6 2 United Kingdom 2 + Tweede Vietnamfase voor transportroute 2 2 Na een succesvolle afronding van de eerste fase met advies over gronden baggerwerk voor het nieuwe kanaalof Total number vanemployees de Cargoworldwide Transportation Route is in 2015 gestart met fase 2 van het pro1,056 977 ject: de detailengineering voor de ontwikkeling van een haven en aansluitende transportroute, waarnaTotal hetworkforce in the Theen werk aanbesteed Netherlands (FTEs) gebouwd kan worden. 809 780 Total workforce worldwide (FTEs) 985 899 Prorva regio Kazachstan 44 + Starting second phase of transport route Following successful completion of the first phase with consultancy on earthwork and dredging for the new canal of the Cargo Transportation Route, phase 2 of the project got underway in 2015, namely the detailed engineering for the development of a new port and adjoining transport route, after which the work will be put out to tender and construction can begin. INTERVIEW Damrak quay wall The Netherlands Right in the heart of Amsterdam, opposite the central railway station, a new quay wall was constructed with a length of 160 metres. it was a challenging project, mainly because of the location and the numerous stakeholders. The ‘Wet Damrak’ project was completed early 2015, on time and within budget. Good cooperation within the team and with the client, partners and those in the immediate vicinity were key success factors in solving this aboveground and below-ground puzzle. ‘We were willing to go the extra mile for each other’ 46 47 ‘It’s about open communication, particularly also when something doesn’t go right’ The quay wall on Damrak was ed engineering challenges, not to for their boats. Local area managand indirectly involved stakeholdidentified as the number-one risk mention the numerous stakeholder Barbara Dopper puts it like this: ers were aware of the plans’, says for boring the tunnels of the new ers. For one thing, 60,000 people ‘Ensuring that all parties, from project manager Laurens Kalwij. North/South metro line, because walk down Damrak every day, contractor up and to including the ‘We had the feeling that we were the quay wall would possibly slip mainly commuters and tourists, Victoria Hotel, work well together doing and going for something into the water. It was the first civil going to and from Central Station. on a 3D postage stamp.’ It was together.’ The decisive role of the engineering work built above the The Red Carpet Project reconthe ultimate form of designing local area was reflected in the tunnels, posing all the accompafiguration of ground level above specifically for a particular place, choice of design, because severnying engineering challenges. the North/South Line was rolled with technology supporting the al variants with a big impact on The Witteveen+Bos team was out at the same time. The locals local area. Before work started on the local area proved unfeasible. asked to work on the project belive in an area where intensive the design there was dialogue Ultimately, five different forms of cause of experience gained with construction had been in prowith the stakeholders. A thorough construction with a limited impact the North/South line, quay walls gress for many years on the preparatory phase of one year on the surroundings were worked and collaboration with the City of North/South Line and a few canal proved worthwhile in the work out in 3D. ‘The integral design Amsterdam. The location presenttour operators have jetties there performance phase. ‘All directly was checked with a review com48 from left to right: Leonhard Schoot Uiterkamp, Laurens Kalwij, Tjeerd Kamerling, Barbara Dopper and Fabian Harbers mittee, which does not usually consisted of five Witteveen+Bos holders involved. Barbara did this according to plan with limited happen, so it underlines the imstaffers. Laurens: ‘It’s great to by ‘being soft for the local area inconvenience for all concerned.’ portance’, explains Laurens. He have a permanent group of peoand hard for the engineering’. It Barbara still vividly remembers was involved in the project right ple who are right there on top of boiled down to making allowance the moment she saw there was a from the start as the ‘engineering the job. It allows you to get things and showing understanding on sense of shared responsibility. conscience’ and describes Wet done for each other if necessary.’ the one hand and ensuring fulfil‘We talked a lot to the canal Damrak as being akin to ‘his Asked about the decisive factor ment of the hard engineering arcruise operators in order to mitichild’. Laurens and Barbara within the team, he says: ‘There rangements on the other. There gate the inconvenience caused learned a lot from each other, was great awareness of the was a lot of consultation with the by our work. We were willing to go from their team members and shared goal and we were able to client (City of Amsterdam), local the extra mile for each other. from the cooperating partners. communicate with each other residents, businesses and the Among other things we took care More than forty Witteveen+Bos openly. That’s particularly useful cooperating partners. Looking of the furnishing of the temporary specialists played a role in prewhen something doesn’t go right.’ back, Laurens says: ‘It’s fantastic jetties and they helped us move paring and carrying out the Wet While work was in progress, it that the puzzle fitted together and the scaffolding it was truly a terDamrak project. The core team was important to keep the stakethat by and large everything went rific moment.’ 49 + Developing a driving simulator for interactive road design + Performing a landfill soil survey Witteveen+Bos wants to be absolutely sure that its road designs are safe and The former Ald Dwinger landfill is situated in an ecologically understandable for road users. Drawings and visualisations are not enough to valuable area called De Alde Feanen. It used to be a peat extraction provide this guarantee. Witteveen+Bos developed a compact mobile driving siarea and a waste site. For the provincial government of Friesland, mulator that even in the design phase makes it possible to drive across planned Witteveen+Bos performed an updated and risk-oriented soil new sections of roads. What makes the driving simulator unique is the real-time survey. The results are being used as building blocks for the future connection to computing software for traffic simulations. remediation and the management of the nature area. Various locations The Netherlands Earnewoude The Netherlands 50 + Advising on artificial islands + Redeveloping a railway station area To provide housing for the growing number of inhabitants, Witteveen+Bos is The City of Leeuwarden engaged Witteveen+Bos to prepare the contract for the advising on land reclamation for artificial islands in Jakarta Bay. Seventeen modernisation of the railway station area. We also drew up plans for performance islands have been planned and in 2015 we were involved in the construction of the work for the public spaces and oversaw the call for tenders. The design of two islands of 300 hectares each. Following completion of the flood must highlight the specific nature and unique identity of the station area for 2018, defences and configuration of the polders configured, these two islands when Leeuwarden will be Europe’s Capital of Culture. provide housing for approximately 85,000 people. Leeuwarden The Netherlands Jakarta Indonesia 51 + Modernisation of IJsselmeerdijk wind farm + Strengthening a dike Utility company Nuon wants to modernise the existing IJsselmeerdijk wind farm. The Wadden Sea dike on the island of Texel does not satisfy safety The company therefore commissioned Witteveen+Bos to identify the main water standards and needs to be strengthened. Witteveen+Bos produced the safety risks of the planned new wind turbines, as well as the associated failure environmental impact report, final design and the dike strengthening plan. frequencies. Witteveen+Bos and Nuon jointly presented the findings to the This reinforcement is one of the larger projects in the Flood Protection Zuiderzeeland Regional Water Authority. Nuon will use the information to further Programme in which central government and flood defence managers are develop its strategy for the modernisation of the IJsselmeerdijk wind farm. working together to protect the Netherlands against flooding. Swifterbant The Netherlands Texel The Netherlands 52 + Advising on museum climate control systems + Increasing water safety The climate control systems at the Kröller-Müller Museum had reached the end of The city of Barisal is prone to flooding due to high river discharges, their economic and technical life. To properly preserve the museum’s valuable works of cyclones and extremely heavy rainfall. The impact of flooding will art, Witteveen+Bos provided advice, in association with engineering and consultancy increase enormously because of climate change and the growing company Dijkoraad, on replacement of the systems. This was a complex project, population. In a consortium with Ecorys and Twijnstra Gudde, because while the climate control systems were being replaced the museum had to Witteveen+Bos advised on sustainable measures for increasing remain open to the public. water safety in the city. Otterlo The Netherlands Barisal Bangladesh 53 INTERVIEW Oosterweel link Belgium Work is in progress at Antwerp in Belgium on the Oosterweel Link, one of Europe’s largest infrastructure projects at present. The link will complete the Antwerp ring road and improve traffic flow and the embedding of the existing ring road. The Oosterweel Link is a key element in the City of Antwerp’s ‘Master Plan 2020’. The plan calls for additional road infrastructure, various public transport projects, additional cycle paths, and water-related infrastructure works. ‘Working together on the best solution’ 54 55 ‘Putting together a good team is crucially important’ Back in 2012, Witteveen+Bos es, including the Oosterweel juncopen trench. For the left bank, the the support of all stakeholders and teamed up with Sweco (formerly tion, or the connection between the project consists of an immersed with careful embedding in the local Grontmij) in a temporary trading Scheldt tunnel and the stacked tunnel under the River Scheldt and area. An awful lot has to be done enterprise called ‘ROTS’ to take tunnel under the docks and the reconstruction of the two motorway within a tight very tight schedule. on a contract from BeheersmaatAlbert Canal (the canal tunnel), intersections in the E34 and E17, Building up a good relationship schappij Antwerpen Mobiel (BAM with slip roads for the port and the including various smaller civil engiwith the client and putting together N.V.) for studies into creating the north of Antwerp. The contract inneering works in the project area. a good team are matters crucially Oosterweel Link on the right bank. cludes construction of the canal As project manager, Joop van de important to the success of the A contract for the left bank followed tunnel, which will be a stacked Velde is responsible for the Left project.‘ Awareness of the cultural in June 2015. For this purpose, tunnel with two lanes on each side Bank and Scheldt Tunnel subdifferences that exist is very imporWitteveen+Bos and Sweco estabof the road from the Oosterweel project. ‘As you can imagine, the tant. Dutch and Belgian colleagues lished THV ATLAS. The combinajunction to the R1. The final piece total project will have a big impact. of Witteveen+Bos are working on tion of the two contracts made the of work will be to reconstruct the Everybody who has ever driven the project. Jantien Geerling, contwo engineering firms responsible R1, involving removal of the presaround the Antwerp ring road will tract manager for the right bank, for the entire study for completion ent viaduct at Merksem and parknow what problems there are. Our says: ‘This made it likely that we of Antwerp’s ring road (the R1 motially placing the R1 below ground job is to solve the problems, enawould encounter some cultural torway).The major project on the where it crosses the Albert Canal, bling everybody to drive pleasuradifferences. My task in the manright bank poses various challengwith a second stacked tunnel in an bly along the city, while retaining agement team is to ensure fulfil56 from left to right: Frank Kaalberg, Bart Adriaens, Marc van Put, Christiaan Loeber, Anne-Caroline Kiekens, Jantien Geerling, Ad van der Velden, Sander ten Pas, Nikolaas van Empel, Aryan Snel and Joop van de Velde ment of the contract with BAM, to progressed, we’ve learned to design, the idea came about of learn an awful lot and take on provide a financial overview and make good use of these differhaving a stacked cut-and-cover more and more responsibility to control the project budget. Durences. Everybody has his own tunnel instead of the originally within the project.’ ‘I also think it’s ing meetings I notice that our Belparticular strength!’ envisaged immersed tunnels,’ very important that we are able to gian colleagues interpret certain Besides the combination of culsays Jantien. ‘By thinking out of do fun things together after work,’ items in the contract far more tures, the combination of the difthe box and drawing on everyadds Joop. ‘We work very hard. precisely and act accordingly. ferent specialised disciplines is body’s expertise, this solution Many colleagues are away from They are also able to formulate indispensable in both projects. enabled us to save hundreds of home the entire week and stay in more precisely. The Flemish lanThe projects require expertise in millions for the client and at the a hotel. So after a long day at guage is rich and has greater multiple disciplines, including same time produce a sustainable work there must occasionally be depth. I keep a list of all the lovely geo-engineering and geo-hydroldesign within the requirements time to take part in some sport, Flemish sayings. Many Dutch ogy, immersed tunnels, landimposed by the local area. It’s go out for a meal with each other colleagues are now using them as scape integration, ecology, tunnel terrific to see how experienced or get to know the city.’ well, particularly when there is not safety, hydraulic engineering project managers with knowledge an equally good Dutch equivalent. works, and traffic and tunnel inof other major projects like the We the Dutch can be far more stallations. ‘At an initial brainNorth/South Line in Amsterdam direct, and that sometimes comes storming session, where we are working alongside young colin useful as well. As work has looked for ways of optimising the leagues who are thus able to 57 STAKEHOLDERPANEL For the fifth year, Witteveen+Bos has asked a panel of external stakeholders to provide balanced and impartial feedback on our sustainability performance and our CSR reporting practices, and to make appropriate recommendations for improvement (GRI G4-27). Main points The stakeholder panel appreciates the steps that Witteveen+Bos has taken to prepare this clear combined Annual Report and Corporate Responsibility Report for 2015, as well as the company’s aim to produce a full Integrated Annual Report for 2016. We compliment the company on the materiality analysis it has performed, which looked at the main areas impacted by the company’s activities. Witteveen+Bos has defined KPIs for three main categories: Projects, People and Operations. The panel is very interested in the results that Witteveen+Bos will achieve in 2016, and the extent to which the defined targets will be achieved. Purpose, target group and main message It remains important for Witteveen+Bos to carefully consider the purpose and target group of its Annual Report and the main message(s) to be conveyed. The panel recommends the company to avoid jargon as far as possible, and to explain why certain choices have been made. The report makes frequent mention of ‘principles’ and ‘objectives’. Providing references to places where these principles and objectives are explained will make it even clearer to readers how Witteveen+Bos has arrived at certain decisions. Clearer reporting on targets Clearer information should be provided on Witteveen+Bos’ efforts to achieve its financial and non-financial (CSRrelated) objectives. Show the past, current and target situation, using appropriate visuals where possible. It may be useful to include a separate chapter on objectives following the chapter on the company’s vision, mission and strategy. This will make Witteveen+Bos’ contribution to society even clearer. Structure of the report The different chapters and sections of the report should be integrated more closely. The panel recommends creating clearer connections between the chapter on mission, vision and strategy and the descriptions of the various projects, for instance by linking these to Witteveen+Bos’ sustainable design principles. We also recommend providing explanatory introductions to the various visuals and tables. The report includes a large number of ‘good intentions’, which will be conveyed with greater force if the different sections of the report are integrated even more closely. Deventer, the Netherlands, 9 February 2016 2016 stakeholder panel Ruud Sprock (Senior Sustainability Consultant, C2N) Harmen Kievit (coordinator of Arcadis-KNHM CSR programme) 58 59 Text Witteveen+Bos Layout and design Houdbaar Printed by Te Sligte-Olijdam Photos and illustrations Anando Art Es Bobeldijk Koos Boertjens Teun van den Dries Femern.com Foster + Partners City of Leeuwarden GMB Wilmar Photography lko Images Liselotte Kolthof Vladimir Mucibabic Geo Oplaat Dirk Ott Directorate-General for Public Works and Water Management Shutterstock image database Kees Stuip Femke Teusink T.W. van Urk Hilko Visser Vista Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning Fonger de Vlas Witteveen+Bos Witteveen+Bos N.V. Van Twickelostraat 2 P.O. Box 233 7400 AE Deventer The Netherlands t +31 570 69 79 11 f +31 570 69 73 44 e info@witteveenbos.com i www.witteveenbos.com Enschede Trade Register no. 55094503 WE SUPPORT 60 IJsselmeerdijk The Netherlands Hamburg Germany www.witteveenbos.com
