DLG GROUP CSR REPORT 2015 CONTENTS FOREWORD 3 WHAT DID WE PROMISE IN 2015 AND WHAT WERE THE RESULTS? 4 GOALS FOR 2016 6 ABOUT DLG 8 HOW ARE WE WORKING WITH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT DLG? 12 SCOPE AND REPORTING PRINCIPLES 14 DLG’S CSR ORGANISATION 17 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 18 FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY 21 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT 24 DIVERSITY 28 WORKING ENVIRONMENT 32 ANTI-CORRUPTION 34 FOREWORD Welcome to the DLG Group’s third CSR Communication on Progress. As one of the largest agricultural compagress report, known as a Communication changes to our CSR organisation. In nies in Europe, DLG plays an important on Progress (COP). This is our COP, in 2016, our focus will be on continued optirole as both purchaser and supplier of which we publish our goals and our acmisation of our reporting methods, raw materials, crops, feed and other intions in CSR, whilst at the same time dewhilst the implementation of the groupputs in the first stage of production of scribing the areas where we hope to prowide policies will also be a high priority. foodstuffs. Together with our foodstuffs gress over the course of the coming year. companies and energy business, this We are pleased and proud to be able to means that we have a central position in A company’s work in social responsibility confirm, by way of this progress report, the Danish and European agriculture and must be measured by its concrete our continued support of the UN Global foodstuffs cluster. This also means that ­ actions. Over the coming year we will Compact. we as a company have a social and envitherefore continue working to further inronmental responsibility. tegrate social and environmental responsibility in our business areas, strateIn 2012, we adopted the UN’s Global gies and policies and set new goals for Compact, which is an international initiathe individual business units. tive with ten principles focusing on corDLG EXECUTIVE BOARD porate responsibility. As part of the 2015 was yet another eventful year rich in KRISTIAN HUNDEBØLL Global Compact, DLG is working to imlessons for our work in social and environ­ (CEO) plement the principles in human rights, mental responsibility. Over the course of KIM BALLE labour rights, environment and anti-corthe year, we put special focus on devel(CFO) ruption in the group’s daily operations. oping a series of group-wide policies in LARS SØRENSEN At the same time, we are committed to the form of a new “Supplier Code of (COO) actively communicating the group’s CSR Conduct” and a new diversity proOLE CHRISTENSEN activities and results in an annual programme. We have also made some (COO) KRISTIAN HUNDEBØLL, KIM BALLE, LARS SØRENSEN OG OLE CHRISTENSEN DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 3 WHAT DID WE PROMISE IN 2015 AND WHAT WERE THE RESULTS? RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY FOOD PRODUCT CROSS-SECTORAL GOALS CHAIN MANAGEMENT SAFETY AND QUALITY √ Continue to expand common ac√ Identify challenges for responsible √ Initiate discussions internally within counting principles for CSR data for supply chain management within the group regarding policy for crisis use in the report, including data on the most important raw materials. management and product recall energy, employees and supply Products will represent business chain management etc. areas feed, vitamins and minerals, √ Focus on responsible supply chain crop production, foodstuffs, DLG management as part of ISO 22000 √ Continue an expanded dialogue on Energy, and PlusGoods. and other certifications CSR with our stakeholders √ Improve data collection and repor√ Continue to participate in the deting for CSR initiatives in our value velopment of the new ISO 22000 chains. feed standard √ Continue to analyse and evaluate √ Focus on matching market and conour value chains based on the critesumer expectations with respect to ria in the UN Global Compact. certification and documentation √ Continue the productive and con√ Implement a new and reinforced instructive dialogue with our suppliternal auditing system in DLG Food ers on raw materials, such as soy √ Maintain focus on formulation and √ Work to promote use of DLG’s charimplementation of relevant KPIs for ter for sustainable soy production food product safety and quality in the group’s various business areas √ Support the common European initiatives in FEFAC for the purpose of stimulating more sustainable global soy production √ Support the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) √ Initiate the development of a groupwide Code of Conduct for the DLG Group 4 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 EMPLOYEES, WORKING ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION ENVIRONMENT AND DIVERSITY √ Initiate development of a common √ Implement our new anti-corruption ÷ Strengthen procedures for recorpolicy for resource efficiency focupolicy ding of near miss incidents. The sing on energy and environment goal is to capture at least 50 inci÷ Communication and training initiatidents so we can derive lessons from √ Systematise knowledge-sharing and ve for managers and relevant each individual case best practice employees √ Strengthen collaboration on wor√ Introduce LEAN principles in all king environment initiatives with units within the group as a tool to Sweden and Germany optimise and reduce waste in the organisation. √ Elect a woman to DLG’s board of directors by no later than 2018 √ Reduce consumption of primary energy source by 2 per cent in all √ Like 2014, focus on communication business units. Each unit must state and information regarding women their primary energy sources and in management and diversity, such present an action plan. as through the Group’s intranet, employee meetings and employee newsletter √ Continue sending participants to the CBS Executive course “Leading Women” √ Strive for equality in our recruiting of new employees √ Formulate job adverts so they appeal to both men and women √ Initiate work to develop a concrete diversity strategy slated to start in 2016, with a broader perspective on diversity than gender, including, for example, facets such as religion, culture, ethnic background, and sexual orientation. DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 5 GOALS FOR 2016 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT ! Continue to analyse and evaluate our value chains based on the criteria in UN’s Global Compact. ! Implementation of the FEFAC Soy Sourcing Guidelines as a basis for purchasing sustainable soy for the Danish market. – Present the FEFAC Soy Sourcing Guidelines to stakeholders and partners in Farming & Food and their member companies – Work towards the development of a common purchasing policy for sustainable soy for the Danish market – Purchase up towards 10% of DLG’s soy consumption in accordance with the minimum requirements in the FEFAC Soy Sourcing Guidelines ! Implement DLG’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers in the most essential suppliers within the individual business areas of the DLG Group. ! Support the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) 6 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY RESOURCE EFFICIENCY PEOPLE IN DLG ! Continue to develop the crisis ma! To expand and apply LEAN princip! Continue implementation of and nagement and product recall policy les throughout the entire group training in our anti-corruption poliwith respect to resource optimisaticy. ! Continue to focus on responsible on. Optimisation follow-up is carsupply chain management as part ried out through KPI reporting ! Continue on-going implementation of ISO 22000 and other certificatiand awareness building of DLG’s ons ! 2 per cent reduction in primary working environment initiatives. energy source consumption in all ! Implement the requirements in ISO business units. Each business unit ! Elect a woman to DLG’s board of di22002-6 Feed and Animal Food Promust state their primary energy rectors by no later than 2018. duction in Danish feed production sources and present an action plan to reach this goal. ! Ensure a pipeline of female talents ! Continue to focus on matching marby striving to maintain at least 1 woket and consumer expectations with ! Develop and incorporate a comman on the list of candidates in rerespect to certification and documon policy for resource efficiency cruiting mentation focusing on energy and environment in “Strategy 2020” ! Increase the percentage of female ! Continue to implement a new and managers in Denmark and Sweden reinforced internal auditing system ! 5 per cent reduction in movement to 25 per cent by no later than 2018. factor This development should prefe! Maintain focus on formulation and rably be reflected in the highest leimplementation of relevant KPIs for vels of the group’s management. food product safety and quality in the group’s various business areas ! Cultivate an inclusive working environment through training in diversity and inclusion ! Measure and follow up on employee views on diversity in the annual employee satisfaction surveys to maintain focus on an inclusive work environment DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 7 ABOUT DLG DLG is a legally independent unit. The • Work for the benefit of farmers by encompany’s business name is Dansk Landsuring members the best possible brugs Grovvareselskab a.m.b.a. The production economy through both company is a cooperative with limited lianational and international activity bility, a.m.b.a., based in Axelborg in Copenhagen. The company’s purpose is to: The DLG Group is one of Europe’s largest agricultural companies. The DLG • Acquire farm supplies for members at Group has gone from being a purely optimal quality Danish cooperative to an international • Process and sell members’ commergroup with 40 subsidiaries in more than cial crops 20 countries. • Support members with an extensive array of services and tools RUSSIA NORWAY FINLAND SWEDEN BALTICS ENGLAND POLAND GERMANY HUNGARY FRANCE part of SPAIN 8 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 HaGe Foderm ix Storm øllen Scand agra Svens Polska ka Calcia liment Foder Vitfoss Premi Farm S x& upply Nutriti PUAI on Vilofo Russia ss DLG a.m.b Vilofo .a Deutsc Polan ss he d Vilom ix Land & Scand Fritid agra Servic e & Ene Mach rgy DLG F in ood Flowe ery, rs and Food Team AG GASA Group Kongs kild Industr e ies IN 2015, THE GROUP HAD A TURNOVER OF APPROX. DKK 55 BILLION. THIS MAKES THE DLG GROUP ONE OF EUROPE’S LARGEST AGRICULTURAL CHINA COMPANIES. DLG NOW REALISES THE MAJORITY OF ITS BUSINESS ON THE INTERNATIONAL MARKET. DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 9 CROP CULTIVATION EXPORT SERVICE & ENERGY ANIMAL NUTRITION FEED 10 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 ABOUT DLG DLG has approximately 7,500 employees, 3,000 of whom are based in Denmark. Germany is the group’s largest market. Germany is also the largest in terms of employees. Approximately 3,800 employees work in the three largest German subsidiaries: HaGe, Team AG and Deutsche Vilomix. DLG’s three strategic business areas include Farm Supply, Premix & Nutrition and Service & Energy. As a group, DLG has many different roles: DLG supplies farmers with feed from its own plants, fertiliser, agricultural limestone, crop protection, and fuel for daily operations. Besides farm VEGETABLE supplies such as seed grain, crops and vegetaPRODUCE AND CROPS bles, the Group’s activities include farming equipment. The DLG Group is also one of Europe’s largest exporters of malting barley, seed corn, feed and milling grain and rapeseed. Through the group’s affiliated companies, DLG is also involved in flower export and pre-processing of vegetable crops such as rapeseed oil and ready-to-eat salads. DLG has its own store chain, Land & Fritid, through which DLG provides consultation and sales of products for home, garden, domestic animals, telecommunications and much more. DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 11 HOW ARE WE WORKING WITH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT DLG? At DLG we believe that our CSR initiative produces the best results when we focus on the areas that create the most value for our key stakeholders, customers and owners, employees and suppliers, and for DLG as a business. In other words, CSR supports our business and helps us reach our strategic goals. DLG SUPPORTS THE UN GLOBAL policy. The policy is based on the Global the countries in which we operate. We COMPACT Side 10: Skillerbillede Compact, DLG’s core values and our funare dedicated to maintaining open diaDLG adhered to the UN Global Compact damental approach to social responsibillogue on CSR-related issues with our Skal in illustrere 2012. In noget fra vores the time since,kerneforretningen DLG has fo– foder, ity, korn namely that marken, på the en silomust be initiative stakeholders. cused on creating the internal framestrategic, significant and practical. works necessary to work with the 10 prinThis policy is evaluated and revised on an ciples of the Global Compact in a way DLG commits to following the ten princiannual basis by DLG’s Executive Steering Luftbilledet that creates fra hvervefolderen value. These principles can ples of corporate responsibility in the UN Committee. As an extension of our wish be found in the description of the various Global Compact. As part of this effort, to work strategically with CSR, DLG does CSR areas in this report. DLG is working to implement the princinot consider donations as part of its CSR ples in human rights, labour rights, enviwork. DLG’S CSR POLICY: ronment and anti-corruption in the In April 2014, DLG’s Executive Steering group’s daily operations. We follow all Committee adopted a group-wide CSR relevant legislation and regulations in DLG’S CSR POLICY • We always strive to ensure the limited to) bribery, extortion, facilhighest quality and security in our itation payments or nepotism. agricultural products and food• We strive to maintain secure workstuffs production, from farm to ing conditions, a sound working fork environment and to create good • We strive to be ambitious in our opportunity for development for efforts to secure responsible valour employees and business partue chain management and proners tect the group’s reputation • We respect internationally recog• We strive to reduce DLG’s energy nised human rights and continualconsumption, minimise our envily evaluate our business to identironmental emissions and generalfy instances that can negatively ly reduce our environmental imimpact these rights pact • We do not accept corruption in any of its forms, including (but not 12 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 The 10 principles of the Global Compact • The company should support and respect the protection of internationally declared human rights • The company should ensure that it does not contribute to violations of human rights • The company should uphold the right to organise and effectively recognise the right to collective bargaining • The company should support the elimination of all types of forced labour • The company should support effective elimination of child labour • The company should eliminate discrimination with respect to working and employment conditions • The company should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • The company should take the initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility • The company should encourage the development and expansion of environmentally friendly technologies • The company should fight all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 13 Scope and reporting principles In this report, we present the group’s the most significant to the business, our CSR priorities. We also aim for the report to provide our stakeholders a clear imstakeholders and for our industry on the basis of the Global Compact principles. Companies age of the challenges and opportunities Picking up from last year, in 2016 we will covered in we see in relation to work with CSR, and how we can best manage these. The purcontinue working to develop common accounting principles for CSR data for this COP pose of this report is to provide an accuuse in the report, including data on enerrate picture of the process we have gone gy, employees and supply chain manDLG a.m.b.a. through, and what we are doing in conagement etc. crete terms to ensure that we handle DLG Service a/s CSR-related challenges in such a way The report covers the majority of DLG’s that we can also operate a successful business, starting with DLG a.m.b.a. and Vilofoss-gruppen business in the future. Implementation of majority-owned subsidiaries. social responsibility is a task that is esHaGe Kiel AG sentially never finished. Integration of Going forward we will continue to work the CSR initiative across the group will to include more and more units in our reSvenska Foder AB therefore remain a focus area for 2016. porting. Team AG When compiling this report, we have DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS gathered inspiration from general and The CSR report has been drawn up withGASA GROUP recognised principles for CSR reporting. out any direct involvement of external In compiling this report, we sought to stakeholders. Naturally, we maintain ondescribe and frame ourselves against the going dialogue with our stakeholders in larger context of sustainability in which various fora, but not a systematic diawe operate, the completeness of the relogue on CSR. We have identified our port, materiality and balance of content. most important stakeholders as customWe still have not completely reached our ers, owners, employees and suppliers. It goal with respect to developing comis our ambition for 2016 to further elevate mon accounting principles for CSR data a systematic dialogue on sustainability to be used in the report, particularly in and responsibility in our value chains. As relation to comparability of consolidated a company, we generally experience ingroup data, which is also an essential ascreasing expectations from the environpect of good CSR reporting practice. ment that responsibility and a high level This work takes time. We have only of integrity are an important part of runachieved systematic data collection and ning a successful company. This is also an developed accounting principles for CSR expectation we have of ourselves as a in parts of the group. company. This is why we acknowledge and listen to the expectations that we For this reason, DLG’s 2015 report does encounter, and strive to live up to them not give a “total view” of all the CSR acas effectively as possible. The CSR retivities and results in the group. The report is one facet of bringing this initiative port has been drawn up by looking at a to light. number of the business areas that see as 14 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 Implementation of social responsibility is a task that is essentially never finished. DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 15 We believe that an integrated approach to CSR can also create a more solid anchoring in DLG’s various business units. 16 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 DLG’S CSR ORGANISATION Managerial responsibility for DLG’s adareas are responsible for translating the that a more integrated approach to CSR, vances in social responsibility is anCSR goals into concrete action plans. accounting for the environmental expecchored in the group’s upper managetations and market requirements imment. A CSR coordinator has been The three groups reflect the CSR topics posed on the company, can present appointed, who is responsible for overof decisive strategic importance for the many business advantages. This might seeing this work on a day-to-day basis DLG Group. These topics are selected be, for example, in the form of improved and coordinating cross-sectoral activiafter extensive analysis of the CSR area, risk management, greater product innoties, internal and external communicabased on workshops, internal interviews vation, boosted employee motivation, tions, and Global Compact reporting. and evaluation of existing initiatives, and fewer expenses, and a strong CSR profile The task of elaborating goals, action more. These analyses are carried out for among our most important stakeholdplans and KPIs had been assigned to five the purpose of defining relevant CSR ers. cross-sectoral work groups in 2015. This risks and opportunities, so the most eswill be cut down to three working groups sential CSR areas in relation to the charWe believe that an integrated approach from 2016 onwards: acter and scope of our business are esto CSR can also create a more solid antablished. choring in DLG’s various business units. • Responsible supply But a broad anchoring is not something chain management BUSINESS INTEGRATION that is achieved overnight in a large inter• Resource efficiency In line with DLG’s three over-arching prinnational group. This is a more distant ho• Food product safety ciples describing our approach to CSR as rizon, which in some cases also calls for strategic, significant and practical, it is of new work procedures and solutions. We The groups consist of representatives fundamental importance that CSR work are, as already mentioned, aware that from all parts of the group, and its maneffectively meshes with DLG’s over-archthese measures take time. We are thereagement is rooted in DLG’s Executive ing business strategy and the requirefore also conscious of the fact that CSR Steering Committee (EXCOM). EXCOM ments and expectations that our stakework in DLG is an ongoing process that is also responsible for ensuring that holders have of us. Both help ensure that will unfold step by step, not something cross-unit CSR initiatives are implementthe company is able to create value over that can be implemented all at once. ed in practice. The individual business the long run. It should be understood Comments or questions? E-mail information@dlg.dk DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 17 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT As a responsible agricultural and food products group, DLG wishes to maintain control on the company’s value chains. This means strengthening the group’s control of the risks associated with working with an ever more complex and international supplier chain. Both in Denmark and internationally THE DLG GROUP’S SUPPLIER there is increasing focus on the need for CODE OF CONDUCT companies to have a greater command In 2015, DLG drafted a Supplier Code of than in the past over what takes place in Conduct. This describes the requirethe company’s supply chain and with ments we set for our suppliers. The retheir suppliers. DLG has also observed quirements originate from our CSR polithis expectation in the interplay between cy and the sustainability criteria of the customers and business partners. UN Global Compact. The goal for 2016 is to implement the new Supplier Code of At the same time, responsible supply Conduct with the most essential supplichain management is a critical focus area ers within the individual business areas in for DLG since we are increasingly internathe DLG Group. DLG and soja tionalising our operations. As DLG moves towards a greater level of internationaliPURCHASE OF RAW MATERIALS DLG accounts for about half of Densation, we see a growing need to carry DLG a.m.b.a’s policy for purchasing of mark’s purchasing of soybean meal. The out a more systematic approach to coopraw materials is that at least 90 per cent majority of this is used for pig feed. Soy is eration with the group’s suppliers. It’s of our suppliers must have a certified a critical ingredient in feed production, therefore also a matter of managing risk quality assurance system in place that at approx. 15-20 per cent, and constiin the value chain. covers the raw materials that DLG purtutes a major part of DLG’s overall prochases. The greatest percentage possiduction. Through a series of visits to soy Progressive work towards responsible ble of these must be GMP-certified producers and suppliers in Argentina supply chain management starts first and (Good Manufacturing Practice). In 2015, and Brazil, we have sought to gain insight foremost with the group’s Supplier Code more than 90 per cent of our suppliers and understanding — and held a direct of Conduct and creating an overview of had a certified quality control system, dialogue — with respect to a long series the group’s many suppliers. For example, while 75 per cent of the raw materials of CSR stakeholder parameters, includwe now buy from other countries to a were GMP-certified. ing responsible relationships with surgreater extent than in the past, such as rounding communities, environmental from China and the rest of Asia, Eastern Svenska Foder, the group’s Swedish agriresponsibility, good agricultural practice Europe and South America, where chalcultural supplier, also purchases with a and long-term economic planning. lenges other than those prevalent in Denfocus on fulfilling the requirements set mark — pertaining to labour rights, enviby the ProTerra certification system. This ronmental impact and quality assurance is a non-GMO standard and includes ag— may arise. Our focus on responsible ricultural practice, use of chemicals, ensupply chain management is an active ergy consumption, working conditions means of meeting this challenge. and respect for local residents and natives. In 2015 ProTerra soy accounted for In 2015, we worked to improve our data over 70 per cent of Svenska Foder’s total collection and reporting of CSR issues in soy purchasing. The largest supplier to the group’s value chain. This work will be Svenska Foder delivers 100% GMOand continued over the coming years. salmonella-free soy. 18 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 DLG’S CHARTER FOR SOY SUPPLIERS • The supplier must be a member of the Global Compact • The supplier does not utilise child labour • The supplier must recognise employers’ right to organise • Raw materials from rainforest areas felled after 24 July 2006 are not accepted • The supplier must have a policy that use of pesticides must take place in accordance with local legislation and the Stockholm and Rotterdam Conventions. DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 19 Supply chain management in HaGe, the sustainability in soy production, while alprinciples behind the certification ingroup’s German agricultural supplier, is so taking part in public debate on this clude transparency, labour rights, use of based on the recognised certification matter. the best available growing methods, systems QS and GMP+. HaGe is also a protection of nature and the environmember of AGL, an association of 21 DLG is also a member of the Roundtable ment, and long-term economic planning. feed producers that jointly account for for Responsible Soy (RTRS) by way of the In 2015, the group carried on a dialogue more than 50 per cent of Germany’s feed European industry organisation FEFAC, with our suppliers in Malaysia, a measure production. AGL carries out risk-oriented which organises feed businesses in Euthat included several visits to the counsupplier screening, and each member’s rope. In 2015 DLG also assumed a leadtry. quality manager audits three suppliers a ing role in the development of FEFAC’s year. The audit reports are published on‘Soy Sourcing Guidelines’, which shall PURCHASE OF VITAMINS AND line. serve as a basis for purchasing of sustainMINERALS ably produced soy in Europe. In 2016, we DLG’s vitamin and mineral activities are Together with a number of food product will work towards making the FEFAC initicollected under the brand Vilofoss. Only producers including Arla, Danish Crown, ative the standard in the industry, while raw materials approved in the EU are purthe Danish Agriculture and Food Counalso building awareness in customers chased for the production of vitamins cil, DLG has pledged to buy only sustainand partners in the farming sector. and minerals. This means that DLG’s supably produced soybean meal that meets pliers in this aspect play a so-called a long series of production requirePALM OIL “gatekeeper” function if the product is ments, including requirements pertainDLG’s purchasing of palm oil for use in coming from a third country. In conjuncing to environmental sustainability, use feed production is on par with that of tion with quality management, we follow of child labour and use of pesticides in soybean meal. In 2012 DLG became a up by means of check analytical checks production. With respect to all our purmember of the Roundtable on Sustainaby employing the HACCP system in areas chasing of soy, we have also established ble Palm Oil (RSPO) in order to be better where we identify the greatest risk. requirements that suppliers live up to our informed of developments in the palm own charter and Supplier Code of Conoil industry in southeast Asia. RSPO Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points is duct, which consists of a number of brings together interested organisations a system for quality assurance of food points, in which adherence to the Global from various sectors of the palm oil inproducts throughout the entire producCompact is one of the requirements. We dustry for the purpose of developing and tion chain. The system builds on identifimaintain a continuous dialogue with our implementing global standards for suscation of microbiological, chemical and suppliers regarding responsibility and tainable palm oil. The most important physical risks in the raw materials, designation of particularly critical steps in production and pre-processing and in packaging and later establishment of checkpoints in the production sequence. Every one of the approximately 200 raw materials used in vitamins and minerals are approved according to a fixed procedure: Assessment of familiarity with the company, the product information for the goods in question and nutritional characteristics, safety for humans and animals, and whether the goods can be used in the production facility (such as with respect to particulate and odour production). 20 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY Food product safety at DLG begins alIn 2016, DLG shall continue to work actively ready in primary production with hanfor the development of this standard with dling of crops and growing of edible an expectation of having an ISO standard in crops, such as vegetables and feed for place by 2017 to ensure feed and food domestic animals. This means ensuring product safety in feed production. the highest quality in food product production throughout the entire chain from Simultaneously, DLG is in the midst of an farm to fork. As a supplier and purchaser audit process for the ISO 22000 standard of raw materials, crops and feed for agrifor food products for the purpose of ensurculture and the food products industry, ing that the content is updated to apply to food product safety and high quality are DLG’s business areas and market expectatop priorities for DLG. This is a key contions to the greatest extent possible. cern for our position as a responsible producer in the feed and foodstuffs area. DLG’s animal feed unit is also taking part, Society’s heightened focus on food as mentioned, in an FEFAC task force on product safety and quality requirements sustainability in feed production. The for raw materials also means that at whatpurpose of this task force is to achieve a ever level one holds in the food product common European description of suschain, one risks being held accountable tainability criteria and common minimum if something goes wrong. requirements for documentation of sustainability in feed products. This is why we at DLG see ourselves as bearing a very great responsibility. The objective of participating in the development of the ISO 22000 standard FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY AND continues in 2016. QUALITY OF FEED In correlation to quality management of FOOD PRODUCT SAFETY the vitamin and mineral compounds used AND QUALITY IN DLG’S FOOD in conjunction with food product producPRODUCT COMPANIES tion, DLG has a number of quality certifiSocial responsibility and sustainability in cations in place, including FamiQS, GMP+ the food products sector fundamentally and QS. These international certifications comprise a concern that is inherently at focusing on quality and feed, and food the heart of our work at DLG. We have inproduct safety are routinely subject to creasingly come to make this a key conthird-party audit. In the feed area, DLG alcern as foreign customers, in particular, so provides economic support to a Danrefer to standards such as Sedex on ish-led food product secretariat in order pre-processed foodstuffs and GRASP for to secure central placement of Danish primary production. This is seen primaristakeholders in the development of interly in relation to the English and German national standards in food product safety retail markets, which a few of the group’s under the ISO system. food product companies serve as subcontractors. In 2014 and 2015, DLG actively worked to see that the secretariat implemented the Another significant focus area in DLG Food standard for feed production under ISO has been to consistently be able to meet direction as a supplement to ISO 22000, increasing need for documented processwhile also ensuring progress in the same. es to keep up with new market and cusDLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 21 tomer requirements. Several of the comand then attended internal audits with Development of the common document panies are going through customer audits participation of experienced auditors to management system IPW has also been based on more demanding standards, ingain practical experience and ensure part of the work tasks undertaken this year. cluding, among others, BRC, and customthat the standards are covered by the auIn keeping with increasing requirements ers’ own standards based specifically on dits. Results: Fewer claims and fewer refor documentation and described proceBRC. This is unfolding in parallel with inpeat visits for all companies. dures, IPW is an important instrument for creasing requirements for completion of document management and guidance of customer questionnaires and highly spe• DLG Ingredients achieved BRC grade the company’s internal audit plan. cific product specifications, in which the A – no repeat visits production processes must be document• Lammefjordsgrønt ISO 22000 and Quality employees have attended an ined. This calls for enhanced competencies FSSC 22000: 4 deviations – no repeat ternally held course in microbiology “Miboth locally in the companies and centrally visit crobial safety and shelf-life of crops and in DLG Food in a number of areas pertain• FoodOil ISO 22000: 5 deviations – no vegetables” to raise competency levels ing to food product safety and quality. The repeat visit in microbial risk assessments of processrequirements met are primarily on new exes and the products we produce. Recalls port markets and from new international In 2016, efforts were made for FoodOil in took place in 2014 and 2015 because of industrial customers. Agersted and Kiel to become certified in microbial growth. This course is an ima GFSI standard (FSSC, BRC or IFS) in orportant element to prevent such recalls In 2015 DLG Food focused on reinforceder to meet demand from our customers. in the future. ment of the internal audits required per the standards (BRC, ISO 22000, FSSC Another important focus area has been Several of the goals for 2015 have been 22000) by which we operate. One imporregistration of claims. From 1 January pushed back, as there are processes and tant goal with this has been to reduce the 2015 onwards, all deviations are entered improvements that were essentially nevnumber of deviations in external certifiinto a claims handling module in IPW. We er brought to completion. This involves, cation audits and to avoid costly folhave been able to follow developments among other things, our focus on relow-up visits. and claims over the course of the year. sponsible supply chain management in This has been part of the management ISO 22000, implementation of the interAn audit team consisting of employees reports that were reviewed at the year’s nal audit and LEAN and formulation of from each production unit has been apmanagement meetings. The number of KPIs for food product safety and quality pointed. The audit team has been to an claims must be brought down, and in the in all of the group’s business units. internal course in holding internal audits future can be included as a KPI. 22 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 LAMMEFJORDSGRØNT’S CSR WORK IN 2015 Lammefjordsgrønt offers convenience salads and vegetables to the Danish catering and retail market and to industry. Following increasing requirements for documentation and certification, the company has become ISO 22000 and FSSC-certified. Such a certification requires control over farm-to-fork processes, which entails food product safety, supply chain management, traceability, documentation for work processes etc. Supply chain management is an important task and Lammefjordsgrønt aims for all of its fruit and vegetable suppliers to be Global GAP certified, which is a natural selection criterion when seeking new suppliers. 89% of suppliers are Global GAP certified. Only one single local organic supplier is not yet Global GAP certified. Other suppliers are selected on the basis of certification to the greatest extent possible. If one cannot be found, a dialogue shall be opened up with the supplier regarding their food product safety, traceability, procedures, etc. to ensure that the raw material meets the standards required for Lammefjordsgrønt’s products. In 2015, DLG Food focused on internal audits, with the goal of having fewer deviations and no repeat visits. In 2014, Lammefjordsgrønt had 13 deviations, 2 of which were considered “Major” deviations that resulted in a repeat visit. In 2015, this number was brought down to 4 minor deviations and there were no repeat visits, which is a notable improvement. In terms of energy, Lammefjordsgrønt is a major consumer of water because of high volume vegetable washing; improvements have been made here to ensure minimised water consumption without compromising quality. Where waste management is concerned, waste sorting has been optimised so that fewer tonnes are sent for combustion on a monthly basis and a greater fraction is reused. DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 23 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT Resource efficiency is a prerequisite for sustainability and competitiveness DLG is a large player in a highly competThe overall goals for resource efficiency energy. It therefore makes commercial itive market. It is therefore important to tasks in 2016 are: sense to strive to become as energy-effibe as resource-efficient as possible in orcient as possible, as this benefits both der to increase DLG’s competitiveness • To expand and apply LEAN princithe environment and our customers. and sustainability. Energy is one of DLG’s ples throughout the entire group most important resources in all producwith respect to resource optimisaThe over-arching energy goal in DLG’s tion and logistics. In order to contribute tion. Optimisation follow-up through agricultural products production is to to the most sustainable development, KPI reporting implement concrete projects equating DLG strives to be effective and innova• 2 per cent reduction in primary enerto savings of 2 per cent per year for the tive in its use of technology and resourcgy source consumption in all busispecific energy consumption type. We es. This is why we place significant focus ness units. Each business unit must reached our goal in 2015, and in 2016, we in the DLG Group on becoming as enerstate their primary energy sources aim to realise another 2 per cent savings gy-efficient as possible, while still mainand present an action plan to reach on this specific energy consumption. taining profitability for DLG. This creates this goal. value for both the environment and our • 5 per cent reduction in movement TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS customers. We therefore began to forfactor Logistics mulate a suitable resource efficiency polIn 2015, we set a very ambitious goal for icy in 2015 as well, which now over the ENERGY SAVINGS IN the movement factor in Denmark. The course of 2016 shall be expanded and inPRODUCTION FACILITIES goal was to reduce transportation volcorporated into DLG’s future group stratProduction of farm supplies is a core area ume by 300,000 tonnes in relation to egy. for DLG and requires great amounts of 2014. A specific energy reduction of 1,570,000 A reduction in energy consumption of kWh was achieved at the agricultural 716,000 kWh was achieved in Germany in products facilities in Denmark. 16 optimi2015, and a further reduction of 615,000 sation projects have been carried out, inkWh is planned for 2016. In Sweden, encluding renovation of one of our plants, ergy consumption was similarly reduced which alone reduced energy consumpby nearly 1 million kWh in 2015, and antion at the site in question by 13.6 per other reduction of 1.25 million kWh is cent compared to 2014. planned for 2016. 24 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 In order to contribute to the most sustainable development, DLG strives to be effective and innovative in its use of technology and resources. DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 25 Internationally, DLG instituted a number of common KPIs in Since the harvest year passed with sales per cent of our transport fleet is currentof export grain in large ships and a crop ly EUR5, while the rest is EUR3. The goal the logistics area in yield that was record-breaking nationfor 2016 is to convert the rest of the vehi2015. The KPIs conwide, relatively late and wet, this has cles to EUR5. shown to be an ambitious goal. Final resist of the following: sults are on par with 2014. The 2015 harWe are also focusing on more environvest showed us that the continued develmentally friendly fuel. DLG is collaborat• Movement factor for opment with larger and larger machine ing with vehicle suppliers on training our grain, feed, raw matericapacity in the agricultural sector predrivers so they receive individual instrucsents demands for greater collaboration tion in driving in the most environmentalals and fertiliser. with our customers regarding correct inly friendly way possible. In the lorries in• Average load sizes ventory placement and increased included in our measurement of savings, house storage of crops. This work is conwe increased fuel savings by 18 per cent • Fuel consumption tinuing in 2016. since training in environmentally friendly driving was introduced. We shall continue working Transport in 2016 to set common Reduction of fuel consumption remains In 2015 we consumed 3.8 million litres of the primary focus of the transport area. diesel, which is a 12 per cent reduction movement factor goals In 2015 we continued shifting our transcompared to 2014. The goal for 2016 is to and expand the number port flow over towards lorries with greatreduce consumption by another 5 per of KPIs. er capacity and better fuel economy. 97 cent per km. LEAN Implementation of LEAN in our production, logistics and transport remains a major focus, involving LEAN agents, training and more. All employees of our German subsidiary have attended a two-day course, and half of all employees in Svenska Foder have undergone LEAN training. 26 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 27 DIVERSITY In 2015, DLG developed a diversity strategy, in which we broadened our diversity perspective beyond gender alone. This strategy encapsulates our priorities and goals, and is guided by our over-arching vision for diversity. 28 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 In DLG, we understand diversity in terms explicit goals regarding general gender 1,200 OF DLG A.M.B.A’S 29,000 of inclusion. By this, we mean that we distribution for DLG employees. This OWNERS ARE WOMEN strive to strengthen and value all emdistribution reflects the fact that we ployees so that each individual can conhave many hourly employees working in tribute to the whole. We believe that a physically oriented job positions, where workplace where difference is valued will the recruitment pool primarily consists ultimately be able to create value for our of men. If, on the other hand, one looks owners. only at the gender distribution in office employees, the gender distribution is We continually work to create inclusive more balanced than for all employees structures that do not infringe upon or imoverall. pede any groups. Decisions on recruitment, hiring, training, development and MORE WOMEN AMONG OWNERS evaluation of our employees shall always AND THEREBY ON THE BOARD follow the principle of equal opportunity. OF DIRECTORS Our policy is to create an environment The company’s board of directors conwhere the individual employees are resists of a total of 12 members (three of spected and rewarded on the basis of their whom are employee representatives) efforts, not their age, gender, ethnic backwho are selected from DLG’s Board of ground, sexual orientation or handicap. Representatives, which includes 133 We also value diversity in the form of varimembers. On the basis of an board ous personal traits and ways of thinking. members (excluding employee representatives). Our goal is still to have one GENDER woman elected into DLG’s board of diIn 2015, we set a number of concrete rectors in the 2018 voting round. goals for gender diversity. We have no DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 29 FOCUS ON COMMUNICATING attract and recruit skilled female managSweden, we encourage applicants of varTHE IMPORTANCE OF WOMEN IN ers externally. ious backgrounds to apply, and the reMANAGEMENT cruitment process has been standardIn 2015, DLG focused on communicaATTRACTING AND DEVELOPING ised and systematised. In Germany, tions via channels including intranet, SKILLED WOMEN female management talents are offered staff meetings and employee newsletIn 2015, we took steps towards ensuring a mentor. ters regarding gender diversity in generthat our recruitment process does not al management. We have also broadly contain barriers for female candidates. DLG is focused on a number of different communicated the fact that we now have This work has focused on what signals we initiatives all aiming to provide female two women in group management. The send as a company both directly and inemployees the opportunity to realise purpose is to promote role models for fedirectly. This includes, for example, gentheir leadership potential. We have exmale management talent within the der-neutral job postings in Denmark, panded the selection of manager develgroup, just as much as we would like to Sweden and Germany. In Denmark and opment courses, and systematically encourage managers to send potential new managers to management training. In GENDER BREAKDOWN, ALL EMPLOYEES Denmark, this has resulted in an increase in the number of female participants in FRANKRIG M 80% K 20% management courses from 22 per cent in 2014 to 43 per cent in 2015. We anticipate TYSKLAND M 75% K 25% that this will increase the pool of female management talent. SVERIGE M 63% K 37% NEW DIVERSITY STRATEGY FOR DANMARK M 72% K 28% 2016 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 In 2016 we shall begin implementing our diversity strategy with three over-arching goals: GENDER BREAKDOWN, OFFICE EMPLOYEES • Recruit and hire based on a diverse FRANKRIG M 68% K 32% and qualified group of possible applicants to ensure a high-performance TYSKLAND M 59% K 41% workforce • Cultivate an inclusive workplace by SVERIGE M 52% K 48% supporting a culture that promotes collaboration, fairness and provides DANMARK M 60% K 40% individual employees the possibility 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 to contribute and develop their full potential • Assume responsibility by measuring GENDER BREAKDOWN, MANAGEMENT and following up on employee perspectives on diversity, and shaping FRANKRIG M 83% K 17% our management to lead in a diverse environment and create an inclusive TYSKLAND M 83% K 17% culture • A Diversity and Inclusion Council SVERIGE M 89% K 11% consisting of representatives from group companies has been created DANMARK M 81% K 19% to support this initiative; its mission is 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 to ensure progress and follow-up 30 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 Diversity goals Our diversity strategy includes a number of long-term goals, including the following points for 2016: ! Elect a woman to DLG’s board of directors by no later than 2018. ! Ensure a pipeline of female talents by striving to maintain at least 1 woman on the list of candidates in recruiting ! Increase the percentage of female managers in Denmark and Sweden to 25 per cent by no later than 2018. This development should preferably be reflected in the highest levels of the group’s management. ! Cultivate an inclusive working environment through diversity and inclusion training of relevant managers and specialists ! Measure and follow up on employee views on diversity in the annual employee satisfaction surveys to maintain focus on an inclusive work environment In DLG, we understand diversity in terms of inclusion. By this, we mean that we strive to strengthen and value all employees so that each individual can contribute to the whole. We believe that a workplace where difference is valued will ultimately be able to create value for our owners. DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 31 WORKING A safe and sound working environment is a determining factor for our development. At DLG, this means both preventing work-related injuries and illness and at the same time ENVIRONMENT creating a social environment that promotes employee well-being and motivation every day. DLG has nearly 7,500 employees, all of whom help make it possible for us to run a successful and effective business. Working in agriculture and production is asEmployees who are trustworthy, value-creating and sociated with greater risk than other types of work. It is therefore a determining factor for ambitious constitute DLG’s most important resource, and it DLG always to maintain a safe and sound is this that allows us to continue our positive development. working environment for our employees. We In addition to general personnel policies, we are working work to make this an everyday reality through with policies across the group for social responsibility and preventative measures and information pergovernance. taining to employee safety, working environment and health. WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS In 2015, we had a work-related fatality in our German subsidiary HaGe, which is unacceptable. In the DLG Group, we are working intently in our working environment and safety initiatives to avoid such situations. Several measures were instituted locally in HaGe to prevent and avoid similar accidents in the future, and the accident served to sharpen our focus on a safe working environment. Through our working environment initiatives, we have succeeded in reducing the 32 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 EXPANDED WORKING ENVIRONMENT INITIATIVES We are continuously working to strengthen group-wide working environment cooperation across national borders and companies. This involves, among other things, improved data collection and common initiatives, whilst also making implementation and awareness of number of workplace accidents and rethese, we will be able to prevent many working environment measures in sultant sick leave markedly since 2010. In workplace accidents. Our goal was thereDLG a fundamental focus. 2015, we documented 30 workplace accifore to record 50 near miss incidents in dents in DLG a.m.b.a., resulting in a total 2015. In this context, this is unacceptable, • Workplace accidents and relatof 287 lost days of work. This is down since after having recorded 11 incidents ed absence from 36 workplace accidents and 416 sick in 2014 we only recorded 19 incidents in • Accident prevention and emdays in 2014, which is satisfactory. The 2015. ployee training workplace accidents registered range • Psychological work environment from a scratched finger to a broken Making it easier for employees and man• Injunctions shoulder. At the same time, the number agers to record near miss incidents will • Implementation and awareness of injunctions from authorities fell from therefore continue to be a priority for building of DLG’s working envi23 in 2014 to 7 in 2015, which is very pos2016. This will be achieved partly through ronment initiatives itive. an internal communication initiative to • Incidents increase employee awareness of near At DLG, we are continually focused on miss incidents, and by illustrating why it • Updating of IAPV ensuring employee health and safety in is so important for the near miss inci• Internal transport (signage/ order to prevent accidents and absence dents to be documented. Documentaposting) and thereby secure physical and social tion of near miss incidents is an indispen• Heavy lifting – layout of warewell-being in the workplace. We are at sable tool for a better and more secure houses/shops the same time working to orchestrate working environment, and shall be a fo• Working environment issue auwork processes so as to promote emcal point in DLG’s work in the years dit during inspection rounds ployee motivation and efficiency in dayahead. The task of documenting near • Update of the Atex zone classifito-day tasks. Work with LEAN is an exmiss incidents is an on-going process. cations and action plans ample of how it is possible to successfully Continual efforts are underway to make • Systematic work based on improve work processes while at the recording, and with it knowledge sharREACH same time boosting motivation. ing, easier for the individual employee. • Safety data sheets/Workplace This therefore remains an area of focus. instructions for use NEAR MISS INCIDENTS • ADR At DLG, we are convinced that through a more systematic documentation of near • Training miss incidents and lessons learned from DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 33 ANTI-CORRUPTION DLG always strives to uphold legislation, Transparency International than our core rules and relevant provisions in the counmarkets in northern Europe. To acknowltries in which we operate. This is a preedge this, DLG formulated and adopted requisite for DLG to be a responsible acits own anti-corruption policy in 2014. tor. In this respect, our CSR policy clearly The policy describes the DLG’s Group’s expresses our approach to corruption: position on corruption, and how corrup“We do not accept corruption in any of tion is avoided in the DLG Group, while its forms, including but not limited to at the same time providing comprehenbribery, extortion, facilitation payments sive guidelines on how DLG employees or nepotism in any of our business opershould act with respect to corruption. ations or relations”. DLG’s anti-corruption policy describes at the same time how DLG employees In other words, corruption is not acceptshould act in situations where there may able in DLG. It is not part of our way of be some doubt as to whether the objecdoing business, and we believe that our tive bears any characteristics of bribery employees must neither practice nor be or corruption. subject to corruption. This position is also reinforced through our adherence to In 2015, this initiative focused on implethe UN Global Compact, which encourmenting the anti-corruption policy ages companies to work against all forms throughout the entire group and estabof corruption, including extortion and lishing anti-corruption procedures in our bribery. internal audits. Training managers and relevant employees in DLG is a major The DLG Group is increasingly global in challenge, and we fell short of our goal. scope and sources raw materials from This work will continue in 2016. various parts of the world, including some with a markedly lower standing in the corruption assessments released by 34 DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2015 In other words, corruption is not acceptable in DLG. It is not part of our way of doing business, and we believe that our employees must neither practice nor be subject to corruption. The DLG Group is one of Europe’s largest agricultural companies. The DLG Group has gone from being a purely Danish cooperative to an international group with 40 subsidiaries in more than 20 countries. DLG now realises the majority of its business on the international market. We strive to be the preferred business partner for our customers and to run an innovative, responsibility-minded and productive company that benefits our owners, customers and employees. The group is bound by our core values. We are trustworthy, creative and ambitious in everything we do DLG . T: +45 3368 3000 . information@dlg.dk . www.dlg.dk B15022
