COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 www.parco.com.pk Pak-Arab Refinery Limited (PARCO) PAKARAB REFINERY LTD (PARCO) is a Joint Venture between the Government of Pakistan and the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, incorporated as a public limited company in 1974. As an integrated energy company, PARCO is the leading player in Pakistan`s petroleum industry with major operations in refining, transportation, storage, marketing, oil supply and logistics. PARCO has the most modern refinery in Pakistan having a capacity of 100,000 BPD (representing about 25% of the country`s refining capacity), over 2000 kms of cross country pipeline network (including its JV subsidiary Pak-Arab Pipeline Company Limited (PAPCO) with a strategic storage of over one million tons, and a rapidly expanding retail network of TOTAL PARCO (TPPL) – a joint venture with TOTAL of France. With the acquisition of Chevron’s fuel business in Pakistan, TPPL is now the third largest Oil Marketing Company in the Country. PARCO is also marketing nationwide LPG under the brands of Super Gas, Pearl Gas, Super Gas Bulk and fuel oil under the Pearl brand. High quality asphalt is also being marketed as Biturox. PARCO Pearl Gas (Pvt) Ltd (PPG), formerly known as the SHV Energy Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd is a 100% owned subsidiary of PARCO, having largest LPG marketing and distribution network. PPGL manages storage, processing, filling and distribution of LPG. The performance of the company can be judged by the fact that it has maintained its AAA and A1+ long and short term credit rating by Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) for eighteen consecutive years. The company set another first in Pakistan when it obtained three simultaneous international certifications: ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System). PARCO has also received Environment Excellence Awards for the last ten consecutive years and is rated among the top 10 organizations in Pakistan for outstanding achievement in Environment Management. As a good corporate citizen, the company focuses on meeting the expectations of its internal and external stakeholders in a professional and strategic manner. PARCO not only invests in its employees, makes efforts for customer satisfaction and operates ethically, but also undertakes a wide range of projects to benefit society in areas of education, health, environment, sports, culture, community development, road safety, and natural calamities. Processing and handling hydrocarbons is our business and it comes with its share of hazards. PARCO proactively identifies, minimizes and mitigates situations that have the potential to cause harm to the health and safety of its employees, customers, service providers, communities, public and the environment. The focus and diversity of technical, social and environmental projects of PARCO speak for themselves. Our cross country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor to many remote and underprivileged communities. PARCO Schools & Clinics Support Program is aimed at providing basic education and health facilities. The program is an ongoing initiative in which new schools and clinics are identified and existing ones are improved by providing basic infrastructure and other necessities that are beneficial for the surrounding communities. Communities are happy that PARCO is there for help when they need it most. PARCO has always responded passionately to the nation’s distress calls during natural calamities, such as the earthquake or floods. PARCO also supports culture and heritage by patronizing indigenous music, poetry and the arts. As a member of WWF, PARCO helps in conservation of nature, with several initiatives to its credit. In keeping with the Values of the company and our traditions, PARCO makes philanthropic contributions to institutions that are making significant efforts to help the underprivileged. From producing environment friendly products to efficient, world class engineering facilities and infrastructure, building a highly competent human capital, and major social initiatives, PARCO is doing its utmost in Providing Energy with Responsibility. CORPORATE RECOGNITION DURING 2015 PACRA Maintains “AAA” Entity Ratings of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited Consecutively For 18 Years The Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) has maintained long term and short term entity ratings of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited at AAA (Triple A) and A1+ (A One Plus) respectively for the past 18 years. The ratings denote the lowest expectation of credit risk emanating from an exceptionally strong capacity for timely payment of financial commitments. President of Pakistan Award In the FPCCI 39th Awards Ceremony held on December 28, 2015, PARCO was honored by the prestigious President of Pakistan Award in recognition of its outstanding performance in Refining, Transportation and Marketing of Petroleum Products. PARCO was selected by the Jury of FPCCI for this highest annual corporate recognition. This is the fourth consecutive time that PARCO has received this national award from FPCCI. The Honorable Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mr Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, Prime Minister of Mr Muhammad Nawaz Sharif presented the Award to Mr Tariq Rizavi, Pakistan presenting the trophy to Mr Tariq Rizavi, Managing Director PARCO. The event was attended by ministers, Managing Director, PARCO. senior government officials, leading businessmen, foreign diplomats, and the management of FPCCI. FPCCI Achievement Award The Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FPCCI) is the apex body representing Pakistan`s Industry and Services. The federation held its 3rd FPCCI Achievement Awards Ceremony to recognize the services of organizations in different sectors contributing towards the progress of Pakistan. PARCO was selected by the Jury of FPCCI in the Energy Sector for the Gold Medal. The Company has always been in the forefront fueling the wheels of economy through its uninterrupted supply of environment friendly fuels, Mr. Mamnoon Hussain, Honorable President of Pakistan presenting the achievement trophy to technology transfer, employment generation, savings of foreign exchange Mr Tariq Rizavi, Managing Director, PARCO. and Corporate Social Responsibility. This recognition reaffirms the fact that PARCO is the Energy Lifeline for the Nation. In a prestigious awards ceremony, the Honorable President of Pakistan, Mr. Mamnoon Hussain presented the Gold Medal to Mr. Tariq Rizavi, Managing Director PARCO in October, 2015. This is the third consecutive award received by PARCO. Best CEO Award, 1st Prize in HR and 1st Prize in Workplace Environment The Employers Federation of Pakistan which represents leading local and multinational companies in Pakistan is a constituent of ILO and a member of the Organization of Employers – Geneva and the Confederation of Asia Pacific Employers. EFP held its 3rd Employer of the Year Award 2014 to acknowledge the efforts of its member companies which adopted and reported best business practices. PARCO has not only completed a Hat-trick but has further improved its recognition by winning the 1st Prize in the Workplace Environment category as well. Triumphing over many Pakistani and multinational companies, including those from the Oil & Gas industry, PARCO won the following awards in the category of Large Organizations:  Best CEO Award  1st Prize in Human Resource  1st Prize in Workplace Environment The awards were conferred on PARCO by the Employers Federation of Pakistan (EFP) in a prestigious ceremony held on September 9, 2015. In its 3rd Employer of the Year Award competition, EFP evaluated 33 contesting companies including Proctor & Gamble, PepsiCo, DHL, Attock Refinery Limited, TOTAL PARCO Pakistan Limited, Pakistan Petroleum Limited, Archroma (Clariant), Lotte, K-Electric, Pakistan Telecommunication Company (PTCL), Telenor, DP World (Qasim International Container Terminal Limited-QICT), Movenpick Hotel, Allied Bank, Pakistan Cables, General Tyre, Crescent Steel, Pakistan International Container Terminal, etc. Receiving these awards for the third consecutive time shows PARCO’s stature in management leadership which has grown PARCO from a small pipeline company to a very large, nationwide integrated enterprise involved in petroleum refining, transportation, marketing, storage, LPG distribution, etc. The awards also recognize the Company’s Human Resource strategy and practices which are continuously enhancing its human capital and supportive working environment. Environment Excellence Award 2015 PARCO has been awarded the 10th consecutive Annual Environment Excellence Award by the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH). PARCO for the seventh consecutive time has been placed amongst the 10 best organizations of Pakistan in Environment Management. A Special Recognition Certificate for outstanding achievement in Environment Management was also awarded to PARCO by NFEH. The panel of judges voted unanimously to award the excellence certificate to PARCO for the company`s vision, environment protection policies and practices, and its Corporate Social Responsibility program. These awards reflect our good management practices, the efforts of our team and our concern for the environment. CSR Leadership Excellence Award 2015 PARCO was awarded the CSR Leadership Award 2016 in the category of Business Ethics which recognizes its contributions and positive impact on the communities as well as its high standards of compliance and integrity. PARCO has won the CSR Leadership Award in this category for the fourth consecutive year. The Jury, comprising of international CSR experts and prominent personalities from the corporate and social sector, selected companies that stand out in their contributions for Society. First Prize for PARCO’s Corporate Garden PARCO has been winning prizes for its Corporate Garden for the last several years. During the 64th Flower Show, PARCO secured first position for its Corporate Garden in 2015 competition held by the Horticulture Society of Pakistan. PARCO has been winning first position for ten years in this competition. For securing first position for the last four consecutive years, PARCO has also been awarded a Gold Medal this year, which is a prestigious rank in its category. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration HR Management, HSE, Security Communities Actions Education Health Work Safety Stakeholder Involvement & Community Investment Results Employee Development Employee Care  The PARCO management expects from all employees to Increasing Stakeholders’ Involvement and Developing Communities is one of the key areas where  PARCO has been continuously endeavoring to enrich its human capital by  PARCO provides 100% free medical cover to its employees, their spouses, strictly follow safety and housekeeping instructions as PARCO management and its employees take keen interest. Our involvement can be gauged adopting new techniques and methods for developing its people. PARCO dependents (up to 21 years) and reimbursement of 60% medical costs of better housekeeping and being part of safety not only through initiatives we have undertaken to uplift these communities in terms of basic necessities helps and guides its employees, through appropriate training, to make the employees’ parents. For employees who are offered Monetized results in better living conditions but also protects and self reliance. Following initiatives were undertaken in the year 2015. best use of their talents. Compensation Package, PARCO offers a fixed monthly medical allowance as employees from unexpected accidents. well as Hospitalization coverage through insurance. Access to Education and Health  Training Needs Analysis, Personal Development Plan and Career Planning are  To this end, PARCO has instituted an annual ‘Safety and  Our cross country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor to many remote and formalized processes for all employees.  All female employees including trainees are eligible for maternity leave of 12 Housekeeping Award’ which is awarded to the one underprivileged communities. Since 2007, PARCO conducts an extensive Schools & Clinics  PARCO provides its employees with developmental opportunities to acquire weeks. station which has maintained best safety standards and Support Program which aims at improving the education and health infrastructure in adjoining knowledge and build up skills through training and self-development, to the  PARCO helps its employees and their families with economic protection immaculate housekeeping during this year. communities by supporting Rural Health Clinics, Primary, Middle and Secondary Schools, being mutual advantage of the employees and the Company. The ‘Educational against loss of earnings in the event of employee’s death or disability  PARCO ensures that Personal Protective Equipment run by Government of Pakistan. Refund Plan’ is one such initiative intended to provide financial assistance to occurring as a result of illness, accident or otherwise under the ‘Death & (PPEs) are provided to all employees. Service Providers  Up Till 2015, PARCO has provided assistance to more than 89 institutions along its pipeline and eligible employees who wish to undertake studies or training not directly Disability Benefit Plan’. are also required to provide PPEs to their staff. refinery across Pakistan. More than 36,000 children are receiving education in PARCO covered by Company initiated programs or plans. supported schools. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has raised communities` interest  Employees in the age of 45-50 years are required to undergo medical check The PARCO`s Pipeline Division has successfully  In order to encourage employees to enhance their professional competence, up every two years and employees above 50 years are required to undergo completed more than 6.6 million man-hours without Lost to enroll their children in these refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from PARCO provides membership of reputable professional bodies and medical examination annually to determine the quality and level of their Time Accident (LTA) in December 2015. child labor to primary education, raising the literacy rate. organizations which impart technical, professional and managerial knowledge health and fitness.  During 2015, PARCO has supported different institutions for mentally challenged and deaf  A standard operating procedure, communication and to the employees through the ‘Organizational Membership’ policy. children. These institutes are managed by professional NGOs and rely mostly on philanthropic  To provide full medical cover to its employees and dependents, PARCO has command level is established to report security  PARCO provides 1-2 years Traineeship program for Engineers, Technologists on its panel, a large number of hospitals, consultants, laboratories, incidents, accidents, natural calamities and other risk contributions. They help these children in developing skills to manage their lives in less and Business Graduates. Under this program a sizeable number of graduates pharmacies across the country. situations. challenging manner. PARCO’s contribution has helped these institutes sustain their operations. are inducted who go through a rigorous classroom and field training.  PARCO has been organizing Teachers Training program for government school teachers which Employee Family are supported by PARCO near its Corporate Headquarter, Mid-Country Refinery and various  We have an extensive Management Development Program (MDP) for our  Ibn-e-Sina Hospital at Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) ensures timely medical Stations and Terminals since several years. This year’s training focused on “Planning effective employees. All trainings are planned and coordinated in a systematic manner assistance to the employees and their families residing at the Refinery in lessons”. The main idea behind these workshops is to introduce teachers to new teaching by the Company in terms of the needs and the talents required. The training Housing Colony in Qasba Gujrat which is a remote area. methods and concepts being practiced at successful schools. The teachers were able to efforts are not confined to a few formal classroom courses but extend in all directions to remove employees’ weaknesses and accentuate their strengths.  The Company also covers medical/traveling expenses of employees and their understand the learning process, and more importantly, how to deliver lessons to students in Last six years of Training Man-Hours data is given below. dependents if the patient is suffering from such a disease which requires a a more efficient manner. The teachers actively participated during the session which showed vital organ transplantation that cannot be done locally. their interest in learning. At the end of the trainings, certificates were distributed amongst the participants. The teachers highly praised PARCO’s contribution in the overall development of Healthy Working Environment their schools through various CSR initiatives and for organizing such training sessions.  PARCO is an OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety  Before mobilization, Service Providers` staff undertakes  The summers in 2015 extended for a longer time period with extreme heat wave that claimed Management System) certified Company since the year 2005. The Company Orientation & Training covering Occupational, Health, lives of hundreds throughout the Country. The Karachi city was no different, as the heat wave has been receiving National Environment Excellence Awards for the past ten Safety & Environment procedures and practices. stroked many. In order to save the children at Ibrahim Hyderi from heat stroke, the Company years in a row.  Toxic Gas areas are marked with toxic gas signs and no distributed caps to the students at PARCO supported government schools. About 1,000 caps one is allowed to enter the area without proper gas were distributed to make sure that children while commuting to the school and their homes  PARCO’s annual Inter-Station Competition for the Best Housekeeping at masks. do not become victim to the heat wave. The initiative was much appreciated by the school PARCO Stations and Terminals continued this year where all the Stations and  The drinking water is checked on a monthly basis to management, the children and their parents. Terminals were scrutinized. During 2015, PS-4 at Fazilpur was awarded the eliminate any bacterial contamination. Best Station Trophy.  Since 2009, PARCO has been partnering with the  PARCO continues to provide a healthy and green working environment to its National Highway and Motorway Police (NH&MP) and employees. During 2015, the Company secured a Gold Medal with First has till date printed 30,000 Road Safety Booklets for Position in the Best Corporate Garden Category in a competition held by the motorists to comply Road Safety Rules, Pakistan Traffic Code, etc. See more on safe driving in Principle 8. Horticultural Society of Pakistan. PARCO has been winning prizes for its Corporate Garden for the last several years.  All PARCO drivers are provided training annually to comply with Road Safety Rules and Pakistan Traffic Code.  PARCO provides international quality facilities for Sports including Cricket (Flood Lit ground), Hockey, Football, Volleyball, Swimming, Tennis, etc.  There are proper road markings and road safety signs installed within all PARCO facilities and locations for Indoor sports facilities are also provided in a Club Complex which include strict compliance. Bowling Alley, Gymnasium, Badminton, Table Tennis, Snooker, Squash, etc. at its Mid-Country Refinery as well as Stations and Terminals. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2016 (Page 2 of 16) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Contd. BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration Communities Actions Work-Life Balance Education Stakeholder Involvement & Community Investment Results  PARCO ensures a very balanced work environment to all employees for Employee Family  Under the umbrella of Schools and Clinics Support Program, PARCO has supported several Basic and Rural Health Centers based in small villages nearby PARCO cross-country pipeline and rest and relaxation, recuperation after sickness and for attending personal  The School at PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery Stations and Terminals. The clinics are providing basic healthcare to the local communities within their villages. As a result, community members are no longer required to travel for long affairs. (MCR) Housing Complex provides subsidized hours to the cities for basic treatment. education to the employees` children till pre An employee proceeding on Annual Leave may request for advance salary university level. The School also has a board which  PARCO’s Mid-Country Refinery at Qasba Gujrat is surrounded by many underprivileged communities, which are deprived of the basic education and health facilities. PARCO operates a payment for approved leave period. In addition, employees are also includes PARCO management and parents of the Community Welfare Clinic in order to provide basic health facilities to the domestic workers working at the Mid-Country Refinery, their families and other people from nearby areas. The entitled to ‘Leave Fare Assistance’. children. clinic is being run at a cost of Rs 1.5 million a year and treats approx 3,000 patients annually. In order to ensure sustainability of its operations, the clinic is supervised by the Company doctor and provision for its operation is kept in yearly CSR budget.  The Company provides opportunities for employees to socialize with professional colleagues from other organizations and other walks of life.  In Pakistan, there are various hospitals that serve the underprivileged who cannot afford medication, hospitalization etc. Hospitals that are selected are run by NGOs with transparent To facilitate this inter-relation, the Company sees that the employees operations, supervised by a proper Board of Directors and regular external audits. PARCO has helped several such hospitals through philanthropic contributions in capacity building. have the facility and use of a reputable club in the city where they are posted. This is called the ‘Club Membership’ policy. Support for Sports  PARCO has a decade long history of promoting sports within and outside the Company. Sports’ events like Cricket, Squash, Hockey, Volley Ball, Swimming, Water Polo, Badminton, Table  Employees posted at outstations work on ROTA System, where they work and Long Tennis and other tournaments are supported by PARCO. Since the last three years, PARCO has been a major sponsor of the Squash tournaments that has helped in promoting for 20 days and then enjoy 8 days paid leaves with their families. young talent. PARCO has been holding a cricket tournament for the Pakistani petroleum industry for the past many years.  During 2015, PARCO sponsored 5 Non-Management Staff and 2 Increasing Self-Reliance through Vocational Training Management Staff to perform “Hajj” (Holy Pilgrimage). This is done on  One of the areas PARCO has been heavily investing in is fostering the culture of vocational training and entrepreneurship. During the annual basis. Phase I, PARCO started operational support of government vocational training centers in Sindh and Punjab. Currently, there are 21 centers being aided by PARCO according to their infrastructural needs and equipment requirements. This support has resulted in  In the event of an employee or spouse’s death, the Company provides students getting better training on modern equipment increasing their chances of employment. transportation of deceased and ‘Funeral Assistance’ to the family.  As a way forward, under Phase II PARCO has successfully setup a Sewing and Display Centre for Women at Qasba Gujrat nearby PARCO  PARCO has a cafeteria for employees where nutritious meals are served Mid-Country Refinery. The aim of this Centre is to provide advance sewing and embroidery skills to the underprivileged women who at more than 70% subsidy. PARCO employs 2 cooks at each Station and have already done basic courses in sewing. Moreover, the Centre is providing training of six months to the ladies, which will include Terminal for cooking meals for staff. additional courses on personal development and building entrepreneurial skills. These courses will educate them using technology to get better access to markets, advertise their products to reach more customer base, keep updated on modern trends and cater to current  PARCO provides financial assistance to support non-management staff for needs. This will help them in developing profitable business models rewarding them financially and uplifting them economically. Currently there are a total of 30 students enrolled and 30 are on waiting list. daughter’s marriage and education assistance for their children.  The 21 vocational training centers as mentioned above are performing well. They offer different courses for women to help them  In February 2015, PARCO organized the Annual Family Day for all improve their standard of living by utilizing their learned skill set. This year, PARCO distributed sewing machines to women who had employees and their families where they enjoyed fun rides, puppet show, completed their Dress Making & Embroidery courses from Mahmood Kot Vocational Training Institute, near PARCO Mid-Country magic show, games, food, etc. More than 2,600 PARCONIANS and their Refinery. Senior PARCO officials distributed sewing machines among these women so that they can be financially independent and lead a better life. family members visited the Annual Family Day where they all spent quality  PARCO has also been supporting the educational time together. The event helps employees to unwind from their busy endeavors of its employees and their children. schedules and enjoy the whole day with their families and socialize with Solar Energy for Better Lives ‘Scholarship for Children of Employees’ is their fellow PARCONIANS.  PARCO has always been proactive in taking initiatives to improve the lives of people in the underprivileged areas of our country. A intended to support the employees by providing number of projects have already been completed under the Community Development Program to address basic necessities. This year, financial assistance to help defray their children’s PARCO stepped forward for the development of villages in Lasbela District, Baluchistan. These villages are located at places where professional education on the basis of a formal electricity, water and gas have yet not been available. procedure that recognizes academic merit.  PARCO has provided 28 Monocrystalline Solar Panels with capacity of 12 Volt, 80 Watt. The solar panels produce around 480 watts on an average and the battery installed in the systems will provide electricity during night time. The project provides electricity to around 80  Educational Awards which include a certificate houses benefiting approximately 400 people of the village. This is a progressive step towards building capacity of the people by giving and cash rewards are given to school going them a better life. children of the employees, based on good performance in their Secondary Education. This Supporting Internal Stakeholders recognition helps motivate children to further  PARCO provides education assistance to employees children by providing scholarships to deserving students, seeking professional education. enhance their educational performance. During  PARCO cares for its internal and external stakeholders. The Company supports its non-management and service provider’s staff in all manners that it can help. PARCO provides funeral 2015, 65 children of PARCO employees were assistance, assistance for daughter marriages, medical support on case to case basis, educational awards for non-management and service provider staff children in recognition of their provided Educational Awards. performance in Secondary Education and for further education as well.  The Company also supports the staff in many ways on case to case basis, whenever they need financial, medical or other support. All in all, PARCO acts as a Socially Responsible Corporate Citizen in all possible ways to help its internal and external stakeholders. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2016 (Page 3 of 16) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESSES SHOULD MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment PARCO makes all possible efforts to avoid complicity in Human Rights Abuses and abides by the laws of the country. Management Systems HR Management, Operations, Contract Management, Communities, etc. Actions Ethical Standards and fair dealings with shareholders, staff, customers, Equal Opportunity Employer Women Empowerment suppliers, service providers and other external partners Results  During recruitment, every employee of PARCO signs a declaration agreeing to PARCO`s Guiding Principles  All appointments in PARCO are based on merit for filling approved vacant  Being an equal opportunity employer, PARCO makes efforts in taking initiatives to empower women among its internal which include a complete set of guidelines on fair and ethical dealings with customers, internal and external positions. Our recruitment process ensures fair and competitive matching of and external stakeholders. Some of these initiatives are given below. stakeholders and communities. Violations of these principles are viewed seriously, have resulted in disciplinary candidates with job specifications. Non-job factors e.g. gender, origin, religion,  The Government of Pakistan promulgated Protection Against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act, 2010 with action, and in some cases have led to the termination of service. Following are some highlights of PARCO`s and external influence are not considered. Under–age employment is strictly an objective to create a safe working environment for women which is free of harassment, abuse and intimidation so Guiding Principles: forbidden. that they can work with dignity. PARCO enforces this Act throughout the company and has placed it on its intranet portal and notice boards to educate women at workplace about their rights. PARCO has a committee to deal with  We practice a merit-based equal-opportunity policy for recruitment and reject any influence of gender,  PARCO Job Advertisements clearly state that use of any extraneous influence will harassment complaints takes suggestions and gives recommendations to Management. Employees, including head of color, caste, faith, ethnic origin or recommendations by influential persons. disqualify the candidate. departments, are advised to report any acts of harassment by any gender, as harassment is considered misconduct  PARCO believes in tempering its policies with human values that can raise the human capital of the  PARCO provides equal career growth opportunity to both male and female liable of disciplinary action. Since the last 40 years of existence of PARCO, no case of harassment against women has Company and the Nation. been registered. employees, some of whom are also heading key departments and sections in the Company. The company has females working in Engineering, Finance, Projects, IT,  PARCO has built and supported three schools with The Citizens Foundation – a reputable NGO working in the area of  PARCO believes that valid profits are made by good businesses through efficient services, productivity of Telecom, Marketing, HR, and Medical functions. Our target is zero discrimination imparting quality education – at Karachi and Qasba Gujrat, near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. These schools employ all operations, value addition, innovative financing and strategic management of PARCO assets, talent and in a male dominated society and industry. female staff belonging to the nearby communities. The existences of these campuses have generated employment for skills, while contributing to the well being of the Society. these local women to earn a decent living. There are over 900 children receiving quality education at PARCO TCF schools.  As a professionally managed organization, we at PARCO ensure that all the stakeholders are provided equal  Management and Engineering Trainees, upon successful completion of their  PARCO’s Schools and Clinics Support Program supports 89 institutions compared to 86 last year, with 71 schools and 18 opportunities. Be it customers, employees, communities etc. we ensure equal treatment at all levels. training, are considered on merit against vacant positions, as permanent clinics. Out of these 71 schools, 84 percent are situated in the rural areas, with maximum female staff. employees without discrimination, in case if there is vacant position.  PARCO believes in the value of transparency, openness and self-examination, and consider them as  The Community Welfare Clinic at the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery caters to approximately 3,000 patients a year of safeguards against potential faults.  During 2015, 2 Trainee Engineers and 5 Management Trainee were inducted. which majority patients treated are women and children.  As a professionally managed organization, we at PARCO ensure that all the stakeholders are provided equal  Benefits, facilities and allowances, as specified in the Company`s policies are  At the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery, the female spouses of the Company employees have formed a Ladies Club which is opportunities. Be it customers, employees, communities etc. we ensure equal treatment at all levels. provided to all employees and their dependents without discrimination. financially supported by PARCO. The club undertakes several social activities and events organized by the women residing at the Refinery Housing Complex.  We consider our Suppliers and Service Providers as our business partners and deal with them with the same fairness that we reserve for our employees and customers.  At PARCO Mid-Country Refinery Housing Complex, the Company has separate housing for women. There are separate sections and timing for facilities and club sports for women.  As a Company we are acknowledged as a responsible corporate citizen in the community of business and industry of Pakistan and have received multiple awards from various external stakeholder bodies as  During 2015, PARCO continued its support to many wellknown vocational training institutions. The basic aim of the mentioned in the COP.  project was to facilitate these institutions in building capacity for incorporating latest techniques in building competencies amongst Pakistani youth. PARCO supported Vocational Training Institutes in areas, nearby PARCO  We strive for minimal impact on the environment and contribute significantly to reducing the damage done facilities and assisted 21 centers at Machike, Faisalabad, Kot Adu, Mahmood Kot, Qasba Gujrat, Muzaffargarh, DG Khan, to nature by man. Multan, Fazilpur, Shikarpur, Bubak and Karachi.  We do not tolerate unsafe and hazardous-to-health work practices in transit or at the work place.  The institutes were provided help through setting up state of the art computer labs for conducting various professional courses and vocational trainings pertaining to sewing and embroidery by providing electrical embroidery sewing machines and furniture. Most of the students enrolled are women and has helped the women in these communities to take care of their own economics after receiving trainings from these well-equipped Vocational Training Institutes. 0 STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK Naila Wilson Ghulam Nabi Shaikh Teacher at Government Boys Primary School, Bahar-e-Madina, Karachi Teacher at Government Boys Secondary School, Ibrahim Hyderi, Karachi “It was great experience to have a training session at Teachers “My previous trainings have been great and played an instrumental role Resource Center (TRC), organized by PARCO. The way TRC deals with us in changing the overall classroom culture that we have at the on account of training is great and I found it one of the best place for Government schools. As a teacher, I am able to understand that these teachers training. It helps teachers to learn “how to teach”. It updates trainings are essential not only for my growth but adding the value to our teaching methodology which is eventually improving our style of the development of the students. I appreciate PARCO’s efforts in teaching at the Government School. These trainings are improving organizing these much needed trainings since the past several years.” behaviors of various teachers towards students.” www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2016 (Page 4 of 16) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment PARCO believes in addressing Employee issues practically and providing the right of collective bargaining to all its workers by complete compliance to all Industrial Relations Ordinances and Laws. Management Systems HR Management, Industrial Relations, Operations, CSR Actions Freedom of Association Collective Bargaining Negotiations and Proactive focus and redressed Employee Grievances to maintain a good Organizational Climate Union Charter Signing partners Results  PARCO workers are free to form or join a trade union of  PARCO has a history of good management – employee  Employees are encouraged to voice their suggestions for improving the Company’s performance and efficiency through an ‘Employee Suggestion Program’, which is an ongoing program. The their choice without fear of intimidation or reprisal. relations. There has never been a labor strike since objective of this initiative is to provide employees an opportunity to come up with innovative and creative ideas for process improvement, cost savings, operations effectiveness, safety and PARCO`s inception, and all CBA agreements have been efficiency. Under this program, employee suggestions towards improving organizational efficiency are recognized and rewarded. Suggestions made by the employees are reviewed by the Managing  The Company complies with Industrial Relations negotiated in a friendly atmosphere. Director and the Executive Committee Members which includes Company’s top management. Ordinance 2012. PARCO has one registered trade union  Free and fair elections of CBA were held during May 2015.  In order to obtain feedback from exiting employees on the problem areas in the Company and on the employee’s concerns, complaints and suggestions, an exit interview of all exiting employees comprising of all non-management employees Next elections will be held in May 2017. are also conducted and remedial actions are taken accordingly. represented by 10 Collective Bargaining Agents (CBA).  Management and CBA work together on many Employee  For answering queries/suggestion/complaints of employees, the PARCO HR Department has a dedicated Help Desk. Development and Welfare Programs.  The Human Resource Department at PARCO regularly conducts visits of PARCO installations at remote locations, to gather employee feedback, complaints and suggestions. The HR department also conducts Focus Group sessions amongst the employees where employees are randomly selected from each department at all locations irrespective of their grade or level. The objective of these discussions is to gather information pertaining to issues faced by the employees at all areas. A total number of 29 sessions were conducted during 2015, attended by more than 300 participants from different departments belonging to various levels. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment PARCO completely disallows any form of forced or compulsory labour in all its functions. Management Systems Business Partners, Operations Human Resource Management Actions Maintaining industry-competitive Compensation and Benefits The terms of employment at PARCO provide maximum freedom to Compliance by checking of employees to voluntarily enter or leave the organization on free will Vendors/Suppliers/Service Providers Results partners  PARCO’s policy is to pay employees at all levels with responsibility, salaries and wages which are competitive when compared with prevailing salary  PARCO`s employment contracts do not violate human rights or labor laws. PARCO does not have a  Vendors/Suppliers/Contractors are checked by PARCO that scales for similar work in comparable organizations. For this purpose, salary surveys are regularly conducted and salary adjustments, benefits and practice of service bonds. no forced labor is utilized for PARCO`s jobs. During revisions are accordingly granted targeting 75th percentile of the industry. prequalification, PARCO employees visit suppliers and  Separation process, payment of outstanding dues, post retirement benefits, etc. are done  All employment contracts can be terminated by giving notice of 30 days by either party. vendors to visually observe and report if any children are  PARCO benefits its employees with economic protection against loss of earnings in the event of separation from service through ‘Gratuity Fund’. expeditiously. employed or if forced labor is practiced. Besides this, PARCO also benefits its retired employees with ‘Pension Funds’. The widow/children of a deceased employee are also entitled to  Upon induction, all employees are provided an employee handbook which includes Human Resource receive pension. policies and procedures about hiring, training and development, compensation, benefits, leaves,  PARCO conducts open competitive bidding for services and  PARCO also has a ‘Transfer of Ownership of Company Assets’ policy aimed at increasing employee satisfaction and retention. Under this scheme, medical benefits and much more. Furthermore, an electronic version of the book is also placed on materials procurement to provide equal opportunity to all employees are allowed to purchase Company vehicles and household appliances at a nominal cost. PARCO’s Intranet Portal for instant access by the employees. The electronic version is updated as qualified vendors/suppliers. soon as amendments are made in the policies.  To assist employees in solving their transportation, housing problems and in acquiring hard furnishings for their homes, PARCO grants Car, Housing and Furniture Loans to its employees.  Employees who are availing the residence facility at the Mid-Country Refinery site benefit from allotment of Company–owned residential housing, hard and soft furnishings, household appliances, world class sports, club facilities, schooling, mosque, shopping centers, etc.  PARCO places utmost importance to the continuous services of its employees as being a factor to be recognized in terms of granting reward and recognition. The Company recognizes long and dedicated services rendered by employees and in recognition thereof has instituted suitable awards commensurate with the length of service. The table besides shows the distribution of 276 awards which have been given to employees in December 2015 on completing different periods of service: www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2016 (Page 6 of 16) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment PARCO forbids engagement of any form of child labour in its operations or by any of its business partners. Management Systems Human Resource Management, Operations Business Partners Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Documented procedures prohibit employment Third party audit of Labor conditions Inclusion of Labor Laws (that disallows child PARCO assists in enhancing primary and secondary schooling to reduce Child of Child Labor labor) in contracts with Business Partners Labour in its adjoining communities Results  No child labor has ever been employed by PARCO. Despite the fact  Regular third party audits are conducted by the Labor  By asking Suppliers and Service Providers to adhere to the laws  PARCO’s has been conducting a comprehensive Schools and Clinics Support Program since 2007. The program is that under the labor laws of Pakistan the minimum age of hiring is 14 Directorate’s labor department and health and hygiene of the country, they are required to comply with all labor laws, focused on supporting schools and clinics at rural communities located near PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery and years, PARCO`s minimum age limit for induction is 18 years, which is department, Employees Old Age Benefit Institution meet security and human rights requirements as well as its Stations & Terminals in the Sindh and Punjab provinces of Pakistan. thoroughly checked by birth certificates, educational transcripts, (EOBI), Social Services Department, Workers Children eliminate employment of under-age workers.  Till 2015, 89 Schools and Clinics have been supported by developing their much needed infrastructure, national identity card by NADRA (National Database and Registration Education, Sindh Employers Social Security Institution procurement of necessary equipment, etc. This helps them sustain their operations for providing basic facilities to Authority) and other age verification documents, thus ensuring that and other authorities who ensure elimination of Child Labor and compliance of other requirements of Labor the communities. Out of these 89 institutions, 71 are schools where more than 36,000 children are receiving there is no child labor across the company. Laws. education. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has raised the communities` interest to enroll their children in these refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from child labor to primary education, raising the literacy rate. PARCO and TCF (The Citizens Foundation) – A Partnership Making Differences PARCO in partnership with the TCF (The Citizens Foundation) – a reputed NGO in Pakistan has developed three campuses i.e. two primary and one secondary school at Qasba Gujrat and Karachi. These campuses are built in under-privileged communities and impart quality education to around 933 children. These schools are making a great difference in the lives of the underprivileged in many ways. PARCO supported Schools and Clinics since 2007 till date Perks of PARCO’s Investment in Education  As education is a key foundation for developing a country, PARCO has always taken initiatives to improve the quality of education in underprivileged areas across Pakistan. The Company has been supporting the above mentioned schools with much needed infrastructure and material support. Not only this, but we have been undertaking various projects from time to time to create a happy learning environment.  Our Teachers Trainings since the past 4 years have made phenomenal progress in terms of changing the PARCO-TCF Campus I, Karachi classroom culture in the government schools. Teachers have now learned easy ways to engage these energetic PARCO-TCF Campus I, Karachi PARCO-TCF Campus III, Muzaffargarh youngsters. This has helped children in increased interest in the school and above all, improvement in the attendance culture.  The bags and caps distributions being made since the last two years have played an instrumental role in children’s interest in the school. At Ibrahim Hydri, Karachi, school management has indicated that the PARCO supported schools have high number of enrollment in the area, mainly due to the changing positive culture at the school and the support that PARCO lends. With increased enrollments, children of these areas are now able to choose school over employment over early age. PARCO-TCF Campus II, Qasba Gujrat www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2016 (Page 7 of 16) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment PARCO provides equal employment opportunity and supports diversity of human capital in all its functions. Management Systems Human Resource Management Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Ensuring Equal Employment Enforcing Code of Workforce Diversity Merit-driven Appointments Expand PARCO`s interaction with Technology Transfer Opportunities for all Ethics and Promotions Educational Institutions Results  PARCO offers equal opportunities to all  PARCO ensures that employees  PARCO employees come from all  PARCO discourages nepotism and  PARCO undertakes regular summer and winter internships for  PARCO possesses competent specialists in many areas and in order to utilize their qualified applicants, men and women, abide with the Company`s over the country, irrespective of every form of favoritism. The way up students belonging to business and engineering disciplines where expertise, these internal training resources develop and deliver training belonging to all faiths and religion, Code of Ethics. Every employee domicile/origin, ethnicity, religion, the PARCO ladder is open to the selection of internees is done on merit. During 2015, PARCO programs. origin, ethnicity, color, caste or creed. has to sign, at the time of gender, or any other non-job everybody. The policy of the Company inducted 58 interns and provided on the job training with is to develop and promote employees challenging projects.  PARCO offers Trainee Program in the fields of management and engineering. The induction, a declaration dimension. Thus there are workers training ranges from 1 to 2 years and provides the candidate learning and  PARCO ensures that no discrimination is agreeing to PARCO`s Principles of all ages, from all provinces i.e. from within the organization through from the northern most cities to career and succession planning.  PARCO also supports research, conferences, trade fairs, exposure to different aspects of a real life working environment. Upon made amongst employees and till date, which include a complete workshops and other events of educational institutions. We also demonstrating satisfactory performance at the end of the training, the Trainee is all male and female employees guideline on avoiding the southernmost areas.  Hiring and promotions are done on provide technical equipment for labs of engineering institutions. inducted as an employee if a suitable vacancy exists. belonging to different religion are discrimination, ensuring fair  PARCO is a national employer, merit, performance and ultimate PARCO has donated 4 Gas Turbines to the Mechanical employed at all levels including senior and ethical dealings with all potential of each employee through  Since 1975, PARCO has trained 1151 Engineering and Management trainees. This employing people without Engineering Departments of four engineering universities of management positions. internal and external number is ever increasing and shows that PARCO has not stopped inducting fresh discrimination and strictly on professional and transparent HR Pakistan i.e. NED University-Karachi, University of Engineering stakeholders including talent even at a time when the Country is facing an economic downturn. processes. If any employee exerts  Employees are given holidays in communities, customers, merit, from all parts of the and Technology-Lahore, Mehran University-Jamshoro, Bahauddin Country. external pressure of any sort s/he is Zakariya University-Multan. These turbines are now being accordance with their religious suppliers and vendors.  To address the issue of scarcity of trained manpower in the country, an automatically disqualified and faces utilized by the universities to provide hands-on training to the customs. ‘Apprenticeship Program’ has also been introduced. The objective of this six Despite being a petroleum disciplinary action. engineering students. month program is to provide technical training to fresh graduates and upgrade  PARCO gives special employment engineering organization, PARCO  Universities show keen interest in visiting PARCO’s facilities and their skills. preference to handicapped applicants encourages women for the company organizes plant visits for petroleum, chemical, civil,  PARCO has a huge reservoir of highly skilled and experienced human capital. and has till date employed 5 such employment at the Mid-Country electrical, electronics, telecommunication, and other engineering Please refer to the below graph showing our Talent Inventory in different areas. people. Refinery, which is located in a and business students belonging to different universities. remote area, by providing separate  See Women Empowerment in Principle 2. accommodation for single women. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2016 (Page 8 of 16) ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Environment Friendly Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Environment Friendly Solid Waste Management Supply-Chain Awards Products Results  Crude Oil is the basic raw material in any  Effluent monitoring is carried out at all Stations and Terminals and the  PARCO is a fully IMS CERTIFIED ENERGY Company and amongst  PARCO proactively works to  Waste disposal is an elaborate activity at PARCO. Our Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) oil refining firm. Environmental Mid-Country Refinery (MCR). Reports are sent to Environment Protection the first in Pakistan to simultaneously achieve three international ensure that its products and fuels at Qasba Gujrat is the collection point for all hazardous waste from the Refinery, stewardship is a prime motivation as we Agency (EPA) against SMART Program. certifications, that is, ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management Stations and Terminals. The waste is stored at a hazardous waste yard. The are environment friendly. Lead System), ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management System) procedure we have developed clearly defines the methodology for the manage transportation of crude from  Impact on the environment from the refining process is controlled by free Gasoline complies with the and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety management and disposal of solid waste at MCR in a manner that protects human Keamari Port in Karachi to our refinery in treating and managing emissions. Low NOx (Nitrous Oxide) burners and standard having sulfur content Management System). health and the environment. It takes an inclusive approach that endeavors to Mahmood-Kot, MCR through 864 km Sulfur removal from fuel gases are examples.  Corporate Headquarters (CHQ) has successfully achieved IMS less than 150 ppm. With the protect surface/ ground-water, air, flora and fauna. It also presents best practices long pipeline which is approx 400 ft Recertification of the OSHAS 18001, ISO 14001 and ISO 9001  Effluents are treated in a state of the art effluent treatment plant having Standards for another one year following an external Surveillance investment of 132 million USD on that make up an effective Waste Management System. above sea level. The pipeline ensures capacity of 340m3/hr involving extensive chemical and biological Audit conducted by a third party certification body in June 2015. a Diesel Hydro Desulfurization that each drop of crude oil is transported treatment. The waste water from all over the refinery is collected and  PARCO’s Mid Country Refinery and Stations and Terminals have designated unit, Diesel produced by PARCO to MCR without effecting the through skimming, neutralization, dissolved air floatation, aeration,  IMS Certificates for PARCO Pipeline were re-certified by a third procedures and areas for effective system of waste collection and segregation. is on Euro II specifications i.e. less Two drums (yellow and green) are placed in each area i.e. plant, maintenance clarification, filtration and drying operations the effluent water is brought party certification body in October 2015. environment. than 500 ppm. This positions building, truck loading and laboratory etc. Yellow drum is designated for dumping with in NEQS limits before being discharged. The treated water is reused  We have leak detection system, for plants after compliance with NEQS (National Environmental Quality  PARCO Mid-Country Refinery had its surveillance audit conducted PARCO at the top in Pakistan the hazardous waste and the green drum is for non-hazardous waste. Standards) is ensured. All effluents are checked and verified regularly by a third party certification body in January 2016. where the running standard is  The Solid Waste Management yard is the storage point for waste at MCR. It is a emergency shutdown system, intelligent before discharging by third party EPA (Environment Protection Agency) 5,000 ppm of sulfur in diesel. The pigging, corrosion protection, and  During IMS Certification Audit, risk assessments were conducted well-organized area catering for everything from spent catalyst and chemical approved Labs to comply with NEQS. extracted sulfur is solidified and microwave towers for communication, in which high risk areas/activities were identified and objectives drums to used batteries. A third party of international repute is contracted for were established to eliminate, reduce and minimize the risks. The sold as a byproduct. disposing the waste. All types of solid wastes are collected in the waste yard and SCADA (supervisory control and data  All contractors’ equipment is checked for compliance to NEQS. process is now continued through IMS objectives. separated according to their nature. There are five separate yards according to the acquisition) system to avoid leakages,  Various chemicals in use are stored in a well-ventilated warehouse and it nature of waste. thefts and intermediate storage tanks at  Audits of housekeeping, gas masks, noise, work permits, closed sampling box etc. have been periodically is ensured that a minimum level of inventory is kept to minimize the 5 different pumping stations. hazard. The chemical warehouse is equipped with deluge valve system to conducted. Bi-annually third party stack emissions and liquid effluent monitoring, third party ground water  Scrap Yard is situated near the south side boundary wall of the refinery in front of suppress any kind of contamination. Plastic trays and HDPE sheets have monitoring within the refinery and neighboring areas, third party ambient air monitoring around the Solid Waste Management Yard. All the waste generated at the Mid-Country  During the year 2015, approx 4.6 Million been placed under the chemical drums to meet the required level of PARCO installation within 2 kms of radius, are conducted. Refinery is stored in the Solid Waste Management and Scrap yard. Environment Metric Tons of crude oil was transported section keeps the record of Solid Waste Management Yard. The non-hazardous protection. from Karachi to PARCO`s Mid-Country  Regular HSE Audits of operational areas and office buildings are carried out to ensure safe environment in waste is stored in green drums and shifted to the non-hazardous waste yard. Refinery (MCR) at Mahmood Kot through  In compliance of Integrated Management System (IMS) at Corporate the office areas. Any discrepancies found during the audit are analyzed for their risks on safety and Administration Department keeps the record of all the municipal waste and submits an 870 km long pipeline network, Headquarters (CHQ), environmental sampling and testing of liquid appropriate recommendations are provided as key performance indicators. Up till now 102 Plant Safety the record to the Environment Engineer on monthly basis for proper monitoring, ensuring safe and secure transportation. effluent (sewerage and car wash area) and gaseous emissions and Housekeeping Audits of MCR have been conducted. treatment and/or disposal. This efficient supply chain eliminates the (generators of CHQ and Commercial buildings) are carried out against  Annual Pipeline HSE and Housekeeping Audits ensure the same commitment towards housekeeping and NEQS on yearly basis through an EPA certified laboratory. Liquid effluent clean environment both in operational areas and office buildings at all PARCO Stations and Terminals. movement of oil tankers significantly parameters include temperature, pH, chemical oxygen demand, Senior Management Audit is carried out on monthly basis in which the Senior Management conducts its contributing in reduction of air pollution. biological oxygen demand, total dissolved solids, total suspended solids, audits at the plant area and also interacts with employees to gain insights.  In 2015, the 362 km Mahmood Kot oil & grease, phenolic compounds and chlorides while gaseous emissions Faisalabad Machike (MFM) pipeline are tested for Co, Nox, Sox, H2S, smoke and noise. The results of the past  The refinery has been divided into 12 major units and 12 audit teams conducts Senior Management audits eight years from 2007 2015 are within permissible limits specified in on monthly basis. Action points are identified and sent to concerned departments for implementation. transported approx 3.0 Million Metric NEQS, conducted by reputable laboratories. Samples for 2015 were Overall performance in 2015 remained 75 %. This shows a high management commitment and Tons of refined fuel from PARCO Midcommunication with employees. extracted for testing and results remained within permissible limits. Country Refinery at Mahmood Kot to  EMS (Environment Management System) Impact Assessment registers  The National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH) has awarded PARCO with the Annual Environmental  In 2015, approximately 104.35 tons of hazardous waste was disposed off through Machike via Faisalabad where gantry are available at every Station, and EMS impact is assessed on regular Excellence Award for the tenth consecutive year in 2015. The NFEH is a non-government, non-profit an EPA approved facility. During hazardous waste management, around 1,045 facility is available for product off-take. empty metal and plastic drums, 99 batteries and 2,500 liters of used oil were sold basis to ensure IMS conformance with ISO and EMS requirements. organization which works in collaboration with the United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP) and is This has also reduced quite a number of supported by the Ministry of Environment, Government of Pakistan. PARCO for the 7th consecutive time has with safe recycling/ disposal guarantees. The payback of recycled drums tank lorries off the road. been placed amongst the 10 Best Organizations of Pakistan in Environment Management. contributed in disposal of hazardous waste. This is an annual recurring activity.  Similarly, during 2015, the 786 km WOP  The Employers Federation of Pakistan has awarded PARCO the “Best Practices Award for Occupational PARCO’s Guidelines for Disposal of Hazardous Waste (White Oil Pipeline) transported approx 3.9 Safety and Health” in 2015 at a ceremony held in Karachi, Pakistan. The Employers Federation of Pakistan The hazardous waste is disposed through Environment Protection Agency (EPA) Million Metric Tons of HSD (High Speed organizes Annual Awards Ceremony in the area of Occupational Safety, Health and Environment in order to approved third party on an annual basis through open bidding and stringent Diesel) from Karachi to Mahmood-Kot. recognize organizations that are complying towards the safety in their workplace. evaluation criteria to comply with all the legal requirements i.e.  EPA Non-Objection Certificate (NOC) for disposal of hazardous waste.  Safe handling and transportation of hazardous waste methods and statements.  Incineration through EPA approved facility.  Recycling of used lubricant oils through government approved reclamation plant.  Safety of workers for handling of hazardous waste.  Necessary packaging and labeling requirements. Effluent Treatment Plant at PARCO MCR Mr. Mohammad Omair Pirzada, Manager HSEMr. Amjad Hafeez, General Manager Pipeline Provision of waste disposal/recycling certification and undertakings. PARCO receiving the Best Practices Award PARCO receiving the Environment Award www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2016 (Page 10 of 16) ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 (Contd.) BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 11 of 17) Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Awards Air Emissions Monitoring Results  Regular third party monitoring is done diligently, and the results are well below  Regular HSE Audits of operational areas and office buildings are carried out to ensure safe  Air emissions monitoring is being carried out on monthly basis through PARCO’s laboratory and bi-annually through EPA approved permissible NEQS limits. Results of some key parameters are shown below. environment in the office areas. Any discrepancies found during the audit are analyzed for their third party for Carbon Monoxide, NOx, SOx, and Particulate Matter etc. The result of all environmental parameters remains within risks on safety and appropriate recommendations are provided as key performance indicator. NEQS limits throughout the year. Results of some key parameters are shown below. Two HSEQ Internal Audits were conducted at CHQ during May and November2015 by PARCO’s certified auditors. Perfect Record Award 2014 for PARCO by National Safety Council, USA  NSC runs many safety award programs including Lost-Time Accident free man-hours on yearly basis or on the count of million manhours basis. PARCO prevailed with the ‘Perfect Record Award 2014’ on the basis of accident free 1,214,700 man-hours in the year 2014 starting from 1st January, 2014 to 1st January, 2015. The award is first of its kind as far as recognition of our safety systems on international basis is concerned. Million Man-Hours Award for PARCO by National Safety Council, USA  PARCO obtained the membership of National Safety Council, USA in 2014. For international recognition of Safety System performance, PARCO (MCR) has provided data to NSC, USA. On the basis of provided data, PARCO (MCR) has obtained Perfect Record Award earlier this year. Now on the basis of accident free man-hours for the period of March 30, 2012 to August 3, 2015, PARCO (MCR) has been awarded with a plaque on achieving accident free 4,000,000 man-hours. The plaque was received by HSE department in November, 2015. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2016 (Page 11 of 16) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, IMS, Operations, CSR Actions Environmental Stewardship Increasing Health and Safety Reduction in Pollution and Initiatives Promoting Greater Environmental Responsibility Awareness and Performance Community Environment Monitoring Results  PARCO takes into account all it can to  Fire, rescue and emergency drills are Community Environment Monitoring National Safety Council, USA Membership and Programs reduce emissions far below NEQS limits, conducted regularly at all PARCO locations  The surrounding areas of PARCO’s facilities have a lot of independent Service Stations for Over the past 15 years of refinery operation, PARCO has developed and implemented world class safety systems for safe to ensure preparedness for emergencies. trucks, tankers and other vehicles which are potential contaminants for ground Water. develop products on Euro II standards and operations. Safety of personnel working in refinery environment has always been our top priority. During this period these Four batches of Emergency Response Team Realizing this Environmental aspect we developed a comprehensive ground and soil preserve natural habitat by diverting its oil monitoring plan to ensure that there is no contamination in soil and water is done and has systems have been recognized within the country with “Environmental” and “Fire and Safety” awards. PARCO obtained the are being trained every year to ensure pipeline. availability of trained manpower at all developed a base line data for continuous monitoring. It includes: membership of National Safety Council (NSC), USA in 2014 which internationally recognizes PARCO’s systems.  The 2,000 km of oil pipelines traversing the times. First Aid staff is trained by 1. Ambient Air Quality monitoring for SOx, NOx and CO at 1 and 2 kms outside Refinery is Safety Scouts & Guides Program at PARCO professional Fire and Rescue personnel and country, save thousands of gallons of fuel conducted twice a year. refresher courses are ensured periodically.  In order to guarantee and propel safety behavior amongst the residents of PARCO Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) – Housing and reduce pollution that would otherwise 2. Ambient Particulate Matter monitoring is also conducted twice a year. Complex, a Safety Scouts & Guides Program is in place at PARCO. The Safety Scouts & Guides are selected from the pool of have been caused by tank lorries traffic. 3. Offsite Ground Water monitoring is also conducted twice a year at 10 different locations.  To create a general awareness amongst the school-going students who are best at expressing themselves and are brimming with confidence. Gender Equality is ensured 4. Noise Level monitoring at boundary wall are done periodically.  The refining complex at PARCO’s Midemployees regarding the importance of while selecting the Scouts and Guides, whose job is to ensure and enhance behavioral, kitchen, road and living-place safety in maintaining good health; health and safety the Housing Complex. The Safety Scouts & Guides, who are twelve in number, are given a healthy stipend as a token for their Country Refinery is equipped with a statebrochures were launched on subjects like Community’s Ground Water Monitoring services. The Safety Scouts & Guides are provided with check-lists to ensure that proper house-keeping is done in the housing of-the-art effluent treatment plant, low importance of seat belts, safety guidelines  As a CSR Initiative for the local communities, we complex and basic safety procedures are being followed. NOx (Nitrous Oxide) and SOx (Sulphur for visitors, thalassaemia, polio, ebola, perform 3rd party (EPA certified) ground water Oxide) burners and a Sulfur Recovery Unit. benefits of dietary fiber, etc. monitoring of the surroundings of our refinery PARCO – Family Safety Awareness Program twice a year just to ensure that the community  To educate the families of employees regarding Health, Safety and Environment, HSE has recently started the CA TV nearby is using a safe underground water. There presentations and videos on PARCO channel. The topics recently shared are Fire Classification, Winter Safety, Clean  Regular lectures on various health topics (e.g., hypertension, obesity, diabetes mellitus, Polio, are 15 different parameters i.e. pH, Color, TDS, Environment, Importance of Seat Belt, etc. Fire fighting sessions are conducted in the Colony to boost the confidence of families etc) are conducted by Company Doctors. Similarly Medical Bulletins are also issued on the Taste and Odor, Total Hardness, Faecall Coliform, to handle emergency. Company’s intranet portal as well as emailed to all employees to increase health awareness Coliform Organisms, Arsenic, Chloride, Sulphate, on various topics among the employees. Iron, Cyanide, Lead, Selenium and Manganese HSE Newsletters and Bulletins  To enhance health and safety awareness among employees, trainings like Road Safety, Fire from different locations nearby PARCO Mid The company magazine “Pulse” has a section dedicated to HSE highlighting the promotional activities, HSE performance and Fighting, Emergency Response Planning, Anti-Terrorist Attack, Risk Assessment and Procedures Country Refinery. new initiatives. Monthly newsletters and company magazines are used to propagate the clean environmental practice. of Waste Management, Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene Management, First Aid, Environmental standards and our activities are also shared in the articles being published in these publications. During etc. are organized from time to time. Community’s Ambient Air Monitoring Turnaround, a daily newsletter was printed and displayed at prominent locations of MCR for employee’s awareness and  Ambient air monitoring at 1 Km and 2 Km distance around our refinery is also done twice a updated information regarding Occupational Health, Safety and Environment.  PARCO encourages employee participation and maintained in the planning and year by EPA certified third party. The parameters being monitored are NOx, SOx, CO and implementation of OHSE-MS activities like: Particulate matter. Safety Events in 2015 o Job Safety Analysis for all new and critical jobs  Being associates of Employer Federation of Pakistan and National Safety Council USA; Safety Day was celebrated on 21st May, o Risk Assessment for Occupational Health Safety and Environment Community’s Soil Analysis 2015 at MCR. The theme of the activity was “Join in building a culture of prevention on OSH”. Children and families of  A total of 8 samples of soil are being collected to check oil and grease level in the soil from employees residing in the housing complex actively participated in this healthy walk with participation of above 700 people. o Departmental Safety committee meetings Banners were placed at different locations on the Safety Walk route to enhance the safety awareness among participants in 1-4 feet depth. A certified third party collects these samples from various locations within o Incident Reporting and Investigation MCR and service stations around MCR. terms of Safety Behavior, Driving Safety, Fire Safety, Home Safety and Environment. Fire stall was also placed to enhance the o Training and implementation of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) knowledge of fire equipment among children and families. o Tool Box/ Safety Talks Noise Survey  Safety Quiz plays an important role in improving safety related knowledge among employees. In this regard, a safety quiz was  Comprehensive noise surveys are also carried out within all operational areas at Stations & held at MCR on 5th May, 2015. All the departments actively participated in this event. 10 teams took active part in the quiz with Training Statistics Terminals and Refinery. Equipment and locations are identified where a detrimental noise 3 rounds. After a very healthy competition, Utilities & Oil Movement department was declared as winner of the quiz  During the fiscal year 2015, 133 HSE training sessions were conducted attended by 1,299 level may be present. Ear muffs and ear plugs are made mandatory accordingly. Generator/ competition with runner ups as process and inspection departments. Shields and gifts were also provided to the winner and participants. turbine housings, fired heaters, compressors and similar potentially high noise equipment runner-up teams on the day of Safety Walk 2015.  Since 2009, 2,452 participants have attended training sessions on Environment. are monitored periodically. Even at the boundaries, a noise survey is carried out in order to make sure that communities surrounding our facilities are not affected by any noise  PARCO Terminal Station-3 at Faisalabad celebrated the World Day for Safety & Health at Work with great zeal and  More than 25 IMS training sessions on EMS14001:2004 were conducted during the last one year. generated due to operations. enthusiasm on 28th April, 2015. The theme of the celebration was to create awareness & implementation of an Occupational Contractor Safety Management Health & Safety Management System as tool for continual improvement “Join in Building a Culture of Prevention on OSH”. Contractors adhere to relevant health safety and environment and quality standard at PARCO facility through contractor management program.  The PARCO Mid-Country Refinery has installed its own weather station o Pre-qualification with HSEQ requirements to keep itself updated for daily basis weather conditions and keep the o Contractor safety method statement record of historical data. It measures wind speed, wind direction, o HSE requirements are made part of the all types of service contract temperature, relative humidity, barometric pressure, solar radiation, o HSE orientation for contractor workforce and rain, etc. o HSE training for contractor workers o Provision of personal protective equipments  PARCO has developed a sludge pit having the capacity to accommodate o On site monitoring of contractors 500 tons of Hazardous waste sludge. HDPE sheet is used during its o Contractor safety audits construction so that leaching of sludge and ground water contamination o Contractor performance review meetings can be avoided. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2016 (Page 12 of 16) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 (Contd.) COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, Operations, CSR Actions Environmental Stewardship Health Safety Environment (HSE) Training Programs Results  Occupational Health and Safety Management and HSE Training Overview at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery Environment Management systems in PARCO are fully Providing HSE training helps us to ensure employees are trained on environmental challenges, NEQS and other legal requirements, and not injured or made ill by their work, it develop a positive health and safety culture, where safe, healthy and working on complied with the National as well as International Standards environmental friendly condition becomes second nature to the individual, it find out how individual could manage health and safety better and it meet legal duty to protect environment and the health and safety of our employees. Effective training will such as ISO, OSHA, NEQS, NFPA, Pak EPA, API and ASTM. contribute towards making employees competent in HSE, which can help to avoid the distress that accidents and ill health cause and can help avoid the financial cost of accidents and occupational ill health.  PARCO has a very comprehensive occupational health Our objectives are to take into account the capabilities, training, knowledge and experience of our staff; and ensure that the demands of the job do not exceed their ability to carry out their work without risk to themselves, others and environment. monitoring program to manage health of employees exposed Following were undertaken during 2015. to occupational health related risks, for example: o Noise control program (covering area noise level  Trainings are based on the training need analysis, audits and incident reports and are carried out twice a week for all PARCO employees. monitoring, noise reduction and controls. sign posting,  A three day refresher training session for Senior Management was conducted on ‘Safety Management System and its Importance’. personal exposure assessment, audiometry). Even at the  A comprehensive two week HSE training plan is in place for all new employees and trainees. boundaries, a noise survey is carried out in order to make  Emergency Response Team (ERT) was provided ERT training along with various refresher courses. These sessions were planned for over 20 days. sure that communities surrounding our facilities are not affected by any noise generated due to operations.  All contractors before mobilization on site go through detailed Orientation & Training covering both aspects of Occupational Health, Safety & Environment. o Equipment modification to control noise from recourse  The contractual staff including labor also attends in house HSE training program once a week. On-site safety talks are carried out each morning before by engineering means commencement of work. This serves as a refresher for the contractor labor. o Dust monitoring program  HSE trainings were also provided to other refineries of Pakistan such as EnarPetrotech Refining facility, Attock Refinery Limited, etc. o Volatile organic compound monitoring  Mutual Aid Partners were provided trainings on Emergency drills. o Audiometric testing for noise  HSE trainings to the internees and students of different institutions. o Employees health management program  A three days ‘IMS awareness session’ on revised standards of ISO 9001 & ISO-14001 – 2015 was conducted through an external trainer for all 35 PARCO auditors and IMS team members.  PARCO has recently started VOC Monitoring considering its Emergency Response Team (ERT) Training impact on environment and personal health. PARCO HSE conducts in-house ERT training on quarterly basis to train its employees from different engineering/technical disciplines. The aim of ERT training is to have an Emergency Crew in shape of PARCO Employees and thus increase additional vigilance and response to mitigate any emergency at the very initial level. There have been remarkable achievements at many occasions when our ERT members have proved useful by using their training skills. These trainings were initiated in the year 2001 and till now 384  HAZMAT document has been prepared by MCR HSE for all participants from MCR and 174 participants from Pipeline Division have been trained in the form of batches; thus creating a huge number of ERT members which is still increasing. The participants were provided with comprehensive two weeks ERT training the chemicals used in the plant and lab. In this regard a one followed by field trainings pertaining to Fire Management System, different types of Fire Equipment installed at PARCO, use of Emergency Equipment, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), Life Saving Emergency Equipment, Work Permit Systems page MSDS document is prepared for each chemical being implementation, classification of Hazardous Area, operation of Fire Water Suppression System, Crisis Management, Emergency Response Plan, practical Fire Fighting Training and Fire Tender Operation. used along with the face sheet of all chemicals. This provides a great ease for employees in considering the First HSE Trainings for New Employees Aid requirements, handling and storage procedures, New talent management is one of the key areas for PARCO’s strategic growth and development process. In this regard, the HSE department organized one month comprehensive training environmental aspects, etc. program for new batch of trainees at MCR. The training program was divided in five days of class room sessions and four days of field practical training. As a result, the new inductees are now fully trained in HSE systems and procedures and able to identify potential hazards, operate firefighting equipment (portable fire extinguishers, deluge valve system, FM200 fire suppression system). Trainings on Fire Management System, MM800, Work Permit System, Hazardous Area Classification, Office Safety, Ergonomics working at height, Scaffolding Safety, White Oil Pipeline Optimal Utilization Study Effluent Waste Management, Emergency Response Plan and Personal Protective Equipment and Incident Reporting System. During infield practice sessions, they were trained by PARCO  PAPCO – a subsidiary of PARCO – owns 786 km long White Oil MCR Emergency Response Team leaders in management and operation of fire hydrants, trolley mounted breathing apparatus, self-contained breathing apparatus, etc. In future they will Pipeline (WOP), which runs from Port Qasim (near Karachi) to become part of PARCO’s Emergency Response Team. For analyzing the effectiveness of training, a post training evaluation test was also arranged by HSE. the South to Mahmood Kot in the North, where it ties into PARCO owned 364 km long Mahmood Kot-Faisalabad-Machike First Aid Trainings (MFM) Pipeline.  At PARCO, our aim is safety of our employees, and providing ample amount of training to our staff to tackle any unforeseen event is imperative due to the hazardous nature of our business. To keep employees and service provider  The White Oil Pipeline was designed for transportation of Crude staff abreast of First Aid concepts and providing them necessary first aid training, in-house training sessions were Oil and HSD. Presently, it is only being used for the organized. transportation of HSD and it is operating below its design  A five member team from Rescue 1122 conducted three days training on First Aid in February, 2015 at MCR. The training capacity. PAPCO initiated this study to optimize the use of the was held in collaboration with HR Department Representative Dr. Rehan Ahmed. About 32 PARCO employees benefited WOP by using spare capacity for the batched transportation of from the training. MOGAS and Jet Fuel in addition to HSD, from South to North  The course structure comprised of First Aid measures in case of closed and open wounds, closed and open fractures, region. burns, Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) for both adults and infants in case of a catastrophe or a minor incident. The  The Optimal Utilization study has been completed and FEED course was well received by the participants as it included well knitted information regarding the subject as well as (Front End Engineering Design) work for implementation is in practical demonstration. progress. After completion of the project, utilization of pipeline system will be enhanced to its maximum capacity. In addition, Mutual Aid Partners Combined Drill heavy wheeler & bowzers traffic load on the trunk roads will be  A combined drill of PARCO’s Mutual-Aid Partners was held at MCR on 24th February, 2015. The purpose of this drill was to alleviated as hydrocarbons will be transported safely through check and ensure the compatibility of equipment in case of a catastrophic incident, resources required versus available, pipeline system which is most efficient, economic and safe mutual aid team response time etc. The combined fire drill was conducted in the Fire-Training area on the west side of the mode for transportation of flammable liquids. plant. The participants included Fire crew and management members from KAPCO, AES-Lalpir and TPS Muzaffagarh. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2016 (Page 13 of 16) ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 COMPANIES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment PARCO makes all efforts to minimize the impact of its operations on environment by utilizing technologies that are environment friendly. Management Systems HSE, Operations Actions Environmentally Friendly Technologies Automated Incident Reporting System Energy Conservation Program Results Effluent Treatment Plant  The Online Incident Reporting System (IRS) was successfully launched in  Heaters and Boilers are the major sources of energy utilization at refinery plant. PARCO has taken following steps for Energy Conservation and Energy Efficiency:  PARCO`s Effluent Treatment Plant has a capacity of 340m3/hr. Waste January 2012. The purpose of the online system was to combine the IRS water from the refinery is collected and through skimming, system of Mid Country Refinery and Pipeline Division. Furthermore, vision Heaters neutralization, dissolved air floatation, aeration, clarification, filtration 1. Efficient heaters are being operated at above 85% efficiency of paperless environment was also driving force to develop this system. 2. Regular heater efficiency monitoring program is in place and drying operations, the effluent water is brought within NEQs limits Now, Incident Reporting System from “raising an incident report” till 3. Access air monitoring is done on daily basis before discharging into local drainage or reuse for plants. If any completion of “incident investigation” and “implementation of 4. Heater efficiency monitoring on monthly basis parameter is not within NEQS limits then the whole batch of effluent recommendations” is all carried out online with zero paper use. For the 5. To save energy and environment we have dual fire system heater operated on furnace oil and fuel gas water is diverted back to diversion tank of capacity 25,400m3and is investigation of online reported near misses, accidents or injuries we have a Boilers reprocessed. standard operating procedure for incident investigation. 1. Boilers are operated at highest efficiency above 90%  During the year 2015, effluent water treated was 1,642,345 m3 at a rate 2. Boilers are annually inspected and certified by government agencies  All the incidents occurring in PARCO are reported / recorded and then of 187 m3/hr. Heat Exchangers investigated appropriately according to a procedure through an online IRS system company wide. Key features of the IRS System are: 1. All heat exchangers are monitored for their efficiency and energy consumption on daily basis and corrective actions are taken to maintain the highest level Effluent Monitoring Plan of efficiency 2. Proper schedule for equipment inspection and maintenance  Daily monitoring for PH, COD, temperature, sulphates, suspended solids, o Online reporting system – a companywide program 3. Dismantling and overhauling of all equipment in turnaround to maintain efficiency total dissolved solids. o Incident reporting criteria for major and minor incident  BOD monthly monitoring. o Information to the senior management within 24 hours Motors  Third party environmental monitoring (all parameters) twice a year. 1. Standard specification power driven motors are used to achieve o Investigation by cross functional teams 2. Highest level of efficiency o Root cause analysis and recommendations 3. Low energy losses o Implementation verification through safety audits o Sharing of incident learning with employees Solomon Benchmarking o All major international accident investigations collected are shared  PARCO Mid Country Refinery has presented its systems for international benchmarking by Solomon Associate USA in March 2013 for key performance indicators: with employees during training sessions and key findings are 1. Manpower utilization considered during incident investigation process. 2. Energy Index 3. Operation efficiency Carbon dioxide Emission Monitoring  CO2 emission monitoring is carried out on monthly basis and Carbon Emissions Index (CEI™) is calculated as per Solomon guidelines.  Although our organization CEI is very good as compared to many refineries of our region, we always strive towards the benchmark. The feasibility study for flare Diesel Hydro Desulphurization Plant Producing Euro II High Speed gas recovery system and vapor gas recovery system in this regard has already been carried out. Diesel  With commissioning of the DHDS plant at the Mid-Country Refinery in Energy Savings at Stations and Terminals 2010, PARCO has the capability of producing High Speed Diesel  A phase wide replacement of conventional lights with LED lights at all Stations and Terminals is in motion. Ordinary 400 watt high pressure sodium lights installed conforming EURO II standards and is the only refinery in Pakistan to have at different stations and terminals for illumination purpose consumes a considerable amount of electrical power and have very low optical efficacy. achieved this capability. This product is helping EURO II compliant  LED lights are one of the best alternate of conventional lights. These lights are more energy efficient as well as light weight, operational cost effective, shockproof automobiles to perform better through fuel efficiency and low emissions. and have excellent photometric & electric performance. Their normal working life is more than 50,000 hours while conventional lights have 5,000 hours working All impacts on the community, flora and fauna identified in the life. LED light color index is high and without any glare due to which things look brighter. Initially in Phase-1, 17 LED lights were installed at PS-1 Korangi in the Environmental Impact Assessment study for the DHDS project had  Updated reports of IRS showing outstanding/unclosed incidents are fiscal year 2013-14. In Phase 2, further 57 LED lights have been installed at TS-1 & PS-1 stations during fiscal year 2014-15. And now in the fiscal year 2015-16 mitigation strategies which were implemented with meticulous care. reported to the Managing Director and Senior Management so that such (Phase-3) further 60 more lights for TS-1/PS-1 stations have been procured. incidents can be closed in a timely manner and for taking suitable  Pipeline S&T Operations ensures saving of energy resources and reduce pollution by adopting suitable economical pumping configurations, gravity transfer and  During 2015, the DHDS plant at PARCO has processed more than 1.14 countermeasures to avoid recurrence. load management. Energy saving on account of electricity is about 2,092,489 KWH during 2014-15. million metric tons of High Speed Diesel on EURO II specifications.  Modification work was carried out in KPLP system for Direct Pumping of HSD from PS-1 tanks into WOP M/L. System is in regular operation since September, 2014 which will facilitate in pumping of OMCs small parcels into WOP for timely Delivery at destinations. This operation will reduce consumption of Corrosion Inhibitor and there will be significant energy saving. During 2014-15, an amount of Rs 1.48 million has been saved from reduce consumption of corrosion inhibitor and 169, 950 KWH energy has been saved. Drag Reducing Agent (DRA) Treatment  Drag Reducing Agents (DRA) are indigenous solutions for enhancing the pumping capacity of hydrocarbon pipelines with lesser input energy. PARCO is utilizing DRA for this purpose and has successfully achieved the desired throughput of Crude Oil to meet the Mid-Country Refinery demand positively. DRA is a slurry type product which has chronically higher rejection rates and ends up in wastage. This value addition job has resulted in massive saving for the company and also addressed the environmental issues regarding disposal of wastage and rejection/wastage has been reduced to zero. Furthermore, the initiative has also reduced the import bill. Diesel Hydro Desulphurization Plant at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2016 (Page 14 of 16) ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment PARCO does not allow any form of corruption and monitors its business transactions with internal and external stakeholders to eliminate this malpractice. Management Systems All Corporate Functions Actions Corporate Governance Transactions with Suppliers, Contractors, Service Providers Elimination of Discrimination Results  Compliance with Statement of Ethics and Business Practices is pursued at all levels and locations.  Since the commencement of PARCO`s operations in 1974, there has been no instance of extortion  Elimination of discrimination during selection of Vendors/Contactors/Service Providers by check and or bribery. balances against introduction of discriminatory conditions.  All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly recorded in the Books of the Company.  Compliance with the Company’s Financial Authority Manual specifying fiscal limits for transactions  Pre-qualified Vendors/Contractors list is periodically updated through advertisements placed in at various levels and positions. newspapers and evaluations based on predetermined criteria.  Compliance with regulations of the Security and Exchange Commission of Pakistan.  Company Procurement Policy is approved by Board of Directors.  No discrimination is made on basis of gender, religion, caste, origin, etc., while hiring an employee.  PARCO employees, if found involved in corruption in any form or contravening with any Company Policy on Ethics, Finance, Procurement, HR, Operations or any other function, face disciplinary action. Such deviations HR policies are transparent and merit based where there are no influences or pressures as mentioned  Any form of extortion and bribery, given or taken, is a very serious misconduct according to the HR in Principle 6. can lead to termination of service and are reflected in the employee`s performance appraisal. Policy of the company and the concerned employee is liable to be terminated for such misconduct.  PARCO has IMS, HSE, Environment, CSR, Financial, HR and other audits done to ensure compliance with best practices and ethical standards.  PARCO has an Internal Audit Department which conducts periodical audits for procedural  PARCO has NEVER been involved in any court case related to corporate malpractices or corruption or bribery, compliance and reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. etc.  Constitution of separate committees for transparent and merit-based prequalification, quotations opening, tender opening, etc.  We adhere strictly to the internationally accepted Accounting Principles, SECP (Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan); the Country’s Financial/Tax/Labor/Environment and other national and provincial  Development of Annual Procurement Plan and plans for contractual work and services by external legislations. Service Providers which are pre-approved by the Company and subsequently monitored in monthly and quarterly management review meetings.  PARCO developed and implemented a comprehensive Business Continuity Management Plan (BCP). The scope of the document is to have risk assessment of core business areas, identification of contingencies that can lead  All contracts, business activities, operations, procurement, etc., are subject to Internal and to loss of business reputation, credibility, a companywide or a national crisis and resources that need to be External Audit. mobilized for business continuity while establishing the structure, responsibilities and communication necessary for crisis management. Business Continuity Management is a holistic process that a framework for  To ensure transparency, sealed bids are invited against request for quotations, except for building organizational resilience with the capability for an effective response. It safeguards the interests of key proprietary items. stakeholders, reputation, brand and value-creating activities.  Purchase Orders are issued to technically compliant commercially lowest bidders for procurement.  BCP is a documented collection of procedures and information that is developed, compiled and maintained in readiness for use in an incident and enables PARCO to continue to deliver its critical products and services.  Centralized Procurement with due diligence.  At PARCO, transparency in all our operations and management systems is considered top priority and ensured  PARCO is not allowed to commit any terms and conditions with any Supplier/Service Provider at all levels. against any law of Pakistan.  Payment to any Supplier/Service Provider/Contractor is made after proper inspection by the concerned Department and confirmation of acceptance.  The IMS department at PARCO takes periodical feedbacks from different vendors on PARCO’s performance and their treatment. Vendor’s grievances are heard and dealt with due care.  To maintain the transparency of the process, end users are not permitted to have a direct contact with the vendors and contact is only through materials function, prior to award of procurement.  In exceptional cases, where it’s deemed necessary, price negotiations are carried out by a Committee approved by Managing Director. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2016 (Page 16 of 16) Corporate Headquarters Korangi Creek Road, P.O. Box 12243, Karachi-75190, Pakistan UAN: (021) 111-392-567 Tel: 021-35090100-25 Fax: 021-35090625 Email: info@parco.com.pk Designed and Developed by PARCO Corporate Communications Team Web: www.parco.com.pk For further information/queries, please email at salmanzakir@parco.com.pk
