Communication on Progress April 2016 Neas Energy A/S Skelagervej 1 9000 Aalborg CVR/VAT.: 20293195 Contents Introduction 3 Business model drives corporate responsibility 4 Neas Energy’s core business model 4 General scope for CSR policy 6 Defining our policy on GC 6 Internal focus areas 6 External focus areas 8 Progress 10 Contribute to growth and maturation within renewable energy markets 10 Keeping weather driven power generation balanced 10 New initiatives supporting carbon pricing 10 New collaborations with scientific institutions 11 Account on energy consumption 14 Figures & origination 14 Statement and signatory 15 Introduction Neas Energy is an independent energy asset management company that provides physical and financial optimization of renewable and conventional energy assets operating on energy markets in Europe. Based on more than 15 years of experience from liberal energy markets Neas Energy today has activities in all major energy markets in Europe. Our company headquarters are located in Aalborg, Denmark with offices in London, Hamburg, Düsseldorf and Stockholm. Neas Energy has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2009. Offices & Markets P OWER & G AS POWE R STOCKHOLM AALBORG (HQ) HAMBURG LONDON DÜSSELDORF Business model drives corporate responsibility At Neas Energy we give high priority to improving the group’s impact on social and environmental conditions. The group’s CSR policy (Corporate Social Responsibility) is based on the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles for corporate social and environmental responsibility. Neas Energy’s CSR policy has been approved by the Board of Directors and includes the entire group. Neas Energy’s core business model Neas Energy is an independent trading and management company and the group does not own any production facilities or distribution grids. Neas Energy has been operating on liberal energy markets for 15 years and has longstanding knowledge about the European energy markets. The company has invested in development of IT-systems for production management and optimization services for power generation in order to increase profit potential for its customers’ energy generation. Neas Energy’s services are essential to ensure sustainable investments in sustainable and intelligent power generation. 4 Core business model The company’s business model is developed on the basis of the underlying markets (the European energy markets), which are undergoing fundamental changes away from fossil fuels towards renewable and sustainable energy generation. These changes make commercial conditions highly complex and requires intelligent and dynamic services from asset managers/operators, which are important in terms of ensuring new investment and making renewables competitive on liberal energy markets. Neas Energy’s services helps form the basis for more renewable energy and it helps build a sustainable basis for the low-carbon economy shaping the future energy market and renewable supply. Gas CHP Power optimisation 24/7 Supply Systems Gas optimisation Assets 24/7 optimisation Wind power Risk Hedging Management Solar power Hydropower 5 General scope for CSR policy The company’s head office is located in Aalproper treatment of all employees and to borg, Denmark. All employees are employed guaranteeing flexible working conditions that under Danish labour legislation prescribing ensure a balance between work life and perexcessive labour rights and anti-discrimisonal life. Neas Energy is focused on recruiting nation and anti-corruption laws all issues managers and employees who support the of little prevalence in Denmark. Operating company’s values in respect of competence strictly as a trading and management comaccumulation and innovation throughout the pany with no energy production facilities organisation. and only limited energy consumption our most comprehensive efforts in the support Diversity of the GC are made through our business At Neas Energy we view our continuous activities within renewable energy. In terms of growth in cultural and national diversity extraordinary CSR efforts the group company and different backgrounds as a strength and NE Climate, which operates within the UN source of creativity. Neas Energy does not Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), has discriminate on the basis of sex, race, colour, engaged in a number of CSR projects. For religion or faith, political opinion, sexual these activities we have implemented a code orientation, national, social or ethnic origin, of conduct with guidelines for establishing age or disability. Neas Energy aims to ensure knowledge on matters of human rights, labour that there is no discrimination in connection rights and anti-corruption. with recruitment, dismissal, transfer, promotion, remuneration, working conditions or training. All decisions relating to recruitment, Defining our policy on GC promotion, dismissal, remuneration and other For Neas Energy the group’s CSR policy is our working conditions are based on relevant and specific interpretation of the UN Global Comobjective criteria. Diversity is an important pact’s 10 principles for social and environmental and necessary characteristic of Neas Energy, responsibility within internal as well as external which enables the company to function focus areas. The general policy is similar to the under a variety of changeable conditions and CSR policy presented in the latest COP with workplace diversity at all levels is encouraged. the exception of the origination of renewable Discrimination is seen as an unacceptable power and offset of carbon emissions as their social principle and a barrier to the company’s nature means that they vary from year to year. business development. In general, Neas Energy will continue to pursue consistency in our policy making within CSR. Gender equality The following accounts for Neas Energy’s policy for gender equality and includes targets Internal focus areas on female representation on management Neas Energy offers all employees attractive level, executive group and on the Board of opportunities for professional and personal Directors with a horizon up to 2018 and a development. We are committed to ensuring strategy to achieve the targets implemented. 6 The targets has been set and approved by Neas Health Energy’s Board of Directors. Neas Energy aims to help promote the general health of its employees. This is to be achieved Neas Energy’s corporate strategy targets a by improving health conditions for employees female representation (the under-represented in terms of a good working environment and gender in Neas Energy) of at least 40 % in all initiatives aimed at promoting a healthier lifestyle management functions and corporate superand greater well-being among the company’s visory functions – this includes: employees. Good health is essential for our employees’ well-being, not only at work but also • The board of directors during free time. Employees working shifts at • The executive group Neas Energy are offered a health check-up in • Managers (heads of departments) recognition of their special working conditions. In addition to this all fulltime employees in During 2015 Neas Energy’s board of directors Denmark are offered health check, immediate was reshuffled and regrettably no new female physiotherapy if needed and ergonomic guidmembers were elected, and since one staffance at the work station in order to avoid injuries. elected member resigned from Neas Energy, there are no female members of the board. A number of exercise options are available at The executive group in 2015 comprised three the workplace and outside, and the company males and one female – company CIO Naja encourages its employees to participate in Lyngholm Skovlyk. On the management level events that combine social interaction and exerthe female representation was 5 out of 16. cise such as mountain biking, relay race, yoga In order to achieve a higher degree of gender etc. The company’s headquarters in Aalborg equality, the following objectives have been have an award-winning canteen with full-time employed by the Board of Directors and are to kitchen staff who put together a menu and be achieved by 2018: buffet according to healthy diet principles and featuring a wide selection and variation, making • For the executive group and managers, it possible for employees to eat healthy at work. female representation is to be a minimum of 40 % Knowledge Neas Energy is a knowledge-based company • For the Board of Directors, female repwith specialists employing key positions, why resentation among the members elected attracting and retaining capable employees has by the general assembly is to be a minivery high priority. We therefore want to actively mum of 40 % accumulate and maintain knowledge resources among company employees by stimulating a To achieve the above targets, Neas Energy knowledge-based working environment, dedicommits to eliminate any differences in remucation to a high degree of professionalism and neration between men and women carrying skills development. out the same type of work, or similar work to provide for equal opportunities and focus solely Neas Energy will contribute to each employee’s on individual capabilities and performance. career development, and talented employees will regularly be coached to ensure job satisThe day-to-day responsibility for equal treatfaction and adequate challenges. Our extensive ment of employees and fair and equal terms innovation activities are also actively used in for recruitment lies with Neas Energy’s HR the development of talented employees and the department. The policy for gender equality is company aims to nurture interdisciplinary coopcommunicated to all heads of departments for eration and expand collaboration with scientific corporate commitment in all managerial levels. institutions and relevant interest organisations. 7 In addition to the above initiatives Neas Energy in selected initiatives on invitation from trade has continued its graduate program during organizations and politicians to debate new the 2015 reporting period. The purpose of the market designs and prepare proposals for program is to give talented graduates a compoliticians and public servants on energy regprehensive knowledge of Neas Energy and the ulation – including: European energy markets. This supports the goal of attracting capable personal and accumulating • Market design 2.0 knowledge resources. Preparing proposals for updates to the Danish electricity market design. OrganClimate ized by Danish TSO Energinet.dk Neas Energy’s total consumption of energy is CO2 neutral. This year (2015) the group’s con• MiFID/REMIR/EMIR sumption of power is certified wind power from Participating in stakeholder meetings Danish wind turbines, and carbon emissions with regulators to debate the impledirectly attributed to the group’s property are mentation of new legislation on energy neutralised through cancellation of approved trading. Organized by Danish energy CO2 credits. This year’s CER credits comes trade organization Dansk Energi from a CDM project in Uganda called “Uganda Municipal Waste Compost Programme”. In our Knowledge and innovation facility management we are constantly strivNeas Energy continuously work to contribute ing to limit our energy consumption through to scientific knowledge development and energy savings and improvement of energy competence accumulation within the field of efficiency. See consumption figures below. energy and create understanding of the energy markets. This is of high importance since the organisation and regulation of energy markets, External focus areas energy supply and energy infrastructure are Customer relations closely connected to science and political To Neas Energy long-term and mutually decisions. Neas Energy will actively work to profitable customer relations are of high develop the ‘energy of the future’ through importance. Customers must be treated with cooperation with educational and research respect in all situations – and with respect for institutions and the political system. the individual customer’s situation and needs. We want to offer existing as well as potential Anti-corruption customers the best possible services and we Neas Energy’s climate project development will exercise good business ethics in connecactivities under CDM will continue to be tion with consultancy and customer relations expanded and will focus on development in in general. All customer groups must be guarLDCs (Least Developed Countries), where anteed easy access to Neas Energy’s services. corruption can also be a real problem. In line We aim to achieve a high degree of customer with the principles of the UN Global Compact, satisfaction at a permanent basis. no Neas Energy employee may give or receive unjustified benefits to/from Danish or foreign Development of market and society public or private sector employees. Neas As the physical energy supply mix is changing Energy will follow and enforce Danish legislawith the inflow of renewables the commercial tion in accordance with the European Council environment in energy markets also change corruption convention and OECD convention and new mechanisms for sustainable balancon combating bribery in international busiing and trading of energy must be established. ness transactions. Along with stakeholders from the entire energy sector Neas Energy in 2015 participated 8 9 Progress Contribute to growth and maturation share of renewable energies and political tarwithin renewable energy markets gets for offsetting market risks from regulators Since the last reporting period (2015) Neas and TSOs to market participants. Energy has managed to increase the capacity of energy generation under management To meet this need of flexibility Neas Energy in from 6,680 MW to above 8,000 MW installed 2015 continued to invest strongly in strengthcapacity. The increase primarily comes from ening software solutions, the trading team renewable energy in Germany. Today, Neas and management of our clients’ exposure in Energy has more than 6,000 MW capacity from flexibility markets across Europe. This will renewable energy under management in Denhelp our clients obtain new value and with the mark, Sweden, Germany and the UK. flexibility we provide, we will be able to help the Transmission Systems Operators manage As we in 2015 saw an increase in the size and production consumption balances. Combined scope for the investments in renewable energy with a better energy infrastructure throughout and increasing capital allocation to investEurope we will ideally be able to transport ments in renewable energy infrastructure low cost renewable power to high price areas from institutional investors, Neas Energy in increasing the integration of renewable energy 2015 directed the company’s efforts towards in the pan-European energy supply. large scale projects. As the markets matures and the competition for i.e. off-shore wind park concessions grows, we in 2015 experiNew initiatives supporting enced a significant increase in the awareness carbon pricing and attention to physical power production In addition to the increase in volumetric balancing and trading which are the services revenue Neas Energy stated its support for Neas Energy provides, and services that are in the Private Sector Forum for Carbon Pricing fact essential to these to secure profitable and founded by the World Bank and UN, which reliable returns and project financing. was most recently held in New York, September 2014. In addition to this, Neas Energy has become an official signatory to UN’s Caring Keeping weather driven power for Climate. This is the world’s largest volungeneration balanced tary business and climate initiative aimed at Having a Balance Responsible Party is manadvancing the role of businesses addressing datory requirements from TSO’s to generators climate change. Here Neas Energy has become operating on liberal market terms. BRP sera Carbon Pricing Champion, which means vices have become increasingly important as that Neas Energy supports carbon pricing as the influx from ‘uncontrollable’ renewables an effective way to encourage low-carbon makes balancing of production/consumpgrowth and lower greenhouse gas emissions. tion highly complex. This is exactly what As an additional initiative to this, Neas Energy Neas Energy’s business model is designed to also supported the Business Leadership Critemanage. Our business model is designed to ria on Carbon Pricing, which was promoted by utilize market mechanisms as the primary the UN in Financial Times and The New York driver for activation of the flexibility needed Times for the summit in New York. The criin markets across Europe with an increasing teria comprise three dimensions: integrating 10 carbon pricing into long-term strategies and organisation. By letting students gaining investment decisions, responsible policy experience from real life work and being part advocacy, and communication on progress. of the daily work life we believe that the stuRead more about Carbon Pricing Champions dents will to a larger degree be able to apply and the Business Leadership Criteria here: their scientific knowledge at Neas Energy and www.caringforclimate.org/carbonpricing/ develop new scientific results in their studies. champions In the beginning of 2016 the efforts to further strengthening collaborations with scientific These new initiatives are a clear statement on institutions resulted in the start-up of an how Neas Energy considers it of high imporadditional industrial PhD in cooperation with tance to put a price on carbon as it is believed Aalborg University, Denmark. Neas Energy to be a necessary and effective measure to and Aalborg University now cooperate on two tackle the climate change challenge. We industrial PhDs. believe that a consistent economic signal can help shift investments towards clean energy, For us the access to innovative scientific and by joining these initiatives we encourage research contributes important perspectives other businesses and Governments to support and data on our markets and company busicarbon pricing as well. ness model. For students, researchers and other scientific personnel the access to real life case studies and data is important for empiric New collaborations with quality and potential commercial utilization scientific institutions of research. Consequently, this cooperation is We believe that development of high quality mutually beneficial and of great importance scientific research on energy markets and for the future development of the energy energy system design is critical for intelligent markets. design of future energy systems and markets as it will help power a clean world in the Since the 2015 COP we have entered into a future. number of new scientific collaborations as displayed in the summary below: Within the last report period we have strengthened our collaboration with universities and other scientific institutions to contribute to knowledge building and exchange of information and knowledge within contemporary energy market design. At Neas Energy the work force comprises 13.4 % student assistants and interns working throughout the 11 Submitted and defended in 2015: Andreas Juul & Christian Bjerre Hammild Thesis title: Implementing Project Portfolio Management A Case study at Neas Energy Field of study: MSc. IT-management, AAU Inke Alexandra Wenzel Thesis title: Neas Energy’s Marketing Approach in Germany and the UK: Country-of-Origin Marketing in the Energy Sector Field of study: M.A. English and Business Communication, AAU Eszter Tamas Thesis Title: Ebbs and tides within an organization – Multileveled communication at Neas Energy A/S Field of study: M.A. Culture, Communication and Globalisation, AAU Mette Bæk Hansen Thesis Title: Accounting challenges in transition from ÅRL to IFRS in relation to recognition and measurement of power purchase agreements and derivative transactions Field of study: MSc. in Business Economics and Auditing, AAU Still in progress Spring 2016: Kenneth Andersen Working title: How to Stabilize Volatile Cash Flows in the Energy Trading Business Field of study: MSc. In Finance and International Business, AAU Rune Odgaard Nielsen Working title: From Business Intelligence to Neas Intelligience Field of study: MSc. Management Accounting & Control, AAU Christian Gyldenholm, Hans-Erik Thing, Ngoc Minh Luan Nguyen Thesis title: Systematic Trading on Liberalized Power Markets Field of study: Mathematics-Economics, AAU Industrial PhD: Anca Pircalabu, Quantitative Analyst continues her work on a 3-year collaboration between Neas Energy’s Quantitative Analytics team and Department of Mathematical Sciences at Aalborg University. The industrial PhD is entitled “Managing volumetric risk in renewable energy markets”. In the beginning of 2016, Rune Hjorth Nielsen, Quantitative Analyst, was also approved for an industrial PhD-project in collaboration between Neas Energy’s Short Term Power Trading Department and Department of Mathematical Sciences at Aalborg University. It is entitled “Modelling the quarter-hour power prices of the day-ahead auctions and the continuous trade intraday markets”. 12 External Membership of Study Board Thomas Aalund Fredholm, Head of Risk Management, is an external member of the Study Board for Mathematics, Physics and Nanotechnology. The purpose of this is to secure a high quality and relevance of the educations under the study board and come with suggestions for improvements. Research and development projects Neas Energy participates in a number of externally funded research and development projects. One of the main purposes of the R&D projects is to analyze and/or demonstrate how new solutions/ technologies can provide grid balancing services. Consequently, these projects help develop the future of Europe’s energy markets. TotalFlex Project period: 1-2012 to 7-2015 Partners: Neogrid Technologies (PM), Aalborg University, Copenhagen Businss School, Nyfors, Neas Energy, Conscius, Zense Technology Subsidy program: ForskEL Technology: Electrical appliances in households Power-to-Gas via Biological Catalysis – phase 2 (P2G-BioCat 2) Project period: 2-2014 to 12-2015 Partners: Electrochaea (PM), Hydrogenics, Audi, HMN Gashandel, SVC Avedøre, Neas Energy, Energinet.dk, Insero Business Services Subsidy program: ForskEL Technology: Alkaline electrolysis and biological methanation MegaBalance Project period: 12-2014 to 12-2015 Partners: Neas Energy (PM), H2Logic, Siemens, EnergiMidt Infrastruktur A/S, Ringkøbing Fjernvarmeværk a.m.b.a. Subsidy program: ForskEL FlexGas – Electric heater in domestic gas boiler for flexible energy consumption Project period: 7-2014 to 11-2016 Partners: Dansk Gasteknisk Center (PM), Insero Energy, Neas Energy, Neogrid, METRO THERM Subsidy program: EUDP Technology: Electric heaters Power2Hydrogen Project period: 2-2015 to 11-2017 Partners: Air liquide (PM), CEMTEC, Neas Energy, EMD, Aalborg University – Department of Development and Planning, Aalborg University – Department of Energy Technology Subsidy program: ForskEL Technology: PEM electrolysis HyBalance Project period: 10-2015 to 9-2020 Partners: Air Liquide Advanced Business, Copenhagen Hydrogen Network, Air Liquide E&C, Hydrogenics, Neas Energy, Hydrogen Valley, Lüdwig-Bölkow-Systemtechnik GmbH Subsidy program: FCH-JU (EU) Technology: Proton Exchange Membrane Electrolysis (PEM Electrolysis) 13 Account on energy consumption Neas Energy is a pure trading company withCO2/kWh for the traditional Danish electricity out energy intensive production facilities. mix. Nevertheless, we still want to prepare climate accounts for the group’s energy consumption With respect to the consumption of heating, at our headquarters in Aalborg. We will use we are favoured by the location in Aalborg the physical volume, i.e. the consumption where district heating is produced at Nordjylof power and district heating, in the climate landsværket, Reno Nord and Aalborg Portland. accounts for 2015. To be able to continue to The production of district heating at the latter state our climate impact in a cost-efficient is CO2 neutral. According to recent informamanner and reduce emissions, we restrict our tion, the production of district heating at Reno climate accounts to the consumption of elecNord and Nordjyllandsværket emits 3.7 kg of tricity and heating. In case a best practice is CO2/m3 district heating. established or a standard for climate accounting Neas Energy will implement this in our For 2015, Neas Energy’s consumption of annual reporting. In 2015 the consumption district heating has been neutralised with the figures for Neas Energy were: annulment of Certified Emission Reduction credits (CERs) from the Clean DevelopFigures & origination ment Mechanism (CDM) project in Uganda 2014 2015 called “Uganda Municipal Waste Compost Heating 5,611 m3 7,783 m3 Programme”. The project is managed by the Electricity 596,111 kWh 650,978 kWh World Bank for Danish Carbon Fund in which Neas Energy is a member with other Danish The increase in electricity consumption in industry leaders. The project aims to recover 2015 is presumably a result of a significant the organic matter from municipal solid waste increase in the number of employees from 227 as compost for soil conditioning and plant (ultimo 2014) to 294 (ultimo 2015) whereas growth and avoid methane emission while the increase in consumption of district heating using the organic matter in wastes as humus. should most likely be ascribed to a colder The project would result in greenhouse gas 2015. emissions (GHG) reductions and community benefits, namely generate local employment This year Neas Energy choses to buy wind and help the country develop in an envipower from Danish wind turbines with Guarronmentally friendly and sustainable way. antees of Origin to match equal to the group’s CER credits from the project equalling for 29 electricity consumption in 2015. Renewable tonnes/CO2 have been cancelled to offset power (hydro) has a significantly lower emisNeas Energy’s heating consumption in 2015. sion factor than the emission factor of 558g 14 Statement and signatory “ “At Neas Energy we believe that our business and corporate responsibility are mutual supplements with added value for our clients and our group. Our core business model is directly consistent with the continued expansion of renewable energy and intelligent low-carbon energy systems. As an international energy asset management company The Group CEO Mr. Bo Lynge Rydahl is we are dependent on knowledge from all over the the official signatory for Neas Energy’s World, social diversity and cultural understanding Communication on Progress Bo Lynge Rydahl to expand our business activities. For us the UN Global Compact serve as guidelines for our practical interpretation of what we like to refer to as business driven CSR. We are proud to continue our support the UN Global Compact” 15 Contact For further information please contact Neas Energy Communications. Rasmus Buhl Møller Head of Corporate Communications E-mail: rbm@neasenergy.com Phone: +45 99 39 58 04 Mobile: + 45 41 31 78 15 Maria Lundsgaard International Communications Specialist E-mail: mal@neasenergy.com Phone: +45 99 39 58 10 Mobile: +45 40 30 26 23
