GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2016 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PLH ARKITEKTER A/S VERMUNDSGADE 38K 2100 KØBENHAVN Ø WWW.PLH.DK CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PLH Arkitekter A/S is a multi-disciplinary architectural practice focused on stimulating an interactive and Partners productive working environment for our talented and creative people, partly architects, but also interior designers and industrial designers, together with specialists within construction, process planning and communication. PLH works with a broad spectrum of commissions from architecture, urban planning and workplace design to client advisory and industrial design. The company is often involved in complex, large-scale multi-disciplinary projects that evolve over long timeframes and are often associated with a high degree of confidentiality and proper due process. Regardless of the project type, PLH’s commitment to responsible business practices and highest standards of professional integrity is at the foundation of all interactions with clients, collaborators and fellow colleagues. PLH’s business ethics and code of conduct is grounded in more than 35 years of professional industry experience and the commitment of the leadership team to follow responsible business practices in an ever changing global marketplace. Since 2009, PLH has been a member of the UN Global Compact initiative as part of maintaining and developing our social and environmental responsibility. PLH embraces, supports and enacts, within its sphere of influence, the Global Compact set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. PLH wishes to continue our participation in the Global Compact and we seek to support the principles as an integral part of our day-to-day operation and organizational culture, and where possible align leadership strategies to the ten principles. The principles covering the environment are a focus area for PLH where we can have a measurable, positive impact. Steen Enrico Andersen, Director, Architect MAA, Intl. Assoc. AIA July 2016 THE 10 PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employ ment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environ mentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND RESPONSIBILITY Member of DANSKE ARK Consolidation Act no. 68, of January BIMS & UN Global Compact 2005, and our membership of the Steen Enrico Andersen Partner and As a member of the Danish Association Danish Association of Architectural Paulette Christophersen Partner of Architectural Firms (DANSKE Firms, PLH is obliged to respect the ARK), PLH’s operational procedures basic conventions. are based on Danish Legislation and Financial Accountability Torben Hjortsø Partner DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines and contractual standards, aimed Engagement in Business at strengthening the quality level Financial Reporting Associations and professionalism of practicing Mie Rasmussen Finance Manager architectural firms, and covering: Several of PLH’s 9 partners are supported by PWC consulting auditors leading representatives at DANSKE Level of professional liability insurance ARK, acting as members or heads of Legal Accountability and Risk and standard contracting agreements committees such as the Board, the Management General Conditions for Consultancy and Jan Sander Fredriksen Partner Contracts Committee, the Committee Assistance 1989 (ABR 89). supported by Philip & Partners Lawyers for Professional Indemnity Insurance, Collective bargaining process whereby and the Committee for Professional DANSKE ARK negotiates the general Agreements and the International Quality Assurance agreements on pay and working Committee. Ib Laursen Partner conditions etc. of the technical staff in Several partners are also active the employment of the member firms. members of the Architect’s Digital Knowledge Association of Denmark (Akademisk Management Fees and standards for architectural Arkitektforening), represented in Jan Sander Fredriksen Partner and work with individual clients, private the Legal Committee and as the Claus Johannessen Senior Architect client organizations and public authorities. organisation’s appointed jury members in architectural competitions. Sustainability PLH Green Team Søren Mølbak Partner, Paulette Christophersen Partner, Steen Enrico DANSKE ARK also participates in Andersen Partner and Rie Rosenkrans negotiations with public authorities on Leadership Responsibility Gjedsted Architect Cand.polyt.arch tax aspects, prices and profit legislation, The PLH leadership team members are regulations on competitive tendering, liability and insurance matters as well as individually and collectively responsible Staff Representatives for ensuring the firm’s adherence to Henning Solfeldt Product Design building assignment procedures, quality responsible business practices and our Manager, Rikke Haugaard, Jesper assurance and other terms relating Code of Ethics. Spager and Laura Mayner Architects. to the professional activities of the member firms. To that end, the following nominated Occupational Health & Safety partners, directors and professional Supervisor Helle Maria Christensen, Based on national and international staff have been assigned specific areas Architect. legislation on human rights, the Danish of responsibility: “Our business responsiblity is based on high standards of Danish legislation and our active engagement in associations, committees and conferences” Our purpose is to improve quality of life WORK ENVIRONMENT, POLICY AND SOCIAL ACTION PLH has a clear and balanced specialised training through the the employees an opportunity to gender policy where some of our Psychiatry Fund to be able to advise address issues related to their work key values are to embrace diversity and guide colleagues on issues of situation to express their professioof competencies, experiences stress. The PLH leadership, together nal wishes and dreams and to align and viewpoints and to support a with the stress counsellors have the wishes of the employee with the humanistic and collegial work style prepared an anti-stress policy guideoverall direction of the company. in order to add real value to our line that covers both preventative business. actions (behaviours and organisation of work), detection of early warning Attractive Workplace signs and management of stress PLH is recognized as a stable and Actions affected staff. Any stress affected attractive workplace, with many We recruit solely on proven compeemployees will be offered psycholoemployees being a part of the practencies and experiences, not sex, gical consultation as needed. tice for 10-25 years. nationality, religion nor age. Staff According to our latest annual Work members are selected for project Assessment carried out in 2012, our teams on the basis of relevant qualiEmployee Involvement staff is very satisfied with the workfications and experience corresponPLH follows the Danish Working ing environment, also in relation to ding with the project demands and Environment Act and, involvement the split of sex, nationality and age. our overall strategies and goals for and day-to-day dialogue between the We foster an open and inclusive meeting the clients’ needs. leadership team members and the culture where racism or bullying is employees is an integrated part of not tolerated. Stress Prevention working at PLH. To make sure employees thrive and develop their skills In order to promote well-being at and competences, every employee work, PLH has in recent years focushas a formalized confidential meetContinued Focus on the sed on prevention of stress. Two ing with the two closest partners Working Environment of our employees have undergone once a year. The purpose is to give Our procedures have proven effec We believe that responsible design and architecture is based on understanding people's activity and culture WORK ENVIRONMENT, POLICY AND SOCIAL ACTION Number of employees at PLH split on sex and age. PLH is a team of 94 employees in July 2016 age 20 to 30 years age 41 to 50 years age 31 to 40 years age 51 to 60 years age 61 to +70 years tive and PLH wishes to continue to we are always curious to meet new to receive an intern with a refuinvest in the working environment people and comprehend their way of gee background starting August/ in order to remain an attractive, thinking. And likewise, we are very September 2016. She is a student of healthy and productive office retaihappy to share our own knowledge architecture from Armenia. Besides ning and attracting the best. The and experiences when it's requebeing part of the design office and priority of a responsible work envsted. In May 2016 a delegation of contributing to the overall workironment and recognition of human architects from Ghana visited PLH flow, the purpose of the internship diversity is a significant value for – and we spent an entire day with is to give her an understanding of the office’s ability to evolve in tune them discussing architecture, design what it requires to work at a Danish with the changing demands, challenand sustainable solutions. architecture company. Hopefully ges and tendencies of our industry. her time with us will not only be a great learning experience but we Facilitating Integration hope that her stay at PLH Arkitekter Sharing our Knowledge with Refugee Intern will also help her integrate fully into Danish society. Architects from Ghana As part of our social responsiWe believe that responsible design bility policy PLH has made an and architecture is based on underagreement with The Employment standing people’s activity and culand Integration Committee at ture. That's one of the reasons why the Municipality of Copenhagen Our purpose is to improve the quality of people’s life through design. This could be at home, at work, at school, in the city, in nature, at the station anywhere people gather in a space or use objects of design OUR PURPOSE IS TO IMPROVE QUALITY OF LIFE Environmental Challenges Promoting Awareness users of energy. They are also “active” environments where the PLH’s main focus in connection to PLH supports a considered approach accomodation of human needs is an the principles of UN Global Compact to environmental challenges by integral part of the creation of envis directed towards environmental promoting our own and others ironmentally sustainable solutions challenges and possibilities. PLH has awareness of our impacts on the where people thrive. a responsibility to create holistic environment and surroundings. We sustainable and humanistic solutions expect our staff to be conscious of PLH has a holistic approach across to the greatest extent that it can the consequences of their actidisciplines creating informed, inveninfluence project outcomes. ons concerning the environment, tive and sustainable solutions. We whether it is “locally” at the office or are taking several steps to promote our responsibility towards the envImproving Quality of Life “globally” with a client. ironment and we include environWe are committed to reviewing mental aspects in all phases of our how our activities can contribute Sustainability project and construction processes. to the reduction of CO² emissions We understand sustainability as and minimize the planet’s consumpinherent to improving the quality of people's lives. Therefore, sustainaEnironmentally Sustainable tion of fossil resources. However, bility is an integrated element in our Design sustainability is not only a question projects from the initial thoughts By focusing attention and knowledge of energy – social well-being and about form and function. We strive sharing on environmentally sustainacultural behavior are aspects that we to inform our clients throughout the ble design (ESD) parameters, the consider a central part of designing decision making process to optimize practice has been able to inform clisustainable buildings. Our mission the outcomes within the parameters ents of possibilities and advantages, and purpose is to improve quality of each project. We see workshops and advise them about ESD options of life and the value of our work is and exchange of knowledge with the and systems, that can become an found where the built environment project’s stakeholders as the optimal investment in operational savings. becomes a better place for people in all aspects – whether it’s a question foundation for the development of Our significant competencies within of minimizing energy consumption, sustainable projects that are also the area have also enabled the office improving indoor climate or proviaesthetically, functionally and econoto respond to and challenge the ding structures that resolve social mically successful. expectations of our increasingly challenges. Our purpose and mission environmentally conscious investors statement go hand in hand with the Promotion and Goals and clients. commitment to sustainability. Buildings are more than “passive” ProjektID: :1229 nyby R sted, gger og landsfunkt proje iion at minimer ktet kab TEKN. RAPPORTER OG NOTATER MILJ MILJ ØKO FOR ØPÅ RTLÆ VEN GNING VIRK TED E AF Miljøprioriteringen Fase: Disp = konklu positionsfo energ ors giforb Indholdsty ype:C05 unøddig ven NING sted, ER fuktio og lands n kab Aktør:K01 RRG og oppvarm Konstruktioner Versionsda Beho ato: 201302 ov 228 for de ko onstru Versionsnr r.:01 for att opnå Revisionsn nr: XX mefoorbrug Revsionsda ato: 2012XX timerXXX Helhedbetragninger Side: 2:3 diskute ring e skærmene hvor de opstår i projektet. valgt,, med “Besides my DGNB consultantcy Dokumentna avn:I1229_K ProjektID: Fase: Disp :1229 positionsfo K01_C05_N01 1_Helhedsbe etragtninge er ift. mil se af hvor Indholdsty orslag ljø Aktør:K01 Versionsda ype:C05 RRG den årsag å ato: 201302 Versionsnr r.:01 228 tiltagg, ex. l Revisionsn nr: XX Renovering: training, I have been educated Ex: Revsionsda Side: 2:3 ato: 2012XX XXX re lyssindta etageen på Renovering: Projekteringsasp Projekteringsasppekt Ener 20 – de dgifor ny pekt er ennergief Energiforhold in using the LCA methods (Life Vinduer, dagslys s Dokumentna avn:I1229_K K01_C05_N01 1_Helhedsbe etragtninge er ift. mil ljø Placering på gru Ventilation n og unden og Bygningernes place‐ og kunstlys ProjektID: :1229 Lydfoorhold disponering af Indeklima Rumudformning g Fase: Disp positionsfo Løsninger (virkem orslag Placering på gru unden og Storeeinger rum Behov for regulerb Bygn ring er e fastlagt. Især bar midler) funktioner solafskærmning, Behov for att begrænse aIndholdsty ype:C05 bygn. 20 har mange dder Behov v for at facad gør det muligt ntallet af Der er lavet en der orienteret at oplukkelige Aktør:K01 begræ RRG ænse antallet af zon neinddeling af vansk ekeligg udnytte dagslys åbninger ring er fast mod syd, syd‐vest, funktioner ift. disponering af ogg oplukkkelige åbninger brug vest. Zoneinddelin passiv solvarme mVersionsda og vinduer mod ato: og vinduer mod 201302 228 placeret i en zone gstid. Faglokaler er Strandboule og o af funnktioner ift. g maksimalt. Versionsnr evarden Strandr.:01 gruppe‐ og fællesru basislokaler, pga. foruren dboulevarden um i en anden. energgieffe bygn . 20 h brugsstid, for dermed ning Revisionsn og nr: pga. fo XXog Desuden er der Cycle Assessment) and LLC (Life støjbelastning. orurening ikke placeret funktioner at minimere basislokaler ud Revsionsda støjbe ato: 2012XX elastning. XXX mod Strandboule‐ energgiforbrug varden (i etape til Side: 3:3 1). De vinduer er orienter oplukkelige Konstruktioner unød og op Beho dig ventilation pvarmning. ov for velisolere‐ grønne arealer. dig regulerbar Eta ret ind mod skolens ablering af indven‐ s indek facad klimar der ori solafskærmning, mod syd, s de ko onstruktioner Behov for overflad samtidig sikrer der der Behov for tu udssyn og mulighed med høj unge for att opnå lavt var‐ lysreflektans. Tykk konstruktion Nybyggeri: Behov v for udluftning ved åbning af vinduer. for mefo orbrug. OBS! Op‐ ner for at konstrruktioner Ydervægge ke udjævne terrmiske er til mestendels vest. Zonei timerring er klima‐ ydevægge reducer med hulmurede og rer høj lyd Projekteringsas spekt samt Energiforhold Vinduer, mm. dagslyys Ventilation n og Lydfoorhold Løsninger (virkemidler) varmebelasttninger disolering i dimm. 400‐800 Cycle Costs). I'm also part of a skærmene er fra‐ lysindfald og udsy Efterisolering er yn behov v for fra avalgt. valgt,, med undtagel‐ gennem vinduer. og dermed reducere r ubehandlede murv ogRåkunstlys Indeklima behovet for lydabssorbenter værksflader har Placering på tunge, gruunden af fun nktion se af hvor der foran Idræt tshallens lysreflektans Behov for lav regulerbbar ‐ ‐ Der er foretaget en n zoneinddeling af af an‐ ventilation. Behov , menss den årsag å og disponering aaf lydreflekterende place høj ring på grundenskillevægge lysreflektans har solafskærmning, dder hallen i forhold til brug. b Denne 3‐ udføres et for at rumlu . Lydabsorbent tiltagg, ex. laves uft og sikrer r placeres stort solindfald gør det er muligt at k en del af hallen deling bevirker at kun stør‐ ventilationsluft funktioner konstrruktioner. ikke på yd dervægge, men re lyssindtag i kælder‐ etageen på bygning direkte adgaang overfladen påp de har til uden indervægge, på inventar skygg den termiske nabob videre mobil gevirkning bygninger. forfra udnytte dagslys e vægge, i loftet derrmed atpassivudnytte på ogg solvarme ogg ventileres, oplyses,, opvarmes/køles. Etablering af indvendig regulerbar brugsstid, f 20 – ded nye vinduer masse og maksimalt. at minimer tunge Rumudformning er en nergieffektive. Zonei inddelingp,afsom undgå skimmelsvam solafskærmning, de er samtidig sikrer g konstruktion ner. m ellers kan opstå Storee rum bag lydabsorbent funkt ioner ift. er mulighed for udluftning ved åbning aff development team drawing up a Behov for rum placeret på en vanskkeliggør meed hulmuret brugsstid, for dermed ydervæg vinduer. energgiforb stor fleksibilitet, Behov for sttort pga. kondens. energgieffektiv Behov v for lukkede at min nimere åbenhed og lys rumvolumen for indekklimareguler fraa at rum med Der energarbejdes giforbrug til store med ing. flere retninger. reducerer og m god s rum, mulighed unødig ventilation og med lydisolation mellem for at kun unød dig ven Behov for stor udjævne nne opdele i rum og mod mindre opvarrmning. rumlighede loftshøjde og ventilationsbehov. er. Ved brug af Konstruktioner bygnin ngens mobile Behovvvægge for skab bes fleksible Behov ex. for vægge Behov for tu unge Behovv for Ydervægge er 600 mm og for at højtsiddende/høje rumligheder e omgiv veliso olerede til adsskillelse afmed høj konstruktion ner for at lydabssorbenter forbedre kontrast og o lys/skygge og op pvarm vinduer – særligt velser. Behov støjende stille og i for lyddabsorbenter i funktione konsttruktioner for De er. at mobilelysreflektans. Tykkke udjævne terrmiske foran tunge, forhold etableres ene tekstil reflektor dybe rum. vægge loftet i lav højde opnåskal lavtyde tilstrækkelig vægge reducerer varmebelasttninger lydreflekterende som trækker dagslyyset længere ind i new certification tool for existog lydisolation og Installationer på vægge og andre Konstruktioner varmeeforbrug. lyda lysindfald og udsyyn og dermed reducere r konstrruktioner. hallen. Der er etableret 15 % Beho ov for absorbering. Installationer overflader nær Der arbejdes med flere f gennem vinduer. lofthøjder behovet for vent. glasareal/gulvareall. Lydabsorbering Behoov for støjkilder. hvert rum, for i at skkabe zoner Behov for att rumluft monteres på vægge fra 2 m over gulv energgieffektive Behov for i størst forskellige funktion til de energ de ko gieffe onstru mulig grad at Behov for i størst ner med forskellige og ventilatioonsluft og op og ligeledes i loftet. Både på installationer samt s Behov akustiske behov. tilgodese mulig udstræ v for støjsvage har direkte adgang a vægge og i loftet ettableres lameller regulering heraf. ækning install Installationer og individuelle behov at tilgodese ationer som de eres regulering en på de til overflade foran lydabsorbering for at afværge energioptimeres, instaattllation v ikke påvirker for opnå for regulering individuelle behov således at skolen tunge bolde el. lign som kan k beskadige af lyys‐ akustikken negativt. uden for brugstid og solindfald samt om at kunne e ex. e i weekenden konstruktion ner. materialet. På denn ne måde tilgodesess t Solafs kun er opvarmet afskærmning mod regulere kærmninggmå Rumudformning Store rum til 17 grader. Den Behov for rum meed Behov for sttort Behovv for de akustiske forholld og samtidig energieffekti regulorbrug ering ing office buildings. ikke give unødig mefo d indetemperatur vanskkeliggørve drifft vægtes stor fleksibilitet, rumvolumen for at lydabssorbenter i holdes en del af de en tunge generende og støj end individuel højere lufttilførsel. ved re egulering. regu ulering, derfor konstruktion åben for adgang for solindfald. energgieffektiv det ikke åbenhed er og lys fraa reducerer og loftet i lav højde og muligt for brugerne regulereindekklimaregulering. at flere retninger. udjævne på vægge og andre rumluft, således at massens temperatu timerring e urforhold via Behov for stor ventilationsbehov. overflader nær varmeakkumuleringsevne til dels termostater. Derim mod er det muligt loftshøjde og støjkilder. udnyttes til udjævn ning af termiske åbne vinduer, att dog vejledes brugerne højtsiddende /høj e belastninger. til kun at åbne skærmene vindduer mod Strand‐ vinduer – særligt i boulevarden uden for undervisning dybe tiden, for at undgå s‐ rum. støj giver og forurening. Overflader Lyse overflader o Behov for loft og Behov for Behovv for Vægge i en idrætsh hal males i (ex. 30% bedree udnyttelse af dagslyyset og vægge med høj lysreflektans. Rå allergivenliggt, støvfrit indeeklima lydabssorbenter på vægge e og andre grå) for at give beddre fokus på aktiviteter/ redskaber/udstyr. For at valgt,, med reduccerer dermed tegl‐ og med overflader nær mindske behovet for kunstlys, behovvet for kunstlys. betonoverflader bbør derfor holdes i lys e rengøringsvenlige, robuste ove erflader. støjkilder. monteres lysreflektorer ved vinduer for at trække dagslyset længere ind i se af hvor den årsag å farver. hallen. De akustiske forhold optimeres ved at etablere lydabsorbenter på vægge og lofter tiltagg, ex. l med lameller foran n for at afværge LCA is a tool to perform life cycle beskadigel‐se af materialet, til gengæld nedprioritteres det re lyssindta rengørings‐venlig indeklima, dog minimeres antallett af horisontale flader ved at udføre lamellerne Installationer Behovv for energgieffektive Behov for i størst mulig grad at Behov for i størst mulig udstræ s ækning Behovv for støjsvage installationer som vertikalt. Brugernes behov fo or individuel regulering af luft og varme tilgodeses.. etageen på installationer samt reguleering heraf. tilgodese individuelle behovv at tilgodese individuelle behov ikke påvirker akustikken negativt. i Evt. kan laves den individuelle styring gøres tidsdefinerett, ex. efter 2 timer 20 – de d ny analysis to get an overview of for regulering af lyys‐ om at kunne e Solafskærmning må ændres reguleringe er til de og solindfald samtt afskærmning modd regulere indetemperatur og ikke give unødig støj ved re egulering. driftsoptimerede in ndstillinger. er ennergief generende lufttilførsel. solindfald. Rumudformningg Storee rum vanskkeligg the environmental impact of the energgieffe indekklimar materials, the consumption RIE ROSENKRANS GJEDSTED, of energy for exploration and DGNB INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANT, production, transportation, Installationer Beho ov for PLH ARKITEKTER energgieffe installation disposal and recovery” regulering LOCAL INITIATIVES GLOBAL IMPACT Local Resources to upgrade our design methodologiworkplace. Resource consumption es in optimizing the passive charaste(power, HVAC, water) as well as the Central to sustainable design is using ristics in buildings. waste of office supplies and paper is local resources and adapting the continually being reduced. building complex to the local climate conditions, inspired by the local DGNB Certification We are conscious of the environmentradition. We have hired new employees with tal impact of transportation to/from certification training from the newly meetings, and use office bikes for Local resources must be explored established Green Building Council meetings held within a 5 km radius wind for electricity, sun for energy, Denmark. DGNB Denmark is a Danish of the office. Our other initiatives in sea water for cooling, rainwater for certification system for sustainability this area include widespread use of recycling and underground geotherin buildings which match the internatele-conferences and tele-meetings, mal potential. Sun screening, lighting tional high standards. together with purchasing carbon control, natural ventilation as well as quotas on air travel. local and natural materials are imporWe are also part of a DGNBtant factors in obtaining a comfordevelopment team drawing up a new It is our aim to be considered as an table indoor climate and optimized certification tool for existing office environmentally conscious office energy efficiency. buildings. Right now the first office with expertise in the planning and building is being certified as part of execution of high quality sustainable The selection or exclusion of green the pilot phase. buildings. initiatives needs to be seen from a lifecycle perspective. Many solutions An essential approach in all our work will have an appealing pay-back time is the integration of hard factors when considered over a 5, 10 or 15 such as geometries, orientation, year horizon for running costs. location of windows, choice of materials, engineering systems and lighting, with soft factors related to Internal Task Force user comfort and welfare. The office has established an internal task-force working with initiatives and approaches for internal developOur Office ment, training, debate and knowPLH is working on a targeted effort ledge sharing, study trips, lectures, to minimize the environmental load workshops etc. An extensive seminar of the daily running of our own office on energy was held in 2011 in order and to create a healthy and safe PLH OFFICE PREMISES REDESIGNING A FORMER FACTORY BUILDING We have transformed and redesigned dynamic effect, and exciting new vantatives of the Danish building industry our own office building contributing to tage points. evaluated the 6 projects and voted for the social taks of updating the existing the best project. building stock. Our office buiilding was once a factory in the city of Showcasing the Industrial Past Copenhagen now it's transformed The original crane structures and elePreserving History and Spirit into a new workspace for PLH based on ments such as steel trusses and beams The committee described our project synergies from inside to outside. are exposed as a dramatic reminiscence with these words – ‘The PLH office has of the buildings industrial past. The taking a dose of their own medicine and cranes are now parked in each end of transformed an old factory building to The Refurbishment the studio where they create a ‘roof’ their new studio. The refurbishment is The conversion project involved refurthat defines the café at one end and a beautiful example of how to modernbishment of the existing building, adding team space at the other. ize an old building while preserving a mezzanine along one side, as a huge its history and spirit.’ Chairman of the ‘piece of furniture’ providing 40 extra Nomination Committee and former City workspaces upstairs and diverse ‘laboraNominated for Architect, Gøsta Knudsen, said: “The six tory spaces’ below for meeting, modelThe 'RENOVER' Award nominated projects are all performed making, brainstorming and product Our office renovation was one of six at the highest professional level while research. The interior is defined by its projects to be nominated to become showcasing the width of renovation. We spaciousness, with a ceiling height of 6.5 Denmark's best renovation in 2014. have projects that intelligently and artismeters, and the tall, narrow industrial Initially, 165 projects were set to the tically interact with their surroundings, windows. The verticality of the space Renovation Award ‘RENOVER prisen’ in projects with enormously ambitious is underlined through the rhythmic March 2014 and in June 2014 the field energy solutions and projects that comrepetition of columns and windows, and was reduced to only 6 nominated projpletely rethinks the buildings function the inserted mezzanine level creates a ects. An electoral college of 67 represenwithout compromising the heritage.“ It was important for us to preserve and showcase the history and spirit of the building to create an authentic atmosphere. We now have a spacious studio with distinct character and PAULETTE CHRISTOPHERSEN, both employees and visitors enjoy coming here PARTNER AND LEAD WORKPLACE DESIGNER, and complement our beautiful office. PLH ARKITEKTER ANTI-CORRUPTION, LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS Anti-Corruption Danish legislation. Being a member of materials respect the protection of DANSKE ARK The Danish Association of internationally claimed human rights and According to 'The Corruption Architectural Firms, PLH has to follow are not complicit in human rights abuses. Perceptions Index' Denmark is the least DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines We make sure we only do business with corrupted country in the world and and contractual standards and we are companies and suppliers that respect has been for the last 4 years (2011-2015). obliged to follow Danish legislation as the rights of their workers, take care of Although bribery and corruption are not well as respecting national and intertheir security and do not use child labour. common phenomenon in our culture, we national legislation on human rights It's part of our normal procedures to are still very aware of the possibility of conventions. use certified materials and to state in nepotism, exchanges of favors, unofficial tenders that we do not accept materials agreements between companies etc. produced and manufactured with the Therefore, we aim for clarity in all our Suppliers and Business assistance of child labour. business agreements. Partners We demand good working conditions if Where PLH can make the greatest difwe hear of workers in marble quarries Ensuring Human Rights and ference with regards to human rights not wearing masks or the use of child Labour Rights and labour rights is when we do business labour, we immediately abolish all colwith companies and suppliers from other laboration. Human rights and labor rights are countries. When possible we always very well protected in Denmark and in make sure manufacturers of building SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS AND DESIGNS # CASES General Approach to Hospice in Svendborg on the roof, in order to produce elecSustainable Solutions at PLH Building Code 2015, tricity used for forklifts and other local PLH’s knowledge about sustainable Cradle to Cradle equipment. solutions and initiatives, seen in a In 2011, PLH won the competition for a broader perspective, is developed new Hospice in Svendborg, which was Revitalization and significantly by implementing specific completed in autum 2012. The recurDranage of Urban Park LAR projects with defined goals from the ring theme in the design is to create a In collaboration with landscape client’s viewpoint, and by participating homely place where the sense of life architects, PLH also won a competition in competitions. All projects play an is ever-present and nature an integral for transformation and revitalizaimportant role as ”case studies” which part of the experience at the hospice. tion of an urban park in Husum, near reinforce the practice’s competencies, The architectural main idea is to merge Copenhagen. The proposal incorporates skills and profile. form, function and landscape into a local drainage of rainwater (LAR), which coherent whole, with fine experiences also can contribute to changing experiences in the green precinct. Everyday Sustainable for the senses. Designing at PLH The brief demanded an increased Award for Energy Savings Apart from specific project examples, requirement for environmentally In the spring of 2010, PLH received an it is important to note that on a daily sustainable design, such that the award for the Aller Building, a multimebasis, the staff at PLH is making inforproject meets the criteria of the future dia office in Copenhagen. The award med and conscious decisions impacting Building Code 2015. The hospice is acknowledged the building’s energy on the environment when they select designed and developed in a genuine saving planning and sound indoor and specify materials, finishes, furniture sustainable matter using new building environment, amongst other aspects. and fixtures. Through one-on-one or materials, certificated as ”cradle to This building is one of PLH’s “flagships” group activities, our staff is continually cradle” products in combination with in demonstrating a holistic sustainable updated on new and emerging produhigh standards in insulation and indoor building, where the workplace design is cts, techniques or manufacturers that environment. Key energy features in integrated in a compelling architectural can strengthen our ESD approach. the total energy programme, is the form. extensive use of solar cells on the roof, approx 15 % of the buildings area, and Products and Techniques to underground geothermal energy. Tenant Advisor UN City in Cph Reduce Environmental Impact Benchmark Energy Class 1 The practice also undertakes a wide PLH will put effort into the specificaNew Sustainable HQ for DSV range of client advisory commissions, tion, use and development of new Over the past years, PLH qualified to where sustainability goals are a focus products and techniques that reduce participate in many competitions, most for our clients, and an integral compoimpact on the environment. As stated of which included sustainability as critenent of our approach. Of note is our earlier, it is a question of using local ria in the weighted scoring system. commission as Tenant Advisor to the resources and adapt the construction In 2012, PLH won the competition for a Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the implemethods and technologies to the local new headquarters for the transportamentation of UN City in Copenhagen. climate conditions, inspired by local tion and logistics company DSV with a PLH has a key role in the development traditions. PLH integrates this in develocompact atrium for 750 employees. The of this new benchmark Energy Class 1 ping projects with the central aim to building supports DSV’s core values of​​ office campus for Denmark. PLH has improve the environment, generating equality and openness, and the comfocussed on ensuring a holistic vision energy and add value to the human petition proposal suggested a series of incorporating sustainable workplace everyday life. sustainable initiatives, such as natural thinking, such that UN City will not only ventilation and CTS-controlled external be an energy efficient building, but also blinds. A large solar power plant on the a healthy and productive workplace. adjacent terminal could be integrated PRODUCT DESIGN LONGIVETY & ENERGY SAVINGS # CASES PLH’s industrial design team has put Lighting that Saves Energy 'LumiLine' great initiatives in product design that PLH design team developed a new In 2013, the LED technology and the bears modern marks and aims at long series of light fittings for energy saving cone-shaped apertures from LumiStone lasting validity. This is, among other lighting. These innovative light fixtures were transferred unchanged into a designs, shown in the PlanSign series, are produced in collaboration with, and recessed ceiling fixture, called LumiLine. which was designed in 2004 and gained a for, major international light manufactuDesign kinship with LumiStone is clear Cradle to Cradle Certification in 2014. ring companies. even though LumiLine is a flat, oval luminaire. LumiLine was developed for DSV’s new headquarters, where the 'PlanSign Series' Cradle to 'LumiStone' Reusable, Long building’s rounded volumes called for a Cradle Lifespan, High Efficiency ceiling fixture in a similar friendly expresThe sign is made of 5 mm aluminum, In April 2012 Philips Lighting launched sion. The fitting was subsequently also in a very flexible design, that allows it LumiStone a new LED fixature desigused throughout Alfa Laval’s new office to be combined in countless ways and ned by PLH (Henning Solfeldt design in Aalborg. in many different sizes for indoor and manager) as the first suspended LED outdoor use. The sign is equipped with fixature that meets current requirements the patented magnetic locking system for office lighting. LumiStone gives a 'Tipi' Solar Cell Lighting that ensures that it is easy and simple to luminous efficiency exceeding 100 lm / W, The design team is developing an outmaintain. PlanSign is the only sign system which is 30-40% higher than T5 luminaires door portable lamp that collects energy in the world that is Cradle to Cradle certioften used for offices. The fixture is through a solar panel. The lamp is easy fied. In 2014, the manufacturer DanSign elegant, evocative and energy efficient, to dissemble, pack and bring on outdoor met higher environmental standards and and is specifically developed to bring camping trips or to the summerhouse increased their certification level from a homely atmosphere into the work where there is no electrical light or Basic to Bronze. PlanSign was previously spaces. It has a unique LED-shielding so where it would be ideal to save energy awarded the international product the light does not dazzle or distract the consumption. The lamp can function as a design award “iF Design Award”. user. LumiStone is designed for long life light source on balconies in the cities or cycling and has a lifespan of approx 17 be used to light up other exterior areas years by usage of 8 hours a day and all as garden tables. materials can be reused by a simple separation of the fixtures parts. “I develop products with common sense in mind. Firstly, the product should be able to get dismantled into individual components when its lifetime has come to an end. Secondly, the materials or components should be reusable. Thirdly, the product should have as sensible an energy consumption as possible“ HENNING SOLFELDT PRODUCT DESIGN MANAGER PLH ARKITEKTER ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGY # CASE VENTILATION UNITS Recycling of Energy to Improve Better Indoor Air Quality and Energy Efficient Technologies Air Quality in Older Buildings Easier Life for Allergy Sufferers The project was initially sponsored by The existing building stock represent a The unit is ealisy applicable and adapthe Innovation Fund (Fornyelsesfonden) tremendous energy consumption and table to different wall thicknesses. It and one version of the unit is now sponthere is a great potential for reducing ensures basic ventilation of individual sored by the Market Maturation Fund the total energy consumption in refurrooms with high heat recovery efficiency (Markedsmodningsfonden). A slightly bishments of older buildings. transforming the energy to fresh air different version of the unit better entering the room. It is also possible to suited for kitchens and bathrooms is incorporate filters that make life easier sponsored by the Danish Public Service Recycling 4/5 of the Energy for allergy sufferers and the unit improAgency 'Elforsk' which supports Otherwise Lost ves indoor air quality. research in and development of energy PLH is in the process of developing a efficient technologies. ventilation unit that can recycle 4/5 of the energy in the otherwise lost heat, Operates Automatically The unit is being tested in a residential area in Kokkedal and is expected to be which makes the unit an obvious techniThe unit operates automatically depenready for production at the end of 2016. cal device to use in connection with the ding on the indoor climate. With more renovation of older buildings. people and high levels of CO2 or humidity in the room, the unit automatically increases the ventilation intensity. SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY REVITALIZATION # CASE HUNOSØGÅRD Social Sustainability at PLH New Local Gathering Point decrease in commercial activities as a consequence. The project to develop At PLH we understand social sustainabiThe aim of the conversion and expanHunosøgård opens up the estate to lity as a process for creating sustainable, sion of the estate and mansion of the public and the local community by successful places that promote wellHunosøgård was not only to strengthen creating a cultural center and farmers being and improve the quality of peopand increase the number of visitors and market where locals can sell their les’ lives by understanding what people hotel-guests coming to enjoy the unique foods and products to hotel guests and need from the places they live and work. nature – but also to make Hunosøgård tourists in the area – and where cultural This means that when we design with a new local gathering point marking activities such as exhibitions by local social sustainability in mind we aim the start of a revitalization of the entire artists and outdoor activities can take to combine the design of the physical community. place. realm with design of the social world – this could be infrastructure to support Reversing the Depopulation Increasing Local Activities social and cultural life, social amenities, systems for citizen engagement and The island of Møn, as many other areas The new Hunosøgård thus helps revitaspaces for people and places to evolve. in the outskirts of Denmark, suffers lize the community by increasing cultural from increasing depopulation with a and commercial activities. “Our mission is to improve the quality of people's life through design. That's why it's especially important for us to be part of projects like Hunosøgård that not only improve the everyday experience for the immediate users but also help create success and better conditions for people in the entire community “ SØREN MØLBAK PARTNER AND LEAD DESIGNER PLH ARKITEKTER SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY REVITALIZATION # CASE PIER OF NEXØ A Transformation Project Unique and Authentic A Place Full of Life Just like 'Hunosøgård' the project to Atmosphere and Destination The numerous possibilities and activities develop the harbor of Nexø 'Nexø Old grain silos are among the buildings on the pier of Nexø will create a new Mole' aims at revitalizing a part of the to be transformed into restaurants, destination to the benefit of the ecoharbor benefitting the entire commuhotels, cultural institutions and shops nomy on the island of Bornholm and the nity both culturally, aesthetically and selling local crafts, art and foods. The future development of the city of Nexø. economically. A transformation project combination of industrial buildings The new destination of 'Nexø Mole' will of this caliber does not only improve the telling the story of busy days in the old be a place filled with activities and life everyday lives of the local people it also industrial harbor and new and modern all year round and all hours of the day. A attracts and increases trade, enriches structures create a unique and authentic destination where visitors come to expethe business community and attracts atmosphere and cultural destination for rience great food, theatre, concerts, tourists. locals and tourists. A high silo is transshopping in market halls, local crafts, formed in to a hotel with fantastic views galleries and unique accommodations. and activities such as rappelling down the silo may become possible. “We aim at creating an attractive and authentic industrial atmosphere similar to The Meatpacking District in Copenhagen SØREN MØLBAK PARTNER AND LEAD DESIGNER PLH ARKITEKTER SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BETTER QUALITY OF LIFE # CASE FIXER ROOMS HALMTORVET A New Injecting Center supervision of and counseling from medmembers. It’s estimated that approx. in Copenhagen ical staff that can offer first aid as well 500-1000 drug users live in Copenhagen PLH is transforming a former storage as a chance to rest after drug intake, and that the majority will pass through building in the Meatpacking district in acute nursing and counseling on other the center on a daily basis. the central part of Copenhagen into a health services and treatments. Besides medically supervised injecting center. saving lives and create good relationCooperation, Engagement and The center opens to the public on Auships with drug users in order to refer to Involvement gust 1, 2016. It is located at Halmtorvet establish a connection to other services Authorities, politicians and locals pay 17 in the neighborhood of Vesterbro – a and treatments, the aim is to reduce great attention to the new center and very mixed neighborhood populated by inconvenience for the locals while creatthe impact it will have on daily life in the artists, creative businesses, restaurants, ing a safer neighborhood in order attain neighborhood. Because of the special galleries but also an area frequented by a peaceful coexistence of drug abusers nature of the project it’s founded on codrug abusers and afflicted by drug reand the rest of the community. operation, engagement and involvement lated problems and crime. The injecting between different interested parties center is an initiative aimed at improving Architecture Creating Stability, such as health professionals, the local the conditions for the substance abusers Security and Safety community, the local police, the Meatthemselves, but it’s also aimed at diminThe users of the center need a safe and packing District facility department and ishing the problems and the discomfort welcoming place where they encounter the client – the Municipality of Copenrelated to drug-issues for the majority of respect and tolerance. The character of hagen. All parties are part of a Building the people living in the neighborhood. the spaces must therefore give a sense Committee where the entire socioof calmness and discretion without an cultural and health spectrum is repreA Better Life for Drug Users and institutional touch, so the users experisented. PLH has carried out an intensive Reduced Inconveniences for ence stability and security. Safety is a and structured process with the Building the Community key issue for both staff and drug users. Committee and the building’s space The center is open 24/7 and designed Nudging through design and communiprogram has been clarified and adjusted to facilitate the intake of drugs while cation makes it possible to affect user in accordance with the economy. Being staffed by health professionals. The behavior in a positive direction preventable to decode all issues, suggesting purpose is to give drug users a better life ing conflicts and creating more fertile the right solutions and navigate an area and diminish the number of drug related situations and ensuring staff-overview of great public and political attention is deaths and overdoses by assisting with and visual contact with other staff imperative to a project like this. “I have to put myself in the place of the users to create an optimal framework their living and working conditions. This case has been very interesting because the living conditions of drug abusers are so extreme. And it has been inspiring to experience the people who – on a daily basis – are fighting for dignity and decent lives for drug abusers. RIKKE HAUGAARD SEJERSEN LEADING ARCHITECT PLH ARKITEKTER ENERGY EFFICIENCY & SUSTAINABILITY # CASE K29 Most Eco-Friendly Building it means investing in an attractive and ding has a hybrid ventilation and cooling in Vilnius healthy workplace ensuring increased system with natural ventilation of office The K29 business center is a major, new user satisfaction and wellbeing. And when spaces with high-sitting openable winlandmark in Vilnius built from all natural we design with ‘profit’ in mind it means dows on the inner façade and through the and mostly local, eco-friendly materials designing structures that add value for atrium skylights as well as ventilation on making it the most eco-friendly building in our clients as well as the users of the new each floor following the newest guidelines. Lithuania to date. K29 sets the standards structures. for a healthy and attractive workplace Local Resources in Lithuania. The building is situated on Central to the sustainable design paraKonstitucijos Prospektas (Constitution AvOptimized Energy Savings meters of PLH is using local resources enue) creating a transition area between a K29 is equipped with the newest building and adapting the building complex to the large park area to the north of Vilnius and management system optimizing energy local climate conditions. In the building of the city’s international business area in the savings. It has an efficient water manageK29 local materials, local manufacturers east. ment system and the lighting design is and local contractors have been used created with the newest and most energy to the benefit of the environment, the efficient components. All meeting rooms, local community and the economy of the Holistic Design Approach with ancillary spaces, toilets etc. are equipped project. ‘People’, ‘Profit’ and ‘Planet’ in with light sensors and the lighting design Mind as well as the natural light control system Through a successful integrated design has been designed to give the users a A Building Designed for People process K29 has been developed and demaximum feeling of wellbeing. Designing for people and improving the signed with the three objectives ‘people’, quality of life for the users is part of the ‘profit’ and ‘planet’ in mind. When PLH designs with ‘the planet’ in mind it often Less Need for Power Related to means investing in local, sustainable Cooling and Ventilation materials and labor force and designing The façade is an advanced double skin structures that promote sustainable construction with energy glass and an behavior. When we design for ‘people’ automated solar control system. The builDESIGNED FOR PEOPLE # CASE K29 overall PLH-approach – and it has been for Acoustics Design many years. PLH was the first architectuThe acoustic design has had a strong ral company in Denmark to design workfocus on creating the best auditory places focusing on learning environments environment for the users in all areas of and how the architecture can strengthen the building. Besides the ceiling tiles and the integration and knowledge sharing carpets, specially designed core cladding between different business areas of a and balcony frontages are important single company. elements of the acoustic control. Maximum Daylight Access Enhanced Physical Working The oval shape of the building with the Environment central atrium and a sloping roof gives opDesign elements like double facades, timal conditions for daylight for all users. an optimal location on the site and a Because of the sloping roof, light flows in maximum utilization of daylight are all to the atrium most of the day – and users elements that enhance the physical work close to the windows of the inner atrium environment. K29 is the first atrium office can look beyond the atrium itself having building in Lithuania offering a variety of visual contact with the cityscape beyond shared settings in a pleasant indoor clima“We are very proud that K29 the building. The building thus ensures te all year around – and tenant feedback recently was awarded best maximum wellbeing and daylight access shows an increased workers satisfaction office building in The Baltics. having no dark areas. and productivity. K29 was awarded because the building creates increased worker satisfaction and productivity, improved health, greater flexibility and enhanced energy and environmental performance of the workplace STEEN ENRICO ANDERSEN PARTNER, DIRECTOR AND LEAD DESIGNER PLH ARKITEKTER DGNB CERTIFIED GREEN BUILDING # CASE ALFA LAVAL A Sustainable Office for a Susconscious, sustainable and high-tech and building materials are widely used tainable Company business. Thus several energy reducing in the new office building. In addition measures are integrated in the buildCTS-regulated sun screening and windows The new office building for Alfa Laval in ing design which, in combination with with thermal and photometric qualities the city of Aalborg was inaugurated in selecting responsible materials, creating a have been used. 2015. Alfa Laval is a global player within sound indoor climate and other sustainhigh tech components for the maritime able solutions, bring the building, as the and shipping industries. Alfa Laval develfirst in the Region, to be certified ‘gold’ ops machine components that minimize within the DGNB-system. “I has been very satisfythe fuel consumption in ship engines. The DGNB (Green Building Council Denmark) ing working with a client company is known for its environmenis a Danish certification system for with such a high awaretally conscious approach with a strong sustainability in buildings which match ness on sustainability focus on sustainability – an approach also the international high standards. and we are really happy reflected in the new office building. with the finished result Sustainable Measures and SØREN MØLBAK Energy Reducing Measures and Materials Responsible Materials PARTNER AND LEAD DESIGNER PLH ARKITEKTER Among the sustainable measures are Throughout the design and construction solar panels, automatic sun screening and phases there has been a strong focus low energy led-lighting. Likewise sustainon creating an office that supports the able materials such as FSC certified wood company profile as an environmentally products and eco-efficient construction A HEALTHY WORKING ENVIRONMENT # CASE ALFA LAVAL A Healthy Working Environment and solutions that reduce noise and the in the building. A vast, 'secure' terracefrom the Get-Go transmission of sound. area surrounds large part of the building, giving employees easy access to the Creating a healthy and stimulating indoor outdoors without compromising security working environment for the employees Flow, Flexibility and Openness and access to the confidential materials with high standards of indoor climate Bring Employees Together developed by Alfa Laval employees. has been an essential success criterion from the very beginning. A great working The new office brings employees toenvironment ensures happy, healthy gether in a bright, friendly and straightA Variety of Rooms to Support and productive employees to the benefit forward building where all workplaces Different Working Patterns of everyone working or spending time are equal. Flow and flexibility are the key inside the building. themes in the layout design, creating an There is great variety in informal and openness that invites employees to move formal meeting rooms and places where around. Alfa Laval is an important player people can gather to support the activiVisual and Acoustic Environon the global market and employees are ties and working patterns of the various ment for Health and Wellbeing often out of the house travelling abroad. departments. Additionally, there are Therefore a need for flexible workplaces lounge areas where employees can hold The visual environment has been develwhere employees can move around meetings with external guests. Most of oped by ensuring access to plenty of arises. The flow, flexibility and openness the more social activity-areas are placed daylight and great visibility with no blind help create a workplace that is easily in and around the central atrium where areas in all office areas. Likewise, a great adaptable when new needs arise to people talking and holsing meetings do acoustic environment has been develthe benefit and wellbeing of employees, not disturb employees in need of silence oped by using sound absorbing materials guests and everyone else spending time and concentration. “One of the key elements in creating a healthy and productive workplace where people thrive is offering different areas to match different working situations employees can alternate between quiet areas for concentrating and busier areas for socializing, receiving guest and having meetings. At Alfa Laval’s new office they can even step outside on the terrace for an outdoor meeting. PAULETTE CHRISTOPHERSEN, PARTNER AND LEAD WORKPLACE DESIGNER, PLH ARKITEKTER SUSTAINABILITY THE ENVIRONMENT & IMPROVED INFRASTRUCTURE # CASE METRO CITYRINGEN, THE CITY CIRCLE LINE Metro Cityringen Reduced Travel Times of people using cars to enter the city – PLH is the design architect on 17 new When the new circle line will be in and therefore the expanded metro will underground metro stations in Copenhaservice, passengers already using public reduce co2 emissions. gen – a large expansion of the 2 existing transportation will very easily be able first generation metro-lines with a new to transfer to the existing metro, the Improved Quality of Life circle line, ‘Cityringen’ (The City Circle regional rail and the commuter train By minimizing the time users spend Line) to open in 2019. network. This will result in dramatically each day commuting to work, the new reduced travel times and an estimated metro circle line will also save a lot of Connecting the City rise in the use of the public transport people a lot of time, thus improving the The Cityringen Circle Line will be a 15 system both by commuters, tourists and conditions for users. In addition the new km underground railway under downCopenhageners. station design is based on the principles town Copenhagen and the quarters of large open spaces, the use of daylight of Østerbro, Nørrebro, Vesterbro and Reduced CO2 Emissions and easy access from street to platform Frederiksberg. It is expected that the improved public with improved wellbeing for users and infrastructure will reduce the number everyday commuters as a consequence. PLH GLOBAL COMPACT AMBITION 2016/2017 PLH is proud to be a member of Global ment, stress prevention and creating lives by understanding what people Compact. In the year ahead we will a responsible working environment need from the places they live and continue to seek opportunities to supwhere human diversity is recognized work. port and enact the 10 principles. will continue to be very significant factors for the office. Furthermore, we Through research, innovation and In particular, we aim to show built will continue to recruit solely on proven cooperation with manufactures, instituworks that demonstrate more extencompetencies and experiences not tions and clients we will continually sive and measurable outcomes in the regarding gender, nationality, religion, strive to develop and diffuse sustainarea of environment. age or other discriminating criteria. able solutions, environmentally friendly technologies and new sustainable structures that underpin and promote Human Rights We will also continue to demand that environmentally responsible behavior. collaborators, business partners, suppliers and others we have business We will continue our membership dealings with, will respect and uphold Anti-Corruption of DANSKE ARK, continue to follow the freedom of association, recognize DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines the right to collective bargaining, and contractual standards. PLH will support the elimination of all forms of continue to follow Danish legislation as forced and compulsory labour and child We will continue to work against corwell as respecting national and interlabour and support the elimination of ruption in all its forms and avoid neponational legislation and human rights discrimination in respect of employtism, exchanges of favors, unofficial conventions. ment and occupation. agreements between companies and other forms of bribery aiming for clarity In addition we will continue to demand in all our business agreements. that collaborators, business partners, Environment suppliers and whoever we have business dealings with both in Denmark and abroad will respect national and international legislation and human PLH will continue to support the rights conventions. principles 7, 8 and 9 of The UN Global Compact as an integral part of our day to day actions and creative processes. We will continue to design sustainable Labour solutions and structures that support and promote sustainable behavior – and continue to promote sustainable We will continue our membership solutions to our clients. of DANSKE ARK, continue to follow DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines Our central purpose is to improve the and contractual standards. PLH will quality of peoples’ lives and we will continue to follow Danish legislation on continue to design with the 3 objeclabour standards and will continue to tives ‘People’, ‘Profit’ and ‘Planet’ (A dissociate ourselves from all forms of triple bottom line) in mind. The triple discrimination. bottom line-approach ensures sustainable design that also betters the lives In addition, we will continue to invest of the users while at the same time in the working environment making improving conditions for the client. PLH Arkitekter an attractive workplace retaining and attracting the best. We will aim at creating sustainable, sucUpholding a humanistic and collegial cessful places that promote wellbeing working style, high employee involveand improve the quality of peoples’
