Principle Mellon Application (in brief) Mellon Application (extensively) 2015 Annual CSR Report Page 1 Businesses should support and respect the 1. NewComer's Guide Mellon respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and holds 2-3 protection of internationally proclaimed human 2. CSR Charter the protection of human rights of its employees as a high priority in the rights 3. Code of Conduct context of it's CSR and HR written company policies, which are summed 4. ISO 26000 up in the Newcomers's Guide, the CSR Charter & the Code of Conduct, and diffused in the company's everyday practices and interactions. The company also makes sure all its' suppliers and manufacturers represented support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights with the completion of an evaluation questionnaire administered by the Procurement department (applicable to all principles) 2 Businesses should make sure that they are 1. NewComer's Guide Mellon makes a point to ensure the company is not complicit with human not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. CSR Charter rights abuse, through written company policies such as the 3. Code of Conduct Newcomers's Guide, the CSR Charter & the Code of Conduct. 4. ISO 26000 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 1.Mellon syndicate Mellon respects the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and association and the effective recognition of 2. Collective Agreements Rights at Work and upholds the freedom of association. This respect is the right to collective bargaining 3. Local Labour Law also exemplified by the presence of an employees' syndicate within the 4. ISO 26000 company. Mellon also recognizes the right to collective bargaining by adopting the collective agreements and local labour law in the countries of its presence. 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of 1. Local Labour Law Mellon upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory all forms of forced and compulsory labour 2. CSR Charter labour by denouncing such practices and complying to local labour law in the countries of its presence. 5 Businesses should uphold the effective 1. Local Labour Law Mellon upholds the effective abolition of child of all forms of forced and abolition of child labour 2. CSR Charter compulsory labour by denouncing such practices and complying to local 3. Code of Conduct labour law in the countries of its presence. 4. ISO 26000 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of 1. Selection Policy Mellon upholds the elimination of discrimination regarding employment 5 discrimination in respect of employment and 2. ISO 26000 and occupation with written company policies (e.g. Selection Policy) at occupation all levels by applying an equal opportunities policy in its day-to-day practices, at all phases of personnel management (recruitment and selection, payments and promotions). In addition, the company follows ISO procedures that ensure an objective recruitment process and has also participated in an EU program for the improvement of work-life balance of its employees. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 1. RoHS Direcive Mellon as a VAR (value added reseller) it not in the manufacturing 11-Δεκ approach to environmental challenges 2. WEEE Directive industry, however the company makes sure all suppliers adhere to 3. CSR Charter environmentally friendly guidelines. More specifically, Mellon ensures its 4. Green CSR initiatives suppliers are in full compliance with RoHS and WEEE directives. (Recycling, Park cleaning, Tree Moreover, the majority of our partners have received the international planting,etc.) certification for the environmental management system ISO 140001. 5. ISO 26000 Finally, our suppliers have explicit to their activity certifications from the corresponding local and international carriers. 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to 1. WEEE Directive Mellon believes businesses should support initiative to promote greater promote greater environmental responsibility 2. CSR Charter environmental responsibility as demonstrated in the relevant policies the 3. Company energy company adopts and adheres to, its CSR Charter and the WEEE consumption monitoring policy directive. Moreover, the company monitors its environmental footprint 4. ISO 26000 and undertakes initiatives to counterbalance it. 9 Businesses should encourage the 1. Green CSR initiatives Mellon has undertaken a number of green initiatives, such as recycling, development and diffusion of environmentally (Recycling, Park cleaning, Tree park cleaning, tree planting etc. In addition, an effort is made to create friendly technologies planting,etc.) environmental awareness among personnel through training and 2. ISO 26000 participation in such initiatives. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in 1. Code of Conduct Mellon believes in working against corruption in all its forms, as stated in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 2. ISO Procedures the Code of Conduct and demonstrated in its ISO policies, such as 3. Chart of Authority vendor management and evaluation process, official and registered 4. ISO 26000 contract approval process and by the company's annual customer satisfaction survey. Finally, a chart of authority is applied to simplify the authorization process, while ensuring transparent processes. Glossary: RoHS: The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) EU Directive bans the placing on the EU market of new electrical and electronic equipment (containing more than agreed levels of lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybromiated bipheny).The aim is to increase the amount of e-waste that is appropriately treated and reduce the number that go to the final disposal. WEEE Directive: The WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) directive imposes the responsibility for the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment on the manufacturers of such equipment. ISO 14001 is a standard for environmental management systems to be implemented in any business, regardless of size, location or income. The aim of the standard is to reduce the environmental footprint of a business and to decrease the pollution and waste a business produces. The ISO 14001 environmental management standards esixt to help organizations minimize how their operations negatively affect the environment. ISO 9001 specifies requirements for a quality management system where an organization needs to demonstrate its ability to consistently provide product that meets customer and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, and aims to enhance customer satisfaction through the effective application of the system, including processes for continual improvement of the system and the assurance of conformity to customer and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements.
