SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BEIJER ALMA 2015 Beijer Alma’s ultimate objective is to create added value for its customers, shareholders, business partners and employees. We must create these added values without compromising our aspirations concerning quality and sustainable development. Accordingly, environmental responsibility, social responsibility and a high level of business ethics are integrated into our daily operations and the Group’s long-term strategy. CONTENTS Beijer Alma 4 Subsidiaries 5 CEO’s statement 6 Strategy 8 Sustainability strategy 9 Corporate social responsibility 10 People and society, ethics and the environment 15 Risks and opportunities 20 Sustainable development and finances 24 Good examples 26 Global Compact 28 Glossary 31 About the sustainability report 33 11.74 EARNINGS PER SHARE. Earnings per share totaled SEK 11.74 (10.60). HABIA GREW IN NUCLEAR POWER GROWTH. Habia’s order bookings and invoicing in the nuclear power sector increased significantly. +8% ORDER BOOKINGS. Order bookings rose 8 percent to MSEK 3,548 (3,282). 3,522 INVOICING. Invoicing increased 7 percent to MSEK 3,522 (3,289). 9.50 DIVIDEND. The Board of Directors proposed a dividend of SEK 9.50 (8.50). INCREASED DEMAND IN CHASSIS SPRINGS DEMAND. Demand for chassis spring increased in several European markets. 467 PROFIT AFTER NET FINANCIAL ITEMS Profit after net financial items amounted to MSEK 467 (424). –97% IMPROVED AIR QUALITY . New treatment equipment in China resulted in a significant decrease in VOC emissions to the atmosphere. ENERGY EFFICIENCY ENHANCEMENT MEASURES INTRODUCED ON A BROAD FRONT. Energy audits, training, installation of energy-efficient equipment and LED lights. GROUP-WIDE OBJECTIVES SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES. Our efforts to achieve our six Group-wide objectives are progressing, but a great deal of work remains. SOCIAL COMMITMENT FOCUS ON EDUCATION. Beijer Alma supports Teach for Sweden (TFS), a non-profit, non-religious and non-political organization that works to ensure that all children have the right to equal education.. SUPPLIERS BETTER SUPPLIER CONTROLS. The number of audits of suppliers’ sustainability work doubled during the year. More than 250 suppliers were evaluated. 90/100 CLIMATE REPORT. Score of 90 out of 100 in the annual climate impact report according to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITMENT TO SUPPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT. In 2015, Beijer Alma joined the UN Global Compact, which issues Ten Principles pertaining to corporate social responsibility. ISO 14001 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. Most of the Group companies have introduced ISO 14001. Habia Cable in Poland was certified in 2015. Five facilities are preparing for certification. Beijer Alma AB (publ) is an international, listed industrial Group. Its business concept is to acquire, own and develop companies with strong growth potential. Beijer Alma’s subsidiaries – Lesjöfors, Habia Cable and Beijer Tech – specialize in component manufacturing and industrial trading. The growth strategy of the companies encompasses four areas: ● Products and concepts with high customer value. ● International market coverage. ● High market share. ● Diversified customer and supplier base. ● Sales in about 60 markets. ● 76 percent of sales are conducted outside Sweden. ● The main markets are Scandinavia, other areas of Europe and Asia. ● Strong international positions in chassis springs and cables for nuclear power and mobile telecom. 4 Lesjöfors Lesjöfors is an international full-range supplier of springs, wire and flat strip components that offers both standard products and customized components. The company conducts manufacturing operations in Europe, North America and Asia, and has two business areas: Industry and Chassis Springs. Habia Cable Habia Cable develops, manufactures and sells custom-designed cables and cable systems for demanding applications. The company is one of the largest manufacturers of custom-designed cables in Europe and has two business areas: Telecom and Other Industry. Beijer Tech Beijer Tech specializes in industrial trading in the Nordic region and represents several of the world’s leading manufacturers. Its operations are conducted in two business areas: Fluid Technology and Industrial Products. 3% INFRASTRUCTURE. Public transport and infrastructure projects are two major areas. Beijer Alma supplies hoses, cables and components to the transport sector, industrial rubber to companies in the construction industry and springs for vibration damping in infrastructure projects. 3% DEFENSE. Beijer Alma’s products are used in various types of military technology, such as cables and cable harnesses for communication equipment, ships, helicopters and underwater technology, as well as springs for military vehicles. 5% ENERGY. Beijer Alma has customers within energy production and power distribution, and delivers cables and cable harnesses for the nuclear power and oil industry, as well as for gas turbines. Our companies also deliver springs and other components for power companies, as well as consumables and machinery in the offshore sector. 10% TELECOM. Beijer Alma deliver cables to antenna and system manufacturers within mobile telecom, and springs, flat strip components and other components to companies that develop and produce mobile phones and tablets. Most of the company’s deliveries are to customers in the Asian market. 16% ORIGINAL AUTOMOTIVE. Beijer Alma’s components are used in passenger cars, trucks, agricultural and contractors’ machinery, and other heavy vehicles. Among other products, this segment includes cables, various types of vehicle springs, hoses and foundry consumables. 16% CHASSIS SPRINGS. Lesjöfors is Europe’s leading manufacturer of chassis springs for the aftermarket. The company controls every stage – design, manufacturing, inventory management and logistics – and offers the market’s broadest range of vehicle springs for European and Asian passenger cars. 47% OTHER INDUSTRY. Beijer Alma’s subsidiaries deliver a number of products, services and solutions, such as industrial springs, flat strip components, cables, cable harnesses, consumables, input goods and machinery. Percentages indicate share of sales 5 CEO’S STATEMENT Beijer Alma delivered record-breaking earnings sustainable development and is based on Ten Principles in 2015. Sales amounted to MSEK 3,522, with governing human rights, the environment, anti-corruption profit after net financial items totaling MSEK and labor rights. As a member of the Global Compact, Beijer Alma is required to report its sustainability work to the UN. 467. We have also advanced our positions in This provides us with incentive and gives us the opportunity the area of sustainability, partly through our to present our far-ranging, long-term responsibility in yet affiliation with the UN Global Compact. another context. Moreover, the Global Compact provides us with access to expertise, training programs and networks related to sustainability issues. S ustainability is an integral part of our business Another new development was an update to Beijer strategy. Advancing our sustainability work Alma’s Code of Conduct – the Group-wide guidelines that is thus an important part of our operations. In addigovern and inspire us in our sustainability efforts. The tion to contributing to a better world, our goal is to create revamped Code also includes a whistleblower system, which new business opportunities, cut costs, reduce risks and meet can be used by employees if they discover improprieties that the demands and expectations of various stakeholders. Over they find difficult to handle within their own organization. the past few years, we have coordinated our efforts at the During 2015, we also continued to focus on our daily Group level and we have made significant progress during environmental and work environment issues, implementthis time. Both our follow-up and reporting have become ing a number of initiatives pertaining to energy efficiency, increasingly extensive. We have also further improved the waste, product development and measures to improve the practical aspects of our sustainability work in several ways. work environment. Our companies have become more active The overall objectives for this work have been compiled in when it comes to monitoring sustainability issues at the an action plan, which is presented later on in my comments. supplier level. The number of supplier assessments doubled One major development during 2015 was our decision during the year. to join the UN Global Compact. The UN Global Compact In addition to environmental work, social responsibility is commonly referred to as the world’s largest initiative in is also a fundamental component of our business and we 2013 2014 2015 ●● Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct ●● Detailed Group-wide energy, climate, ●● Joins the UN Global Compact. introduced throughout the Group. waste, work environment and social Assessment of how Group sustainabi●● Long-term sustainable development commitment objectives set. lity objectives relate to new UN global strategy and Group-wide objectives ●● Expanded sustainability reporting on sustainable development goals. established. website. Continued CDP reporting. ●● Continued work on Group energy, ●● Group-wide sustainability and climate ●● Continued implementation of ISO climate, waste, work environment and impact reporting in accordance with 14001 at manufacturing facilities. social objectives. the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). ●● Sustainability issues incorporated into ●● Expanded sustainability reporting and strategic planning. continued CDP reporting. 6 Beijer Alma’s most important business objective is – and will continue to be – profitable growth. If this long-term objective is to be met, we must also take sustainability issues into consideration as the Group expands and develops. BERTIL PERSSON, PRESIDENT AND CEO successfully advanced our positions in this area during 2015. in Poland. In 2016 and onwards, a small number of addiTake, for example, the Teach for Sweden program, to which tional units will introduce the environmental management we now provide financial support. We are also involved in system. the organization’s mentor program. Teach for Sweden aims Finally, I would again like to emphasize that far-reachto ensure that all children have the right to equal education. ing responsibility is important for Beijer Alma. Our most This is to be achieved by using a new approach to recruiting important business objective is – and will continue to be – teachers – primarily in natural science subjects – to work at profitable growth. If this long-term objective is to be met, we schools in socially disadvantaged areas. It seems obvious must also take sustainability issues into consideration as the that all young people – irrespective of social and economic Group expands and develops. background – should have access to equal education. Educational quality is also an important issue for us as a company, particularly since it will affect our ability to recruit skilled employees in the future. When it comes to social responsibility, I would also like to highlight our long-standing support of the Uppsala City Mission. In a world where government assistance doesn’t always suffice, the efforts of non-profit organizations are becoming increasingly important. The City Mission uses various means to help people to achieve a better life and we are proud to support and encourage these efforts. Looking ahead, we can see that Beijer Alma will submit its first Global Compact report to the UN in 2016. At the same time, the Group will also continue to implement the ISO 14001 certification program. A total of 19 units are currently certified, the most recent of which being Habia Cable’s plant BERTIL PERSSON, PRESIDENT AND CEO 2016 2017 2018 ●● Updated Code of Conduct. ●● Adaptation to ISO 14001:2015 ●● Adaptation to ISO 14001:2015 ●● Continued focus on energy issues and continues and is to be concluded by concluded. the EU energy efficiency directive. 2018. ●● Assessment of the sustainability ●● Interim assessment of sustainability ●● Continued focus on Group energy, strategy and 2014–2018 objectives. strategy and objectives. climate, waste and work environment ●● New Group-wide sustainable ●● Sustainability and CDP reporting objectives. development objectives presented. expanded. ●● Community involvement activities in ●● Continued sustainability, CDP and ●● Reporting under Global Compact. Sweden and abroad. UN reporting. ●● Continued implementation of ●● Sustainability, CDP and UN reporting. ISO 14001. Adaptation to ISO 14001:2015 begins. 7 STRATEGY ENSURE PROFITABLE GROW TH Long-term ownership Organic growth We take a long-term approach and create industrially We grow organically through investments in product and sound corporate groups that generate high growth and market development. This results in higher quality and profitability over time. lower risk. Corporate social responsibility Corporate acquisitions We limit our impact on the environment, assume social We conduct supplementary acquisitions and purchase responsibility, and offer a secure and stimulating work new operations. This strengthens our position in selected environment for our employees. markets and specific product areas or provides Beijer Alma with a broader foundation. Operational control We work closely with our Group companies when it comes Profitable growth to setting goals and exercising control, mainly with respect To meet our requirements, growth must be linked to to strategic development, acquisitions and investments. sustainable profitability. We achieve this by focusing on the growth criteria in the strategy pyramid. High customer value Products and services are adapted to meet specific » FOR MORE INFORMATION, VISIT BEIJERALMA.SE customer needs or are based on unique product concepts. This creates higher value, for which customers are prepared to pay and which contributes to our profitability. International market coverage We focus on niche products manufactured in small series. To create growth, the companies must therefore engage in broad international sales. Strong market position We establish strong market positions by focusing on quality, a broad product range, customization and service. Diversified customer and supplier base The Group companies aim to have a broad customer and supplier base. This reduces their risk exposure and dependency on individual markets, industries or companies. 8 SUSTAINABILIT Y STRATEGY CONDITIONS FOR PROFITABLE GROW TH Strategy, targets and follow-up Beijer Alma’s strategy for sustainable development is based on the following components: PROFITABLE ●● A Code of Conduct that provides our employees and stakeGROWTH holders with guidance on how the company manages issues pertaining to people, society, the environment and ethics. The Code of Conduct applies to everyone in Beijer Alma, regardless of where they are in the world. The Code builds on international conventions and the ISO 26000 ORGANIC CORPORATE standard for social responsibility. GROWTH ACQUISITIONS ●● Focus on sustainability issues that are important to the Group’s business strategy and significant to our stakeholders. ●● Sustainable value chain – a life cycle perspective on DIVERSIFIED HIGH CUSTOMER INTERNATIONAL MARKET STRONG MARKET CUSTOMER AND SUPPLIER Beijer Alma’s activities, products and services. VALUE COVERAGE POSITION BASE ●● Ensuring that risks are identified, managed and minimized. Capitalizing on sustainable development opportuLONG-TERM CORPORATE OPERATIONAL OWNERSHIP SOCIAL CONTROL nities that create business advantages. RESPONSIBILITY ●● Long-term Group-wide objectives in key areas. These are supplemented with detailed targets and action plans in the various Group units. ●● Delegated responsibility, which entails that operational CODE OF CONDUCT sustainability work is structured and executed by the subsidiaries’ units. ●● Systematic approach to making continuous improvements, particularly within the framework of the ISO 14001 environmental management system. TY ENVIRON OCIE ME ●● Regular follow-up of sustainability work and transparent DS NT AN E ABLE VALUE C communication with the Group’s stakeholders. OP AIN HA HICS PE L ST ET SU IN » READ MORE ABOUT BEIJER ALMA’S CODE OF CONDUCT AT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT BEIJERALMA.SE OBJECTIVES IS TIE R K SA S N D OPP OR TUNI 9 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y PEOPLE AND SOCIET Y, THE ENVIRONMENT AND ETHICS Focus on key issues of the annual sustainability report, an in-depth analysis is Regardless of where in the world we operate, considerations conducted of the companies’ compliance with legislation, pertaining to environmental impact, social conditions and fulfillment of the Group-wide objectives and development in business ethics are important. It is vital that we operate in terms of key performance indicators (KPI). areas where we can contribute to sustainable development The results of the Group’s work pertaining to sustainable and meet the demands and expectations of various stakedevelopment are presented in the Annual Report and the holders. Our long-term sustainability work focuses on the separate sustainability report. The Group’s climate perforfollowing areas: mance is presented in a detailed report in accordance with ●● Applying sound business principles and high ethical the guidelines of the CDP. An annual report summarizing the standards. Group’s work related to the Global Compact is submitted to ●● Creating a safe, positive and stimulating work environthe UN (refer to pages 28–29). ment for our employees. ●● Increasing our energy efficiency and reducing our climate Stakeholder demands and expectations impact, waste and other effects on the environment. The Group’s sustainability work is influenced by various ●● Approaching our operations from a life cycle perspective – stakeholders, who impose demands and express their raw materials, suppliers, products, services and customers. opinions and expectations of the operations. Addressing ●● Becoming involved in the communities where Beijer Alma these demands is a crucial part of our strategy for sustainoperates. able development. The following are some examples of our interactions with stakeholders. Management and follow-up Sustainability issues impact the Group’s operations in many Customers. These demands primarily pertain to certified ways – for example, in connection with the introduction of environmental and quality management systems, prohibited new technology, internal and external communications, chemical substances, environmental product declarations, corporate acquisitions, crisis and risk management, financial product labeling and specific legislation that must be fulreport and training. The overall focus of the Group’s sustainfilled (the European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, ability work is stated in the Code of Conduct. Issues pertaining Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, the Restriction to Beijer Alma’s long-term strategy, overall objectives, contacts of Hazardous Substances Directive, conflict mineral legislawith the media and investors, and financial reporting are hantion). It is also common for customers to require that their dled at Group level. The Board of Directors receives regular codes of conduct be applied in our operations. These requirestatus updates on the Group’s sustainability work. ments are followed up through questionnaires and audits. Environmental (ISO 14001) and quality (ISO 9001) Follow-ups were conducted at ten companies during 2015. management systems are important tools in this work. Other The results of the follow-ups were positive and were used to initiatives that indirectly support sustainable development further advance the Group’s sustainability work. include 5S, Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing (refer to the glossary). Operational responsibility is delegated to the presSuppliers. The Group’s interactions with suppliers regarding idents of the individual Group companies. Follow-up of local environmental and social responsibility are crucial. The objectives and plans is part of the managers’ responsibilities. Group companies provide their suppliers with information This work is followed up through dialogs with management about Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct and expect that their groups of the various companies and through internal suppliers share this approach. During the year, Lesjöfors and external audits. In conjunction with the preparation introduced a new system for evaluating the environmen10 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES PROGRESS By year-end 2018, energy consumption is to be reduced by Acquisition of new operations resulted in higher energy 10 percent (GWh/MSEK in net revenues).* consumption. Energy tracking and introduction of new technology increased energy efficiency at several units. Positive development of KPI. By year-end 2018, CO2 emissions are to be reduced by Acquisition of new operations resulted in higher emissions. 10 percent (tons/net revenues).* Energy-efficiency enhancements, the use of biofuel, environmental adaptation of vehicles and transport, and the purchase of green electricity had a positive impact on the Group’s KPI. By year-end 2018, the amount of waste generated by the Group Acquisition of new operations resulted in increased waste. is to be reduced by 10 percent (tons/net revenues).* A reduction in scrapping, better sorting at source and expanded recycling had a positive impact on the Group’s KPI. We have a vision of zero tolerance when it comes to workplace The number of accidents and lost working days increased. accidents and aim to reduce our accident frequency rate. A system The system for reporting near misses was expanded during for registering near misses related to the work environment was to the year, but has not yet been introduced at some units. be introduced in 2015. Certified management systems are to be established at all One unit in Poland received environmental certification production units and other units where an environmental during the year. Five units plan to achieve certification within management system is relevant. six to 18 months. From 2015 to 2018, we will increase our social commitment. Cooperation with schools and universities, and social commitment in the form of financial support for education, non-profit organizations, sports activities, healthcare and cultural events. * The average figures for 2012–2013 serve as the baseline. Objective achieved. Positive trend, good potential to achieve objective. Negative trend, additional measures required. tal and quality work of its suppliers. We actively evaluate Society. Becoming involved in the communities where Beijer our suppliers’ sustainability performance and conducted Alma operates creates trust in the Group and attracts attention 227 (124) surveys and 31 (51) audits in 2015. These assessto its operations. Accordingly, we prioritize and carry out both ments showed that our suppliers were adequately meeting small and large-scale measures (refer to pages 14 and 25). the Group’s corporate social responsibility requirements. However, we terminated our cooperation with one supplier Group-wide objectives because the company in question had failed to comply with Under the ISO 14001 environmental management system, environmental legislation. companies are required to implement specific environmental objectives. The Group’s certified units have had their own Authorities. Beijer Alma’s operations are subject to extensive local environmental objectives in place for many years. In environmental and work environment legislation. Slightly order to coordinate these local activities, long-term Groupmore than half of the units hold specific environmental wide objectives for key areas pertaining to sustainable permits for their operations. Seven of these units are located in development were established in 2013. These objectives Sweden. Five units plan to renew their environmental permits have gradually become more ambitious. All units are able to in the coming years. Our compliance with this legislation is establish their own detailed objectives and add additional monitored through reports to various authorities and by way of areas. inspections and audits. During 2015, 20 units were inspected The Group-wide objectives encompass areas that are by their respective supervisory authorities. In most cases, these important for our internal sustainability work and for our inspections resulted in no negative remarks or only minor stakeholders. In 2015, the UN introduced 17 new global change requirements. No violations of environmental or work development goals that impose ambitious expectations environment legislation were reported in 2015. on the business world. These goals pertain to responsible The introduction of new or amended legislation impacts conduct, as well as the development of products and services the Group’s operations. The EU Energy Efficiency Directive that promote sustainable development. As a participant in gained further traction during the year, which means that the UN Global Compact, it is only natural that Beijer Alma energy audits will now be performed on a broad front. During will strive to meet these new goals. At present, the Group’s 2015, Beijer Alma submitted an overview of the status of the objectives are in line with several of the UN’s global goals. Group’s units in the EU to the Swedish Energy Agency. The long-term aim is to further advance the Group’s work in the area of sustainable development and thereby contribute Owners and investors. Beijer Alma’s Board of Directors and to achieving Sweden’s environmental quality objectives. shareholders expect risks and opportunities related to susThe table above presents an overview of the Group’s tainable development to be managed in a responsible, sysprogress related to these objectives and its potential to tematic and cost-efficient manner. The information provided achieve them. Detailed information about emissions data through the Group’s sustainability report, website and other and KPIs is presented elsewhere in the sustainability channels is important to transparently detail the progression report. of the company’s sustainability activities. 11 Teach for Sweden – education for all Teach for Sweden aims to ensure that all children have the right to equal education. The organization recruits teachers using a unique and innovative approach. The focus is on natural science subjects at schools in socially disadvantaged areas. Beijer Alma supports the organization’s activities through monetary contributions and experience. During the 2014/2015 school year, 14,000 students left technology. Mattias Svensson emphasizes that the teachers elementary school without the necessary qualifications have a different profile and unique experience that make a for high school. Meanwhile, the level of interest in the difference in the classroom. teaching profession has reached an all-time low in many “We have received about 700 applications for the areas: in 2014, a mere five applications were received for program, which means that we have an excellent range of teacher training in physics for grades 7–9 and the program candidates to choose from,” he says. “They are skilled, for chemistry teachers attracted only 12 applications. experienced people who can use their leadership and “The lack of high school qualifications is preventing expectations as a resource in the school.” students from entering the labor market and, indeed, society as a whole. This is not sustainable and is something JOINT RESPONSIBILITY we wish to change. We are doing so by supplying schools For many people it goes without saying that all young people with ambitious leaders who make a difference in the – irrespective of social and economic background – should classroom,” says Mattias Svensson, Deputy Manager of have access to equal education. But ensuring that this Operations at Teach for Sweden in charge of financing and happens is a joint responsibility in which companies also partnerships. play an important role, especially since educational quality will impact their ability to recruit skilled employees in the FOCUS ON NATURAL SCIENCE future. Beijer Alma has supported Teach for Sweden since Teach for Sweden recruits teachers from a variety of 2015, providing both monetary contributions and mentors backgrounds. The focus is on natural science subjects, for the teachers in the organization’s leadership program. including biologists, engineers, physicists and doctoral “Having a mentor from the business world, which involcandidates who are not currently working as teachers, but ves meeting a few times a year to share experiences, is a who are prepared to try out a career in education. great development opportunity,” says Mattias Svensson. “We offer a two-year program in which our leaders begin Beijer Alma’s President and CEO, Bertil Persson, also parworking as teachers immediately from day one. In parallel, ticipates in the mentor program, along with Habia’s CEO, they study for their teaching qualification through distance Carl Modigh. courses in various supplementary pedagogical areas,” Teach for Sweden is part of a global network active in explains Mattias Svensson. 40 countries. The Swedish organization, which was formed At the moment, Teach for Sweden has about 60 teachers in 2013, also works with companies such as Nordea and working in 47 schools in 16 municipalities, mainly in subGoogle, as well as municipalities and other players in the jects such as biology, mathematics, physics, chemistry and community. n 14 PEOPLE AND SOCIET Y, ETHICS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Ethics ities carried out during the year by replying to approximately A few years ago, Beijer Alma established a Code of Conduct, 25 questions. The questions are based on guidelines from which now serves as a guide for its employees. The guidethe UN Global Compact. This year’s review showed a higher lines were updated in 2015 and the Code is now linked to the level of commitment among the companies and revealed no UN Global Compact. One of the changes made involved the violations of the Code of Conduct. The Group’s anti-corrupintroduction of a whistleblower system. Through our Code of tion initiatives in 2015 included ongoing training in the Code Conduct, we: of Conduct, a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery, sanction ●● comply with legislation, the UN Global Compact, the UN systems for violations and guidelines on gift amounts and Convention on the Rights of the Child and other internabusiness entertainment. We use management systems, tional agreements and guidelines. information, discussions and financial monitoring to prevent ●● take the financial expectations of our stakeholders into corruption. consideration, and create customer and shareholder value. ●● ensure that CSR is integrated into the Group and practiced People in relation to employees, customers, suppliers, owners and Beijer Alma employs some 2,300 people in 16 countries who other stakeholders. come from a variety of cultures. Approximately one-third ●● contribute to sustainable development, including health of these employees work in low-cost countries and nearly and social welfare. one-fifth are located in China. The majority of employees are located in Sweden, Germany and China. The Code of Conduct states that we expect our employees The Group has a long-standing tradition of corporate to behave in an honest and honorable manner. We demand social responsibility. We are convinced that this approach the same from the Group’s business partners. Bribes are helps us to attract, recruit, develop and retain dedicated and prohibited. Gifts and other benefits may not exceed the skilled employees. All units comply fully with the guidelines amounts prescribed by local practices or legislation. We stipulated in the Code of Conduct. Work pertaining to personcomply with competition legislation and apply sound nel issues is decentralized. The Group companies are responmarketing principles. sible for managing these issues in a manner that complies with Beijer Alma’s guidelines and the legislation and culture Whistleblower system. The whistleblower system allows the of their particular country. employees to report any suspected improprieties without a risk of harassment or reprisal. All reports are handled by an Employees. Creating safe and stimulating work environments external recipient, who ensures that the reports are investiis a key component of Beijer Alma’s efforts related to sustaingated and that appropriate action is taken. able development. Regular employee surveys are an important tool in this work. In 2015, surveys were conducted at Good business ethics. As part of its sustainability reporting, approximately one-third of the Group’s units. The responses Beijer Alma conducts an annual review of the Group compashowed that the level of job satisfaction is generally high and nies’ work to combat corruption and promote good business that the work environment is seen as safe and positive. A few ethics. This is done in the form of a self-assessment in which comments were received about the temperature and ventilathe management groups of the companies describe the activtion at the Group’s work sites, as well as comments regarding 15 LESJÖFORS Consistent quality and environmental standards – better supplier assessments A high, consistent standard. This is the goal for Lesjöfors’s assessment of SUPPLIER ASSESSMENTS its operational systems in the areas of quality and the environment. The The procedures for assessing suppliers have also been further improved. assessment encompasses all 21 of the company’s manufacturing units For many years, the company’s suppliers have been required to perform and is expected to be completed in the first half of 2016. a self-assessment of their quality and environmental work and submit “We award points for procedures and processes according to a set this review to Lesjöfors. This is done using a form in which suppliers are evaluation system,” explains Peter Rosenqvist, Quality and Environmeawarded points in various areas pertaining to quality and the environment. ntal Manager at Lesjöfors. “The results are then reported back to the “We want to ensure that the suppliers we work with meet our requiplants, enabling them to clearly and easily compare their performance.” rements and that they are performing well in the areas that we and our This process allows Lesjöfors to establish an internal benchmark customers consider to be important,” says Peter Rosenqvist. “When in the areas of quality and the environment, including processes such conducting these assessments, we also take the opportunity to inform as leadership, production, purchasing, technology, sales, quality and our suppliers about our own guidelines, including Beijer Alma’s Code of environmental management. Conduct.” “This also enables us to establish a best practice, allowing the plants The assessments are also based on various EU directives, such as the to learn from the best experiences in each area. We have seen that this European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Resprocess achieves results and that it encourages the plants to review and triction of Chemicals (REACH), the UN Global Compact and regulations improve their processes,” says Peter Rosenqvist. on the use of conflict minerals. n workload and stress. More than 800 employees participated in development talks or other performance evaluations. Individual reward systems have been established at approximately 25 percent of the Group’s companies, with environment and work environment considerations being used as key criteria. Setting of salary rates and collective agreements. The same rules and values GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES apply for all of the Group’s units. Salary rates adhere to legislative requireSweden 31% ments, exceed minimum wages and are entirely in line with market rates. As a Denmark 3% result of cultural and legislative differences, the degree to which employees are Finland 2% Norway 1% covered by collective agreements varies by country. At slightly more than half of Germany 20% Poland 2% the Group’s units, most employees are covered by collective agreements. Slovakia 5% Latvia 5% UK 9% Human rights and equality. In accordance with the UN Global Compact, we China 19% US 2% encourage diversity and are opposed to all forms of discrimination. No irreguOther 1% larities or incidents pertaining to human rights were identified in the preparation of this year’s report. Beijer Alma has established a whistleblower system that can be used by the employees to anonymously report any suspected improprieties. Responsibility for equality issues is decentralized and lies with the individual units. The proportion of female employees in the Group is 33 percent (33). The proportion of women on the Board of Directors is 38 percent (29). While there are no women among the Group’s senior executives, the proportion of women among the management groups of the individual units is 17 percent. A total of 29 women are members of the management groups that CAUSES OF WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS report directly the CEO. Injuries caused by machinery and equipment 43% Sickness absence. Short and long-term sickness absence remained low in 2015. Falls 18% From a five-year perspective, the rate of sickness absence is unchanged at 3 to Heavy lifting and repetitive work 19% 3.5 percent. Energy 2% Health and safety. The overall objective in this area is to ensure that the Group’s Other, such as cuts and transportation accidents 16% operations do not result in any injuries or illness. Preventive measures include systematic risk analysis, work environment assessments, training, safety inspections and investments in technical measures. Safety committees have been established at 25 units. At the smallest units, environmental work takes a different form. Work environment surveys were conducted at 19 companies during the year, focusing on such areas as noise and dust, risk analyses and various work environment factors. 16 EMPLOYEES KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Average number of employees 2,262 2,124 2,110 1,831 1,687 Percentage salaried employees (%) 32 31 31 32 33 Percentage production staff (%) 68 69 69 68 67 Percentage women (%) 33 33 35 34 32 Percentage employed in low-cost countries (%) 33 30 30 30 28 Short-term sickness absence (%) 2.5 2.4 1.9 2.1 2.1 Long-term sickness absence (%) 2.1 1.0 0.9 0.9 1.2 Percentage employed in Sweden (%) 31 33 33 36 40 In 2015, 44 (37) workplace accidents resulting in more include emissions of climate-impacting gases and solvents than one day of absence (lost work cases, LWC) occurred. (VOC), as well as waste. In Beijer Tech’s operations, signifThe main causes of injuries were machinery, equipment, icant environmental aspects mainly pertain to products, ergonomic factors – such as heavy lifting and repetitive work packaging and transportation. The ISO 14001 environmental – and falls. Total absence due to accidents amounted to 413 management system is an important tool in the Group’s (268) days. The number of days was relatively high as a result environmental work. of a small number of injuries resulting in long-term absence. From a three-year perspective, the number of workplace acciEnvironmental management system. The ISO 14001 standard dents has fluctuated from 0.01 to 0.02 cases per employee for environmental management systems was introduced and year. The number of sick days also has also varied from in 1996. The implementation of certified environmental 0.1 to 0.2 days per employee and year. At one-third of the management systems is a long-standing component of Beijer Group’s units, no workplace accidents were reported at all. Alma’s strategy for sustainable development. ISO 14001 proTwo contractors were injured while working at one of the vides a systematic approach to environmental work and is Group’s facilities. intended to enable continuous improvements. The goal is for Beijer Alma aims to introduce systems for registering all of the Group’s production units to be certified. ISO 14001 near misses in the work environment at all of its unit. Such is also important for the major units in Beijer Tech. A total systems are now in place in 21 (20) units, which means there of 19 units are currently certified and five additional units is still a lot of work to do before this goal can be achieved. are preparing to introduce the environmental management More than 300 (200) incidents were reported in 2015. In system. many cases, this resulted in preventive measures being Internal and external environmental audits are carried taken. The most common risks involved machinery and out as part of the Group’s efforts to continuously improve. equipment, as well as falls due to tripping or slipping. Beijer Alma employs nearly 40 internal environmental auditors, who conducted 36 environmental audits during the Training. Training helps to ensure that employees have the year. External audits of the Group’s facilities were conducted knowledge needed to perform their jobs and gives them an on 19 occasions. Beijer Alma also had a representative on opportunity to develop their skills and gain an understandthe reference group responsible for the upgrade to the ISO ing of the Group’s fundamental values. Approximately 23,200 14001:2015 standard, which helped to facilitate a smooth (25,800) hours of training were completed in 2015. This cortransition to the new standard in the Group. responds to ten hours per employee, which is slightly lower than in the preceding year. The number of hours devoted to Materials and chemicals. In 2015, approximately 27,000 tons environmental and health and safety training amounted to (26,600) of metal, 1,260 tons (1,400) of plastic and 160 tons 1.6 (1.4) per employee. (200) of chemicals were used, primarily solvents (naphtha) used in Habia Cable’s production processes in Sweden and The environment China. The Group continued its efforts to replace hazardous At Lesjöfors and Habia Cable’s manufacturing units, the use chemical substances and three substances were phased out. of materials, chemicals, energy and water is critical from an Certain chemical substances, such as trichloroethylene and environmental perspective. Other key environmental issues cadmium, are still being used in the Group, but are sched17 ENVIRONMENT AND WORK ENVIRONMENT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Lesjöfors Habia Cable Beijer Tech Energy consumption, GWh (% of total Group consumption) 40.0 (72) 11.7 (21) 3.7 (7) Water consumption, m3 (% of total Group consumption) 23,300 (55) 16,600 (39) 2,400 (6) CO2 emissions, tons (% of total Group emissions) 9,649 (68) 4,416 (31) 140 (1) VOC emissions, tons (% of total Group emissions) 3.4 (26) 9.6 (74) 0 (0) Amount of waste, tons (% of total amount of waste for the Group) 2,032 (71) 680 (23) 160 (6) ISO 14001, number of certified units 15 2 2 Workplace accidents, number of cases resulting in absence (cases per employee) 34 (0.02) 8 (0.02) 2 (0.01) Workplace accidents, number of lost working days (days per employee) 373 (0.3) 22 (0.04) 18 (0.08) uled to be replaced. Conflict materials (refer to the glossary) are attracting an increasing amount of attention. Customers want a guarantee that these materials are not used in the Group’s products. Based on our current knowledge, no such minerals have been identified in Beijer Alma. ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy. Total energy consumption amounted to 55.4 GWh (49.8). This increase GWh GWh/MSEK was partly attributable to recently acquired units. The largest energy consump100 0.020 tion was reported in Sweden, Germany and China. Approximately 72 percent 80 0.016 (75) of this energy comprised indirect energy, primarily electricity. Direct energy in the form of fossil fuels (oil, natural gas, propane) is used for heating 60 0.012 in furnaces and fork lifts. The use of biofuel and green electricity accounted for 40 0.008 10 percent (12) of the total consumption. The energy-saving measures taken by the Group included energy audits, 20 0.004 installation of energy-efficient furnaces and other technical equipment. Other 0 0 measures included the increased use of LED lights and shut-offs on equipment 12 13 14 15 not used during certain periods. Examples of energy efficiency enhancement measures are presented on pages 18 and 26–27. HABIA CABLE 12 13 14 15 Recycling plastic and reducing electricity consumption Approximately 37 tons. This is how much plastic was recycled at Habia emptied into containers that are then picked up by a recycling company. Cable’s plant in Söderfors in 2015. The recycled plastic, which was “This means that we also get paid for our waste,” explains Marie gathered from the company’s production waste, was used as insulation in Gren. cable manufacturing. “There’s always a certain amount of waste, particularly at the start LOWER CONSUMPTION of production. We manufacture relatively small quantities of customiHabia replaced the outdoor lighting at its plant in Söderfors, including zed cable of varying quality, which means quite a few adjustments and the lights on the facility’s facades and in the parking area outside the restarts during production,” explains Marie Gren, Environmental and plant. Switching to LED lights will enable the company to significantly Quality Manager at Habia Cable. reduce its electricity consumption. Different types of plastic are used in the company’s production pro“The old lights consumed about 42,000 kWh. After switching to LED cesses and a collection system was introduced a few years ago in order lights, our consumption is down to 9,000 kWh,” says Marie Gren. “The to meet its recycling needs. Collection stations have now been installed change will also simplify maintenance since LED bulbs do not need to be in several areas of the plant. When these stations are full, the plastic is replaced as often.” n 18 Water. Beijer Alma’s water consumption totaled 42,600 cubic meters (41,000) WATER CONSUMPTION and nearly exclusively comprised municipal water. This increase was mainly m3 m3/MSEK attributable to the fact that more plants are included in the report than in pre50,000 15 ceding years. The units in China accounted for the highest water consumption. 40,000 12 Systems for reusing water and other measures enabled several units to reduce their water consumption. Beijer Alma does not operate any facilities in water30,000 9 stressed regions. 20,000 6 Emissions of pollutants into wastewater were very limited and primarily comprised sanitary wastewater. Essentially all units are connected to munici10,000 3 pal wastewater treatment plants. A small number have septic tanks for treating 0 0 wastewater. 12 13 14 15 Emissions to the atmosphere. The Group’s CO2 emissions totaled 14,200 tons (12,700). Approximately 75 percent of these emissions were attributable to purchased electricity, meaning that they were indirect emissions. Direct emissions were mainly attributable to the use of propane in furnaces for processing CO 2 EMISSIONS metals for springs. The increase in emissions was mainly due to increased tons tons/MSEK production and the fact that the Groups has units in countries where electric15,000 5 ity is primarily produced by fossil fuels. Nearly 60 percent of CO2 emissions 12,000 4 were attributable to Germany and China. Purchases of green electricity in Sweden and at one unit in Germany resulted in a reduction in emissions 9,000 12 13 14 15 3 of fossil carbon dioxide. The same applies to the use of biofuel at a plant in 6,000 2 Sweden. Other measures to reduce emissions include various energy efficiency enhancements and more climate-smart transport activities. 3,000 1 VOC emissions amounted to 13 tons (34). This decrease was attributable to 0 0 the installation of a catalytic purification plant in China. In the future, the VOC 12 13 14 15 emissions from Habia Cable’s Swedish operations will be negligible since the production processes that use naphtha were relocated to China in 2015. Emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and dust were very low and amounted to less than 0.5 ton. The installed quantity of coolants (HFC/HCFC) was less than 0.1 ton. No major emissions of coolants were released to the atmosphere. VOC EMISSIONS tons tons/MSEK 100 50 Waste. The total amount of waste during the year amounted to 2,900 tons (2,700). The majority was recycled as materials or energy. Approximately 1,900 80 40 tons of metal were recycled, corresponding to two-thirds of the total amount 60 30 of waste. About 5 percent comprised hazardous waste, which was handled by 12 13 14 15 approved waste management companies. The most important improvement 40 20 initiatives focused on reducing the number of scrapped products, improving 20 10 sorting at source and increasing the reuse of packaging materials. Initiatives such as Six Sigma, Lean Manufacturing and 5S contributed to better resource 0 0 12 13 14 15 use, more efficient production and reduced waste at several facilities. Transport. The Group continued its efforts to reduce its environmental impact from the transportation of raw materials, products and people, partly by purchasing vehicles with lower fuel consumption, coordinating transportation, changing routes, using videoconferences, utilizing waste compaction and using WASTE more rail transport. A number of companies in Beijer Tech reported a total tons tons/MSEK 5,000 1.0 reduction in CO2 emissions of approximately 100 tons. 4,000 0.8 3,000 12 13 14 15 0.6 2,000 0.4 1,000 0.2 0 0 12 13 14 15 19 12 13 14 15 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Through active and well-planned management, Beijer Alma Attitudes toward sustainable development have changed in continuously minimizes its operational risks. At the same recent years. Expectations that business and industry should time, we also aim to leverage the business opportunities contribute in a positive manner have increased, creating associated with controlled risk assumption. The primary opportunities for Beijer Alma in several areas. More efficient components of the Group’s risk management are identificautilization of resources, reduced environmental impact, tion, assessment, management, reporting, monitoring and development of environmentally friendly products and a control. Procedures have been established for accepting, distinct social responsibility are examples of areas in which reducing or eliminating various types of significant risks. the Group can create competitive advantages while simultaThe Annual Report presents information on operational neously contributing to sustainable development. and financial risks. When it comes to sustainability, we have identified a number of risks that may be of significance for Environmental legislation the Group’s financial position. Stricter environmental legisBeijer Alma’s production units hold the necessary permits lation, taxes, charges and other environmental requirements for their operations. No major applications for permit could give rise to substantial costs for the Group’s indusrenewals are planned for 2016. In a protracted process in trial operations. From a business perspective, certain risks Changzhou, China, Habia Cable recently sought and received involving environmental and social responsibility have been an environmental permit for its current operations and a identified in recent years, particularly related to manufacturplanned expansion. ing in developing countries. Beijer Alma regularly performs Wherever applicable, the Group’s units meet the requirerisk assessments in the countries where it operates. The ments of the REACH chemical legislation, the RoHS product objective is to identify new risks and/or costs associated with legislation, product liability for packaging waste and other environmental, ethical and social responsibility as early as relevant environmental and work environment legislation. possible. At present, we do not anticipate an increased risk relating to new or amended legislation. Following the recent introduction of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive, energy audits will become mandatory at most of the Group’s production plants. Although this will initially generate additional costs, it will also create opportunities for more effective energy consumption. Contaminated land and hazardous substances in buildings The land at one facility in Sweden is contaminated by metals and oil. Beijer Alma is not financially responsible for any investigations or environmental remediation performed at this facility. The matter is being administered and financed by the County Administrative Board. Another Swedish unit is included in the official government register of contaminated land, known as the MIFO Register, in the lowest risk category. 20 LESJÖFORS Stumpp + Schüle reduces its environmental impact The German company Stumpp + Schüle has reduced its environmental Trichloroethylene is encompassed by the EU’s REACH chemical impact – while at the same time lowering its costs – by replacing the legislation, which aims to promote safer handling of chemicals. Chemical trichloroethylene used in part of its manufacturing process with modified substances are to be registered for a particular use and substances of alcohol. Trichloroethylene was previously used to degrease, wash and very high concern may be subject to restrictions. grease certain steel components to prevent corrosion. “We now use a modified alcohol product called Dowclene 1601. It is “We were using an older machine at the time, so it was difficult to cheaper to buy, meets current environmental standards and is completely find spare parts. When the machine needed to be replaced, we instead recyclable,” says Ulrich Seeker. n chose to change the entire process and begin using modified alcohol,” explains Ulrich Seeker, Environmental and Quality Manager at Stumpp + Schüle. Decontamination of land and groundwater from chlorinated Environmentally friendly products solvents is in progress at a US plant. Interest in environmentally friendly products is growing. There are a small number of known instances of materiOne business risk may be that the company’s product range als containing asbestos used in buildings. These involve roofs contains products that – for health or environmental reasons and wall coverings and will not require decontamination – are not accepted by customers. As a supplier, Beijer Alma measures. PCB inventories were taken and small amounts of has various opportunities to address this risk. Since most PCB were decontaminated at a facility in Sweden. of the Group’s products are manufactured at the request of customers, development work must be carried out in coopEnergy costs eration. We continuously monitor the development process There is a risk that energy costs will rise and have a signifiin order to initiate the replacement of hazardous substances, cantly negative impact on earnings. At Beijer Alma, this introduce more environmentally friendly components and applies in particular to power purchases. Currently, the develop new products. The sustainability report provides energy price trend is favorable from the Group’s perspective. several examples of products that generate environmental However, prices will most likely rise in the long term. Higher benefits. taxes and charges for fossil-based fuel can also be expected. As part of its risk management, Beijer Alma has established Business ethics a Group-wide energy efficiency objective and tangible meaA lack of business ethics could harm Beijer Alma’s reputation sures are being carried out at its plants. and business operations. As shown in the information on page 15, we are working in various ways to prevent corrupClimate-related risks tion and other improprieties. One of the Group’s plants is located in an area in which extreme weather conditions may occur, namely Changzhou Human rights in China. It is not known whether climate change will affect Human rights in our companies or among our suppliers the situation, but we are monitoring the risk and vulnerabilcould harm the Group’s reputation and business operations. ity analyses being conducted by the authorities. Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct applies in the same manner Climate issues are important. Page 19 presents an worldwide. We promote the protection of human rights overview of the Group’s efforts to reduce its carbon footprint. through information, training programs, internal regulations It is also important that we are adequately prepared for the and monitoring. potential financial impact that climate change could have on our operations. This may involve damage to plants and infrastructure, as well as access to raw materials, conditions among suppliers and changes in customer behavior. Taxes, charges and mandatory emission limitations could also affect Beijer Alma. 21 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCES Positive financial performance INVESTMENTS IN THE ENVIRONMENT 2015 was the strongest year to date for the Beijer Alma Group. While growth AND WORK ENVIRONMENT was weak – and in some cases, negative – in the business areas that are depenAir purification and ventilation 64% dent on the industrial economy, this was offset by other product segments Work environment that are not dependent on the industrial economy, such as chassis springs in improvements 21% Lesjöfors and nuclear power cables in Habia Cable. This development shows Other investments 14% the strength of the Group’s business model, under which Beijer Alma focuses on well-diversified operations that deliver high customer value. Being an international player in selected areas is also important, since this allows us to grow over time and spread our risks geographically. Net revenues amounted to MSEK 3,522 (3,298). Profit before tax totaled MSEK 467 (424). The operating margin remained high and stable at 14 percent (13). COSTS RELATED TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND WORK ENVIRONMENT Environmental-related costs and investments Waste management 45% The cost for energy during the year amounted to MSEK 39.1 (38.6), the cost for water to MSEK 0.9 (0.6) and the cost for waste management to MSEK 2.4 (2.4). Administration 37% Investments in environmental and work environment measures totaled MSEK Fees to authorities 3% 14.2 (11.5) and mainly pertained to equipment for air purification and meaISO 14001 10% sures to improve the work environment. Environmental-related costs totaled External services 4% MSEK 5.3 (6.0). Operation of purification plants 1% Financial value for stakeholders Beijer Alma’s operations create financial value that is allocated to its various stakeholders, including the company’s suppliers, employees, shareholders, lenders and society. Stakeholder group Allocated value (MSEK) Comments 2015 2014 2013 Suppliers 1,477 1,410 1,311 Compensation for materials and services (raw materials and consumables) Employees 966 868 851 Salaries and benefits Shareholders 286 256 241 Dividend Lenders 11 11 12 Interest expenses Society 113 104 96 Reported effective tax for the Group 24 Uppsala City Mission – tackling social disadvantage The Uppsala City Mission is devoted to helping socially disadvantaged and underprivileged individuals. The organization’s meeting places and activities help to create a sense of solidarity and connection. For several years, Beijer Alma has provided financial support for the organization, which helps numerous people every day improve their lives. Work training and work-related rehabilitation, support for abused of time finding new ways to generate revenues, not least through women, recent immigrants and individuals with substance abuse the creation of networks through companies in Uppsala and the problems – the list of assistance and support offered by the surrounding area. Uppsala City Mission is long. “I think it’s fairly clear the trend is turning and social disad“One of our best known initiatives is Mikaelsgården, which vantage in the local community is attracting greater attention,” is open to adults who find themselves in vulnerable situations, he says. Our goal is to establish deeper contacts with companies from homelessness or substance abuse to mental illness and and establish more long-term partnerships. other social problems. Mikaelsgården welcomes between 70 and Beijer Alma has provided the Uppsala City Mission with 100 visitors every day. They can shower, rest, warm themselves, financial support for many years, always for a full year at a time. eat and feel like they’re not alone,” explains Thomas Sonesson, Thomas Sonesson also explains that some companies have stopChairman of the Uppsala City Mission. ped holding traditional conference activities. Instead of holding a “Many of the people who visit Mikaelsgården don’t trust the kick-off at a conference center, the employees work as volunteers authorities. We can offer them help and support with practical and sort clothes at the City Mission. issues and in their contacts with the authorities,” he continues. “I think we will see more of this as CSR work gains commercial significance. Customers expect the companies they work with FAR-REACHING ORGANIZATION to be involved in high-profile CSR initiatives, such as volunteering The Uppsala City Mission has been around for ten years. In addiwith an organization like ours.” n tion to Mikaelsgården, the organization runs the Crossroads Day Center, a support facility for people from other EU countries. The City Mission also operates a women’s center for women living in or recovering from unsafe relationships, a secondhand store and the Gränden Meeting Place for isolated and unemployed people. “In 2015, we invested in a new type of project – a book about Uppsala that companies can buy and give away as a Christmas gift,” explains Thomas Sonesson. “The book, which is available in Swedish, is entitled För en god sak and features real-life stories of people who have been homeless or found themselves in vulnerable situations. Along with their stories, the book includes recipes and life stories from various restaurants in Uppsala.” BUILDING NETWORKS Sales of the book are expected to provide the City Mission with about SEK 800,000. Thomas Sonesson emphasizes that social disadvantage is on the rise and that non-profit organizations are playing an increasingly important role in a time when government assistance doesn’t always suffice. As Chairman, he spends a lot 25 GOOD EXAMPLES COUNTRY COMPANY ACTIVITY LESJÖFORS Sweden Stockholm Fjäder A digital product catalog has been developed, thereby minimizing paper consumption and waste. Improved work environment through purification of air containing oil mist. Lesjöfors Återcertifiering enligt ISO 14001. Banddetaljer Lesjöfors Fjädrar AB In an effort to prevent workplace injuries, employees were given access to a new gym at the facility. Stece Fjädrar Improved control and monitoring of the company’s furnaces is resulting in increased energy efficiency. Lesjöfors CO2 emissions declined by 9 percent per ton of delivered product. Industrifjädrar Improved system for tracking accidents and incidents in the work environment. Lesjöfors provided the chassis springs for a solar-powered car. Lesjöfors AB Access to a new gym at the facility helped to reduce workplace injuries. An innovation from Lesjöfors is helping to enhance the efficiency of a new Stirling engine for green electricity. Germany/ Stumpp+Schule Upgrade to the painting process and painting facility in Germany. Slovakia Energy savings achieved through better insulation at the plant premises in Slovakia. Germany S&P Federnwerk Strong focus on work environment and safety. Velleuer GmbH Continued implementation of measures to improve the work environment (climate, safety, etc.). Reduced consumption of packaging materials and increased focus on environmental considerations when purchasing materials. China Lesjöfors China Implementation of an extensive project to ensure a safe work environment. Improvements to the washing process resulted in a lower environmental impact. Latvia Lesjöfors Springs Analysis of risks (fire, accidents, etc.) and implementation of relevant measures. Better handling of hazardous waste. Lesjöfors Gas Springs Installation of LED lights in the warehouse premises. Denmark Lesjöfors A/S Reduction in CO2 emissions and workplace accidents. Slovakia Centrum B Purchase more energy efficient furnaces. Measures to improve employee satisfaction and motivation. 26 COUNTRY COMPANY ACTIVITY HABIA CABLE Sweden Habia Cable AB Major reduction in the use of solvents (VOC) and propane by relocating manufacturing to China. Improved sorting and recycling of plastic waste, partly in accordance with Six Sigma. Poland Habia Cable Sp zoo Certification according to ISO 14001, including numerous measures to meet the requirements of the standard, such as improved waste management. China Habia Cable China A newly installed VOC purification plant resulted in better air quality at the plant in China. Environmental permit for existing production and planned expansion. BEIJER TECH Sweden Tebeco Continued use of rail transport and combination transport has resulted in lower CO2 emissions. Beijer Industri Reduced climate impact through the use of rail transport from the Netherlands and fuel-efficient company cars. Introduction of environmentally friendly grinding products for metal working. Karlebo Gjuteriteknik Upgrade of office premises and equipment. Lundgrens Sverige AB Installation of energy-efficient lighting at the warehouse facility in Sisjön. Denmark Preben Z Jensen A/S Installation of LED lights in plant premises. BEIJER TECH Greener range and turnkey environmental adaptation Beijer Industri is currently expanding its range of environmentally TURNKEY SOLUTIONS – GOOD FOR THE ENVIRONMENT friendly products. This includes products and services that have the PMU’s work on turnkey industrial facilities is good for the environment. potential to create energy savings. Taking a comprehensive approach to the design of a new facility creates “It also includes products that are less harmful to people’s many advantages. health and the environment. In other words, products that reduce the “During the project engineering stage, we coordinate everything from customer’s ecological footprint. This is the direction the industry is freight and deliveries to customer visits in order to reduce the environheaded and many suppliers have now made such progress that even mental impact and make things easier for the customer,” explains Peter their end users can see the financial advantages of reconsidering their Johansson, President of PMU. approach,” says Karin Wikander, Project and Development Manager “Since there aren’t as many suppliers involved, we have the possiat Beijer Industri. bility to design the facility in a way that creates environmental benefits First up was the surface treatment segment. In autumn 2015, Beijer right from the drawing board,” he continues. Industri launched a series of abrasive discs. The TRIMFIX® One such benefit is energy recycling. Foundries generate enormous series is manufactured from natural fibers instead of fiberglass. amounts of heat. With the help of a large heat exchanger, this heat can The environmental range is marketed under the name BE GREEN. be used to heat changing rooms or other areas of the facility. PMU can also set aside space for efficient sand recycling. Experience shows that up to 80 percent of sand in foundries can be recycled. n 27 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Ten Principles for corporate social responsibility Communication on Progress In 2015, Beijer Alma joined the UN Global Compact, an Organizations that are affiliated with the Global Compact are initiative to promote and implement corporate social required to submit an annual report known as a Commuresponsibility. As a participant in the Global Compact, nication on Progress (COP), which outlines their work in Beijer Alma agrees to adhere to Ten Principles in the areas relation to the Ten Principles. Beijer Alma has based its COP of human rights, labor conditions, the environment and on the information in the Annual Report and sustainability anti-corruption. report. Together, these reports give a true and fair view of how Beijer Alma supports and complies with the principles of the Global Compact. Read more about the Global Compact on page 32 of the sustainability report. 28 STATUS 2015 PAGE HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct was updated during the 6–7, 15 support and respect the year. Information and training were provided at several protection of internatiounits. No human rights violations were reported. nally proclaimed human rights. 2. Businesses should make The Group continued to improve its processes for 15–16 sure that they are not assessing suppliers. No human rights violations were complicit in human rights reported. abuses. LABOR 3. Businesses should uphold The Code of Conduct lists freedom of association and 15–17 the freedom of associthe right to collective bargaining as a fundamental ation and the effective principle. Trade unions have been established in all recognition of the right to relevant countries where this practice is customary. collective bargaining. In countries without trade unions, the company and its employees engage in other types of negotiations. 4. Businesses should uphold All forms of forced and compulsory labor are forbidden at 15–17 the elimination of all Beijer Alma and among the Group’s suppliers. There are forms of forced and comno signs that any violations occurred during the year. pulsory labor. 5. Businesses should uphold Child labor is forbidden at Beijer Alma and among the 15–17 the effective abolition of Group’s suppliers. There are no signs that any violations child labor. occurred during the year. 6. Businesses should The Code of Conduct clearly states the Group’s stance 15–17 uphold the elimination of on discrimination and equality. No instances of discrimination in respect discrimination were reported. Formal equality plans of employment and have been established at approximately one-third of the occupation. Group’s units. ENVIRONMENT 7. The ISO 14001 environmental management system is an 17–19 Businesses should important tool in the Group’s efforts to identify and prevent support a precautionary risks. An increasing number of units in the Group are becoapproach to environmenming certified. We are also taking a preventive approach, tal challenges. for example, by installing treatment equipment, phasing out hazardous chemicals and conducting risk analyses. 8. Businesses should underThe overall environmental responsibility rests with Group 17–19 take initiatives to promote management. The Group’s performance is reported greater environmental regularly to the Board of Directors. We also cooperate with responsibility. universities on sustainability issues and participated in the development of the new version of ISO 14001. Information about our sustainability work is communicated through various voluntary reports. 9. Businesses should The Group offers a number of good examples of 21, 26–27 encourage the developcomponent/product development that helps to reduce ment and diffusion of environmental impact. environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work All Group companies perform an annual self-assessment, 6, 15 against corruption in filling in a form about their work to combat corruption. all its forms, including The form is based on guiding documents from the Global extortion and bribery. Compact. No violations were reported or detected in 2015. On the whole, the companies in the Group took a more proactive approach to combating corruption and promoting good business ethics. 29 30 CARBON DIOXIDE ENVIRONMENTAL-RELATED REACH Carbon dioxide (CO2) is produced during all INVESTMENTS European Regulation on Registration, processes involving the combustion of carbon Investments aimed at preventing and reducing Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction materials – for example, during fossil fuel the environmental impact of the Group’s of Chemicals (REACH) is an EU regulation combustion. It is widely believed that carbon operations. A corresponding term is used for adopted to promote safer handling of chemical dioxide is a contributing factor to global warminvestments in work environment improvesubstances. Chemical substances are to be ing (greenhouse effect). Beijer Alma reports its ments. registered for a particular use. Substances of CO2 emissions from direct and indirect energy very high concern may be subject to restricconsumption. 5S tions. A Japanese method for creating order in the CDP workplace. The 5S phases can be translated ROHS The Carbon Disclosure Project is a voluntary as: sort, straighten, shine, standardize and The Restriction of Hazardous Substances system for reporting the climate impact of sustain. 5S is a key component of lean Directive (RoHS) is an EU regulation that companies. The initiative is primarily targeted manufacturing. limits the use of certain substances that have at international investors, who can use the negative impact on health and the environinformation provided about climate risks when GLOBAL COMPACT ment. investing in various companies. Beijer Alma A UN initiative in the area of corporate social has performed CDP reporting since 2013. responsibility. Participating organizations SIX SIGMA agree to adhere to Ten Principles in the areas A program and philosophy for making quality CODE OF CONDUCT of human rights, labor conditions, the environimprovements in companies and organizaGuidelines for employees in the areas of ment and anti-corruption. tions, first introduced at Motorola in 1987. business ethics, the environment, working Six Sigma is largely inspired by the holistic conditions and social responsibility. HCFC/CFC approach to quality issues commonly adopted Coolants such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) in Japanese industrial companies since World CONFLICT MINERALS and hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFC) have a War II. Tungsten, tantalum, tin, and gold originating negative effect on the environment as a result from the Democratic Republic of Congo or of their ozone-depleting properties and climate SULPHUR DIOXIDE nearby countries are referred to as conflict impact. Demand for environmentally friendly Sulphur dioxide (SO2) is produced during the minerals. The term refers to the ongoing coolants is growing worldwide. combustion of petroleum products and conarmed conflicts in the region, in which mining tributes to the acidification of water and land. operations are often involved and which have ISO 14001 In high concentrations, sulphur dioxide can be resulted in human rights violations. International standard for environmental manharmful to people’s health. agement systems introduced in 1996. Some COP 325,000 organizations worldwide currently SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT A Communication on Progress is an annual hold ISO 14001 certification. An updated This term refers to “development that meets report submitted to the UN that outlines Beijer version of the standard was released in 2015 the needs of the present without compromisAlma’s work related to the Ten Principles of (ISO 14001:2015). ing the ability of future generations to meet the UN Global Compact. their own needs.” Sustainable development ISO 26000 encompasses ecological, social and economic CSR/CR International standard providing guidance on sustainability. Corporate social responsibility and corporate how organizations can manage issues pertainresponsibility are terms used to describe a ing to social responsibility. The standard was VOC company’s approach to issues concerning the introduced in 2010 and provided guidance Volatile organic compounds, which have a high environment, social responsibility, financial in the formulation of Beijer Alma’s Code of vapor pressure at ordinary room temperature. responsibility and business ethics. These Conduct. The presence of volatile hydrocarbons in the terms are often used interchangeably with the air has a negative impact on health and the term “sustainable development.” LEAN MANUFACTURING environment and contributes, for example, to Systematic method for managing resources the production of ground-level ozone (smog). ENERGY CONSUMPTION in an efficient manner. The purpose of lean Beijer Alma reports both its direct energy manufacturing is to identify all factors in a WORK-RELATED ILLNESS consumption (use of fuel in its own energy production process that do not create cusWork-related illnesses may be caused by profacilities) and its indirect consumption tomer value. longed exposure to a particular work environ(purchased electricity and district heating). ment factor, such as noise, dust or solvents. NAPHTHA ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS Naphthalene is an aromatic hydrocarbon WORK-RELATED INJURY The areas of an organization’s activities, compound used as a solvent in Habia Cable. The term work-related injury refers to a sudden products or services that interact with the incident (accident) occurring at the workplace environment. NITROGEN OXIDES that causes a wound or injury. Typical workGaseous oxides (NOx) produced from the place injuries in Beijer Alma include injuries ENVIRONMENTAL-RELATED COSTS reaction of nitrogen and oxygen gases in the caused by machinery and equipment, falls and Costs attributable to measures implemented air during combustion. These substances are injuries caused by heavy lifting or repetitive in order to prevent, reduce or restore the envihazardous to the environment and people’s work. Beijer Alma defines the term workronmental impact caused by an organization’s health and are known to cause acidification related injury as an accident causing more operations. A corresponding term is used for and eutrophication. than one day of absence (lost work case, costs related to work environment issues. EnviLWC). ronmental-related costs may include adminisPCB trative costs, in-sourcing of external services, Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group of government fees, maintenance of environmenindustrial chemicals that are hazardous to the tal management systems, waste-related costs environment and health. Although the use of and costs for external inspections and audits. PCBs was banned in Sweden in 1972, the substances are still present in the environment due to their long decomposition time. 31 Beijer Alma joins the Global Compact In 2015, Beijer Alma joined the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest initiative in sustainable development. As a member of the Global Compact, Beijer Alma is required to submit an annual report on its sustainability work the UN and its own stakeholders. The Global Compact was formed on the initiative of former STRICT REQUIREMENTS Secretary-General of the UN Kofi Annan in 1999. Targeted The Global Compact logo may be used by the participating at business community, the Global Compact is based on Ten companies to profile their sustainability work. Reporting is Principles governing human rights, the environment, anti-corcarried out in the form of an annual report to the UN and ruption and labor rights. Affiliation with the Global Compact is the company’s stakeholders. This report may be linked to the voluntary and participants are expected to report their efforts Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) or other standards and guiand progress in achieving the various principles. delines for sustainability reporting. “Participation can provide confirmation of the company’s “But the requirements are strict,” emphasizes Torbjörn commitment to corporate social responsibility. Using the Ten Brorson. “Companies that do not submit an appropriate report Principles makes it easier to communicate what is being done, are thrown out. The UN also publishes information about which both internally and externally,” says Torbjörn Brorson, CSR companies no longer meet the requirements.” advisor and adjunct professor at the International Institute for Industrial Environmental Economics at Lund University. GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT GOALS “Another advantage is that companies can use the conThe Compact is open to all companies and approximately tents of the Global Compact to further improve their codes of 8,000 businesses around the world are currently affiliated. The conduct and guidelines,” he explains. Ten Principles are based on UN conventions, such as the UniNo independent reviews are carried out to ensure that the versal Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention against companies are actually fulfilling their promises. Instead, the Corruption. The 17 Global Development Goals presented by the Global Compact is based on public accountability, transparency UN in autumn 2015 are also linked to the Compact. and the enlightened self-interest of the companies. Special Nordic and national Global Compact networks have also been established. These networks offer training and seminars to help improve the exchange of knowledge between companies. Beijer Alma will submit its first annual report to the UN in mid-2016. n 32 REPORTING PRINCIPLES TRANSPARENT PRESENTATION OF SUSTAINABILITY WORK Beijer Alma’s sustainability report addresses a range of environmental, work environment, social and business ethical issues. The aim of the report is to provide Beijer Alma’s employees and external stakeholders with clear information on the company’s CSR activities and how they are connected to the company’s business operations. The report is also intended to explain the Group’s work related to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in accordance with the requirements of the Communication on Progress (COP). This information is also used to report the Group’s climate impact in accordance with the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). All units in Beijer Alma in 2015 are included in the report. Data was provided by 30 units in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Latvia, Poland, Slovakia, Germany, the UK, the US and China. REPORTING PRINCIPLES Each unit has contributed quantitative and qualitative information in accordance with Beijer Alma’s sustainability reporting form. The head of each company/unit is responsible for assuring the quality of the information submitted. The Group’s performance during the year has been compared and verified against the information from the preceding year. Additional quality control is carried out through interviews and on-site visits. Emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide from direct energy consumption have been measured using conversion factors based on the energy content and quality of the fuel used. CO2 emissions from indirect energy consumption – mainly electricity – are measured based on emission factors from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) and the Covenant of Mayors (EU 2010) for the countries in which Beijer Alma conducts operations. In cases where energy suppliers present specific information regarding the energy mix, the supplier’s measurement models are used. Information about VOC emissions (solvents) is primarily based on mass balance calculations. GRAFISK DESIGN AND PRODUCTION WALDTON DESIGN. TEXT FREDRIK LILIEBLAD AND TORBJÖRN BRORSON. PHOTOS DANIEL HERTZELL (PRODUCT AND GENERAL PHOTOS), PETER PHILLIPS (PORTRAIT OF BERTIL PERSSON). TRANSLATION THE BUGLI COMPANY. 33 Beijer Alma AB (publ) Beijer Corp. Alma Reg. AB (publ) No. 556229-7480 Org nrForumgallerian, 556229-7480 Dragarbrunnsgatan 45 Forumgallerian, Box 1747,Dragarbrunnsgatan 45Sweden SE-751 47 Uppsala, Box 1747, 751 47 Telephone +46Uppsala 18 15 71 60 TelefonFax 018-15 +46 18 71156089 87 TelefaxE-mail 018-15 89 87 info@beijeralma.se E-postbeijeralma.se info@beijeralma.se beijeralma.se
