UN Global Compact Communica on on progress 2015 03 Commitment from our CEO 04 About us in brief Scope of the report 05 People 08 Planet 10 Profit 11 About UN Global Compact COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO Møbeltransport Danmark is delighted to present our third align with the UN Global Compact principals as they are built communica on on the progress report, reaﬃrming our onon the four key areas Labour standards, Health and Safety, going commitment and support for the Ten Principles of the the Environment and Business Ethics. Results from the audit UN Global Compact. are uploaded and shared on the secure supplier ethical data exchange website, SEDEX. Møbeltransport Danmark s ll The last couple of years have been even ul as we have exbelieves that cer fica ons are of great importance to our panded widely, obtaining three new business in three years. stakeholders, as they document our approach to sustainabilEven though our business is rapidly growing, we never fority and corporate ci zenship and provide reassurance to our get that our employees and customers are s ll the heart and customers of our high standards and values. founda on of our business. As a service provider, it is essenal to a ract and retain qualified competencies and finding 2016 will for our organisa on be characterized by new ini aresponsible and a rac ve solu ons for our customers, and ves and investments in among other, our Fine Art Transporthere is, therefore, a natural connec on between our core ta on services and in a con nues process of implemen ng business area and protec ng our employees, society and new business management systems to op mise our inforthe environment at large. ma on flow. These ini a ves will all have posi ve impacts not only on our core business development but also for our During 2015, Møbeltransport Danmark went through three employees work environment, our customers, our vendors audits all with excep onal results. In addi on to a re-ceras well as a posi ve eﬀect on our environmental impact. fica on of our ISO 14001 environmental system and our FIDI FAIM quality system, our company also underwent an As a Company, we are commi ed to ensuring that our busiaudit by Bureau Veritas in accordance to the SMETA 4-pillar ness is performed and developed in a sustainable and ethistandard, with a full compliance result. SMETAs four pillars cal manner. We look forward to con nue our support to the United Na ons Global Compact principles and to fulfill our commitment as a signatory of the UN Global Compact. _______________________________ Niels Bach CEO ABOUT US IN BRIEF SCOPE OF OUR REPORT Møbeltransport Danmark can be traced back to 1879 and As our business is expanding, so is our corporate responsibilis today Denmark’s largest moving and reloca on Company. ity – in everything we do, our core competences is to deliver With oﬃces in Denmark’s four largest urban areas and sevhigh quality service to our customers, based on responsible eral aﬃliates in both Denmark, Sweden and Spain, we can solu ons that is performed with respect to our employees, provide a wide range of services within moving and relocaenvironment and society in general . on to our customers, globally as well as locally. This communica on on progress applies for MøbeltransNa onally, Møbeltransport Danmark conducts quality ofport Danmark’s four oﬃces in Copenhagen, Aarhus, Odense ficeand private moves, storage of household goods and and Aalborg, our brands Aspire Mobility Group, Brønderslev is the largest provider of logis cs of fine art transport. Our Fly eforretning and Lyngby fly eforretning and our aﬃliDanish aﬃliate Reloc A/S specialize in logis c planning and ates Reloc A/S, Windum Hillerød Møbeltransport A/S and carrying out oﬃce reloca ons and domicile change. Reloc Møbeltransport Danmark Na onal A/S. Through the report, A/S helps customers with everything from interior design all departments, aﬃliates and brands hereunder will be coldrawings, IT cabling and internal rota ons. lec vely referred to as Møbeltransport Danmark. Our interna onal brand, Aspire Mobility Group, annually The following report will describe Møbeltransport Danhelps more than 2.500 families and corporate employees mark’s top priori es for ac on and provide informa on on move to new homes worldwide. We also assist the families our performance in 2015. Our challenges and opporthrough the whole reloca on and se ling-in process, includtuni es along with our objec ves for the future are ing applying for visas and residence permits, finding a new furthermore described. home, a school for the kids or obtaining knowledge about the new residences public services, health care system and culture. PEOPLE Human Rights 01 As the largest moving and reloca on company in Denmark, Principle: Møbeltransport Danmark support and respects interna onBusinesses should support and ally proclaimed human rights. respect the protec on of interna onally proclaimed human Being an interna onal company, we conducts services on a rights. global scale when we provide movingand reloca on services to families who are moving abroad. To ensure that the suppliers we cooperate with do not abuse human rights, we always cooperate with FIDI FAIM cer fied companies, when02 ever possible. Principle: FIDI is the largest global alliance organisa on of interna onal Businesses should make sure moving and reloca on companies. Their quality benchmark they are not complicit in human rights abuses. cer fica on FAIM requires members to have a periodic independent assessment of their interna onal moving ac vies through an independent audit, which is performed every three years. Companies that are FIDI FAIM cer fied follow an ethical conduct and have to ensure that their services are provided through condi ons that respect human rights. 03 Principle: Møbeltransport Danmark was FIDI FAIM audited by Ernest Businesses should uphold the & Young , in 2015 and was cer fied with 0 Non-Compliant freedom of associa on and the Values on the audit day. This has placed Møbeltransport eﬀec ve recogni on of the right Danmark among the top 79 FIDI companies out of 318 global to collec ve bargaining. members. Health and Safety 04 As an operator in the moving industry, our employees are Principle: exposed to heavy li s that, if not executed correctly and proBusinesses should uphold the fessionally, can result in work injuries. Controlling and mainelimina on of all forms of taining a safe working environment is therefore of key imporforced and compulsory labour. tance for Møbeltransport Danmark. To uphold a con nuously safe working environment and to be able to deliver a high quality in all our services, all movers employed in Møbeltransport Danmark have undergone a 05 Principle: two-year mover educa on. We annually employ new mover Businesses should uphold the trainees and the quality of their educa on is important to us eﬀec ve aboli on of child laas it regards the trainees health and safety, both now and in bour. the future. Møbeltransport Danmark, as the largest Movingand reloca on company in Denmark, therefore, has close collabora on with the schools who provide educa onal moving classes, to make sure our moving-trainees receive the best educa on and are well prepared and informed about li ing 06 postures, safety, handling equipment as well as safety in rePrinciple: gards to driving the moving trucks. Businesses should uphold the elimina on of discrimina on in To minimize health and safety risks in regards to heavy li s, respect of employment and we make sure that our employees have the correct equipoccupa on. ment specific to their job area, that they are trained in using the equipment and that the equipment is serviced and maintained properly. Using correct equipment can o en ensure less heavy li s for the employee, especially over longer disDiversity and culture tances. In 2016 Møbeltransport Danmark will invest in new As our interna onal ac vi es are growing, so is the divercrates for moving and storing items, that are of a less heavy sity of our workforce. With oﬃces in Spain and Sweden, material then our regular crates, providing a be er work enand by providing services in terms of moving and reloca on vironment for our employees. along with Art handling globally, our corporate language is progressively becoming English. This increases our ability to Not all accidents or injuries can though be avoided, which is a ract and retain employees with a broader interna onal why we closely monitor and report each incident, evaluate, background, that can oﬀer a diﬀeren ated knowledge and and implement improvements and preventa ve measures new competencies to our organisa on. During 2015, 33% where appropriate. Annually, all accidents are collec vely oﬀ all new administra ve hires in Denmark was of origin reported on across oﬃces and companies in the group to other than Danish. We believe that a culturally diverse worklook for reoccurrences and areas where we need to take acforce can challenge and evolve the way we do business and on or launch ini a ves to promote good health and safety increase our cultural understanding of and coopera on with prac ces. our global customers and suppliers. In 2016, Møbeltransport Danmark will conduct an employee Health and Safety survey with the intent to gauge responses Møbeltransport Danmark is proud of our inclusive work culfrom all employees in regards to health and safety ma ers. ture and our diversity. It is of great importance to the organisa on to maintain a tolerant working environment that This will allow every employee to provide feedback about is built on mutual respect and apprecia on of diﬀerences the company and ways in which we can improve it. Møbeland we, therefore, apply a zero tolerance approach towards transport Danmark will use the survey results to target our bullying, harassment and discrimina on. health and safety eﬀorts, towards employees concerns and needs. EducaƟon and learning Our business has evolved rapidly over the last couple of years, accruing new companies and increasing the electronic informa on flow throughout the organiza on. This is just the beginning, and in 2016, we will take further steps to op mize work processes, by implemen ng new systems across organiza ons and departments. New systems, procedures and rou nes create new demands of our employees. Recently our interna onal move and reloca on department merged, which have created a need for new procedures and workflows. In 2015, the two departments employees were cross-trained to simplify the customer service process for combina on jobs when customers require both moving and reloca on services. Throughout 2016, Møbeltransport Danmark will further implement new systems to manage customers files from A-Z and easier registra on of employee hours, which require an even greater focus on educa ng and training. We, therefore, make it our goal to con nue to develop our workforce by inves ng in their training and promo ng equal opportuni es regardless of gender, age, origin, sexual orienta on, disability, religion or another cultural status. Our business expansion has also created new manager posions within our organiza on. In 2015, a number of Managers in Møbeltransport Danmark underwent external management training and educa on. This will con nue on during 2016 with a new team of managers a ending the same training. Møbeltransport Danmark believes in training and educa ng and we constantly challenge our employees to benefit from a workforce that is engaged and produc ve. We seek to create a working environment in which our employees may flourish and reach their full poten als. We do this by valuing the many and varied skills and experiences that our employees bring to Møbeltransport Danmark; by inves ng in staﬀ training and development; by trea ng employees fairly and equitably; by comba ng harassment and discrimina on at work, and by encouraging an honest and open culture which values the diﬀerences between us. PLANET 07 Principle: It is oﬀ great importance to Møbeltransport Danmark that Businesses should support a we con nuously improve our environmental footprint by precau onary approach to envicrea ng sustainable and compe ve solu ons, which will ronmental challenges. benefit our company, employees, customers and the society at large. Møbeltransport Danmarks ISO 14001 cer fica on con nues 08 to be an important management system allowing ownership Principle: Businesses should undertake at the execu ve level. Being cer fied has allowed us ini a ves to promote greater to ac vely think about our companies contribu ons to environmental responsibility. preserving the environment as well as seek ways to improve. One of our main environmental targets is to focus on your buildings energy consump on. Our business has been thriving for the last couple of years, acquiring new 09 Principle: Businesses should encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. businesses, expanding and moving to new loca ons, oﬃces and warehouses. This has created a challenge in regards to our ISO 14001 measurement system, as the results from year to year are becoming highly complex to compare, and thereby diﬃcult to document improvements. We, therefore, measure our buildings resource consump on on each loca ons on a monthly basis. This enable us to measure Our Movingboxes the eﬀect when installing new sustainable solu ons. For example, during 2015 Møbeltransport Danmark changed all outdoor ligh ng at the headquarter premises from One of our largest purchases as a moving company is incandescent to LED. Comparisons between our before and our moving boxes, and using sustainable material is a er measurements show that the ini a ve resulted in an therefore important to Møbeltransport Danmark. 80% decrease on the light poles energy consump on. We have priori sed Moving boxes that are oﬀ a very In 2016 Møbeltransport Danmarks environmental targets high quality, so our boxes are not only able to protect will also be focused on our Fine Art transporta on customer goods be er but can also be reused several solu ons. Møbeltransport Danmark is Denmark’s leading mes. supplier of Fine Art Transporta on, with more than 45 years of experience, both na onally as well as interna onally. Møbeltransport Danmark moving boxes consists of: The thorough coordina on, handling and transporta on of fine art is an extremely complex process and one we excel 69% recycled FSC cer fied paper. at. To protect pain ngs, sculptures, installa ons or other priceless and fragile items, we oﬀer several designs of tailormade wooden crates to our customers, produced at our 31% wood from sustainable forestry in carpentry shop located at our headquarters in Copenhagen. Sweden. Our crate quality is of great importance, as they provide the best possible protec on against changes in temperature and humidity when either storing or moving fragile items. Møbeltransport Danmarks crates are reused whenever possible, and all crates are put into an online register system, so when a crate is needed we can easily locate and reuse an exis ng crate, with the right measurement. To further op mize our eﬃcient use of materials, we will throughout 2016 buy a large number of (50) turtle crates. A Turtle crate is a versa le, secure and environmentallyfriendly insulated crate for transpor ng art items. The special composi on of the turtle crate materials means that the climate in the crate is kept very stable and external vibra ons are largely absorbed. Several works can be transported in one turtle crate, as it is easily adjustable in size. Møbeltransport Danmark is thereby able to reuse the turtle crates more frequently compared to wooden crates. The turtle crates are also easier to prepare before transporta on then the wooden crates, reducing both the carpentry shops use of materials and energy consump on. One turtle crate can last approximately 20 years dependent on the care of use whereas the quality of a wooden crate is much easier compromised. With the new turtle crates, Møbeltransport Denmark will significantly reduce our wood consump on, along with material and energy consump on in the carpentry shop thereby represen ng a long-term sustainable solu on. PROFIT 10 Principle: At the end of 2015, Aspire Mobility Group took a further Businesses should work against step to promote good governance. In compliance with the corrup on in all its forms, innew FIDI FAIM requirements for 2016 Aspire Mobility Group cluding extor on and bribery. ins tuted an an -bribery campaign towards our customers, vendors and suppliers. Our Supplier Code of Conduct and An -bribery Standard is now an integral part of our We are commi ed to complying with the UN Global correspondence with all our vendors, as well as poten al Compacts principal 10 along with local and interna onal vendors, so when we supply or receive any type of service, an -corrup on and bribery laws, in all of our business our vendors are aware of our ethical framework. conduct. An -corrup on is an integral part of our culture and business integrity is one of our guiding values. Aspire Mobility Group has furthermore implemented our Møbeltransport Danmark, therefore, applies a zeroSupplier code of conduct into all Removal Contracts, to tolerance approach to extor on and facilita on payments, ensure that it is communicated to all of our customers. This corrup on and bribery in all its forms and expects the same ensures that all of our customers are aware of our standards from our suppliers and business partners globally. and that all of our vendors must comply with our framework regardless of their own cer fica ons and/or standards. Møbeltransport Danmark employees and na onal subcontractors are obliged to act in accordance with If it is determined that any of Aspire Mobility Groups Møbeltransport Danmark’s code of conduct, which sets suppliers or vendors are not in compliance with our forth the adapta on of good governance, transparency and standards and Supplier Code of Conduct Aspire Mobility accountability into day-to-day business. Møbeltransport Group have formulated oﬃcial escala on processes to Danmarks interna onal division, Aspire Mobility Group, determine how to resolve the process, or if and when we primarily, selects interna onal suppliers on the basis of their should terminate our involvement with the supplier or membership of, and quality cer fica on by FIDI, which is a vendor involved. global alliance of independent quality removal companies. At all mes, FIDI and its Aﬃliates will act professionally, fairly Møbeltransport Danmark fight against corrup on on and with the utmost integrity in all business dealings and a global scale has li le eﬀect in itself, but when 600 rela onships. This will apply wherever they operate. All FIDI interna onal moving and reloca on companies in more than Aﬃliates, including Møbeltransport Danmark, has signed 100 countries spanning the five con nents, stand together, the An -Bribery and An -Corrup on Charter agreeing and we can make a diﬀerence. Møbeltransport Danmark is, commi ng to undertake (See box chart below): therefore, an ac ve par cipator in FIDI and supports their determina on to lead the reloca on industry by taking a clear stand against bribery and corrup on. FIDI An -Bribery and An -Corrup on Charter 1. Never engage in any form of bribery, either directly or through any third party. 2. Never oﬀer or make an improper payment, or authorise an improper payment (cash or otherwise) to any individual, including any local or foreign oﬃcial anywhere in the world. 3. Never a empt to induce an individual or a local or foreign oﬃcial to act illegally or improperly. 4. Never oﬀer, or accept, money or anything of value, such as gi s, kickbacks or commissions, in connec on with the procurement of business or the award of a contract. 5. Never oﬀer or give any gi or token of hospitality to any public employee or government oﬃcial or representa ve if there is any expecta on or implica on for a return favour 6. Never accept any gi from any business partner if there is any sugges on that a return favour will be expected or implied. 7. Never facilitate payments to obtain a level of service which one would not normally be en tled to. 8. Never disregard or fail to report any indica on of improper payments to the appropriate authori es. 9. Never induce or assist another individual to break any applicable law or regula on. ABOUT UN GLOBAL COMPACT The UN Global Compact was launched in 1999 by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan and is today the world’s largest corporate ci zenship ini a ve – with 10,000 signatories based in more than 140 countries, and Local Networks exis ng or emerging in over 100 countries. The purpose of the ini a ve is to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementa on. The UN Global Compact advocates for companies to align their opera ons and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and an -corrup on. Members of UN Global Compact commit to submi ng an annual report on progress in regards to implementa on of the ten principals. By suppor ng the UN global Compact business’ helps ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and socie es everywhere.
