T!Fln.!er Bank •• • UN Global Compact Communication on Progress February 17, 2016 Letter of Commitment from Tameer's Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to confirm that Tameer Bank supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. UNGC principle fits into Tameer's mission as it's serves to work toward financial inclusion of the unbanked and to bottom of the pyramid (BOP) population of Pakistan. We'll continue to strengthen this partnership in the years to come to ensure our contribution in socio-economic development of the marginalized BOP population. In the following pages you will read about Tameer's progress against the 10 principles ofthe UNGC: • A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labor, environment, anticorruption). • A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Sincerely ~. Nadeew..~S S'a TI1m Founder, President and CEO Human Rights Tameer Bank supports internationally recognized human rights including UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and seeks to avoid abuse of human rights abuses and complicity in accordance with the UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” framework. The bank strives to identify, address and manage human rights related risks and impacts resulting from its activities. For further information, please visit tameerbank.com Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Processes Target 2014 Performance 2014 Target 2015 Tameer Code of To set up ethic and Established the help By end of 2015 every Conduct compliant Hot Line line. Employees have staff trained for ‘0911’ where utilized the service and awareness and employees are able to cases are resolved complain escalation and raise concerns the types of complains regarding any one can lodge on Hot discrimination. Line Organizational Values Implementation of Training related to code 20,000 hours of training of Equal opportunity business analytics for of conduct and conducted on various and meritocracy transparency in devising organizational values themes including code incentives. Training of conducted throughout of conduct, ethics and employees to ensure the year for new organizational values. gender and minority induction. Send employees for sensitivity. external training based on merit. LABOUR LAW Tameer adheres to the eight fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization related to freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining, elimination of forced labor, child labor and discrimination at the work place, as set out in Code of Conduct and Local Policy People. Tameer promotes employee involvement through dialogue with employees or their representatives, as mentioned in Local Policy People. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Occupation Processes Target 2014 Performance 2014 Target 2015 Tameer Remuneration Graduate third party Successfully Provide mobile SIMs Policy contractual employees implemented. including voice and data to Tameer’s payroll. for all employees Supplier Conduct Inspection to be carried Inspection completed Provide focused training Principles out by Tameer in 2014 for the critical as well as material on antito ensure compliancy of non-critical corruption, Health and supplier principles. suppliers/vendor. Safety and etc These inspections are classified into three categories announced, unannounced and normal visits. ENVIRONMENT Tameer is committed to minimize its environmental impact. Reasonable efforts will be made to minimize use of resources i.e. energy, water and raw materials. Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Technologies Processes Target 2014 Performance 2014 Target 2015 Conversion of branches Pilot of three hybrid Successfully To move toward to Solar Energy solar branches implemented deployment of energy efficient devices such as LEDs. Reduction in paper E-database has been Efficiently implements Organization wide usage established where all by few department implementation of the archive data has Successfully paperless been scanned and stored. Implementation of centralize printing. Promotion and Finance 300 solar home Pilots carried out with Non-mandatory financing of solar and system through insignificant success bundled product [Solar biogas products alternate delivery due under-developed Lantern] offering to our channel in off-grid areas market condition loan customers. Solar initiative CSR activity Financial intervention Reduction in business Complete Successfully N/A traveling implementation by end implemented 2014 Procurement-Suppliers To ensure maximum All critical N/A Follow environmental suppliers are ISO 14001 suppliers/vendors are suppliers compliant ISO 14001 complaint Energy Efficient Energy efficient units IT Hardware system ANTI-CORRUPTION Tameer is firmly opposed to all forms of corruption. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Processes Target 2014 Performance 2014 Target 2015 Tameer’s Anti To continue to Successfully Focus training will be Corruption Policy incorporate changes in implemented provided to staff on Anti-corruption policy corruption fraud made by regulator and business courtesy. global standard Money laundering To open mobile account Partially implemented Biometric Verification and over the counter System (BVS) (OTC) fund transfer installation in every verified through Sales and Service Biometric Verification Center. System (BVS) in 2014/2015
