Our Formula for 2015 Sustainability Report Q+A WITH OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Q: How has FMC made progress integrating Cheminova reported to CDP (formerly sustainability into its businesses? the Carbon Disclosure Project) and was a United Nations Global Compact signatory A: Sustainability is a critical part of the strategic several years ago. FMC is reporting to both plans in each of our businesses. But it doesn’t organizations in 2016. Cheminova’s commitment end there. It is also a key element of our R&D to diversity and supporting women is evident planning and technology platforms to ensure in its diversity policy and programs that help new products create shareholder value and women thrive within local communities. FMC support a more sustainable world. Capital formalized our approach in 2015 by appointing spending projects are carefully reviewed to a Diversity Officer and supporting employee determine their effect on FMC’s sustainability affinity groups such as the Women’s Initiative goals and stakeholders. We have made Network. We are reinforcing our commitment significant progress by constantly challenging to a workplace where employees’ unique ourselves. Additionally, I’m proud to announce perspectives are valued. we’ve set five and 10-year goals for innovation, operations and business practices that reflect Q: How are your employees engaged our deep commitment to sustainability. in sustainability? Q: What does the Sustainability Report theme, A: Our progress in sustainability is a direct result “Our Formula for Progress,” mean to you? of FMC employees’ engagement. The new five and 10-year goals are a major step forward, A: For well over a century, FMC has thrived made possible through the commitment of by adapting, changing, and advancing its our people around the world. In R&D, our business practices. “Our Formula for Progress” scientists are developing innovative, sustainable underscores a company that is on the products and technologies that create value move. In 2015, we sold our Alkali Chemicals for customers and consumers. FMC engineers business and acquired Cheminova, a global in manufacturing are safely increasing supplier of crop protection products. We efficiencies in our operations to reduce energy have strengthened our technology and consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, waste innovation roots while positioning FMC for generation and water use. Our employees future success. The 2015 Sustainability Report around the world are engaged in safety, health is our fifth report and symbolizes a significant and education initiatives to strengthen the milestone in the history of sustainability at FMC. communities where they work and live. Q: How has the integration of Cheminova Q: How does sustainability shape FMC’s business influenced FMC’s sustainability programs? strategy moving forward? A: We’ve learned a great deal from Cheminova, A: FMC formalized its commitment to sustainability which shares our values and commitment in 2011. Since then, it has become an integral to sustainability. It began reporting on its part of our business and operations strategy as successes and challenges in sustainability in we strive to impact five major global challenges: 2006, five years before FMC’s initial reporting. climate change, environmental consciousness, food and health expectations, land competition and scarce resources. Our Formula for Progress, and our new long-term sustainability goals, hold us accountable to address these challenges. They ensure that by 2025, FMC will have decreased its environmental footprint while continuing to innovate and develop valuable products that benefit society. We will achieve this vision safely and ethically while maintaining valuable relationships with our communities. 1 Pierre Brondeau President, CEO and Chairman of the Board ABOUT THIS REPORT The 2015 FMC Corporation Sustainability Report is “In Accordance” with the GRI G4 Guidelines – Core option. • About This Report.................................1 • Welcome Guide..................................... 2 • Organizational Profile..........................3 • Vision 2015 Results...............................4 • 2015 Progress Report..........................4 • 2016 Commitments..............................5 • Major Global Challenges.....................6 • United Nations Global Compact...... 7 • Stakeholder Engagement...................8 • Materiality Assessment.......................8 • Our Formula for Progress..................9 OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The report complements Our People............................................ 10 more detailed information on the sustainability website at www.fmcsustainability.com, • Intense Focus on Safety.................... 11 which includes the Global • Safety as Our Business Value......... 12 Reporting Initiative (GRI) • Safety in Our Supply Chain............. 14 Index. Together, this report • A Talented Foundation and the web-based content for Growth............................................. 15 fulfill the requirements of GRI’s G4 Guidelines. Our Products......................................... 18 WEBSITE FEATURES You can find more data and stories about our • Innovation to sustainability history and Meet Global Challenges.................... 19 how we are advancing Our • Agricultural Solutions........................ 19 Formula for Progress on our • Health and Nutrition......................... 20 website. The Online Data • Lithium.................................................... 21 Center allows you to interact • Product Stewardship.........................22 with our data to better • Rigorous Supply understand FMC’s impacts, Chain Management............................ 23 and you can Explore Our Resources to read previous reports, view videos and Our Responsibility................................. 26 search corporate materials. WEB LINK ICONS • Taking Action for Links to additional Global + Local Benefit.......................27 ## information can be • Operational Excellence found throughout for Efficiency + Sustainability........ 28 this report. When • Sourcing Strategies you see one of these “web to Reduce Impact................................ 31 link” icons with a number • Argentina's Pipeline inside, simply visit to Dependable Energy..................... 32 www.fmcsustainability.com and enter the number or click on the link from the PDF Assurance Statement.......................................................34 version of our report. Executive Officers.............................................................. 35 For more information about FMC sustainability, please contact Linda Froelich, Global Sustainability Director, at sustainability.info@fmc.com. FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 WELCOME GUIDE OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH + STRATEGY has the right formula to drive sustainability well into the future. The 2015 Sustainability Report FMC’s strategy over the next 10 years is to grow is a significant milestone in the history of FMC. by providing products with sustained value This is our fifth report but represents many that motivate customers, employees and other “firsts” including: stakeholders to work with FMC. Our strategic position depends on sustainable investments • Announcement of FMC’s first Operations that ensure our company runs more efficiently efficiency goals, set for 2025 and more resiliently by 2025. In doing so, we • Announcement of new Innovation and will proactively address market, climate and Business Practices goals, set for 2020 regulatory-based changes and risks. • First Communication on Progress with respect The theme of this year's report, “Our Formula to the United Nations Global Compact for Progress,” reflects the science-based history • First report with assurance of key and tradition of FMC and emphasizes that we environmental data are a company positioned for the future. In • First report responding to Global Reporting 2015, we sold our Alkali chemicals business and Initiative’s new G4 framework acquired Cheminova, a global supplier of quality crop protection products. With these and other • First sustainability report including portfolio changes, we now have a greater focus former Cheminova* on agricultural, health, nutrition and lithium *Consistent with FMC’s policy on acquisitions, data associated with technologies. Cheminova shares our values and Cheminova will be included in the first full year after acquisition. our commitment to sustainability. Today’s FMC OUR REPORT STRUCTURE This year’s report is comprised of three key pillars: Our People (Page 10): First and foremost, we have safe, ethical and engaged employees who build trusting relationships with customers, suppliers, investors and communities. Our people are the key element in making our sustainability formula work throughout the value chain. Our Products (Page 18): Our people create products that meet the needs of our customers and the changing world. We work toward a resilient supply chain that ensures sustainably sourced products. Our Responsibility (Page 26): Our people manufacture products in ways that reduce our environmental footprint and reduce cost. We are responsible neighbors and community members. Together, these three pillars create Our Formula for Progress at FMC. 2 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS For more information, visit www.fmc.com. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE FMC Corporation is a specialty company serving agricultural, industrial and consumer markets globally for more than a century with innovative solutions, applications and quality products. FMC AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS $2,253 million 69% Insecticides, herbicides, 2015 Revenue FMC Total fungicides, biologicals FMC HEALTH AND NUTRITION Microcrystalline cellulose, $786 million 24% 2015 Revenue FMC Total carrageenan, alginates, natural colorants, omega-3 concentrates FMC LITHIUM* Lithium hydroxide, $238 million 7% 2015 Revenue FMC Total butyllithium *FMC Minerals during first quarter of 2015 was comprised of two businesses: Alkali Chemicals and Lithium. The sale of the Alkali Chemicals business was completed on April 1, 2015 and subsequently, FMC Minerals became FMC Lithium. REVENUE BY CUSTOMER LOCATION (IN MILLIONS) = $3,277 2015 ECONOMIC HIGHLIGHTS (IN MILLIONS) Income Statement Data Europe, Revenues $ 3,277 Latin America $982 | 30% Middle East + Africa Cost of Sales + Services $ 2,201 $624 | 19% Research + Development $ 144 Asia Pacific Adjusted After-Tax Earnings $ 333 $760 | 23% Payments to Providers of Capital North America Interest $ 75 $911 | 28% Dividends $ 86 $ 161 CAPITAL ADDITIONS $ 119 SUSTAINABILITY + YOU PART OF OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS In order for FMC to continue to create positive are working to create a more sustainable future global change, we need you to play an essential are featured on our Sustainability + You blog at part in Our Formula for Progress. Together, we www.fmcsustainability.com. We also welcome can shape a sustainable future by employing you to share your story about how sustainability our workforce’s steadfast focus and utmost has become a part of your work and daily life. dedication, and by engaging our families, friends, Please be in touch with us at: and communities on matters of sustainability. sustainability.info@fmc.com. 2 Stories about how our employees and stakeholders FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 VISION 2015 RESULTS In 2012, we established our first set of long-term sustainability goals in safety, R&D and community engagement. As we reflect on those goals, we have achieved significant progress while learning how FMC can directly contribute to a more sustainable future. Our people are safer, our research pipeline is generating products that address the global challenges, and we are engaged with our communities. GOAL: Reduce our Total GOAL: 50% of R&D GOAL: Increase our Global Recordable Incident Rate spend focused on Community Engagement (TRIR)* to < 0.37 new solutions Index to > 90 when compared to 2011. In 2015, our that positively impact the global In 2014, our Community Engagement injury rate remained flat compared challenges. Success on this goal Index reached 96 due to the hard to 2014 despite major changes of indicates that FMC is developing work of our employees. In 2015, some acquiring Cheminova. Organizational products that ensure more sustainable activities were reduced to control costs. changes can distract employees which options for our customers. can lead to more injuries. 2015 RESULT: 2015 RESULT: 2015 RESULT: TRIR of 0.51 67% of R&D spend Index of 87 *TRIR is a common metric for reporting safety performance in manufacturing. 2015 PROGRESS REPORT ON 2014-2015 ONE-YEAR COMMITMENTS 2015 COMMITMENTS RESULTS 3 FMC and Cheminova sustainability programs have Integrate FMC and Cheminova sustainability programs been fully integrated* Train representatives from each Cheminova Webinars were held so all Cheminova representatives manufacturing site on FMC sustainability could participate and ask questions reporting processes 2020 metrics and goals for Innovation and Business Establish 2020 sustainability metrics and goals for Practices and 2025 metrics and goals for Operations innovation, business practices and operations are announced in this report Conduct Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) on LCAs were conducted on two Agricultural Solutions five additional products; update the previously products and on one Lithium product; previously conducted LCAs conducted LCAs were updated Continue to integrate sustainability into FMC FMC joined Field to Market in the spring of 2015; by joining Field to Market, a partnership for participating in several subgroups increasing sustainable agriculture Benchmark leading sustainability practices within Workshop held with six companies to identify and outside the chemical industry best practices Conduct an assurance readiness assessment of The pre-assurance assessment was completed on our 2014 Sustainability Report to prepare for time and all gaps were fully addressed, positioning us external assurance of the 2015 Report well for external assurance of this report Due to other initiatives related to integration of legacy Complete the Manufacturing Excellence (ME) Cheminova and business conditions in the region, this program at Uberaba, Brazil, (FMC Agricultural year was not a suitable time for ME at Uberaba. We Solutions facility) did complete ME at our Ålesund, Norway, Health and Nutrition site Updated the Water Risk Assessment including Update the Water Risk Assessment conducted in legacy Cheminova sites. This defined FMC’s water 2013 and include Cheminova sites reduction goal Conducted energy assessments at two manufacturing Conduct an energy assessment at Cork, Ireland, facilities – Cork, Ireland, and MdA, Argentina. Action (FMC Health and Nutrition facility) items being implemented to reduce energy intensity *Consistent with FMC’s policy on acquisitions, data associated with Cheminova will be included in the first full year after acquisition. Completed Partial Not Complete 4 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS 2016 COMMITMENTS 4 Report to the Carbon Disclosure Project Have key environmental data in our 2015 Sustainability Report assured Publish the sustainability metrics + goals for 2020 (Innovation + Business Practices) + 2025 (Operations) Publish the Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact Develop and implement a Human Rights Policy Implement a social responsibility audit process for FMC suppliers Adhere to the GRI G4 guidelines in 2015 Sustainability Report Publish a climate change statement Improve sustainability in our operations through energy audits (2), waste assessments (2) and social responsibility assessments (5) Implement best sustainability office practices with employees at FMC headquarters in Philadelphia Complete Sustainability training for Agricultural Solutions and Lithium commercial teams; train all new commercial Health and Nutrition team members as part of their onboarding process Reinvigorate the regional sustainability implementation teams Investigate sustainability data systems and make recommendations for 2017 FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 MAJOR GLOBAL CHALLENGES The foundation of FMC’s sustainability strategy is our role in alleviating some of the world’s major global challenges. These challenges serve as a framework for a strategic and comprehensive approach to meet the needs of a rapidly changing world. Because FMC and our products can make a positive contribution to mitigating these issues, they frame our direction and give greater meaning to our work. FOOD + HEALTH EXPECTATIONS Food and crop production must increase to meet the basic needs of a rapidly growing population and the desires of a socio-economically diverse population seeking a wider array of nutritional options. The need for food will continue to grow over the next 35 years as the population increases by more than 25 percent, to nearly 9 billion people. FMC’s products protect crops from infestation, which helps increase yields of food and other farmed goods while ensuring efficient use of land. FMC technology improves the availability of nutrition and protein and satisfies consumer preferences for natural ingredients with Health and Nutrition products. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSCIOUSNESS Growing interest in natural and benign materials is fueling the need for new, improved, bio-based products that reduce impact on the environment. Over the last five years we increased the proportion of R&D spend focused on the development of products with a sustainability advantage to 67 percent of total spending. See page 18 for more information. CLIMATE CHANGE Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is considered a necessary step in mitigating climate-warming trends. In this report, we announce 10-year corporate goals for decreasing our greenhouse gas emissions through investment in manufacturing, logistics and other operational efficiencies. As a leader in lithium technology, we help customers create batteries for electrically powered vehicles, more efficient tires, lighter weight aluminum for aircraft, and other low-carbon technologies. 5 Read our full statement on climate change on the web. SCARCE RESOURCES To cope with limited availability of fresh water, energy, forests and other essential resources, we must carefully manage them and more widely use alternatives to non-renewables. Our businesses have committed to 2025 goals for decreasing water and energy consumption. We have conducted water risk assessments to determine which facilities and local communities might be affected by reduced water availability so that we can take appropriate actions to sustain this resource for all users. We hold our suppliers to high standards and expect them to adhere to sound resource management practices as part of our Supplier Code of Conduct. We require suppliers of some raw materials to obtain globally recognized certifications. LAND COMPETITION Urbanization to accommodate the growing population and poor land management techniques are limiting the amount of arable areas available for agriculture, which intensifies the need to increase farmland productivity and crop yields. Our crop protection technologies help farmers increase the productivity of their land by gaining more value from every seed they plant. FMC’s products protect and fortify plants against weed, fungus and insect attacks, thereby maximizing their potential to grow and thrive through harvesting. 6 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FMC became a signatory of the UN Global Compact in 2015. We support efforts to make globalization more socially and ecologically compatible and to raise standards in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. The following table shows the activities and management systems at FMC that support the 10 principles of the Global Compact. WE SUPPORT 6 UNGC TOPIC UNGC PRINCIPLE FMC APPROACH INFO LOCATION (PAGE # OR WEB) Page 23 Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, human rights in the supply chain FMC.com Support > Corporate Governance training, Supplier Code of Conduct, supplier screening process FMC.com HUMAN RIGHTS > FMC Suppliers Not complicit in human FMC.com Code of Ethics and Business Conduct > Corporate Governance rights abuses FMC.com Collective bargaining Code of Ethics and Business Conduct > Corporate Governance Page 23 Social responsibility audits, Code Forced and compulsory of Ethics and Business Conduct, FMC.com > Corporate Governance labor Supplier Code of Conduct, supplier screening, Human Dignity training FMC.com > FMC Suppliers LABOR Social responsibility audits, Code FMC.com of Ethics and Business Conduct, > Corporate Governance Child Labor Supplier Code of Conduct, supplier FMC.com screening, Human Dignity training > FMC Suppliers FMC.com Discrimination Code of Ethics and Business Conduct > Corporate Governance Climate change statement, Risk Pages 26-33 assessments for agricultural Precautionary approach FMCSustainability.com/ products; review and consolidation climatechangestatement of formulation toller network Pages 9, 22-23, 26 Initiatives for environmental Responsible Care, 2025 environmental responsibility goals; grower training and stewardship FMC.com > Responsible Care ENVIRONMENT 3RIVE 3D™, biologicals, naturally derived Health and Nutrition products, seed treatment products, sustainability scoring in new product Environmentally friendly development process; waste goals Pages 18-26 technologies in H&N, Lithium battery technology, Manufacturing Excellence; support for industry efforts on pesticide container recycling FCPA Compliance Standard Process; Page 23 Training of FMC organization and our FMC.com ANTI Working against corruption key third parties; FCPA audits; Code > Corporate Governance CORRUPTION and bribery of Ethics and Business Conduct, FMC.com Ethics refresher > FMC Suppliers FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT WHO DO WE WORK WITH? At FMC, we engage with stakeholders The major issues we are addressing are complex to accelerate our progress on social and – sustainable sourcing, climate change, and environmental initiatives. We do this through water stewardship – therefore collaboration open dialogue, collaboration and transparent is essential to achieve meaningful progress. disclosure. This engagement strengthens our When engaging stakeholders, we consider ability to balance business interests with those their expertise and insights as well as their of society; build robust, global relationships capacity, level of influence and willingness to across sectors; and ultimately identify innovative collaborate. This table illustrates the range of our solutions that create shared, sustainable value. engagement activities. STAKEHOLDER GROUP CHANNELS OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY Social media Weekly Employees Meetings, Reports, Email blasts, Videos, Posters Quarterly Surveys, Training Annually Social media Weekly Prospective Employees Sustainability Report Annually Customers Meetings, Innovation collaboration, Industry partnerships Quarterly Conference calls Quarterly Investors Ratings/Rankings + Indices Annually Employee Volunteers Monthly Local Communities Donations to local organizations, community advisory panels Quarterly Meetings Monthly Regulators + Public Policy Makers Risk Assessments + Studies Regularly In-Person Meetings/Conference Calls Quarterly Non-Government Organizations (NGO's) Project Collaborations Bi-annually Survey Responses Annually Participating on Committees + Working Groups Bi-monthly Industry Associations Developing Best Practices on Key Issues As Needed MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT WHAT IS IMPORTANT FOR FMC? The materiality assessment is a process for The interviews, meetings and surveys helped identifying sustainability issues that have the greatest shape our sustainability and responsibility impact on our business and our stakeholders. priorities, strategies and reporting for maximum This year, FMC improved our assessment by positive impact. In this year’s report we include including external stakeholders’ input. an overview of our most material issues, explain why these particular issues matter to us and We quantitatively and qualitatively analyzed summarize how we are responding to them. the list of potential material issues through the The issues deemed most material to FMC are: following process: ISSUE • Conducted a series of interviews and meetings with FMC employees who have a deep Health and Safety understanding of our business and its impacts. Product Stewardship The employees represented the following groups: Product Safety and Effects on Human Health Sustainability, Government Affairs, Internal Audit, Recruitment and Retention Investor Relations, Communications, Finance, Legal and Environmental/Remediation. Product Environmental Impacts Resource Efficiency • Conducted a formal survey asking internal and external FMC stakeholders to rank Global Standards and Codes of Conduct (REACH, etc.) sustainability issues based on each issue’s Community Relations and Good Neighbor Policies importance to them and the impact on FMC’s Stakeholder Engagement business. There were 42 survey respondents Climate Change (including GHG emissions) representing NGOs, customers, suppliers, Global Food Supply foundations, trade associations and employees. 7 8 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS In last year’s report, we framed an urgent call to action to continually innovate in ways that advance food production, improve human health and nutrition and respect the environment. To advance this call, we have established 2020 metrics and goals for innovation and business practices, as well as 2025 metrics and goals for operations. Together these form Our Formula for Progress. OUR OUR OUR PEOPLE PRODUCTS RESPONSIBILITY + + = CONTINUED PROGRESS WHAT DOES A GOAL BY 2020... GOAL BY 2020... GOAL BY 2020... FUTURE WORLD Reduce our Building on our We will achieve 100 WITH FMC LOOK Total Recordable momentum from on our Community LIKE? Incident Rate our 2015 goal, we Engagement Index. Since FMC (TRIR) to < 0.30 100 will dedicate 80 formalized percent of our sustainability in R&D budget to 2011, we have develop sustainably Community focused on advantaged Engagement impacting five products by 2020. Index global challenges: A sustainably climate change, advantaged GOALS BY 2025... environmental .30 product is one that Reduce our consciousness, positively impacts environmental food & health one of the Major impact by reducing expectations, land Global Challenges. energy, GHG and competition and This will ensure waste intensities scarce resources. TRIR a pipeline of improved products by 15 percent and reducing water Our Formula for Progress holds us far into the future. intensity in highaccountable for 8 risk areas by 20 our role in those percent*. global challenges. It ensures that by 15% 2025, FMC will have a decreased environmental footprint while INTENSITY 80% • Energy delivering valuable • GHG products that 10 • Waste benefit society. We will achieve 20% this vision safely R+D toward and ethically while creating shared sustainably advantaged WATER USE value with our products in high-risk communities. areas** 9 *Compared to a 2013 baseline 11 **As determined by our Water Risk Assessment; see pages 31 + 32. FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 Our PEOPLE Our people are the foundation of FMC and their safety comes first. FMC’s longstanding commitment to safety provides the basis for a work environment that encourages development, motivation and teamwork. Through their commitment, ideas and hard work, we will be able to deliver on the goals of Our Formula for Progress and drive sustainability in all aspects of our company. 2020 GOAL • Achieve a Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) of .30 or lower 12 10 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS SAFE + MEANINGFUL ENGAGEMENT We are steadfast in our efforts to create an injury-free, motivating workplace. INTENSE FOCUS ON SAFETY To be a world class organization, our employees’ safety is a top priority. We foster safety in the 15 ANDREA UTECHT BARRY CRAWFORD MARK DOUGLAS workplace and instill a mindset that enables people to make sound decisions that protect operations; and Mark Douglas, president, themselves and others on the job, on the road Agricultural Solutions, joined in a poster and and at home with family and friends. video campaign that featured them as cartoon characters. These creative messages helped 13 re-focus our safety consciousness and reinforced our concern for the mental and physical well-being of all employees. .59 TRIR For the global TH!NK.SAFE. campaign, FMC .51 .51 2015 received the American Chemistry Council Goal .41 (.37) (ACC) Responsible Care® 2015 Initiative of the Year award. The Initiative of the Year is chosen 2012 2013 2014 2015 by attendees at the ACC Responsible Care Conference, an annual forum where more than In 2015, our injury rate remained flat compared to 2014 despite major 300 industry leaders learn from their peers changes in acquiring Cheminova. Organizational changes typically about environmental, health, safety and security distract employees which can lead to more injuries.* performance improvement programs. TH!NK SAFE … Always During FMC’s 2015 changes, we focused on helping people stay safe while transforming the company. We pinpointed key pressures that needed more attention, including “unsafe mindsets” of feeling distracted, stressed, rushed, fatigued and frustrated. To launch the emphasis on “unsafe mindsets,” three senior leaders, Andrea Utecht, executive vice president, general counsel and secretary; Barry Crawford, vice president, 14 Several members of the FMC team present FMC’s safety platform at the American Chemistry Council (ACC) Responsible Care 2015 Initiative of the Year Awards, including (L to R) Luanne McGovern, Nicole Miller, Alex Dagliesh (Braithwaite Communications), Rob Haire and Linda Froelich *2015 safety datas include Cheminova FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 SAFETY AS OUR BUSINESS VALUE To embed safety deeper into employees’ daily lives, they recommended additional fire safety The integration of the legacy Cheminova training, frequent safety awareness events and an sites into FMC was a significant achievement emphasis on safety outside the workplace. and progressed successfully through 2015. Employees at all of the sites have embraced Consistently High Standards safety as a core business value and an integral part of their culture. Working as partners, We ensure uniformly high safety standards employees at every level of the organization across our operations. To maintain these were involved in adopting safety standards and standards, we took immediate action to improving plant conditions. integrate FMC’s safety procedures at all legacy Cheminova locations. We assessed risks by engaging in dialogue with personnel at all levels, from floor operators to plant managers. We implemented our Glove Use and Open Blade Standards and upgraded Personal Protective Equipment as needed. Life Critical Standards and additional safety policies are being put into action during 2016. Compliance with and application of all standards, including Life Critical Standards, is regularly audited using our internal Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) audit process. A New Site Leader Review Standard, established in 2015, ensures that our manufacturing facility managers demonstrate excellence in EHS Panoli employees attend a training session on the TH!NK. SAFE. Manifesto. management. Within 90 days of assuming a site leader position, the individual must demonstrate The Panoli, India, manufacturing facility conducted understanding of EHS hazards and risks at the an employee survey five months after the close facility and the safeguards needed to of the acquisition. This survey showed a high level mitigate them. of engagement with FMC’s safety mission. Nearly every employee believed there were significant This process reinforces excellence and safety safety improvements and that the introduction of while providing an opportunity for new site new standards was beneficial. leaders to develop key skill sets. The review involves extensive preparation by the site leader Individuals attributed the successful and questioning by a review panel. The site implementation of the new safety standards to: leader must exhibit knowledge of permit and legal requirements and show ability to lead the • Frequent meetings and training. site’s Management of Change processes, among • Involvement of shop floor employees. other topics. • Greater use of Personal Protective Equipment. • Displays of safety signage. • Emergency preparedness drills. • Contractor safety training. • The “Being in the Moment” program which emphasizes focusing on the task at hand. Since the implementation of near-miss reporting – the process through which employees submit a report on circumstances where an incident could have occurred, but did not – employees have submitted nearly 1,000 near-miss reports per month. This high level of responsiveness shows a clear commitment to safety. Survey respondents appreciated the freedom to openly express their observations. They found opportunities to address hazards and identified Murgesh Konar improvement opportunities including storage area Pierre Brondeau and layouts, road lighting, signage relating to safety hazards and emergency response preparedness. 12 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS Murgesh Konar, plant manager at the FMC ensure that EHS regulatory requirements are Lithium site in Patancheru, India, experienced systematically identified in the annual plan for the Site Leader Review. He gained extensive each site. Global compliance with this standard knowledge from the program which could be is a major step toward ensuring that safety and applied quickly. Murgesh noted that “the honest environmental requirements are met worldwide. feedback gave me an opportunity to think in new ways, and the challenging questions about TOTAL WORKFORCE BY REGION + GENDER my site helped me understand more about the diverse considerations that go into each 2500 Females decision.” Murgesh said he would recommend Males this process for his FMC colleagues because the 2000 new knowledge helped him in all aspects of EHS, 1500 including building EHS relationships. 1000 FMC is dedicated to the safety of our employees and our communities in the event of an 500 emergency. Site leaders joining FMC in 2015, as well as essential support people in their facilities, 0 Asia EMEA Latin North participated in emergency management drills. Pacific America America These simulations, which built on the drills FMC supports a global and diverse workforce. Our total workforce data conducted throughout FMC worldwide in 2014, includes legacy Cheminova. helped site teams prepare and practice for emergency situations. Process Safety and Responsible Care® Training and Support Tools The safety and security of our manufacturing When an incident occurs in one of our facilities is paramount to our employees and our manufacturing facilities, it is vital that we communities. To promote these conditions, FMC’s identify why it occurred so that we can prevent Process Safety Management (PSM) Standard is a similar incident in the future. This process is aligned with the ACC Responsible Care Process known as Root Cause Analysis (RCA), which Safety Code at all of our global sites. trains employees to identify the primary causes of an incident and determine the best corrective We performed gap assessments at legacy actions to prevent them in the future. FMC manufacturing facilities against the PSM standard in 2015. We moved from a risk-based In addition to safety, RCA improves performance approach to a four-tiered hazard-based system in many other areas in the workplace. To enhance that considers the severity of an issue regardless execution of the RCA, 58 employees attended of its likelihood. We set priorities on hazard training sessions for approximately 900 hours in mitigation and are creating gap closure plans for total in 2015. Attendees came from a variety of our sites. We will begin PSM gap assessments functions, including supply chain, engineering, after we have implemented Life Critical production, technical, finance and customer Standards at our legacy Cheminova sites. support. In 2016, approximately 70 more employees will attend this two-day training course. FMC conducted intensive process safety training through the Center for Chemical Process Safety For the last few years, we have improved boot camp. Sessions were held in Rockland, our safety incident tracking and analysis by Maine; Newark, Delaware; and Frankfurt, Germany. standardizing and centralizing the incident Themes included achieving a process safety reporting process throughout our organization. culture, managing a variety of hazards and risks, To share best practices in safety, we publish emergency planning and incident investigation. a company-wide “lessons learned” summary for every recordable injury. All FMC sites created EHS Annual Compliance Calendars in 2015, in accordance with the EHS Annual Plan and Compliance The successful integration of Cheminova operations with FMC has increased the company’s capacity to meet customer needs through acquired technologies Calendar Standard. and a talented global workforce. The Rønland manufacturing site in Denmark enhances FMC’s ability to engage with markets across the EMEA region. The purpose of this standard is to FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 SAFETY IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN significant contractors in North America. FMC identifies significant contractors as those that will Our concern for safety extends beyond our FMC be exposed to the hazards of a manufacturing employees to our suppliers, contractors and site or whose work may expose employees, the customers. Requirements for health and safety community or the environment to hazards. protection throughout our supply chain are The qualification process emphasizes a safety outlined in FMC’s Supplier Code of Conduct. analysis that ensures that our contractors We are improving contractor safety and we maintain the same safety standards as FMCdrive safety excellence with our suppliers of key owned sites. The qualification also requires raw materials. adherence to sustainability and responsible sourcing standards, as well as our Supplier Code Contractor Safety of Conduct. Other regions of the world outside In 2015, FMC continued implementation of a third of North America qualify their significant party system to pre-qualify and re-qualify our contractors using a manual process. In 2016, we will assess the expansion of the third party system into Latin America, Europe and Asia. Emergency Rescue Unit Foundation (ERUF) paramedics demonstrate proper resuscitation techniques to women seaweed farmers during a workshop in Lipayran Island, Bantayan, Cebu. Responding to Emergency in the Philippines In 2013, a typhoon devastated the seaweed-growing island of Bantayan, Cebu – one of the communities that supply this essential raw material to our Health and Nutrition business. After the typhoon’s severe impact, the people of the Lipayran Island began to intensify their emergency preparedness. In 2015, a group of female farmers requested first aid training because the island has no government health clinic or permanent health workers. FMC Health and Nutrition, with the FMC Global Procurement Group, sponsored a two-day seminar with the Cebu City paramedic organization, an awardIn 2013, Typhoon Haiyan devastated the island of Bantayan, Cebu, washing away all of the seaweed farms and destroying many homes. Following the typhoon, FMC was among the initial providers of support services to the island. The company distributed tarps for homes and implemented a program to help farmers recover. Due to this support, farmers on the island were able to recover 80 percent of their livelihood within a year. One of those hit by the typhoon was Dolores, a local seaweed farmer. Dolores and her family are now completely recovered. Sadly, six years ago Dolores lost her husband to a heart attack. A lack of health workers and a long travel time to the main island meant Dolores’ husband could not receive the emergency help he needed. This lack of medical “...FMC was among the initial providers of services on the island became acute after the typhoon. Dolores was among support services to the island. ” the group of local women who approached FMC and initiated an emergency first aid seminar. Dolores views the purchasing relationship with FMC as sustaining and reliable. The families will continue to support each other, while maintaining a local business that is sustainable. 14 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS winning Emergency Rescue Unit Foundation. We distributed first aid kits and donated medical equipment and supplies to enhance local capacity. A TALENTED FOUNDATION FOR GROWTH ACCELERATING LITHIUM INTO THE FUTURE FMC’s future depends on our In 2015, Lithium defined four strategic priorities to help the business employees, our most valuable achieve its vision. With these priorities in mind, the Lithium leadership created Business Acceleration Teams (BATs) of cross-functional leaders resource. We seek to provide the from around the globe whose goal was to accelerate specific projects. training, tools and supportive In addition to accelerating business results, the BATs were designed to develop leadership skills by giving team members responsibility atmosphere that allow people to for a detailed investigation of a significant business opportunity. BAT maximize their contribution to our members learned about different areas of the business and developed a network of leaders who support one another. progress while accomplishing their individual goals. The four project topics were: • Technology Roadmap • Customer Centricity • Talent Development • Battery Quality Global Professional Development The BATs worked on these projects for seven months with “sponsors” We initiated a common global that provided mentoring and guidance. At the end of the project, teams presented recommendations to the Lithium leadership team and their performance management process work became part of Lithium’s future strategic plan. in 2015, a major step forward in providing salaried employees with consistent evaluation and development at FMC. Launched in December 2015, the process company evolves, we will be better able to features a uniform structure for goal-setting, identify those within our organization who make progress updates and annual assessments – a real difference and have the appropriate skills each on a globally consistent timetable. The to progress to a new challenge in their own process is enabled by Global Performance teams, within a different business or functional System, our new technology platform. area, or at another geographic location. By establishing individual goals and assessing Under the new process, employees collaborate each employee according to the same with their supervisors to establish performance competency criteria, FMC is creating a more goals. They relate to four core competencies open and forward-looking culture. As our integral to everyone’s skill set: • Self-leadership: Being proactive, managing challenges well and adding value to our safety culture. • Teamwork: Communicating effectively, resolving conflicts and behaving with integrity and respect for others. • Business and customer focus: Initiating new ideas, problem-solving and taking a global perspective. • Functional or technical knowledge and skills: Demonstrating and expanding on one’s capabilities. Leadership of people and the business are proficiencies expected of employees with managerial responsibilities. These competencies include promoting a safe and ethical workplace, developing and delegating 16 DOLORES, SEAWEED FARMER to staff, building teams and crossfunctional alliances and maintaining a strategic focus. FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 diverse workplace where each employee is able to share his or her unique voice, perspective and personality. These multi-faceted viewpoints serve as the basis for FMC’s innovation, evolution and growth. The D&I team launched a global awareness campaign to announce its mission, objectives and philosophy. Initial communications focused on the value of D&I at FMC. The primary messages emphasized that: • D&I is integral to FMC’s DNA. • D&I must remain top-of-mind. • We are committed to achieving measurable D&I results. ltural Solutions We are designing a structured program to mang, FMC Agricu In 2015, Diane Alle io Stra tegy and North Am erica of Por tfol Global Director ine ss Dev elopment, was ele cted by the advance these principles in 2016. Director of Bus as 46th chair of the Board of Directors CropLife America t fem ale to hold this position. firs board. She is the To complement the global performance management process, we are reactivating the director-level Strategic Leadership professional development program and launching the Talent Review process globally. Talent Reviews focus on building leaders from within our global network and ensuring that we foster a strong, internal talent pipeline. Emphasis on Ethics Throughout the process of integrating Cheminova 2013 2014 2015 with FMC, we conducted employee surveys to Percentage of women gauge interests and concerns. Employees from 23.7% 25% 26% employed at FMC both organizations consistently stressed the Women in 25.8% 26.3% 26.6% professional roles* Women in senior 21.3% 21.3% 22.5% management* *Exempt Workforce Professional roles are defined by certain types of responsibilities or MANILA requirements, such as independent judgment and decision making that impact the business. Senior management roles are those that have significant responsibility to oversee and direct a functional discipline or business area within FMC. Diversity and Inclusion A workforce that represents the diverse, global nature of our company is essential to FMC’s longterm success. To ensure that our employee base reflects this necessity, diversity and inclusion (D&I) are key components of our human resources and business strategies. In 2015, we formalized our D&I focus by creating the new position of Diversity Officer. The Diversity Officer organized D&I support teams that include an Executive Committee subcommittee in which the CEO participates. D&I is a corporate priority at the highest level, and we are reinforcing our commitment to a 16 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS importance of ethical business values, behavior FMC WOMEN – REACHING OUT TO WIN and corporate social responsibility. 2015 marked the first full calendar year of FMC’s Women’s Initiative Network (WIN). WIN is an executive-sponsored employee affinity group Consistent with these values, FMC fortified our underway at our Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, role as a leading global corporate citizen when headquarters with participation from the Ewing, we joined the United Nations Global Compact New Jersey, and Newark, Delaware, sites. It (UNGC) in 2015. Our participation established a helps women develop leadership skills that drive their success and FMC’s success. continuous commitment for our combined entity, as Cheminova had been a member of the UNGC More than 160 women attended events since 2009. throughout the year, including: • A “How to Network” breakfast with an Through membership in the UNGC, FMC formally outside speaker who shared tips on goaloriented networking. pledged to align our strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, • A seminar on “Leading Through Organizational Change,” a timely subject given FMC’s labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We acquisition of Cheminova. address several of these issues in our Human • An interactive, poker-themed session on the Rights training program, in which all employees impact of confidence on career decision-making were taught to recognize and address potential entitled “Are you ‘All in’ on Your Career?” human rights violations in the supply chain. • A panel discussion featuring senior FMC female leaders who shared valuable insights about their career paths. • “WIN Day” with a seminar on stress and the launch of a web-based toolkit. • A pilot mentoring program that paired female employees with mentors. In 2016, we will build on the momentum of 2015 events by catalyzing more opportunities for women to develop leadership skills, work with senior executives and realize their career ambitions. We are also exploring options Leading FMC women, (L to R) Linda Froelich, Andrea Utecht, Karen Totland, to pilot the WIN Luanne McGovern and Amy O’Shea, shared career insights. model at other global FMC locations. At our location in Manila, Philippines, sustainability is part of everyday life. FMC Manila is a unique location because it includes diverse representatives from functions such as Information Technology and Accounts Payable, as well as business operations from Health and Nutrition and Agricultural Solutions. Because of this composition of employees, the Manila site is governed by three employeeowned committees: Safety, Social and Sustainability. The sustainability committee is comprised of team members at all levels of the organization, and the committee provides an opportunity for these employees to develop leadership skills by proposing ideas for site sustainability activities. In 2015, the Manila team organized a Medical Mission that provided free healthcare to Agricultural Solutions customers and growers. Services included physical examinations and general check-ups and provided much needed preventative healthcare in the nearby provinces. This program was very successful and will continue annually. Other impactful activities by the sustainability committee included: • Long-term partnership with a local school that has 5,700 children. FMC Manila has provided water tanks for sanitation, held a book drive to fill the school’s library and trained teachers to use spreadsheets and word processing software. • Energy Awareness Project to bring attention to the impacts of inefficient energy use in the office. • Parenting seminar that included establishing “Mom’s Rooms” for new mothers in the office. • Financial Wellness seminar. • Communications efforts such as a Sustainability Wall to share recent sustainability activities. FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 Our PRODUCTS Our people enable FMC to deliver innovations that help meet the world’s nutrition needs and reduce global dependence on petroleum-based energy. With safety embedded in everything we do, FMC focuses on each product’s impact—from its source, through the supply chain to its use by customers and consumers. 2020 GOAL • Dedicate 80% of R&D spend to develop sustainably advantaged products and technologies 17 18 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS INNOVATION, STEWARDSHIP, SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY We deliver responsibly sourced, innovative solutions that address pressing global food, health and energy concerns. INNOVATION TO MEET GLOBAL CHALLENGES With the global population growing by approximately 75 million annually, there is a pressing need to continually increase crop yields for food and feed. Growers strive to maximize harvests while coping with the detrimental effects of invasive weeds, pests and plant The new biological fungicide Ethos™ XB can help growers yield an disease, the urbanization of arable land and the average of 9.5 more bushels per acre of corn than untreated fields. impacts of climate change such as temperature and rainfall shifts. FMC addresses these challenges by FMC addresses these challenges by developing products that improve supplying lithium products used in agricultural productivity, specifically by helping diverse energy-efficient solutions that can farmers increase their crop yields. reduce society's impact on our climate. Beyond basic food security, an increased AGRICULTURAL SOLUTIONS population also has higher nutrition and health expectations. As economies develop and Innovation in FMC’s agricultural portfolio helps incomes rise, consumers expect greater food farmers combat the destructive potential of variety that is healthier and contains ingredients insect, weed and disease infestations. Our they recognize. Additionally, access to affordable approach focuses on protecting, defending and effective medicines is still a concern, and nurturing crops – what we call The Zone of especially in emerging nations. Production™. We develop products that foster growth of healthier, stress-resistant plants with FMC addresses these challenges by root systems capable of optimizing water and creating high value, differentiated nutrient uptake. 18 food and health ingredients that enable our customers to help feed the world, deliver more Breakthroughs in Biologicals effective medicines and fuel healthier lifestyles. FMC is investing in a Plant Health Platform that includes biologicals, seed treatments Environmental responsibility is one of the and micronutrients. We introduced three leading global concerns. In 2015, governments new biologicals – materials originating from worldwide signed an international climate renewable plant or natural microbial sources – to change agreement at the United Nations our comprehensive line of crop protection conference in Paris. They agreed that fossil products. These biologicals exemplify how our fuel consumption and harmful greenhouse gas innovations are integrating chemistry with a emissions must be reduced. lower environmental impact. FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 Technology to Mitigate Environmental Risk FMC started commercializing the 3RIVE 3D™ in-furrow delivery system in 2015 with on-farm beta test units. 3RIVE 3D delivers crop protection products by combining patentpending formulation technology with specifically designed application technology. Growers equipped with a 3RIVE 3D applicator on their corn planters can plant as much as 500 acres using 90 percent less water 3RIVE 3D™ applicator machinery while maintaining necessary crop protection. Honored by Farm Industry News® as a leading new technology in 2015, 3RIVE 3D has the potential to • FMC’s first biofungicide, Fracture®, is a novel, significantly reduce labor, time, water and fuel patented product derived from germinating use in planting operations. sweet lupine plants. Trials have shown it to be active enough to replace a synthetic fungicide We exhibited this technology at the 2015 within a growers’ application rotation. It Crop Protection Stewardship and Innovation provides a new mode of action to manage Fair hosted by the United States House of fungal resistance which helps protect grape, Representatives’ Committee on Agriculture. strawberry, tomato and almond plants from The purpose of the Innovation Fair was to allow devastating diseases. leaders in crop protection to demonstrate new technologies so Members of Congress and their • VGR™ Soil Amendment is a strain of the staff can understand what the industry is doing beneficial bacterium Bacillus licheniformis that to mitigate environmental risk. colonizes actively growing roots. It creates an improved living seedbed that supports larger Ten members of Congress, numerous root systems, improves nutrient uptake and congressional staffers and several representatives increases water efficiency in plants. Crops of non-governmental agencies viewed treated with VGR require 17 percent less water demonstrations of 3RIVE 3D. Participants and absorb essential nutrients more effectively were impressed with the equipment’s small than untreated plants. When combined with size and its 500-acre coverage capability. They Capture® LFR® insecticide, VGR helps increase cited the reductions in water consumption, dust crop vitality and contributes to significant dissemination and drift as valuable contributions yield increases for corn growers. to sustainable agriculture and worker safety. • Ethos™ XB insecticide/fungicide combines 3RIVE 3D technology is adaptable to a range of the activity of Capture LFR with a strain of crop protection products, including insecticides, the biofungicide Bacillus amyloliquefaciens fungicides and biological ingredients. to protect corn from a broad spectrum of seedling diseases. Formulated in FMC’s patented Liquid Fertilizer Ready technology, HEALTH AND NUTRITION Ethos XB is our first in-furrow (applied From addressing growing consumer interest in with the seed as it is planted) product that natural foods to the significant need for longer integrates a biological fungicide with existing product shelf life in areas without reliable synthetic chemistries. With Ethos XB, growers refrigeration, FMC continues to innovate and can plant earlier and under more adverse apply its naturally derived portfolio to meet conditions, seedlings can emerge faster global trends and needs. and more uniformly, and disease protection periods can extend well beyond the norm. Increasing Access to Nutrients and Medicine Results of trials showed that corn fields treated with this product yielded an average FMC’s Avicel-plus®, a food stabilizer that 9.5 bushels per acre more than provides nutrient suspension functionality in untreated fields. cold, hot or ambient conditions, enhances dairy products’ ability to maintain texture, appearance We have also extended use of an existing and shelf life. In developing economies, biofungicide, Regalia Maxx®, into Brazil for extending the shelf life of milk and other dairy preventive control of fungal attacks on tomato products is essential because availability of and potato plants. On average, field trials with refrigeration and transportation is limited. When this product significantly reduced disease Avicel-plus is used in conjunction with ultra severity and increased crop yield. high temperature processing technology, milk 20 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS shelf life can be extended up to six months – a breakthrough in maximizing nutritional opportunity and minimizing food waste. Equally important to helping deliver a product with consumer To provide more consumer-friendly options appeal is fulfilling consumer desire to understand what for multi-vitamin delivery, FMC has developed is in their products. Our gummy offerings that are specialized blends FoodScienceMatters.com platform allows us to directly educate of seaweed-based carrageenan and alginates. consumers about the source, safety and crucial benefits of These offerings can also be formulated with ingredients found on food labels. our natural color product line for additional appeal to adults and kids. Our gummies enable From Everyday Products to New Frontiers over-the-counter (OTC) drug and nutritional supplement manufacturers to provide FMC technology is helping enable advancements alternatives to animal-based gelatins. They also – from everyday products to groundbreaking have heat stability characteristics that prevent new technologies. melting during transport. FMC’s innovation in microcrystalline cellulose (MCC) allows toothpaste manufacturers to reduce the abrasiveness of their products, allowing consumers better tooth enamel protection and cleaning properties. In the traditional manufacturing process, toothpaste goes through intensive heating to successfully create a uniform gel. In 2016 we are launching gel-based technologies that reduce or eliminate the need for heating toothpaste during Currently we are partnering with several manufacturing, thereby reducing energy and manufacturers to develop drug dosages in water use. gummy form. While still in early stages, the experimentation suggests that everyday OTC We teamed up with a major pharmaceutical medications like ibuprofen and acetaminophen customer to identify a new use for Avicel® PH-105, may become available in consumer-preferred an excipient or pharmacologically inert substance gummy formats. These gummy dosages would be used as a binder for pills and tablets. Working carefully packaged for convenience and safety. with our partner’s unique three-dimensional printing technology (3D printing), we were A new generation of higher concentration able to help formulate more precisely dosed omega-3 Epax products allows nutraceutical medicines. The first application of our product manufacturers to design smaller capsules with using 3D printing will be a high-dose epilepsy higher doses of active ingredient. By reducing the therapy drug that launches in 2016. It is a highly size of the capsule, manufacturers can use fewer porous tablet that disintegrates rapidly and resources during processing, packaging and therefore helps patients avoid the difficulties shipping. Additionally, consumers benefit from of swallowing large conventional tablets. This smaller capsules that are easier to consume and disintegration, along with the better taste of the contain more powerful omega-3 health benefits. tablet due to the new formulation, will improve the patient experience and can lead to greater compliance with medication schedules. LITHIUM We are leveraging our skills in developing advanced lithium applications and partnering with customers to design cutting-edge, sustainably advantaged products that address climate change concerns. Sustainable Solutions for Multiple Markets Lithium hydroxide is best known as a key raw material for the highest energy-density lithium ion batteries for energy storage applications, especially for electric vehicle (EV) batteries. According to analysts, the EV market has tremendous growth potential, with forecasts seedlings are exceeding more than 25 percent growth per plier's eucalyptus The MCC pulp sup te to allow s filled with substra inserted in tubete roo ting . On ce in the field year. FMC, a long-time leader in lithium research and proper plant growth tubete is planted, while the the seedling will be sery and reused. returned to the nur FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 and innovation, is working on the challenge of the environmental impacts of natural rubber, extending the driving range of rechargeable including deforestation and the added energy use batteries as well as the number of charge cycles and emissions resulting from shipping products each battery achieves as the demand for high from Asia to Europe and the United States. performance EV battery technology has accelerated. FMC is providing new lithium applications in a range of industries. We provide lithium to the aluminum industry for lithium aluminum alloys in lighter weight aircraft and aerospace applications. FMC’s battery grade lithium is used in residential energy storage power packs, which can be used to support renewable energy sources. PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Product stewardship is FMC’s commitment to mitigating the environmental, health and safety impacts of a product throughout its life cycle. It is one of the most significant aspects of FMC’s worldwide approach to building trust, dialogue and confidence in our company and our products with customers and consumers. Training and Safety Upgrades FMC Lithium supports programs in Argentina in Antofagasta de la Sierra In 2015, FMC trained approximately 400,000 (Catamarca province) and Salar de Pocitos (Salta province) to teach local growers in Asia and the Americas to promote children about proper nutrition and health. the importance of the safe handling, transport, storage, use and disposal of agricultural products. We are the world leader in producing Farmers, distributors and FMC employees butyllithium (BuLi), a material used in the participated in educational sessions on safety, synthetic rubber tire industry. The synthetic including management of emergency situations. rubber tire market is growing at a faster rate Safety audits were conducted at several than the natural rubber tire market. These tires warehouses and contract manufacturing sites. have sustainability value because they deliver In Brazil, all warehouses implemented new exceptional fuel efficiency, increase grip on wet procedures to ensure prevention of product roads and reduce noise pollution. Specifically, cross-contamination. the tires are made from solution styrene butadiene rubber (SSBR), which has a lower We delivered SmartCalda in Brazil, an advanced rolling resistance. SSBR can reduce resistance agricultural technology that improves on from 25 to 30 percent compared to natural our TechnoCalda offering. The new service rubber, leading to improved fuel efficiency of 1 to 2 miles per gallon. Synthetic tires also avoid ADVANCING INNOVATION IN EUROPE FMC’s innovation success depends on close collaboration with customers. To align with our expanded footprint in Europe, we began construction of a European Innovation Center (EIC) at the Scion DTU Science and Technology Park in Hørsholm, Denmark, near Copenhagen. As a HØRSHOLM research and development hub for our Agricultural Solutions and Health and Nutrition businesses, the site is expected to attain a silver LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), a third party building standard rating. The EIC is a welcome addition to our existing portfolio of Innovation Centers in Brazil, China, India and the United States. 22 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS enables preparation Implementing Company-wide Requirements and mixing of water We made substantial progress in 2015 on and agrochemicals in a implementing the Global Harmonization System contained system that of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals avoids direct interaction (GHS). We converted all FMC product labels with an operator. The and Safety Data Sheets (SDS) to the GHS system minimizes the format in countries where required, and are chance of errors and lowers the risk of human modifying Cheminova product labels while and environmental exposure. This technology successfully incorporating its global SDS into was implemented in partnership with six sugar our centralized system. cane mills in 2015. Each of our businesses advanced toward full FMC seeks to replace older chemistries with adherence to the European Union’s Registration, newer products and technologies. Over the past Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of several years, we have reduced by 75 percent Chemicals (REACH) program. FMC added the number of countries where one of our oldest questions to our supplier qualification forms insecticides, Furadan®, is sold. We continue to to ensure compliance with REACH standards investigate and mitigate all reported incidents throughout our supply chain. and intentional misuse. In 2015, there were no confirmed reports. Our goal is to only sell in countries where the application of the product is under strictly controlled systems. In our natural colors business in Health and Nutrition, we improved shipping and handling safety in 2015. We verified that all containers met approved standards, updated transportation labels and provided hazardous material training. In Lithium, stewardship assessments and training are integral to our product management and new product development. FMC continued to educate customers and equipment suppliers An FMC product featuring a GHS label. about hygiene and safe handling guidelines for Stabilized Lithium Metal Powder. We completed hazardous material training for all lithium metal RIGOROUS customers, transitioned to a globally unified SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT emergency response system and received ISO14001 recertification at our Bessemer City plant Progress on Supplier Screening in North Carolina. FMC’s supplier partners are the key to ensuring a safe and responsible supply chain. Through FMC’s Supplier Selection and Approval Process, all new significant contractors and raw material suppliers are screened for adherence to quality, safety and human rights standards. Significant contractors are those that are exposed to hazards while working at an FMC site. This screening is vital to manage and mitigate supplier risk. FMC integrated Cheminova suppliers into this process in 2015, resulting in 91 percent of all significant FMC suppliers (including legacy Cheminova) being screened. Our target for 2016 is 98 percent compliance. The Cheminova integration process included assessment of suppliers for export compliance (including prohibited parties, embargoes and trade sanctions) under the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In accordance with our Conflict Mineral Sourcing Policy, we screened all of Cheminova’s raw materials to determine if they contained any tin, tungsten, tantalum or FMC Pakistan developed an illustrated brochure to educate farmers on gold (3TGs) and determined that we are in best practices in safe handling and preventing exposure of children to pesticides. These brochures were prominently displayed in villages. compliance with our policy. FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 HEALTH + NUTRITION All procurement across FMC aligns with the voluntary operational guidelines GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN of United Nations Global Compact and the FMC Supplier Code of Conduct. FMC Health and Nutrition’s products vary greatly in their applications but are all primarily sourced from natural raw materials. Three of our key food and pharmaceutical products begin as sustainably sourced natural resources and we ensure the highest level of sustainability throughout their value chain. MICROCRYSTALLINE OMEGA-3 CARRAGEENAN CELLULOSE FISH OIL FMC’s Avicel® FMC’s Epax® concentrated omega-3 FMC carrageenan is a naturally FMC PRODUCT microcrystalline cellulose fatty acids are used in customeroccurring family of carbohydrates (MCC) is a unique specific omega-3 formulas that are extracted from red ingredient that offers scientifically proven in numerous seaweed and is optimum functionality as clinical studies to support the employed for its well as structural stability health of specific gelling, and consistency at our hearts, thickening varying temperatures in brains, eyes, and stabilizing applications across the joints, blood properties across Red Seaweed food, specialty and vessels many applications in food Eucalyptus pharmaceutical industries. and more. Anchovies and pharmaceutical products. Brazil Canada South Africa Peru Madagascar Indonesia Philippines Chile The cellulose used to produce FMC’s Avicel® microcrystalline FMC Epax® omega-3 Concentrate cellulose is derived from various is derived from responsibly FMC Carrageenan is derived from SOURCE species of trees. FMC sources sourced omega-3 crude oil, with several species of seaweed and this cellulose from producers full traceability from the fishing is cultivated by family farmers around the world. Our producers grounds to the final storage tank. We in Madagascar, Indonesia, the employ sustainable harvesting ensure sustainable practices by our Philippines, and Chile. In conjunction practices that are certified by suppliers through nonprofit thirdwith the New England Aquarium, third party organizations including party certifications, including Friends we are currently developing the Forest Stewardship Council, of the Sea, International Fishmeal Best Management Practices for Program for the Endorsement and Fish Oil Organization, Global sustainable seaweed production. of Forest Certification, Brazilian Standard for Responsible Supply and Forest Certification Program and the Marine Stewardship Council. Sustainable Forestry Initiative. We receive wood pulp from our FMC processes seaweed at suppliers at our manufacturing FMC concentrates omega-3 oils to our manufacturing facilities in MANUFACTURING sites in Newark, Delaware, and improve potency and performance. Rockland, Maine, and Cebu, Cork, Ireland. We then dice the Our by-product streams are used Philippines. The seaweed is cooked pulp and process it, resulting in or sold as a biofuel. The processing to extract the valuable fiber, and PROCESS microcrystalline cellulose. This plant in Ålesund, Norway, is ISOthen the fiber material is processed process is energy intensive. Our site 14001 certified and implements and dried into a fine powder. This in Cork, Ireland, has a combined heat systems to reduce environmental powder can then be added to many and power plant to provide highly impact in processing. different foods and personal care efficient energy. products by our customers. TRANSPORT + STORAGE Transported by truck, rail, ocean freighter FMC FOOD, PHARMACEUTICAL AND NUTRACEUTICAL PRODUCERS FMC works closely with our customers to design custom blends of MCC, carrageenan or omega-3. Some products allow CUSTOMER our customers to use less material or resources in manufacturing – see page 21 for stories on how our customers are able to save energy in toothpaste manufacturing and use less material in pharmaceutical tablets. END CONSUMER Carrageenan is a critical ingredient Popular applications of MCC Omega-3 supplements have in a range of everyday products include pharmaceutical binders and health benefits for brain, heart such as infant formula, plant-derived personal care products. and eye function. milks, yogurt, toothpaste and many more. 24 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS Certifications into the United States from other countries. Reinforce Sustainability Standards All new raw material suppliers who ship across borders are identified and screened by FMC and Sustainability certifications are frameworks for our logistics partners. verifying compliance with rigorous sourcing criteria on specific raw materials. FMC assesses suppliers’ certifications during our procurement screening process because they validate that our raw materials are supplied responsibly. For example, we require our anchovy suppliers – the source of 80 percent of the fish oil in our omega-3 ingredients – to be certified by Friends of the Sea. We also require that suppliers of the wood pulp used in our stabilizing food ingredient, microcrystalline cellulose, obtain third-party certification of their forestry practices. We are addressing gaps where certifications of our raw materials do not exist. • FMC Health and Nutrition depends on a sustainable supply of seaweed for our alginate and carrageenan products, so we are partnering with the New England Aquarium to develop best management practices (BMPs). These BMPs will ensure our seaweed growing and harvesting processes meet appropriate social and environmental parameters. • We are designing a certification for providers of our natural color raw materials. This framework is designed to assess growers’ responsibility in integrated pest management and soil health strategies, social and labor practices, and compliance with environmental regulations. By sourcing only from vendors using this process, we will be able to add a label attesting to each product’s sustainability – a benefit that will further differentiate FMC products in the marketplace. The natural color certification program will be piloted in 2016 and fully implemented by 2020. Adopting Ethical and Security Standards To ensure ethical standards are applied to our products’ life cycles, FMC updated the Supplier Code of Conduct to reflect our corporate social responsibility commitment. As part of OPPORTUNITIES FOR our commitment to the United Nations Global WOMEN IN INDIAN VILLAGES Compact, the Supplier Code now requires that suppliers “promote human rights within the FMC, through legacy Cheminova, has communities in which they operate through the a long history of supporting women in improvement of economic, environmental and India. Women living in poverty in India social conditions.” often do not have access to education and therefore cannot make independent Because we care about the security of our contributions to the financial well-being of products as they cross international borders, their families. Through the Safety, Health we are aligned with the voluntary Customs and Livelihood (SAHELI) project, we offer Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), education for women in rural villages, a government-sponsored program to facilitate including providing sewing machines and trade while ensuring United States security. We training in sewing and sales skills. Women added specific C-TPAT questions to the Supplier in the SAHELI project have developed Selection Process to ensure FMC logistics the ability to provide for their families personnel are aware of all our new direct outside the home and report significantly material suppliers who are shipping chemicals improved self-esteem. FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 Our RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility to reduce the environmental impact of our products and to strengthen the communities where we work and live are commitments that FMC’s people take very seriously. Advancing the health and sustainability of our planet is essential to Our Formula for Progress, as is our dedication to helping our communities flourish. 2020 GOAL • Achieve 100 on the Community Engagement Index 2025 GOALS • 15% reduction in energy intensity • 15% reduction in GHG intensity • 15% reduction in waste intensity • 20% reduction in water use intensity in high-risk areas 19 26 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS MANAGING, MEASURING + REDUCING FMC’S IMPACT We advance the health and sustainability of the world around us by reducing our environmental impact and strengthening our communities. TAKING ACTION FOR GLOBAL + LOCAL BENEFIT FMC’s responsibility is to promote environmental well-being globally as well as to encourage the In 2015, FMC Agricultural Solutions inaugurated a new herbicide research and manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China. vitality of our communities locally. With this combined global and local perspective, we work Environmental Sustainability Goals “in ethical ways that increasingly benefit society, the economy and the environment,” as stated in FMC set 10-year goals for our key environmental the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible impact areas: energy, greenhouse gases, water and Care® principles. waste. Our Formula for Progress demonstrates our dedication to responsible operations and is To put this concept into action, we implement integrated into our manufacturing initiatives and changes that focus on reducing our dependence action plans. on scarce resources and minimizing our environmental footprint. We ensure that our To ensure the quality of our performance data, communities consider us valuable neighbors. we obtained external assurance of our energy, Our comprehensive focus on environmental, GHG, water and waste data for the first time in social and economic impacts is the foundation 2015. By working with a third-party independent of our business decision-making and success. auditor we achieve: • Greater visibility into our internal systems, controls and opportunities for improvement. • Increased credibility through the validation of the quality and reliability of our data. • Increased uniformity and consistency of reporting procedures. • Enhanced transparency to deepen our dialogue with stakeholders. See the assurance statement on page 34. Community Engagement Goals FMC continues to measure the extent and quality of our interaction with local communities using our Community Engagement Index. When we created the Index in 2011, we set a target to FMC team members in Mexico participated in the first Carrera del Campo Mexicano 5K run. As the principal organizer of the charity run, achieve a score of 90, indicating that most of FMC promotes physical health and activity for our employees and our manufacturing sites are engaging with the their families. All the sponsors of the race donated $3,500 to Helen Keller School in Guadalajara, Mexico, to support blind children. communities in each of four categories. FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 GLOBAL BUSINESS CONDITIONS UPDATE* • FMC’s three businesses have very different operational profiles and therefore different environmental impacts associated with each business. A large change in a metric for one business may or may not have an impact on FMC's overall operational profile. For example, if Agricultural Solutions has a significant reduction in water intensity, it may have a minimal impact on FMC’s overall water intensity because the water use in this business is small compared to Health and Nutrition and Lithium. • Manufacturing of FMC Lithium products requires higher consumption of energy and results in higher generation of waste compared to other FMC products. However, the volume of lithium production is less than the other two businesses, so reductions in resource intensity at our Lithium manufacturing sites may not greatly affect FMC's overall intensity. For example, a reduction in energy at Lithium sites will greatly affect FMC absolute energy, but will marginally affect FMC energy intensity. Of all the metrics, Lithium has the most impact on FMC’s absolute energy, GHG and waste metrics. • Health and Nutrition makes several different categories of products, and therefore the portfolio is mixed between resource-intensive manufacturing and resource-light blending operations. Similar to Lithium, Health and Nutrition can have a major impact on absolute resource use but its lower production volume means that changes do not always affect overall FMC resource intensity. Health and Nutrition has an impact on FMC’s absolute energy, GHG and water use. • The volume of products manufactured in Agricultural Solutions is the highest of our three businesses. However, in 2015 overall production decreased due to market conditions. At FMC-owned Agricultural Solutions facilities, we primarily blend and package products so the resource use of these sites is low, despite very high production volumes. 2015's production decrease offsets the resource reductions by the other businesses. See page 30 for more details. *The energy, GHG, water and waste data (FMC Total and Intensity) in this section have been externally assured. The assured data excludes legacy Cheminova manufacturing and Active Ingredient Contract Manufacturing total and combined intensity. The four categories are: • Safety: We put safety first and share our safety knowledge with our neighbors. • Operational transparency: We strive for transparency so that our business activities are well understood in the community. • Community leadership: We take active participatory roles in our communities. • Community partnership: We share our personal and professional skills, talents and interests to further our mutual welfare. In 2015, we reached 87 out of 100 on the FMC donated school Community Engagement index, indicating that supplies and classroo at a primary school m furniture in Kilavalam Village, the majority of our 26 manufacturing locations India. have engaged in the four categories. To continue our progress, we have now set a goal to achieve 100 on the index, indicating engagement in all categories at our global manufacturing sites Enhanced Production, Yield and Quality by 2020. To accelerate our focus on efficient manufacturing, we established Technical Centers in our Health and Nutrition and Lithium OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE operations. The Technical Centers are comprised FOR EFFICIENCY + SUSTAINABILITY of engineering teams that identify, implement We recognize that our operations require and manage manufacturing projects that drive valuable resources, and we are committed process, yield and quality innovation in the shortto reducing our environmental impact. Our and long-term. This approach parallels a structure operations experts have a responsibility to already in place in Agricultural Solutions. minimize energy use, GHG emissions, water Through our innovation in manufacturing use and waste generation. By minimizing these processes, we are extracting more products impacts, we increase the sustainability of our from our raw materials, requiring fewer operations and maximize economic benefit. resources and generating less waste. 28 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS GLOBAL WASTE DISPOSED* Waste Disposed Intensity (Kg per Tonne) ANALYSIS: We reduced our absolute 35 140 waste disposed by 19 percent, which Total Waste Disposed (K-Tonnes) 30 120 reduced our intensity 12 percent from the 2013 baseline**. This reduction has been 25 100 accomplished by a shift in the mix of 20 80 products manufactured by Lithium. 15 60 ACTIONS: We have set a goal to reduce our total waste disposal intensity 10 40 by 15 percent***. Additionally, we are planning 5 20 certification of all our Health and Nutrition manufacturing sites for sending zero waste 0 0 2013 2014 2015 to landfill. Health and Nutrition will begin this program by completing third party waste Active Ingredient audits at our Haugesund, Norway, and FMC Total Contract Manufacturing Total Cork, Ireland, facilities. FMC + Active Ingredient FMC Intensity * Data excludes Cheminova Contract Manufacturing Intensity ** Prior to 2014, waste disposal details were not tracked from our active ingredient contract manufacturers, therefore this graph shows the progress of our data collection system which now includes this expanded data. ***FMC 2025 Operations Metrics goals are based on a 2013 baseline year. • At our facility in Haugesund, Norway, we have added to our portfolio and will be reported in implemented process changes that increased our 2016 Sustainability Report. the amount of alginate we are able to extract from seaweed. These changes reduce our Energy and Greenhouse Gas Reduction raw material usage as well as the amount of Energy consumption and fuel combustion, seaweed required to be harvested. especially fossil fuels, are the primary sources of • Process upgrades at our Bessemer City, North GHG emissions. GHGs are comprised primarily of Carolina, facility have resulted in improved carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, and methane and lithium quality and asset utilization. These trap heat in Earth’s atmosphere. The excess heat advances have led to an overall reduction in the atmosphere causes global temperatures of waste and energy intensity of nearly 20 to increase. FMC has taken a position to address percent. Bessemer City’s proximity to North climate change through strategic energy American and European customers reduces sourcing, increased energy efficiencies and GHG transportation distances, costs and emissions emissions reductions. compared to Asian suppliers. The combination of location, quality and reliability enables us to better meet customer product needs. • Agricultural Solutions continued to implement process technology improvements in active ingredient manufacturing that is outsourced to contract manufacturers. As a result, we improved material yields of 13 active ingredients. These improvements reduce waste and the use of solvents, two key challenges in active ingredient manufacturing. FMC continues to enhance production capabilities to serve customers worldwide. To support our expansion in Asia, we added capacity to the Suzhou, China, Agricultural Solutions facility and constructed a Health and Nutrition plant in Rayong, Thailand. The Rayong site is expected to begin manufacturing MCC in 2017 and will repurpose wastewater treatment sludge from that process to be aligned with our In 2015, the local seaweed farming community on Pemba Island, Zanzibar, Tanzania, was hit hard by a cholera outbreak due to poor zero waste to landfill target. With our acquisition sanitation infrastructure. Working with the Pemba Foundation, FMC financed the construction of public toilets to support healthier living of Cheminova, six new manufacturing sites were conditions for the community. Photo Credit: Pemba Foundation FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 GLOBAL ENERGY USE* ANALYSIS: In 2015, our absolute Energy Intensity (Gigajoules per Tonne) 7,000 30 energy use remained flat. FMC’s 6,000 Total Energy Use (Terajoules) overall production decreased, driven by 25 Agricultural Solutions. This decreased 5,000 20 production caused energy intensity numbers to rise, because we continued to make Health 4,000 15 and Nutrition and Lithium products that 3,000 require significant energy. Despite this 10 overall increase in energy intensity, Health 2,000 and Nutrition and Lithium individually 5 1,000 accomplished energy intensity improvements of 3 percent and 19 percent respectively. 0 0 2013 2014 2015 ACTIONS: Due to these Active Ingredient improvements in Health and FMC Total Contract Manufacturing Total Nutrition and Lithium, we are confident FMC + Active Ingredient that as we return to normal production FMC Intensity Contract Manufacturing Intensity rates in Agricultural Solutions our energy intensity will be reduced. We are focused on accomplishing our targeted energy intensity reduction of 15 percent**. Accomplishing this goal is driven by the reduction opportunities identified in audits at three of our top five highest energy use sites. We are expanding the program in 2016 to audit our Bessemer City, North Carolina, Lithium site. Additionally we will use the ideas generated at our Cork, Ireland, audit to drive reduction at our Newark, Delaware, plant. * Data excludes Cheminova ** FMC 2025 Operations Metrics goals are based on a 2013 baseline year. FMC’s commitment extends beyond our manufacturing processes to our product 99,160 GALLONS 13,060 GALLONS portfolio, where we are improving existing products and developing new platforms and technologies that help slow climate change. To reduce our energy intensity and identify OLD SCENARIO NEW FOOTPRINT improvement opportunities, we have conducted energy audits at our manufacturing sites since 2013. In 2015, FMC audited energy use in Cork, Ireland, and Minera del Altiplano, Argentina. • In Cork, we identified seven projects for immediate analysis and planning. These projects include improvements in insulation, chiller system optimization, and improved heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems efficiencies. • The Minera del Altiplano audit focused on 86,100 ensuring the efficient use and delivery of natural gas arriving through a new pipeline, as well as potential efficiencies in the steam system, heat recovery equipment and compressed air system. Implementation plans are being developed to put these opportunities into action. GALLONS OF GAS SAVED Our conversion to natural gas in Rockland, Maine, has resulted in a 30 percent reduction in GHG We relocated our United States Health and Nutrition warehouses from emissions. With this conversion, 68 percent of all Pennsylvania to facilities near our plants and minimized consumption of petroleum and associated GHG emissions during shipping. With energy used by FMC globally for manufacturing warehouses now located near Rockland, Maine, and Newark, Delaware, we reduced transit distances from the plant to the warehouse by over is from natural gas, a more GHG-efficient fuel. 425,000 miles and save 86,100 gallons of fuel per year. 30 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS* ANALYSIS: We reduced our 600 2.5 Total GHG Emissions (K-Tonnes CO2e) GHG Intensity (Tonnes CO2e per Tonne) absolute GHG emissions by 7 percent. This achievement was driven 500 2.0 by the first full year of operation since 400 converting our Rockland, Maine, United 1.5 States facility to compressed natural gas. 300 Despite this and other improvements, 1.0 our overall GHG intensity was flat due 200 to lower production in our Agricultural Solutions business. 0.5 100 ACTIONS: In August 2015, we 0 0 2013 2014 2015 completed a natural gas pipeline to supply our Minera del Altiplano (MdA), Active Ingredient Argentina facility. Before the pipeline, FMC Total Contract Manufacturing Total MdA supplemented natural gas with FMC + Active Ingredient FMC Intensity highly GHG-intensive fuel oil when natural Contract Manufacturing Intensity gas was not available. The pipeline now allows the site to run consistently and safely on natural gas and eliminates thousands of truck miles per year in transporting gas. This project, in addition to other energy and GHG efforts, is contributing to our goal of reducing FMC’s overall GHG intensity by 15 percent**. * Data excludes Cheminova ** FMC 2025 Operations Metrics goals are based on a 2013 baseline year. FMC strategically evaluates our global energy determine our manufacturing locations where use to understand how we can maximize our water availability is increasingly challenging. Our reduction. Over 75 percent of FMC global water intensity at high-risk sites has decreased energy use is at five locations. At Rockland, by 3 percent since 2013, our baseline year. At Cork and Minera del Altiplano, we are in the those sites, we focus our efforts on reducing implementation phase of improvements. We are water use. Additionally, we have expanded our now focusing on the next two: Bessemer City, water risk analysis to include six newly acquired North Carolina, and Newark, Delaware. We will Cheminova sites. By 2025, we are committed to conduct an energy audit in Bessemer City during reducing our water intensity at our 12 high-risk 2016, and will apply our energy audit findings locations by 20 percent. from the Cork, Ireland, audit to the Newark site, which uses the same processes as Cork. SOURCING STRATEGIES TO Waste Minimization REDUCE IMPACT Our Health and Nutrition business announced Our responsibility to the environment extends plans to achieve zero waste to landfill by 2025. well beyond the impacts of our own product Our Rockland, Maine, site has already invested in manufacturing. FMC purchases millions of process equipment to repurpose waste streams tons of materials per year, including packaging for beneficial uses. Algifiber, a byproduct of raw materials and advanced intermediate seaweed processing, is used by farmers to spread chemicals. Our sourcing projects focus on on their land and improve the quality and organic achieving a positive sustainability impact in our content of the soil. In 2016, the zero waste to supply chain. In 2015, we centered our efforts landfill program will continue with waste reviews on packaging and collaboration with raw of our Cork, Ireland, and Haugesund, Norway, material suppliers. facilities. In Ålesund, Norway, we are working on reducing the organic content in our wastewater Efficient Use of Packaging by 70 percent in two years. FMC continues to reduce the impact of materials used in packaging. For example, Water Conservation we began refurbishing existing intermediate FMC has used a data-based approach with bulk containers (IBC) used for transporting World Resources Institute's Aqueduct™ tool to agricultural products, rather than purchasing FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 GLOBAL WATER USE* Water Use Intensity (Cubic Meters per Tonne) ANALYSIS: In 2015, FMC’s absolute 14 55 Total Water Use (Million Cubic Meters) water use was nearly flat. However, 12 reduced production in our Agricultural 50 Solutions business, coupled with increased 10 production in the water-intensive Health 45 8 and Nutrition and Lithium businesses, resulted in an increase in overall water 6 40 intensity despite efficiency gains. 4 ACTIONS: Due to the regional nature 35 2 of water quality and availability, FMC transitioned to a risk-based water metric 0 2013 2014 2015 and has identified manufacturing sites in locations at a high risk for water scarcity. Active Ingredient At those locations, we have already FMC Total Contract Manufacturing Total reduced our water intensity by 3 percent, FMC + Active Ingredient and will continue to focus our efforts to FMC Intensity Contract Manufacturing Intensity achieve a 20 percent reduction** at these locations combined. * Data excludes Cheminova ** FMC 2025 Operations Metrics goals are based on a 2013 baseline year. new ones. Our issues, delays and excessive consumption of container supplier is diesel fuel, as the trucks consumed nearly a full able to recondition the liter of gasoline to travel one kilometer. steel cage exterior of the IBC and use it with Now that the facility can rely on consistent a new interior plastic natural gas through the pipeline, we are containment bottle decreasing emissions from fuel shipments via without reducing truck, while reducing transportation safety quality or safety. By concerns. We also have eliminated the use of Reusable cages on Intermediate Bulk Containers provide using refurbished greenhouse gas intensive fuels, such as fuel oil. significant reduction in cages instead of greenhouse gas emissions. purchasing new ones, The combination of removing 10 trucks per we eliminated over 1 million pounds of carbon day from the road and using solely natural gas emissions from steel production. equates to approximately 9,300 tonnes of CO2 avoided, which is the equivalent of taking 1,963 cars off the road for one year. ARGENTINA’S PIPELINE TO DEPENDABLE ENERGY In August 2015, the 130 kilometer pipeline supplying natural gas from Pocitos, Salta, Argentina to our lithium production facility in Salar del Hombre Muerto, Catamarca, Argentina began operations. The pipeline is the culmination of a multi-year project and represents a significant achievement of reliable, lower GHG-emitting energy for FMC. Safe and Reliable Supply, Better for the Environment Obtaining energy through the pipeline is substantially better for the environment than the previous approach which required more than 10 trucks per day to drive through mountainous The new pipeline is the culmination of a multi-year terrain, often under difficult weather conditions. project and represents a significant achievement of reliable, lower GHG-emitting energy for FMC. These transportation difficulties caused safety 32 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS FMC hosted a water conservation training for farmers in Venkatapura Village, Karnataka, India. The objective of the training was to raise awareness among farmers on water waste and to demonstrate how water could be conserved for dryland agriculture. Government officials from the State Department of Agriculture and academics from a local agricultural university participated. PARTNERS IN SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE Community Infrastructure In 2015, FMC became a member of Field to Market®: Enhancements The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture. Field to Market brings together a diverse group of grower As part of our commitment organizations; agribusinesses; food, beverage, to operate in a sustainable restaurant and retail companies; conservation manner, we have agreed with groups; universities; and public sector partners to the Catamarca, Argentina, local focus on defining, measuring, and advancing the government to create a trust sustainability of food, fiber and fuel production in the to finance environmental and United States. infrastructure projects focused on the needs of local communities, Grounded in science and committed to continuous including projects related to water, improvement in agricultural productivity, environmental health, education, agriculture and quality and human well-being, Field to Market’s goals mining. The trust is to be funded include the efficient use of energy, water and land, the by our Minera del Altiplano, minimization of greenhouse gas emissions from United Argentina, site. A local bank will States cropland per unit of output and the preservation act as a trustee of the funds that of soil and water quality. As a member, FMC is are administered and controlled engaged in solutions for sustainability and continuous by a management committee improvement in agriculture. FMC participates in composed of government officials working groups on key sustainability issues including and FMC representatives. greenhouse gas metrics, water quality and land use as well as communications and engagement. PAKISTAN FARMERS OF TOMORROW FMC Pakistan sponsored the biggest Science Olympiad in Pakistan, LUMS PSIFI, with a theme of “Farmers of Tomorrow.” This unique program promoted innovation and technology among the youth of Pakistan and provided a platform to express their interest in science. The initiative was attended by over 60 young people from local farming families. FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 34 OUR FORMULA FOR PROGRESS BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OFFICERS Pierre R. Brondeau Pierre R. Brondeau Brian P. Angeli President, Chief Executive Officer President, Chief Executive Officer Vice President, Corporate and Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Board Strategy and Development FMC Corporation & Investor Relations Paul Graves Eduardo E. Cordeiro Executive Vice President Marc L. Hullebroeck Executive Vice President and and Chief Financial Officer President, FMC Europe Chief Financial Officer Vice President FMC Agricultural Cabot Corporation Andrea E. Utecht Solutions, EMEA Executive Vice President G. Peter D’Aloia General Counsel and Secretary David A. Kotch Managing Director and Vice President Member of the Board of Directors Mark A. Douglas Chief Information Officer Ascend Performance Materials President Holdings, Inc. FMC Agricultural Solutions Nicholas L. Pfeiffer Vice President, C. Scott Greer Eric W. Norris Corporate Controller Principal President and Chief Accounting Officer Greer and Associates FMC Health and Nutrition Andrew D. Sandifer K’Lynne Johnson Barry J. Crawford Vice President and Treasurer Former Chief Executive Officer Vice President and President Operations Tom Schneberger Elevance Renewable Sciences, Inc. Vice President Kenneth A. Gedaka Global Business Director Dirk A. Kempthorne Vice President FMC Lithium President and Chief Executive Communications and Public Officer Affairs Charles J. Thomas American Council of Life Vice President, Finance Kyle Matthews Insurers Vice President Bethwyn Todd Paul J. Norris Human Resources President, FMC Asia Retired Chairman Vice President Karen M. Totland FMC Agricultural Solutions, and Chief Executive Officer Vice President, Global Asia W. R. Grace & Co. Procurement, Robert C. Pallash Global Facilities & Corporate Shawn Whitman Retired President, Global Sustainability Vice President, Government Customer Group and Senior Affairs Vice President Antonio Zem Visteon Corporation President, FMC Latin America William H. Powell Vice President Retired Chairman FMC Agricultural Solutions, and Chief Executive Officer Latin America National Starch and Chemical Company Vincent R. Volpe, Jr. Retired Chief Executive Officer and President Dresser-Rand Group, Inc. FMC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 Printed by a SGP Landfill-Free Enterprise Sustainable Green Printing Partnership Printing Company
