BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 Index 01 PRESENTATION 6 8 Report Profile Brisa in 2015 16 18 Materiality Disclosure of Management Approach 5 10 Summary of the Indicators 20 5 Vectors of Sustainability 12 Chairman’s Statement 22 Dialogue with the Stakeholders 14 Vision and Strategy 28 The Brisa Group 16 Value Chain 36 Corporate Governance 02 VECTORS OF SUSTAINABILITY 46 Economic Performance Return to Investment grade 84 Human Resources Case Studys 45 50 Sustainable Mobility 90 Our Social Responsibility Vision Offer 2.0 Commit & Engage Efficient Operation and Client Centric Act & Connect Mobility 2.0 Pay & Forget 70 Environment Eco-efficiency Indicator Energy Efficiency Projects EVOA Project 03 GRI INDICATORS 96 104 GRI Index Indicators GRI 95 04 ASSURANCE 143 01 PRESENTATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 6 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT PROFILE The aim of publishing Brisa’s sustainability report is to provide its shareholders, analysts and customers with information on the company’s performance from the perspective of sustainable development. This is Brisa Auto-estradas de Portugal, S.A.’s eleventh These are all available on the websites Brisa.pt. Sustainability Report. The Sustainability Report completes the set of reports published by Brisa relating to 2015, inREPORTS AND PRESENTATIONS WWW cluding the Annual Report and Accounts. % € BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 Scope The Sustainability Report describes the main activities and The scope of the indicators referred to in this Report correrelevant data on the performance of Brisa – Auto-estradas sponds to the Brisa Group: Brisa Autoestradas, Brisa Conde Portugal, S.A., referred to hereinafter as Brisa or Brisa cessão Rodoviária (BCR), NWPY-Northwest Parkway (EUA), Group, in the period between 1 January and 31 December Brisa Operação e Manutenção (BO&M), Brisa Conservação de 2015, without prejudice to any references to actions unde Infraestruturas (BCI), Brisa Engenharia e Gestão (BEG), der way or planned for 2016. Via Verde Portugal (VVP), Via Verde Contact (VVC), Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia (BIT), Mcall e Controlauto (CTA). Brisa’s corporate universe is explained further below, in the subchapter Brisa Group. Support of the Sustainability Report Brisa’s reporting on sustainability has undergone a prowhole organization, in line with a predefined calendar, on a cess of ongoing improvement in terms of the respective quarterly, half-yearly or annual basis. The validation procontent, processes and operational application. Ensuring cess ensures the quality of the monitoring and the treatthat the data reported is reliable, comprehensive and mament of the information is facilitated by made-to-measure terial has been a constant priority for Brisa, aimed at buildsolutions. ing a Management Information System on Sustainability, capable of providing effective support to management, in In the preparation of this Report information taken from its operational and strategic plans. answers to surveys of third parties was also used and from the company’s relationship with other stakeholders. This information system is based on a computer system The Chairman’s Statement is the same as that published in which is especially dedicated to management informathe Report and Accounts. tion on sustainability. The information is gathered by the External Verification The information reported – whether resulting from measurethe G4, of the Global Reporting Initiative and was rated CORE ments, calculations or estimates was checked by an exterby the checking agency KPMG & Associates, S.R.O.C., S.A.. nal entity, in accordance with the checking report found at the end of this document. The dialogue with stakeholders, discussed in the Introduction, from page 14 to 19, followed the principles described in Brisa’s Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with Standard AA 1000 APS (2008). the fourth generation of directives for sustainability reports Doubts and clarifications The Sustainability Report was prepared by the DepartLuís d’Eça Pinheiro SEND EMAIL ment for Investors, Communication and Sustainability with Director of Marketing and Institutional Relations the support of Brisa’s functional and operational departments, together with input from its affiliates. Franco Caruso SEND EMAIL Communication and Sustainability Department Requests for complementary information, additional clarifications or suggestions about this report may be sent to: 1. This Sustainability Report reflects the most relevant activities and data on the performance of Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, SA, hereinafter referred to only as Brisa or Brisa Group, in the period between January 1st and December 31nd , 2015, without prejudice to any references to actions under way or planned for 2016. 8 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Brisa in May september 2015 Brisa signs partnership with Replacement of expansion Refood Project joints on Sado River Bridge Via Verde reaches 115 Parking CONPAT 2015 Congress lots Opening of Refood Brisa Attributes Quality Installations at Brisa Campus Awards to Service Areas European Mobility Week at Brisa creates Mobility Lisbon Award – Acredita Portugal Road Safety European Week EB1 Mário Cunha Brito School October Visit OCC PEM/PAM Strategic Marketing January Program Terminates Via Verde Anda Consigo Campaign Forum for Competitiveness OCC Celebrates 10 years Brisa Innovation signs a MBA Texas Students Visit OCC contract with Southern ASECAP Days 2015 Connector (USA) Brisa World Children's Day – Launch of 2.0 Offer February Mascot Parade Campaign BCR Traffic grows 7,5% on the New Via Verde Brand Via Verde at Justice Campus 1º Quarter 2015 Presentation Event BCR Traffic grows 4,5% in 2014 Trophy Project Sailing without Limits Rip Curl Pro Portugal June March Brisa sells 30% of BCR Brisa Student Drive Camp at 2,2M invested in A5 Aveiro 9th Meeting Transports November Brisa Invests 7,9 Million euros Magazine at Nó A2/A6/A13/ Volunteer Day Via Verde Progam Travel and /Alcácer do Sal Advantages Brisa success case study at Via Verde operates in Spain new Mercator BCR Traffic grows 7,2% on the 3º Brisa Innovation marks its July Quarter in 2015 presence at Green Business Via Verde Mobility Partner Week Road Safety Campaign – at Red Chargers Call to action Seminar Drive on your right Via Verde Wi-Fi at Service Group Brisa new Intranet Via Verde reaches 116 Areas Released Parking lots Controlauto Wins Customer Cities Summit – WBCSD Summer Lounge at A2 Choice Award Summer Campaign Launch AHP and Via Verde Launch OCC Visit – Ciência Viva Program to Dinamize Turism Project April BCR Traffic grows 7,0% on the 1º Semester 2015 Via Verde introduces digital signature December “Novo Futuuro” Solidarity Concert August Via Verde joins Waze Program GNR Visits OCC Connected Citizens Brisa Intern Fórum OCC Visit – Ciência Viva Via Verde BCR Bond Issue Project Christmas Campaign BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 LISBOA ’ 25-26 JUNHO Instituto Superior de Engenharia de Lisboa 9º ENCONTRO Road Safety Campaign Drive on your right European Mobility Week at Lisbon 9th Meeting Transports Magazine Via Verde Progam Travel and Advantages Via Verde Mobility Partner at Red Chargers Via Verde Wi-Fi at Service Areas Via Verde Controlauto Wins Customer Choice Award Christmas Campaign 10 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Summary of the Indicators Economic Indicators (M€) 2013 2014 2015 Investment in Motorways BCR 28.9 26.9 45.1 Operating Costs* 74.8* 73.8* 72.5* Staff Costs 83 82.6 83 Income 568 576 615 Net Income 54 55.7 -2.1 Environmental Income (1+2) 9.3 11.08 7.92 Prevention and Environm. Manag. Costs (1) 1.1 1.1 1.3 Waste Disposal, Emissions Treatment, and 8.24 9.98 6.56 Remediation Costs (2) R&D Investment (3+4) 4.46 4.55 4.49 Research (3) 0.14 0.19 0.14 Development (4) 4.32 4.36 4.35 Investment in Local Communities (5+6) 0.40 0.58 0.63 Donations (5) 0.37 0.47 0.48 Public Service (6) 0.03 0.11 0.15 * In 2014 the definition adopted for Operational Costs does not include Amortizations, Provisions, Remunerations, Donations nor Public Services. Environmental Indicators 2013 2014 2015 Electricity Consumption (GJ) 113,8 101,9 101,7 Fuel Consumption (GJ) 97,8 95,0 90,2 Water Consumption (m3) 124,0 92,9 92,8 GHG Emissions ( tCO2eq) 18,4 14,8 14,5 Waste (t) 826 862 743 Social Indicators 2013 2014 2015 Road Accidents Index* 39.51 41.13 32.11 Employees at the end of the period 2 480 2 387 2 343 Admissions 264 75 61 Departures 111 75 105 Absenteeism Rate (%) 2.9 3.8 3.9 Hours of training 45 146 38 563 42 216 * This indicator is not a GRI Indicator. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 Environmental Indicators ELECTRICITY WATER 126.8 186.5 122.6 116.5 170.6 113.8 101.9 101.7 140.6 124.0 92.9 92.8 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Electricity Consumption [103GJ] Water Consumption [103m3] FUEL GHG EMISSIONS 101.7 99.7 18.4 18.4 97.8 16.4 16.3 14.9 14.5 95.0 93.0 90.2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fuel Consumption [103GJ] GHG Emissions [103tCO2 eq] WASTE ECO-EFFICIENCY INDICATOR 24,1 1832 15,6 1078 1076 826 862 743 7,1 5,3 3,7 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 2010 2011 2012 2014 2015 Waste [t] -1,9 Eco-efficiency = Value of the product or service / Environmental impact = no. kms operated / (electricity consumption + water consumption + generation of waste + GHG emissions) 12 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Chairman’s Statement 2015 was a good year for Brisa. We were able to achieve considerable improvements at different and relevant levels: we increased our financial strength and stability, renewed our business model, improved operating efficiency and cash-flow generation and addressed environmental and social impacts efficiently. Vasco de Mello Important developments occurred at two crucial levels: the over 2014) and NWP (+12.4% over 2014). This performance economy and strategic positioning. Despite the uncertainhad a positive impact on consolidated operating revenues, ties of some relevant macro-economic variables, traffic (a which grew by 6.8% from EUR 575.7 million in 2014 to EUR key factor of Brisa's business), grew at a sustained pace 614.8 million in 2015. in the various concessions. Additionally, the Group started the first phase of a new offer of services and products conceived under Offer 2.0 project and the Via Verde umbrella. Firmness in operational efficiency Despite the significant rise in activity and revenues, conTraffic and revenues increased solidated operating expenses, excluding amortisation and provisions, increased by merely 1.0% to EUR 164 million, Traffic maintained the positive trend started in 2014 against and this was mainly due to one-off costs. a background of economic recovery, pushing economic and financial performance indicators upwards. Annual Average Operating results (EBITDA) totalled EUR 450.8 million, with Daily Traffic (AADT) recorded a significant rise compared to EBITDA margin reaching 73.3%. The sharp rise in toll rev2014, driven by the performance in Brisa Concession (+7.0% enues, combined with a stabilisation in costs led to an inBRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 crease in EBITDA margin by 1.5p.p. In spite of consideraEfficiency and Customer Focus ble capital expenditure, particularly focused on improving the road network, cash generation (measured by EBITFrom the point of view of Brisa’s customer, 2015 was also a DA-CAPEX) rose to EUR 401.7 million, as against EUR 377.2 good year. The company sought a closer link with its cusmillion in 2014. tomers based on four key vectors: increased simplicity in relationship, greater interaction, added relevance and advantages. Recognition and financing capacity In order to simplify the relationship with our customers, we created a new service platform under the same brand Via The Group’s financial soundness was recognised in 2015 by Verde a single point of contact, a single organisation, all both rating agencies and its refinancing capacity. available services. To this end, we added increased openness and interaction capacity, through new channels and Brisa Concessão Rodoviária (BCR) obtained ratings of initiatives, based on a new more flexible and user-friendBBB and Baa3, given, respectively, by Fitch Ratings and ly digital system. Consistently with our aim of narrowing Moody’s. BCR’s ratings are higher than that of the Portuproximity, we invested in an innovating offer in our sector guese Republic. and created a loyalty programme, consisting of client advantages and discounts. To this end, we built a network of In 2015 the company implemented a refinancing plan, partnerships in the tourism sector, capable of generating translated into a set of operations which allowed BCR to positive economic impact. increase its debt maturity, decrease its average cost and ensure greater financial flexibility. At the end of the year Finally, viewing to align services with mobility trends, we BCR’s cash position was of EUR 228 million, which combined developed new services and functionalities intended to with committed credit lines of EUR 375 million, results in a meet the needs and expectations of users. Currently, our very strong liquidity position. customers have access to Via Verde online tools (developed in partnership with Google/Waze), which give them increased choice and decision-making capacity concerning their travels. We are working towards a new generation of Better performance in non-financial services areas, the first of which will be ready in 2016. terms In 2015 Brisa's environmental performance was in line with that recorded during the 2010-2015 period, as the trend New shareholders in BCR posted by the five key environmental indicators included in Brisa's eco-efficiency index continued to improve. In The acquisition by a group of Portuguese-Brazilian inrelation to 2014, water, power and fuel consumption and vestors of 30% of the share capital of Brisa Concessão the generation of waste and greenhouse gas emissions Rodoviária, SGPS, S.A. in June 2015 clearly attests for the evolved positively. For the eighth year in a row the compaconfidence in our business, its strength and vision. Folny posted positive results in the management of its envilowing this operation, Brisa Autoestradas de Portugal, S.A. ronmental impacts. will continue to control Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, SGPS, S.A. holding 70% of the company’s share capital and voting At social level, the company’s performance at safety level rights. is worth noting. Road safety improved sharply as the accident rate fell by 22%. Internally, the safety of our employ2015 was therefore a year of progress at the various levels ees has also improved considerably. of Brisa's business, in line with its values of Ethics, Innovation, Excellence and Focus on People. The staunchness of The company's performance during the year under review our goals and actions is what drives and impels us to build is consistent with its commitment to sustainable developthe future. ment and the 10 principles of UN Global Compact which Brisa follows since 2007. 14 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Vision and Strategy The strategy of sustainability is intrinsic to Brisa’s corporate strategy, which associates the economic side of the business with the social and environmental aspects, focussed on growth with profit, on social progress and the quality of the environment, based on innovation of the business model, on the ongoing improvement of processes and on risk management, with the aim of creating value for all stakeholders. Throughout its 40 years in business, the Group has played major economic and social benefits for the activities and the a decisive role in the financing, planning, construction and communities that it serves. This is why the company preoperation of the network of motorways, which forms the sents itself as a “Partner for the Development of Portugal”, backbone of the Portuguese road system. This experience which it extends to all the countries where it is established has helped to create a Group culture based on the values of and operates in, whether as a concessionaire of infrastrucEthics, Innovation and Excellence, focus on People and heavtures or as the supplier of advanced road services. ily geared towards promoting mobility and accessibility, with New vision: from the era of infrastructures to the era of mobility For 40 years Brisa has led the market and has established directly condition the business model and create structural a structured and internationally recognised operational ruptures: model for road infrastructures. The appearance of new trends, technological developments and changes in behav•• Alteration of the pattern of urban mobility, new ioural patterns have dictated the dawn of a new era, where models and options of integrated transports; the concept of Mobility takes on a broader significance and brings new challenges with it. •• People who are more rational in their choices regarding travel and means of transport, more deIn this context, Brisa has redesigned its strategy and demanding and better informed thanks to technologifined a new vision, where Mobility is central and a necescal developments and easy access to them; sary condition for growth with development. •• Social and environmental awareness, greater atBrisa’s new vision addresses this change: tention being paid on topics like sustainability, renewable energies and the rational use of resources, ›› From the era of infrastructures to the era of mobility namely infrastructures; ›› From a supplier of infrastructures to a supplier of mobility •• Financially accessible sustainable mobility solutions. The new vision implied a redefinition of Brisa’s values and In order to provide efficient mobility to its clients and finanpositioning. cially viable conditions for the company, Brisa decided to go beyond infrastructures. Rethinked strategies, managed unThe combination of Investment – Induction of Demand, purecertainty, assess threats and opportunities and anticipated ly from the infrastructure management point of view, gave changes. Above all, it must adapted in order to respond with rise to a new scenario with multiple variables – economic, efficient solutions that meet the new needs. political, demographic, technological and behavioural – that BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 BRISA POSITION ONGOING CLIENT OPERATIONAL CENTRIC EFFICIENCY ›› From the era of infrastructures to the era of mobility; VISION ›› From a supplier of infrastructures to a supplier of mobility. ›› To provide efficient mobility for people; MISSION ›› Focussed on efficiency. ›› Careful and highly efficient management of road POSITIONING infrastructures; ›› Increase in productivity by optimising existing resources and a commitment to new technologies; ›› Client-centric; ›› Innovative, efficient and client-centric mobility and accessibility solutions; ›› Response to better informed clients, who are more demanding and aware of their choices. 16 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Value Chain Planning and Operation and Client construction Maintenance Centric BRISA AUTOESTRADAS BRISA OPERAÇÃO E MANUTENÇÃO BRISA AUTOESTRADAS BRISA ENGENHARIA E GESTÃO BRISA INOVAÇÃO E TÉCNOLOGIA VIA VERDE OUTRAS CONCESSÕES BRISA CONSERVAÇÃO DE CONTROLAUTO INFRAESTRUTURAS MCALL Materiality In 2014, Brisa undertook an independent review of the trends in sustainability management and topics that affect main topics of sustainability from the perspective of the the reputational risk. business and its sustainability strategy. To do so we developed an holistic approach that embraces a vision of our In this way we systematised the approach followed in order main stakeholders and peer companies, as well as the main to determine Brisa’s main material topics: Questionnaires were given to internal stakeholders to find out the employees’ main expectations. Consultation of Stakeholders A materiality review exercise was developed from the perspective of the different external stakeholders, with the objective of assessing the relevance that the topics have in two aspects: for Brisa’s business and for the stakeholders. Brisa developed a Benchmark Analysis on the sustainability strategy of 7 peer companies in the transport infrastructure sector – both nationally Benchmark Analysis and internationally – considered to be benchmarks in the management of sustainability. An analysis was made of the main trends, impacts and risks that should be Trend analysis of the sector addressed by Brisa in the sustainability and business strategy. Analysis of the topics and respective favourable or unfavourable impacts that Analysis of the reputational risk directly affect the reputation of the Brisa brand. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 Based on the methodology presented, 8 topics considered as being material for Brisa’s business and simultaneously for the main stakeholders were identified, represented in the following table: 6 Relevancy to Brisa Stakeholders 5 1 8 2 5 6 7 3 4 4 3 32 2 31 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 Relevancy to Brisa 1 2 Economic Customer €€ Performance Satisfaction Operational eﬃciency Impact of traﬃc jams Maintenance / Improvement of infrastructures Operative 3 4 Transparency Eﬃciency of management Sustainable Mobility practices Active traﬃc management Anti-corruption practices Road Safety Anti-competitive behaviour Quality of services provided 5 6 Environmental Innovation action and in products awareness and services Energy Emissions Water Waste Biodiversity Relationship with Professional 7 8 and impact on development and local communities labour practices Contracting of local suppliers Training Employability Contracting of local resources Health and Safety Impact of the activity on Diverse and equal local communities opportunities Note: As an example, privatization programs and promotion of international investment represented in the material matrix with number 31a and 32 are examples of topics considered not material in the current context of Brisa activity. 18 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY RELATÓRIO SUSTENTABLIDADE REPORT The eight topics considered to be material served as a baAfter identification of the material topics, Brisa identified sis for the structuring of the Sustainability Report, for the the respective GRI version G4 indicators, through which definition of strategic areas of action regarding sustainaBrisa monitors and reports its performance to the stakebility and for the prioritization of projects, initiatives and holders. For more details please consult the GRI table actions to be developed during 2015. attached to this report. Disclosure of Management Approach Material Topics Disclosure of Management Approach (DMAs) Brisa considers operational efficiency and economic performance to be one of the cornerstones of its management. It promotes good management practices, Economic Performance both in the financial field and in the environmental aspect of optimising resources. Brisa will always seek the continuous improvement of its efficiency. Brisa assumes that management and customer satisfaction are a focus of its strategy in line with the current business model. It is in this sense that we Customer satisfaction intend to monitor the satisfaction of our clients and continually improve our services, through the maintenance and/or improvement of our infrastructures. Brisa intends to continually improve the efficiency of the service through Efficiency of Service investment in the quality of the services provided, in road safety and in Active Traffic Management. Transparency of management Brisa promotes transparent management practices aligned with the practices organization’s values, standards and principles of ethics. Brisa promotes the development of its business in accordance with the most demanding standards in terms of technology and innovation, as a Innovation in products and services critical factor of success and differentiating factor of its business compared with its competitors. The minimization of environment impacts and the management of environmental aspects throughout the life cycle of the motorways is one Environmental action and awareness of the Brisa’s priorities, through the adoption of the best environmental performance practices and the continuous reduction of environmental risks. Brisa values its relationship with the local communities in all the stages of its Relationship with and impact on the activity and enhances the positive impacts on society, through investment local communities in the recruitment and hiring of local suppliers. Brisa values its human capital through training and career development Professional development and programs, integration programs, promoting a balance between one’s labour practices personal and professional life, health and safety at work, based on a corporate culture of excellence. 20 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The 5 fundamental Vectors and Material Topics The five fundamental vectors, considered as strategic in The response to each um of these material topics is proBrisa’s activity, cover the critical topics that reflect the orvided in a set of courses of action. The actions developed in ganization’s performance on an economic, environmental 2014 will be presented throughout the next chapter. and social level and which, at the same time, are more relevant for its stakeholders. Vetor Material Topic Courses of Action ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Traffic and Toll Revenue Operational Efficiency Cash-Flow Integrated Risk Management Risk Management System Corporate Governance (See Corporate Governance) SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY Active Traffic Management Intelligent Mobility Management Innovation (Technology, New Services, Solutions of Mobility) Customer Care Customer service Development of new solutions Monitoring of traffic accidents Road safety Investment in infrastructure Educational Program “Brisa in School” BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 Vetor Material Topic Courses of Action THE ENVIRONMENT System of Environmental Management Eco-efficiency and Indicator of eco-efficiency Environmental Management Environmental objectives Energy efficiency projects Biodiversity Brisa’s Biodiversity Program System of indicators for sustainable mobility Climate Change EVOA Project Masters and other studies HUMAN RESOURCES Channel for the communication of Ethics and Transparency irregularities (see p. 32) Development of Competences Corporate culture Action Social Health and Safety Safety and Health in the work Talent Management Performance management system Balance one’s Reconciliation between one’s personal-professional life professional and family life SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT Involvement of the ›› Donation Stakeholders and Positive ›› Internal fundraising External Factors ›› Internal involvement Citizenship and Solidarity Voluntary Service Program (Solidarity and Voluntary Service Projects) 22 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Dialogue with the Stakeholders Stakeholders have legitimate expectations that define the material issues for Brisa. Identifying the critical topics and building a positive relationship with all stakeholders requires increasingly sensitive scrutiny mechanisms. Benchmark Organizations The most important stakeholders were identified based on Brisa actively participates in a number of organizations, two criteria: the stakeholder’s impact on Brisa and Brisa’s including sectorial associations and entities of reference impact on the stakeholder. related to sustainable development. The exhaustive identification of the expectations of each With the exception of the United Nations Global Compact, stakeholder and the respective response are articulated Brisa is present in the management boards of all of them. with the analysis of materiality referred to in the previous subchapter and is systematised through Standard AA1000 APS. APCAP WEBSITE Association of Portuguese Concession Companies of Toll Motorways or Bridges ASECAP WEBSITE European Association of Toll Motorways Operators CRP WEBSITE Portuguese Road Centre IBTTA WEBSITE International Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association WBCSD WEBSITE World Business Council for Sustainable Development BCSD PORTUGAL WEBSITE Business Council for Sustainable Development BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 United Nations Global Compact This is a corporate citizenship initiative launched by the Brisa signed the United Nations Global Compact on 8 October United Nations in 2000 that involves stakeholders based on 2007, reinforcing its public commitment to sustainable universally accepted principles: the Universal Declaration development. The pact establishes the framework for the of Human Rights, Declaration of the International Labour topic and the fundamental guiding principles that Brisa Organization on the Fundamental Principles and Rights will include in its process of internationalization, granting at Work, the Rio Declaration on the Environment and it a coherent global framework. Membership also helps to Development. incorporate values of sustainable development in Brisa’s value chain. Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Page 1 Support and Respect the protection of Human rights 117-129 2 Prevent human right Abuses 117-129 3 Uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining 119 4 Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsary labour 129 5 Abolish child Labour 129 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 40 e 126 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental friendly technologies 70-82 e 105-116 8 Promote greater environmental friendly technologies 70-82 e 105-116 9 Encourage development of environmentally friendly technologies 70-82 e 105-116 10 Work Against corruption in all forms 40, 133 e 134 FORMS OF SCRUTINY EXPECTATION RESPONSE MATERIAL STAKEHOLDERS (STAGE 1) (STAGE 2) (STAGE 3) TOPICS ›› Active management of ›› Fulfilment of ›› Creation of events / ›› Fulfilment of the Concession Contract the Concession activities / queries the Concession Contract Contract ›› Prior meetings, formal ›› Strict fulfilment of the REGULATOR and informal Concession Contract ›› Definition of criteria of improvement of the service provision ›› Optimization of technical solutions ›› Elaboration and realisation of specific studies 24 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FORMS OF SCRUTINY EXPECTATION RESPONSE MATERIAL STAKEHOLDERS (STAGE 1) (STAGE 2) (STAGE 3) TOPICS ›› Employee Website and ›› Employment ›› People management ›› Talent Quality Website Stability processes of the Management company, example: ›› Irregularities Disclosure ›› Prospects of ›› Health and EMPLOYEES Channel and Ethical professional ›› Performance Safety Ombudsman progress management ›› Corporate ›› Periodic meetings of the ›› Working condi›› Careers culture Workers’ Commission tions ›› Compensation ›› Meeting of the Quality ›› Training and Sustainability Managers ›› Channels of communication ›› Follow-up of management systems ›› (see the channels mentioned in the ›› Training Assessment column “Forms of Questionnaire Scrutiny”) ›› Internal Quality Auditing Satisfaction Questionnaires ›› Active Improvement Opportunities System ›› Active management ›› Fulfilment of ›› Negotiation process, ›› Fulfilment of of the follow-up of the the Concession with impact on the the Concession contractual obligations Contract Concession Contract Contract ›› Permanent contact ›› Contract ›› Ethics and GOVERNAMENT management Transparency ›› Creation of events / activities/queries ›› Elaboration of Reports ›› Proposals of the trade ›› Fulfilment of the ›› Analysis of ›› Eco-system of unions and negotiating contracts and the proposals, Innovation process protocols in force suggestions and ›› Certification complaints ›› Periodic meetings ›› Creation of ›› Ethics and PARTNERS (monthly or quarterly) opportunities ›› Negotiation of the Transparency and active Collective Bargaining ›› Parity commissions (when collaboration Agreement necessary) in the initiative ›› Model of network ›› Management of Contract developed innovation Works Contracts ›› Development of long term joint projects ›› Partnership Protocols with universities and research institutions ›› Support for the production of scientific literature BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 FORMS OF SCRUTINY EXPECTATION RESPONSE MATERIAL STAKEHOLDERS (STAGE 1) (STAGE 2) (STAGE 3) TOPICS ›› Brisa’s website, e-mail, ›› Transparent ›› Regular information ›› Ethics and telephone and accurate through channels Transparency information available: ›› Eco-efficiency ›› Report and Accounts and Operational and Sustainability Management SHAREHOLDERS Report ›› Brisa’s website, e-mail, telephone ›› Specific meetings and events, like the General Meeting ›› Customer Satisfaction ›› Safety, comfort On an operational level: ›› Road safety studies and fluidity of ›› New equipment, sys›› Active Traffic traffic ›› Follow-up of the tems and procedures of Management assessment of customer ›› Quality of the road safety ›› Customer CLIENTES satisfaction with the infrastructure ›› Management of road service service provided by the and of the surfaces and EngineerRoadside Assistance, service ing structures Local Rate Help Line. and provided, need service in the Stores to perceive the ›› Service of patrolling and value received of assistance ›› Mystery Customer in the road widening works and ›› Accessible and ›› In terms of the informaservice areas transparent tion provided: contact ›› Assessment of the Food ›› Complaint Management Quality and Hygiene of System the service areas ›› Multi-channel infor›› Customer surveys mation of conditions of circulation on the ›› Available Communication motorways (Brisa inforchannels: websites, Local mation channels, Brisa Rate Help Line, stores Reporter, Radio stations, ›› Complaint Management Press releases, leaflets System distributed,...) ›› Network of Stores, Service areas and Information kiosks ›› Local Rate Help LineAssistance and Information and Via Verde Customer Help Line ›› Assistance and Information to the Hard-ofHearing Community via sms ›› Internet websites 26 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FORMS OF SCRUTINY EXPECTATION RESPONSE MATERIAL STAKEHOLDERS (STAGE 1) (STAGE 2) (STAGE 3) TOPICS ›› Consultation of financial ›› Creation of value ›› Consideration of the ›› Ethics and entities results of the benchTransparency ›› Transparent and mark study in Brisa’s ›› Negotiating process accurate Infor›› Eco-efficiency decision-making mation and Operational ›› Daily accompaniment, process MARKETS Management through meetings FINANCIAL ›› Contract negotiation pro›› Transparency ›› Fulfilment of the con›› Ethics and cess and meetings and rigor tract conditions Transparency ›› Follow-up meetings ›› Dedicated channel for contract management SUPPLIERS ›› Stable and long term relationship ›› Contract management system and technical support 12 ›› In-depth analysis of ›› Transparency ›› Dedicated channel ›› Ethics and 3 competitors in terms of and accuracy for relations with the Transparency the strategic planning Media process ›› Meetings, press ›› Benchmarking study of conferences, support COMPETITORS economic performance for press reports, provision of background information ›› Public consultation pro›› Contribution ›› Contribution towards ›› Involvement of cess, in terms of environtowards local local development the Stakeholdmental impact studies development ers ›› Mobility and accessi›› Dedicated channel for ›› Mobility and bility solutions ›› Positive ExterLOCAL relations with the Media accessibility nal Factors COMMUNITIES solutions ›› Contribution of the Employees ›› Holding of annual surveys ›› Transparency ›› Transparency and ›› Ethics and and quality inforquality information Transparency ›› Perform perception studmation ies on journalists ›› Eco-efficiency and Operational ›› Quarterly monitoring and PUBLIC Management OPINION assessment of news 28 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Brisa Group In business for 40 years, Brisa Auto-Estradas is one of the In Portugal, Brisa Auto-Estradas has six highway conceslargest motorway operators in the world and the biggest sions – the Brisa Concession (BCR), Atlântico, Brisal, Douro transport infrastructures company in Portugal. Litoral, Baixo Tejo and Litoral Oeste –, which include 17 motorways running for a total of 1 678 km. The Brisa ConcesThe parent company (Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal) sion stands out for covering a total of 1 124 km over 12 mohas a number of assets in its portfolio divided into five torways which cover the country from North to South and business areas: the Brisa and Atlântico concessions, mofrom East to West. bility services, automobile inspections and international business. Internationally, Brisa has developed its competences in the areas of operation and maintenance, and is present with The year 2015 represented a notable milestone in the new local partners in the Indian and Dutch / North of Europe strategic positioning of Brisa and respective value chain markets, for operation and maintenance projects on highwith a focus on the client. It is a natural evolution of the way concessions and consultancy projects in the area of business model in line with industry trends, directed to mobility. Brisa also controls the Northwest Parkway road customer expectations. Thus, in the last quarter of the concession in Denver in the State of Colorado, in the USA. year, Brisa renewed the Via Verde brand making it a unique trademark, closer to the people and adapted to the new era Last year was a very positive year for Brisa, standing out of mobility. Via Verde is the Brisa brand for all aspects of its as the main facts, the sustained growth in traffic, improve activity related to the service it provides to its customers. of operational efficiency, the consolidation of the investWith this new position, Brisa also reinforces its role as a ment grade rating level and the definition of the new stracorporate brand of the Group. tegic positioning of the company focused on people and mobility, with the renewal of Via Verde brand. Road Concessions Mobility BCR | AEA | BRISAL | AEDL | AEBT | AELO Services BO&M | BCI | BIT | VVP | MCALL | CONTROLAUTO International NWPY | FBH | BNV | MOVENIENCE Infrastructures BEG | TIIC BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 THE CONCESSIONS Economic Indicators 45 M€ Investment in Motorways BCR 0,63 M€ Investment in the Community € 7,92 M€ Investment in the Environment 30 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Brisa Concessão Rodoviária (BCR) Brisa Concessão Rodoviária (BCR / Brisa Highway Concession) is the Brisa Group's main concession and includes the “backbone” of Portugal's road axis with a total of 12 highways, 11 of them in operation. MORE INFORMATION Brisal – Concessão Litoral Centro Brisal Auto-estradas do Litoral (Coastline Highways) operates the A17, an important complementary axis to A1 for journeys from the North to the West. MORE INFORMATION Autoestradas do Atlântico Auto-Estradas do Atlântico (Atlântico Highways) operates a road infrastructure with a strong urban component, serving the northern part of the Lisbon Metropolitan Region through highways A8 and A15. MORE INFORMATION Autoestradas do Douro Litoral Auto-Estradas do Douro Litoral (Douro Coastline Concession) operates a road infrastructure that serves the Porto metropolitan area and plays a fundamental role in the region's mobility through 3 highway concessions. MORE INFORMATION Concessão Baixo Tejo The Baixo Tejo (Lower Tagus) Concession includes 4 highways and a total 38 kilometres. Construction of new sections is already planned in order to strengthen its positive impact on residents of the Setúbal district. MORE INFORMATION 32 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Concessão Litoral Oeste The Litoral Oeste (West Coastline) Concession includes 109 kilometres of infrastructures and is also an important connection highways A1, A17 and A8. MORE INFORMATION THE ROAD SERVICES Brisa Operação e Manutenção Brisa O&M (Operation and Maintenance) provides monitoring, operation and maintenance services as well as indispensable support to highway concession holders and their customers. MORE INFORMATION Via Verde Portugal Via Verde is an automatic toll payment system. It can be found in highways, parking lots, restaurants, fuel stations and other services. MORE INFORMATION Mcall Mcall provides dynamic multichannel Contact Centre services, offering its customers an increasingly wider and dynamic set of services. MORE INFORMATION Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia (Innovation and Technology) is dedicated to research activities and production of equipments, systems and intelligent services for transportation that support the Group's operation. MORE INFORMATION BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 Controlauto Controlauto has 46 inspection centres in several locations from the North to the South of the country and is dedicated to the study, management and operation of automobile technical control. MORE INFORMATION Brisa Engenharia e Gestão Brisa Engenharia e Gestão (Engineering and Management) is mainly focused on management of studies and projects, expropriations and construction works supervision. MORE INFORMATION Brisa Conservação de Infraestruturas A Brisa Group company dedicated to providing specialised services in infrastructures conservation. MORE INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL Northwest Parkway Northwest Parkway (NWP) is a highway that is fully integrated in the Denver, Colorado (USA) ring road and whose 99 year concession is fully owned by Brisa. Go-Pass Mobility Services Payment management is performed by Go Pass Mobility Services, who is also responsible for operation and repair services. MORE INFORMATION 34 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Feedback Brisa Highways Feedback Brisa Highways (FBH) operates in the Indian market through the Ezeeway brand, providing Operation and Maintenance (O&M) services for several highway concession holders. MORE INFORMATION New Mobility Ventures New Mobility Ventures (NMV), based on Breda, Holland, is focused on innovative and sustainable mobility services and solutions. MORE INFORMATION Movenience Movenience, based in Holland, is responsible for the operation of electronic payments at the Westerschelde Tunnel (WST), as welll as parking lots and electrical vehicle charging stations. MORE INFORMATION OTHER PROJECTS Transport Investment Infrastructure Company (TIIC) TIIC (Transport Infrastructure Investment Company (SCA) Sicar) is an investment fund that is characterised by its value creation for its partners, both in the financial and operational areas. MORE INFORMATION 36 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate Governance Description of Brisa’s corporate model as per GRI G4* directives In Brisa, sustainability is managed as part of the business, and is reflected both in the current model of governance in a joint vision of management, and through the minimization of environmental, social and economic risks and impacts and the control of non-financial indicators, aimed at making the business increasingly efficient and responsible. IDENTIFICATION AND COMPOSITION OF THE CORPORATE OFFICES The mandate of all the corporate offices currently in hand is for the period 2014-2016, and comprises: Corporate offices Board of Directors/ General Meeting (GM) Audit Board(AB) Company Secretary Executive Committee(BD/EC) António Vitorino Francisco Xavier Alves EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Tiago Melo Chairman Chairman Vasco de Mello COMMITTEES Francisco de Sousa da Câmara Tirso Olázabal Cavero Chairman Vice Chairman Member REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Pedro Rocha e Melo Elected by the GM Tiago Melo Joaquim Patrício da Silva Vice Chairman Secretary Member Luis Cortes Martins João Azevedo Coutinho Chairman Alves da Cunha, Member Assunção Dias & Associados Pedro Norton de Matos Statutory Auditor António Nunes de Sousa Member Member Jaime Anahory Daniel Amaral Member Member NON-EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Rui Diniz Member Luis Brito de Goes Member Michael Allen Member Graham Marr Member Stuart Gray Member BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 Areas of Responsibility of the Executive Committee VASCO PEDRO ROCHA JOÃO AZEVEDO ANTÓNIO NUNES DANIEL DE MELLO E MELO COUTINHO DE SOUSA AMARAL GENERAL COORDINATION CORPORATE CORPORATE CORPORATE ROAD CORPORATE CENTRE CENTRE CENTRE CONCESSIONS CENTRE Marketing and Legal Administrative Litoral Business Institutional Relations Oeste Concession Development Planning and Financial Sustainability Strategy Audit, Organization Networks and Systems and Quality Human Resources OPERATION ROAD OPERATION OPERATION ROAD & MAINTENANCE CONCESSIONS & MAINTENANCE & MAINTENANCE CONCESSIONS Via Verde Serviços Brisa Concessão M Call Brisa O&M Subconcessão Rodoviária Litoral Centro Via Verde Contact Via Verde Portugal Autoestradas do Atlântico Brisa Engenharia e Gestão Subconcessão Baixo Tejo Brisa Conservação de Concessão Douro Litoral Infraestruturas OPERATION INFRASTRUCTURES & MAINTENANCE Controlauto – Controlo Brisa Inovação e Técnico Automóvel Tecnologia Transport Infrastructure Investment Company INTERNACIONAL Northwest Parkway Movenience BNV Mobility Feedback Highways OMT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 WWW 38 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1.1 At the level of the Management Board of Brisa, the ›› The members of the board of directors shall perform competence on sustainability topics is of its President. their functions diligently and carefully, in the company’s interest, taking the interests of its shareholders, 1.2 The Marketing and Institutional Relations department employees and other stakeholders into account. was given responsibility to propose policies, strategy and lines of action on sustainability issues and ensure their ›› It is in the interest of the company and its shareholdimplementation, after its approval. ers to create the conditions and appropriate incentives that are conducive to the good performance of func1.3 Dialogue with stakeholders page 22. tions by the Board of Directors, in accordance with the criteria mentioned above. 1.4 See the organization chart of Corporate Governance page 36. ›› In this regard, remuneration is an essential instrument of management for the framework and motivation of 1.5 Under the existing legislation, in companies with a the performance of the managers in their companies. governing structure such as Brisa (board of directors and fiscal council) the board is a collective body whose mem›› The definition and application of the criteria underlying bers exercise their personal capacity, regardless of whom the setting of the Directors’ remuneration, assigned to appointed or proposed. The Board of Directors is comthe Remuneration Committee, should therefore be coposed of ten members, five of which form the Executive herent and standardised, on the one hand taking into Committee, to which is assigned the executive manageaccount the level of remuneration currently practised ment of the Company. Under statutory terms, the meetin similar European companies, and on the other, the ings of the Board of Directors have a minimum monthdegree of fulfilment of the strategic objectives defined ly basis. According to the governance model adopted at for the company, the creation of value for the shareBrisa, the Chairman of the Board of Directors is the Chief holders and the economic background. Executive Officer. ›› In this regard, remuneration should contemplate a 1.6 Under the current legal regime, the corporate model fixed component which aims, within the framework adopted at Brisa, the election of directors is an exclusive of the respective competences and responsibilities, competence of the General Meeting, upon proposal of the to adequately remunerate the effort and work put in shareholders. throughout each year of the respective mandate, applicable to the executive and non-executive members 1.7 Topics related with conflicts of interest are notified of the Board of Directors, and a variable component to to stakeholders through appropriate channels within the be attributed to the executive members with the objecterms of the law and the in-house rules of operation of the tive of rewarding them for the Company’s performance, company. Among which: recognising, among other aspects, the increase in efficiency and productivity and the creation of value in the ›› Internal channel for the communication of irregularities. long term for the Company and its shareholders and, at the same time, align their interests with the interests ›› Code of Ethics of the company’s sustainability in longer term cycles. This alignment will be achieved, namely, through the ›› Dialogue with stakeholders repercussion on the calculation of the variable remuneration of the company’s operational and financial 1.8 See the organization chart of corporate governance, performance in each year, the intrinsic quality of the the Chairman’s message and vision and strategy. results (recurring and extraordinary) presented, taking into consideration Brisa’s positioning in the markets in 1.9 Executive Committee have weekly meetings and the which it operates, expectations concerning the evolunon-executive directors accompany the company’s activtion of the business in the medium and long term, the ity through monthly meetings of the Board of Directors, indices alluded to in article 2 no. 3 lines a) and e) of Law besides occasional meetings held with executive directors 28/2009. and management staff on specific matters. ›› The attribution of the variable component, besides 1.10 At the General Meeting held on May 19, 2014, that already mentioned, also depends on the evaluaapproved the following statement of the Remuneration tion of the fulfilment of performance objectives defined Committee on the remuneration policy of the manageeach year, taking the following indicators into account: ment body: EBITDA, EBIT, net profits, ROE and ROA, not only from BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 the perspective of evolution compared with the com›› Definition of control mechanisms for the execution of pany’s past results but also taking in consideration the the risk management measures adopted and monitorlevel of remuneration of the main companies in the naing of their efficacy; tional market, and also those of the same sector internationally. ›› Adoption of internal information and communication mechanisms on the diverse components of the sys›› Exceptional factors that value or devalue the perfortem, as well as risk alerts; mance of the Executive Committee or of any of its members may also be taken into account. ›› Periodic assessment of the system implemented and adoption of the modifications that are deemed neces›› Part of the variable remuneration is paid after the sary. close of each year and as soon as the respective results are calculated, with another significant part beFor this purpose a tool was implemented for the inteing deferred for a period of three years, the payment grated management of the risk management system, in of which depends on the continuation of Brisa’s posaccordance with the aspects mentioned above, so as to itive performance over this period, in order to help to support the process of convergence of risk management maximise the performance in the long term and the with strategic planning. pursuance of the company’s strategic and structural objectives and to dissuade the excessive assumption This integrated risk management system enables the of risk. identification and assessment of the main risks of the Brisa group’s portfolio of businesses to be updated each 1.11 The aim of Risk Management is to guarantee the year, and to determine the respective control and/or mitsustained growth of the businesses and to safeguard igation measures which, in the current context of major the value of the Brisa group, through the adoption of the economic-financial instability, are particularly important, best practices, allowing in-house knowledge to be capitalin supporting the management from the strategic perised on in the effective management of the risks to which spective of the sustained development of the whole of the group is exposed, namely, in the environmental, reguthe Brisa group. latory, financial and operational fields. OPERATIONAL RISKS An essential cornerstone of the Company’s policy of Governance, Risk Management is present in Brisa’s culture In positioning itself as a benchmark company in the transand in its management processes, with its employees port infrastructures sector, Grupo Brisa looks on risk manbeing responsible for mitigating risk factors, minimizing agement as an omnipresent activity for the sustainable their impact and identifying, whenever possible, opportudevelopment of its business. nities for improvement and/or return. The continued investment in the excellence and innovaIn this context, the Brisa group’s risk management systion of the different operations where it operates, with a tem is based on an integrated, structured, systematised special focus on the expectations of its customers, nameand transversal model, supported by an internationally ly, in terms of safety, comfort and fluidity of traffic, quality recognised methodology – COSO (Committee of Sponof the infrastructures and service provided, demonstrates sorship Organizations of the Treadway Commission) with the commitment of the Group and of BCR in particular, in the purpose of ensuring the best corporate governance the quest for continuous improvement and constitutes a practices in the following aspects: positive differentiating factor in relation to its peers. ›› Setting of strategic objectives regarding the assumpIn this regard, the continued organization of and support tion of risk; for road safety campaigns and the reinforcement of the safety features of its network, namely in performing road ›› Alignment of the risks effectively incurred with the improvement and widening works on motorways, respectgroup’s strategic option; ing the high standards of the group and in conformity with current legislation, aim to create the necessary conditions ›› Identification of the main risks inherent to the group’s for better traffic circulation. The existence of a crisis manactivities and their respective causes; agement and communication model to address emergency situations and the definition of specific contingency ›› Analysis and measurement of the impact and of the plans for the diverse areas, demonstrates the group’s conprobability of occurrence of each of the potential risks; cern and discipline in the management of its operations. 40 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In terms of Occupational Health and Safety, the Brisa company of the Brisa group it adopted a new aspect in Group has a specialised structure, which supervises and the management of environmental risks in its business ensures the central and local coordination of the health processes, related with eco-efficiency, which is an adand safety plans associated to risk activities. vanced response to the problem of integrating environmental risk management throughout the value chain, not The Operational Coordination Centre, backed by telematonly in terms of the management of the impacts on the ics and road safety structure, ensures the recording, proenvironment, but also of the management of the related cessing and availability of updated and timely information costs and benefits. to clients and complementary services. The existence of environmentally certified companies acThe Brisa group’s culture of innovation, demonstrated by cording to ISO 14001 standards, which are internationalthe fact that it has a subsidiary company fully devoted ly recognized as guidelines for corporate environmental to it, enables Brisa to fulfil its commitment in this critical management, and the adoption by the Group of its own area, remaining at the forefront of technological evolution specific guidelines (Environmental Policy Statement), and modernisation of its infrastructures and operations, eco-efficiency criteria, quantitative goals for environmenbased on a commendable and innovating partnership poltally critical indicators, plus a Sustainability Management icy with various companies and leading universities. Information System, all strengthen the Group’s strict standards as it continuously seeks improvement and a Its systematic concern for developing efforts to identify sustainable business performance. operating risks and defining management measures to mitigate them is part of the Group’s strategy to face a INFORMATION SYSTEMS RISK continuously changing and increasingly demanding and globalised world, where safety is crucial. These activities The Information Systems area is a crucial instrument not only help to establish mitigating measures in line with for the sustained growth of the Grupo Brisa, whether current business needs but also to act ahead and prevent from the continuous innovation this has brought to the potential risk situations. business in the areas of information and communication technologies, or from the contribution towards the REGULATION & COMPLIANCE RISKS increased efficacy and efficiency of the processes that support it. The operation of infrastructure concessions is subject to specific and comprehensive regulations. Hence, the risk The definition of a medium and long term risk managestemming from regulatory changes is particularly relement strategy for its information systems leading to the vant. implementation of a Disaster Recovery solution, which by definition, is closely related to business processes, The Legal Department follows the regulatory evolution of enables the organization to significantly reduce the risk Grupo Brisa’s activities closely, and suggests legal steps of operating losses in those circumstances, while at the and solutions deemed suited to the normal development same time guaranteeing the efficacy of the investments of the company’s operations, in accordance with the legal made and enabling a swift reaction in the event of sudden framework in force at any time. changes in the business environment. We would point out the in-depth work developed over the The systematic and parallel development of activities in last few years aimed at converging procedures and pracmultiple areas, including areas relating to safety of infortices to new road safety requirements and proof of the mation and resilience to failures in infrastructures, has fulfilment of the safety standards applicable to the operaalso provided greater efficiency in handling this type of tion of the motorways under concession. risk. ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS As far as internal controls and information supporting processes are concerned, the organisation is reinforcing Environmental management throughout the design, conits structure, through the consistent and continuous reasstruction and operation stages is one of the main priorsessment, based on the best practices in this area, nameities of Brisa’s risk management system. In this regard, ly the ITIL framework, for its management. measures to identify environmental risk situations have long been carried out to allow taking preventive actions Among the steps taken in 2014 to mitigate these risks and mitigate impacts, in conformity with the Environmenand to improve the existing corporate policy in this area, tal Policy established in the Grupo Brisa. As a member following a critical assessment of the systems and appliBRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 cations which support the Group’s business processes rating) required from counterparties to perform financial known as Business Impact Analysis (BIA), tests were caroperations. ried out on the implementation of the Disaster Recovery Solution, thus ensuring that in the event of Disaster, the 1.12 The sustainability report, such as the Annual ReGroup will have all the information systems required to port, is approved by the Board of Directors who then subcontinue operating. mits it for approval by the General Meeting. FINANCIAL RISKS 1.13 On 3 February 2009, the Executive Committee of Brisa approved the constitution of a system for the internal Like most corporate groups, the Brisa Group is exposed notification of irregularities upon the proposal of the Corto a number of financial risks stemming from its business porate Governance and Sustainability Steering Commitactivity. These involve, in particular, liquidity and interest tee. rate risks stemming from financial liabilities, exchange rate risks resulting from investment in Northwest Parkway in This decision was intended to create a system under the the United States, and the counterparty risk to which the supervision of the Corporate Governance and Sustainacompany is exposed when contracting risk hedging operbility Steering Committee that would make it possible for ations and financial applications. all employees to freely and conscientiously expose any violation of an ethical and legal nature occurring within the Financial risk management policies are approved by the scope of the activity of the companies of the Brisa group, executive committee and put into practice by the Financial in the areas of accounting, internal accounting controls, Division (DFI) of Brisa Auto-Estradas. The DFI is in charge audit, the fight against corruption and money laundering, of identifying and quantifying the financial risks to which possible violations of an ethical or legal nature which hapthe Group is exposed, and to propose and implement pen in the company, thereby applying Brisa’s firm commeasures to manage/mitigate them. The management mitment to conduct its business in compliance with the of financial risks centralised in the DFI covers foreign exlaw and the principles laid down in its Code of Ethics, conchange transactions, financing operations, treasury surtributing moreover to the early detection of any irregular plus applications, contracting of hedging instruments and situation. the management of the counterpart risk. All financial risk operations involving the use of derivative instruments Under the terms of the approved regulations (available at must be approved by the Financial Director or the Execuwww.Brisa.pt) a list of dedicated addresses was created tive Committee. on the intranet and on the company’s site, allowing the disclosure of any irregularity, via e-mail, fax or mail, with Participation in tenders for new concession contracts is absolute confidentiality. also subject to the risk management / mitigation policy. Project finance is the financing structure used in this type The processing of this information and conducting of the of projects, which ensures the operational, financial and respective proceedings is the responsibility of an Ethics legal separation of each project. The creation of compaOmbudsman, presently Mr. Daniel Pacheco Amaral, who nies with their own financing structures with no recourse has been provided with all necessary resources to fulfil his to Brisa Auto-Estradas cash flows or assets (besides capduties in an effective and independent manner. The Ethics ital commitments the amount of which is known from the Ombudsman can consult all documentation and request start), enables the risk taken by Brisa when investing in all the services and information s/he considers pertinent. new concessions to be limited and quantified. No employee may be persecuted, intimidated nor discrimFurthermore, following completion of its corporate reorinated against or prejudiced in any way in his/her rights, ganization and the separation and ring-fencing of Brisa for communicating any irregularity, with the exception Concession into a newly formed company (Brisa Conof cases in which there is a lack of grounds, equating to cessão Rodoviária, S.A.,BCR), the financial risks to which wrongdoing in the communication by its author. BCR is subject were considerably mitigated through the implementation of an innovative financial structure. It Without prejudice to any situation s/he may deem serishould be noted that Grupo Brisa’s financial structure inous or urgent, the Ombudsman will provide a report on corporates the establishment of a risk hedging policy with his/ her activity to the Sustainability and Corporate Govits own risk management rules and guidelines, including, ernance Committee on a quarterly basis, including recomfor instance, a minimum ratio of fixed rate debt, the lack mendations suggested for each case completed during of significant non-hedged foreign exchange exposures, that quarter. as well as a minimum financial solidity level (according to 42 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Processes and recommendations referring to situations Under the terms of the law in force, performance appraisal that the Ombudsman considers to be serious or urgent of managers not belonging to the corporate bodies electshould be immediately notified to the Board of Directors. ed by the General Shareholders’ Meeting falls exclusively to the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors, according to its assessment of the result of the checks made within the scope of each However, the Board of Directors submitted the following process, and to the recommendations presented by the declaration for the appreciation of the Annual General Ombudsman, will decide to change the methods or proceMeeting of 2014: dures that it considers most convenient, whether to notify the competent authorities or any other measures that “Managing Staff are one of Brisa’s key assets and drivers it may consider most appropriate in each case. for achieving the company’s goals. Standing in hierarchic terms immediately below the board of directors, their task Following the appointment of the Ethics Ombudsman, Briis to put into practice the company’s main action plans, sa carried out a broad-based training program, covering 2 decentralizing, following up, motivating, and ultimately en387 employees of Brisa and of its sub-companies, in order suring that the goals are met in the exact terms laid down. to explain and clarify any doubts concerning the Code of Ethics and its application and the operation of the irreguIn this light, the Managing Staff should perform their dularities notification system. ties diligently and conservatively, in the company’s interest. Likewise, it is in the company’s interest that the The irregularities disclosure regulations were submitted Managing Staff may benefit from incentives to encourage in 2010 to the National Data Protection Commission for respective performances. approval, and which was approved by order on 30 October 2012. Given their relevant role in the development of the company’s global business, the Managing Staff are submitted to 1.14 One of the principles established in the Portuguese a complex and continuous assessment process, involving law for quite some time is that the remuneration of the three phases: fixing of goals, follow-up of respective exemanagement body falls exclusively to the General Meetcution and final assessment. ing that may delegate this duty to a Remuneration Committee. Assessment is made at two levels: skills shown and goals met. In 2010 a benchmark of skills carried out by external The annual General Meeting of 2014 appointed a Remuconsultants was established, covering all managing staff. neration Committee for the period 2014-2016, and apGoals were also reviewed, comprising corporate goals, a preciated a statement of this Committee on the criteria number of common economic and financial metrics and for determining the remuneration of the management individual goals. These figures are associated to perforbody. mance indexes, resulting in a matrix holding the performance of corporate goals on one axis and individual perAnother long-held principle in Portuguese Law is the Anformance on the other. To each combination of corporate nual General Meeting’s duty to appraise the performance and individual performance will correspond a specific of the management and audit bodies. amount of variable remuneration.” * A Declaração de cumprimento consta na íntegra no Relatório e Contas da Brisa 2015, disponível no site Brisa.pt BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 Direct Economic Value Generated Revenues 614 Direct Economic Value Distributed Remunerations 83 Payments to the State 76.5 Investment in Local Communities 0.63 Donations 0.48 Public Service 0.15 Operacional Cost 72.5 Direct Economic Value Retained Generated – Distributed 382.4 * Incluí Imposto sobre o rendimento, pagamentos a autarquias e outros impostos. 02 VECTORS SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 46 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economic performance € Material Topic Courses of Action Traffic and Toll Revenue Operational Efficiency Cash-Flow Risk Management Integrated Risk Management System Corporate Governance (See Corporate Governance) Brisa’s economic performance was positive in 2015, in-line and was reflected on the various economic and finanwith the progress witnessed in the two previous years cial performance indicators. Annual Average Daily Traffic (2013 and 2014) and focused on three key areas, namely: (AADT) recorded a growth over 2014, supported by the traffic solidity (cost management and cash flow generagrowth at Brisa Concessão Rodoviária (+7.0% vs. 2014) and tion); financial solidity (rating and refinancing); and the enat NWP (+12.4% vs. 2014). try of shareholding partners into BCR – Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, SA. In the particular case of Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT), in 2015, was of 17,368 vehiTraffic behaviour, a fundamental variable of the Group’s cles, which corresponds to a growth of 7% over 2014. This core business, accentuated the positive tendency already very positive traffic performance, the result of Portugal’s witnessed in 2014, in a macroeconomic recovery context, favourable macroeconomic environment, reveals that BCR’s FINANCIAL INFORMATION WWW road network, as well as the remainder national motorway The significant traffic growth network, is still experiencing a sustained recovery process impacted the consolidated operating of its demand levels. Circulation (kilometres travelled within the network) also increased by the same percentages, turnover, which grew by 6.8%, from as there were no changes made to the operating network the 575.7 million EURO recorded during the year. in 2014 to the 614.8 million EURO The significant traffic growth impacted the consolidated registered in 2015. operating turnover, which grew by 6.8%, from the 575.7 million EURO recorded in 2014 to the 614.8 million EURO registered in 2015. Brisa kept its focus on optimising and rationalising the cost base by means of several initiatives to increase productiviOne should also mention the growth in toll revenue, a rety and efficiency. Despite the significant increase in activity flex of a positive evolution in traffic figures within a recovery and revenue, the consolidated operating costs, excluding macroeconomic context that further accentuated the posamortisations and accruals, only increased by 1.0% to 164 itive tendency witnessed in 2014. Particularly noteworthy, million EURO, an increase that is primarily due to non-rein the total of consolidated operating returns, is the percurring costs. formance of toll revenue, which amounted to 498.5 million EURO, an increase of 35.2 million EURO year-on-year (+7.6%). Brisa’s operating result (EBITDA) was of 450.8 million EURO, and the EBITDA margin was 73.3%. The strong growth reAll other consolidated operating revenue is a result, primarcorded for toll revenue, together with the stabilisation of ily, of the associated road services, namely the selling and the operating costs, accounts for significant EBITDA and installation of toll equipment and the rents charged to the BITDA margin increases vs. 2014 (+9.1% or 37.5 million service areas. In 2015, this revenue amounted to 116.3 milEURO and +1.5 p.p., respectively). The group has managed, lion EURO, which represents an increase of 3.4% vs. 2014 therefore, to sustain a strong cash flow generation (EBITand a slight decrease of its import on the total operating DA-CAPEX) that reached 401.7 million EURO in 2015 vs. 377.2 revenue (from 20% to 19%). million EURO in 2014. 48 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Financial solidity loans) and requesting a new credit line with a three years’ maturity. These operations allowed BCR to end the year The Group’s financial solidity was recognised, in a reinwith 375 M€ in credit lines with an underwriting guarantee forced manner, in 2015, be it by the ratings assigned in that (all of them with top financial institutions), of which 300M€ year, be it by the Group’s ability to refinance itself throughare unapplied. out the year. BCR ended the year with a cash position of 228 M€ which, The ratings assigned to Brisa Concessão Rodoviária (BCR) together with the available credit lines, allows the company were “BBB” (Stable Outlook) by Fitch Ratings and “Baa3” to enjoy a very strong liquidity position, with all of its mid (Stable Outlook) by Moody’s. In January 2016, Fitch restatand long-term repayment of debt totally accounted for uned its “BBB” and “Stable Outlook” ratings to BCR. By the til 2017. end of 2015, the ratings assigned to BCR by both agencies were above the ones assigned by them to the Portuguese ENTRY OF SHAREHOLDING PARTNERS INTO BCR Republic: one level higher, for Moody’s, and two levels higher, for Fitch. This fact constitutes an acknowledgement In July 2015, Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. (BCR) inof the company’s financial solidity and of the protection formed the market about the alienation, in favour of severgranted to its creditors by BCR’s financial and contractual al Brazilian-Portuguese investors, of four blocks of shares structures. representing, in their entirety, 30% of the capital stock and voting shares pertaining to Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, As far as refinancing goes, in April 2015 BRC issued bonds SGPS, S.A., its only shareholder that holds, directly and as totalling 300 M€ and mature in 2025, and a coupon of sole shareholder, the totality of the BCR’s capital stock. 1.875% (the lowest coupon ever for a Portuguese company). On the same date, BCR bought and then cancelled 192.7 This alienation had no impact on BCR’s operational, strateM€ of the shareholding loan maturing in December 2016 gic and financial management, and affected in no manner (with a total amount of 600 M€). These operations allowed whatsoever the ring-fencing structure created for the proBCR to increase the maturity of its debt, lower its average tection of investors. cost and ensure greater financial flexibility. As a result of this operation, Brisa Auto-estradas de PorAdditionally, BCR renegotiated the terms of its two existtugal, S.A. will continue to have control of Brisa Concessão ing credit lines (extending their maturity, improving the fiRodoviária, SGPS, S.A. and remains the holder of 70% of its nancial terms and increasing the amount on one of those capital stock and voting shares. Rating of the BCR Agencies Rating Outlook Moody’s Baa3 (Stable Outlook) Fitch Ratings BBB (Stable Outlook) BCR ended the year with a cash position of 228 M€ which, together with the available credit lines, allows the company to enjoy a very strong liquidity position, with all of its mid and long-term repayment of debt totally accounted for until 2017. 50 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainable mobility Material Topic Courses of Action Active Traffic Management Intelligent management of Mobility Innovation (Technology, New Services, Solutions of Mobility) Customer Care Customer service Development of new solutions Monitoring of traffic accidents Road safety Investment in infrastructure Educational Program “Brisa in School” BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51 Sustainable mobility is a critical factor for cities’ management in a world where growing urbanization and the search for balanced development are fundamental. Mobility is increasingly becoming an essential requirement for both the improvement of peoples’ living hoods and overall economic growth. Sustainable mobility is a critical factor for cities’ manageIn this context, as a key player in the sustainable mobility ment in a world where growing urbanization and the search sector, Brisa has changed its positioning from an infrastrucfor balanced development are fundamental. Mobility is inture operator to a mobility solutions provider. This change creasingly becoming an essential requirement for both the at Brisa Group has been supported by its developments in improvement of peoples’ living hoods and overall economic fields such as active traffic management solutions, technolgrowth. ogy innovation and new mobility solutions, that have been tried and implemented, in the company’s domestic market Greenhouse gas emissions control, operative efficiency, reand abroad. sources management, behavioral change as well as a new regulatory framework are some of the factors that push forward towards a new approach to transportation and every mobility related services. Operational Coordination Centre Located in Carcavelos, at Brisa Group’s head-office camThe OCC coordinates the resources required for an active pus, the Operational Coordination Centre (OCC) centralizes traffic management, including assistance to road users and emergency and patrolling operations, providing protecsurveillance of traffic conditions. The OCC is also prepared tion, road assistance and information to road users. This to extend the provision of these services to future motorsupport is operated in strict collaboration with operational way networks. The OCC’s activity is backed by road telemcenters, all equipped with adequate means to take hold of atics equipment deployed throughout the network. local operations, as needed. MORE INFORMATION WWW 52 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT C CCTV Closed circuit TV 735 Cameras 80% Coverage of network Coordination of assistance system POS Radio C GPS Telephone VMP 207 Panel 72% Coverage of the Network Nº of Assistance & 707 500 900 Information 707 500 900 O Reception and Return: • Assistance | Rescue | Protection Meteorological stations Environmental Control 35 Stations Register Accident Data System Activation Traﬃc Information Emergency Telephone SOS 1455 Reception and Return Regular Operational Tests Tunnels Monitoring System Activation Traﬃc Information BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53 Today, there is a total of 207 variable message panels The OCC has access to a data base of all occurrences in (VMPs),that provide real-time information to drivers, and the network, which enables its statistical treatment and 735 video cameras, of which 537 belong to the Brisa conanalysis and thus contributes to the system’s continuous cession, which grants it coverage of around 80% of the improvement. total network. 1 455 SOS booths are deployed throughout this network to enable road users to request assistance In 2015, road patrol covered 12 233 706 km, equivalent to an when needed. The company has 35 meteorological staaverage daily coverage of 33 517 km, which included 115 719 tions to assess climate conditions throughout the network. interventions. This infrastructure allows Brisa Operação e Manutenção to gather all the necessary information to road operation, and in 2015 this was achieved with a 93% rate of independence from external means. Via Verde Via Verde is a toll payment system allowing non-stop elecThe Via Verde system is presently used in over 3,000 tronic toll payment by means of radio communication bekms of motorways and bridges, more than 119 car parks tween an on-board unit (OBU) and the roadside equipment and 109 petrol stations are fitted with the system, which (RSE).Via Verde Portugal operates and develops this Elechandles approximately 72,5% of toll transactions in Portronic Toll Collection system (ETC), with its primary focus tugal. on the national market. 54 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Via Verde has currently over 3 milliion users, and it has covPRODUCTS AND SERVICES ered more than 320 million toll transactions in road networks in 2015, with an 8% year to year growth. Currently there are about 995.000 With the additional car parks that use the Via Verde system, the number of electronic transactions in 2015 was customers registered at the over 13 million electronic which represents a 10% year to Customers Portal “My Via Verde”. year growth. In 2015, the Via Verde system became fully interoperable By the end of 2014, a multidisciplinar working group was crewith Spain, and it is foreseeable in the near future to achieve ated, with the name Oferta 2.0, with the objectives of bringinteroperability in all toll motorways in Spain and France. ing customer service to a higher level, creating a loyalty program aiming at improving demand and preparing a pack of 2015 was a year of evolution of its current business model, new services focused on people’s mobility needs. towards a more encompassing strategy based oin the mobility concept, with a focus on the Via Verde brand reposiA year later, in 2015, the project’s first phase was completed tioning. The brand has now a new image, a new logo, new with the creation of a new company, Via Verde Contact (VVC), services and a new digital ecosystem. A loyalty program with the mission to manage in na integrated manner the cusfor the Brisa Group, called Viagens & Vantagens, was antomer contact áreas (including Mcall), and with the creation other launch with the purpose of promoting the use of the of Verde Serviços, a new company designed to manage Brifull range of Via Verde’s services. sa’s loyalty programme dedicated to Via Verde customers. VIA VERDE WWW BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 Via Verde services include the processing of Via Verde transTRAFFIC ALERTS actions, the maintenance of Via Verde’s data base, contracts management, the sale of products and services, technical Since last November, an alerts service has been made availassistance to customers, attendance management, and the able at www.viaverde.pt to Brisa’s motorway network cuscontrol and recovery of revenues. tomers. This new service allows drivers to subscribe free of charge traffic alerts for their daily routes. These alerts can With the creation of the new digital ecossystem (web and be segmented by motorway, substretch, direction, and also social media channels), Via Verde customer has now a new by time, enabling an enhanced time management. mobility related experience and a set of new functionalities integrated in a new dedicated area called “My Via Verde”. It is Up to this time, these functionalities were available at Brisa.pt. worth mentioning the simplification of the online registration, which allows the customer to do simple tasks online such as buying a tag, have access to an online account report, or ordering na urgent delivery of a tag in 48 hours. In 2015, Via Verde has started to develop the VVM Project (VVM standing for Via Verde Mobility). This project’s scope is about transforming Via Verde from an electronic fee collection system into a new mobility service, able to pay all mobility modes, from transit transportation to táxis. In addition, VVM Project also plans to address the integration of street parking in the mobility system, responding by this to customers’ expectations. CUSTOMER INFORMATION Aware of the fact that traffic information has a fundamental role in drivers’ daily life, a Brisa has upgraded its communications channels in order to provide easy, reliable and relevant access to all available information. Brisa provides free of charge to all drivers a set of tools and digital solutions which contribute to enhance service and road safety levels. This is possible due to the active traffic management infrastructure implemented by Brisa and managed at its OCC. In November 2015, according to Brisa’s new strategic positioning, Via Verde has become the group’s commercial brand, and a set of new corporate structures has been set. Via Verde Contact has been created to centralize customer attendance and information, in a successful and seamless transition from the previous model. Brisa has upgraded its communications channels in order to provide easy, reliable and relevant access to all available information. 56 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TRAFFIC TOOLS WWW VIA VERDE APP In 2015, Via Verde launched a new mobile app that provides its users with a set of funcionalities essential to manage their relationship with the company, such as vehicle license WEBSITE WWW.VIAVERDE.PT plate changes, change of address or transactions control. This app has already reached 130.000 and it is available for All information about the motorways network operated by iOS and Android platforms. Brisa O&M is available, since November, for PC, tablet and mobile phones. This data was previously available at Brisa’s On PC, tablet or mobile phone, Via Verde provides traffic website (www.Brisa.pt). information, with real time streaming, real time information service about traffic conditions, works, weather conditions, Via Verde website and its mobile version have received a total hazards or any other constraints to traffic, network inforof 854.000 pageviews, equivalente to 2340 daily pageviews. mation and a listing of services available to the road user. The website is a customer dedicated platform with nearly Combined, the Via Verde website and the Via Verde app one million customers are registered. had 5 million visitors in 2015. AVAILABLE TO DOWNLOAD Together, Via Verde website and Via Verde App, registered 5 milion visits in 2015. 58 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT VIA VERDE CUSTOMER SUPPORT – 707 500 900 lets provide a complete service for all matters related with the Via Verde service, easily and quickly. During 2015, these Since November 2015m the two linhas de atendimento (Via stores attended 711.691 persons. Verde and Brisa) were merged into a single one, with the purpose of simplifying access to customer service. Besides the Via Verde service, the outlets located within the Brisa concession also serve Brisa O&M and the cliThe single number for assistance and information is a preents of 4 concessionaires operated by Brisa O&M – Brisa, ferred tool to communicate with customers. It concentrates Douro Litoral and Brisal and the Litoral Oeste subconall the available information about the motorway network cession. and it is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Besides being a direct information channel for the customer about WRITTEN COMMUNICATION traffic conditions, it can also be used to ask for road assistance, to provide customer support to Via Verde customers The customer’s opinion is fundamental for the Brisa Group as well as to respond to any questions or claims related to and we therefore value all contributions that can improve the the Via Verde service. 124.409 calls were received in 2015. conditions of safety, circulation and comfort on our motorways. TELEVISION In this regard, the customer has a wide range of means of Brisa’s circuit of cameras provides information in real time contact available, ranging from the shops, the website, e-mail, to Correio da Manhã TV. letter, fax and the RSF forms available in the toll gates. VIA VERDE OUTLETS In 2015, around 30.098 communications were processed by the Operational Management Service in Brisa O&M CustomIn 2015, face-to-face customer service was available in ers Department. VVP’s outlets located throughout the country. These outAs a consequence of what has been already mentioned, all customer service provided from November onwards has been subcontracted to the new dedicated company, Via Verde Contact. Mcall Mcall is a Brisa Group company that provides dynamic Contact Centre services, with a remote multi-channel attendance, via telephone, electronic mail, SMS, Fax and the Internet. The range of services delivered by the company has been developed in order to keep pace with both people’s changes in behavior and the technological evolution in the sector, in order to provide its clients an updated and upgraded pack of services. In 2015, a new Customer Attendance Platform was implemented through the aggregation of all the above mentioned services. Mcall has kept a stern focus on the excellence of attendance standards, the creation of new services and on the continuous improvement of first contact resolution, in order to deliver a complete and efficient service. The total number of interactions of the contact centre in 2015 was 5.016. 934, with a growth of 5% over 2014. In 2015, a new Customer Attendance Platform was implemented through the aggregation of all the above mentioned services Service areas hired to carry out Food Quality and Hygiene audits and Mystery Customer visits in the service areas in the network Throughout the networks operated by Brisa O&M, there operated by Brisa. are 27 Service areas, located at an average distance of about 40 km apart. The management and maintenance The management of the Service Areas pays an increasingly of these units are the responsibility of the oil companies sharper focus on the quality of the service provided and on contracted as sub-concessionaires, and who in turn may customer satisfaction. For this reason, as from 2010 Brisa subcontract other partners for the direct and specific mandecided to award a Service Quality Prize, which rewards the agement of some of the services, always with the superviperformance and customer service quality provided by each sion and approval of the concessionaire. Service Area in the Brisa network and encouraging their continuous improvement. The prizes awarded in a year are Although the operation of service areas is the direct rebased on the performance of the Service Area in the previsponsibility of oil companies, Brisa pays close attention to ous year with regard to Food Quality and Hygiene, Mystery ensure that this obligation is met, periodically and consistCustomer, Complaints received and infrastructures. ently reviewing the running conditions of infrastructures and service levels. In this regard an external company is In 2015, prizes were awarded to 6 service areas. 60 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customer satisfaction of the Águas Santas / Ermesinde sub-stretch on the A4 – Porto / Amarante motorway also awarded in 2014, started Monthly customer surveys are conducted in order to imin the 3rd quarter of 2015. plement specific measures to improve service levels in contact channels In 2015, the average global level of customer satisfaction in each of the services analysed (on a scale from 1 to 4) was positive: Conservation of the network ›› Call Line for Assistance and Information: 3.3 At road maintenance level, in addition to various specific ›› Roadside assistance: 3.71 interventions made, the following improvement and pavement works were completed, totalling 57km in length: ›› sub-stretch Espinho / Carvalhos, on the A1; 45 million euros invested ›› toll plaza of the Coina Junction and A6 Junction / Alin infrastructure development cácer do Sal sub-stretch, on the A2; ›› Santo Tirso / Famalicão (S/N) and EN201 / Ponte de Sustainable development presupposes the existence of Lima Norte sub-stretches, on the A3; quality infrastructures which, in Brisa’s case, act as cata›› Oeiras / Carcavelos sub-stretch, on the A5; lysts for regional mobility, through the promotion of acces›› Ançã / Zombaria sub-stretch, on the A14. sibility with high levels of safety and comfort. Four viaducts Arapouco, Albergaria and Burgão, on the Although operating in an adverse macroeconomic context, A2, and Zável on the A6 and various hydraulic crossings Brisa invested in its main concession, helping to create evon the A3 and A14 underwent repair and structural reinident improvements in customer service, and helping to forcement works. improve productivity and competitiveness in the regions where it operates. On the Leiria Junction and A9, works concerned the maintenance of slopes. As of 31 December 2015 various paveThe direct investment in the network under concession toment improvement works (Ermesinde Junction and EN335 talled 45,1 M€, mostly allocated to road improvement and / Ançã sub-stretch), as well as slopes and engineering road surface reinforcement works. Considered here as an works were under way on the A1, A2 and A9. investment, the value of major repairs is considered in the accounts as an operating cost. Tenders are under way for pavement improvement and reinforcement works on the A2 and A6, covering approxiLane widening works in various sub-stretches went ahead mately 38 km in length. as planned, as established in the concession contract. In 2015 BCR inspected its road infrastructure on a regular The contract for the widening and improvement works to basis, monitoring pavements, slopes and containment struc2x3 lanes of the Carvalhos / Santo Ovídeo sub-stretch on tures and other works. The resulting information will be used the A1, started in the 3rd quarter of 2014, continued under in improvement, reinforcement and stabilisation projects. way during 2015. During the 2nd half of the year acoustic barriers were inThe contract for the design/construction of the New North stalled on the Carregado / Aveiras de Cima sub-stretch (A1) Tunnel of Águas Santas, included in the widening works and Baltar / Guilhufe sub-stretches (A4). 62 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Road safety in 2015 ›› Rate of traffic accidents = 21,92% ›› Rate of accidents involving death = +15,38% At Brisa, the safety of its motorway network is a priority ›› Rate of accidents involving serious injury = +22,21% materialized through rigorous policies in fields such as ac›› Rate of accidents involving minor injury = 16,46% tive traffic management, maintenance and operation of the ›› Index of traffic accidents = 13,41% network and information and communication campaigns. ›› Mortality rate = +9,05% Among the actions that are undertaken it is worth to high›› Rate of serious injury = +32,95% light the motorways’ improvement and widenings works. ›› Rate of minor injury = 10,69% These investments aim to improve driving conditions, increase the number of lanes on stretches subject to road Nonetheless, this positive trend on road safety, which is widening works as well as the retrofitting of road signals an outcome of a continuous investment in solutions and and road equipments. systems, is counterbalanced by the negative trend of road accidents seriousness, which is expressed by an increase 2015 road safety performance at Brisa Concessão Roin the number of fatalities and serious injuries. Human bedoviária was overall positive, with a significant decrease in havior seems to be the factor to be addressed to respond core indicators such as the rate of traffic accidents (-22%), to this later challenge. the traffic accidents index (-13%), in a year of strong traffic growth (+7%). All the indicators were calculated in accordance with the Glossary of APCAP’s Road Safety Statistical Directory. This is why Brisa will keep its commitment to road safety and Rate of Traffic accidents = Total no. of Accidents / Km travelled (108 Vehicle *km) increase its endeavor to promote Rate of Accidents involving victims (Traffic Accidents Index) = a road safety culture that helps to Accidents involving victims / Km travelled (108 Vehicle * km) save lives. EVOLUTION OF THE RATE OF TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS 2015 50 32,11 40 2014 30 41,13 20 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 10 39,51 0 Rate of Traffic accidents = Total no. of Accidents / Km travelled (108 Vehicle * km) 64 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BRISA AT THE SCHOOL PROJECT 10TH ANNIVERSARY ROAD SAFETY FIRST In its 10th year, the Road Safety First programme is an experience based either on visits to one the Group’s Operative Centers, or on the Programme’s visit to a school or set of schools. Both options are a circuit through different basic notions, from an explanation and experimentation of children’s retainement systems, to the contact of road signs and to the direct contact with the orad assistance’s vehicles and crew. The purpose of this programme is to stimulate the children’s interest and commitment to road safety best practices, in a playful and educational experience. ENVIRONMENT FIRST BRISA NAS ESCOLAS WWW Besides Road Safety, Environment and Biodiversity are strategic activity areas for Brisa. The company strives to achieve a positive global balance for its impact on biodiBrisa has a long track record as a key private player in road versity. The Environment First is a project belonging to the safety in Portugal, with a strong focus on the creation of Brisa Educational Program and aims to promote these isa road safety culture in the country and on the younger sues. One of the project's initiatives is the organisation of groups of the population. To the general public, Brisa inschool visits to the EVOA – Bird Observation and Visitation vests in mass media road safety campaigns. To the youngSpace, at the Lezíria of Vila Franca de Xira, 35 km away from er generations, Brisa has a specific programme directed Lisbon. These visits promote awareness of biodiversity isto children in primary school, launched for the first time, in sues and the importance of natural habitats through the 2005, and targeting children from 6 to 10 years old. observation (both real and virtual) of birds right in the middle of the Natural Reserve of the Tagus Estuary.The project The purpose of this project is to respond to the road safety is aimed at all primary education schools, as well as the stueducation needs of younger generations, through actions dent's families and the teachers' community. that bring children in contact with key notions about their own road safety. In 2013, the programme was updated with new contents, new materials, and the opening of the programme to environmental themes. In the school year of 2014/2015, the programme engaged with 293 schools, 20.360 students and 1.132 teachers, ensuring the continuity of Brisa’s commitment to road safety education. Primeira Primeira 2014/2015 a Segurança o Ambiente Nº of Visitors 245 48 Nº of Students 18 560 1800 Nº of Teachers 970 162 EVOA WWW BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65 BRISA STUDENT DRIVE CAMP BRISA STUDENT DRIVE CAMP WWW Brisa Student Drive Camp is a new initiative directed to a different audience, integrated in a national project that elects a city each and every year as Roa Safety Capital for After its presence in Aveiro, in 2015, Brisa Student Drive the Young. Camp 2016 will be a key event of Leiria Capital Jovem da Segurança Rodoviária, a partnership of Brisa, Leiria City CounThe programme includes different activities that aim to cil, Fórum Estudante and Leiria’s Polytechnical Institute. give secondary school students a special contact with driving and cars, and raising their awareness about road safety best practices and behavior. The programme is a result of a partnership between Brisa and Forum Estudante, and it ultimately aims at developing a network of road safety ambassadors all over the country. National road safety statistics support the relevance of this subject among younger people. It is a fact that road accidents with young people have been decreasing, but 3 out of 10 accidents kills or injures people less than 25 years old. Accidents in weekends are responsible for 40% of fatalities and serious injuries in drivers between 18 and 24 years old. And half of the total number of killed or injured people at this age are victims of off the road accidents. Brisa Student Drive Camp Aveiro 2015 66 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DON’T USE YOUR MOBILE WHEN YOU DRIVE IMPACT LESSON CAMPAIGN In the summer of 2015, Brisa launched a campaign to preRoad accidents are the leading cause of death and serious vent one of the most recente causes of road accidents: the injuries to young people up to 24 years. An unavoidable use of mobile phones when driving. and alarming fact that is urgent to reach the awareness of drivers and candidates for drivers in this age group. The campaign had the endorsement of ANSR (Autoridade Nacional de Segurança Rodoviária, the national road safety For this reason, Brisa decided to launch a new communicaagency), and support from mobile phone operators MEO, tion campaign and sensitization addressed to young drivNOS and Vodafone, with the theme: “Não use o telemóvel ers in order to increase their awareness for safe driving. enquanto conduz” (Don’t use your mobile when you drive). The campaign is called Impact Lesson and is the product of a partnership with Leo Burnett, the Salvador Association, The campaign used images from logos of some the most the Infante Driving School Restelo and Tita Driving School. used mobile apps, destroyed in off the road accidents and colisions in a motorway scenery. The message was split in The campaign premiered on March 2016, on social netthree themes SMS, e-mail and mobile phone calls – and works and other digital media, in addition to Brisa website, supported by statistics. The steering wheel icone over the and has 5 online videos documenting the first practical lesmobile phone was used as prohibition symbol, and it will be son of young people who are taking the driving license. But used in some of the group’s road signs. more than driving class, these young people are surprised with a life lesson. Today we know that using your mobile phone while driving multiplies the chance of accidents occurring by a factor of It is at this context that the Impact Lesson, a project that 23. Portugal has one the world's highest figures regarding meets the future drivers even before they are drivers. the use of mobile phones while driving: The students had their first driving lesson in which they ›› 31% of Portuguese people admit to sending and were faced with real situations with serious and striking reading SMS messages while driving; consequences. This lesson had the support of Sarah, of Peter, of John and Bruno, serious accident survivors who ›› 59% of the Portuguese admit to talking on the described to students the real effects, often fatal and often phone while driving, which makes Portugal one of avoidable, from dangerous driving. the worst examples when it comes to use of phones while driving. As an example, the percentage in the The Impact Lesson is increasing the action of Brisa for the United Kingdom 20%. promotion of road safety, namely the creation of a road safety culture. Therefore, the Safe Summer Campaign aimed to raising awareness among Portuguese families of the real risk of using mobile phones while driving. IMPACT LESSON WWW Road Safety Campaign Impact Lesson 68 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WBCSD ›› To support the decision-making process that follows concerning the best solutions to adopt, there Sustainable Mobility Project 2 is a toolbox that identifies, describes and organizes the technological and other types of solutions that Sustainable Mobility Project 2 (SMP2) is an initiative of the are already available on the market for application, World Business Council for Sustainable Development, with among 300 solutions, and dynamically classifies the commitment of 15 of its member companies, led Brisa, them according to the priorities which a given city Ford and Toyota, which aims at responding to the sustainproposes to address. In this way, cities gain a robust able urban mobility challenges cities and metropolitan arprocess that will help them to draw up a roadmap or eas have to face. strategic mobility plans; The project had a duration of three years (2013-2015) and ›› A “catalog” of funding options, which works in the its main focus was to develop a methodology to support same environment as the solution finder. design, development and implementation of urban mobility plans, with positive impacts in four fundamental dimenThe project tested this methodology in collaboration with 6 sions – environment, economics, social and mobility system cities Lisbon, Hamburg, Campinas, Chengdu, Indore, Bangperformance. kok -, which agreed to get involved in the project, in order to calibrate the respective components, and to have a tool The methodology combines the following componentes: that can be replicated in other cities, in other countries. ›› The diagnostics are based on 19 indicators, which The project’s partners are: BMW, Bridgestone, BP, Brisa, cover topics as “Global Environment”, “Economic Daimler, Deutsche Bahn, Fujitsu, Ford, Honda, Michelin, NisSuccess”, “Quality of Life” and “Performance of the san, Pirelli, Toyota, Volkswagen. Mobility System”. The result of the application of these indicators to a city, or metropolitan area, helps to define objectives, of progress and of improvement, and to objectively and quantitatively substantiate the respective priorities; “Mobility that contributes towards sustainable development through the improvement of the circulation of people and goods, without sacrifice from future generations (minimization of traffic accidents, reduction of the environment impacts and of the use of natural resources), with differentiated options that best address mobility requirements (safe, reliable, comfortable, fast, viable, etc.) and allow their free choice by users based on adequate information”. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69 70 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Environment Material Topic Courses of Action System of Environmental Management Indicator of eco-efficiency Eco-efficiency and Environmental Management Environmental objectives Energy efficiency projects Biodiversity Brisa’s Biodiversity Program System of indicators for sustainable mobility Climate Change EVOA Project Masters and other studies BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71 Environmental Policy of Brisa Group The Environmental Policy of Brisa Group aims, esTo adopt eco-efficient techniques and management sentially, at raising the awareness and commitment models that foster the optimisation of the usage of of all the collaborators of its organs/companies natural resources, and the lowering and prevention to the adoption of environmental management of the environmental impact inherent to group’s acbest practices, and to promote their adherence to tivity, and that contribute to increase environmental goal-oriented environmental management. performance and pollution prevention; The promotion of environmental quality – in the To integrate the opportunities and risks associated development of its business and operations in the with the environmental dimension of the business internal and external markets – is a primary goal in the group’s risk management policies; for the Grupo Brisa, together with profit growth and social betterment, by way of a continuous improveTo optimise the management of waste produced ment in processes and an integrated management the group’s activity, namely via a continuous develof risks and innovation, with the purpose of creating opment of a policy focused on reducing, reusing and value for all stakeholders. recycling of said waste; To achieve that, and by deploying the current EnviTo integrate the protection of ecosystems and bironmental Policy, the Grupo Brisa is committed to odiversity in the group’s everyday’s processes, as incorporate in its operational targets, in its projects well as to promote the increase in value of the serand actions, as well as in its procedures and techvices to the ecosystems, by way of partnerships niques, the following principles and guidelines: that promote and manage the natural heritage; To promote the group’s values for environmental To develop business solutions that address the matters, leading all collaborators to comply with challenges and opportunities in climate change, the values and principles consigned in the Code of namely by developing techniques, services and sysEthics, the applicable legislation and all relevant regtems that promote sustainable mobility and, comulations and, moreover, of the environmental, qualplementarily, by supporting scientific research and ity and innovation procedures that the group has actions that raise public awareness; adopted; To promote the adoption by the group’s vendors, To invest in the development and continuous imnamely on a contractual level, of the best practices provement of the group’s ability to apply environin environmental management; mental management to the operation and maintenance of motorways, as well as in the incorporation To guarantee the external disclosure, by way of a of environmental management in any future evoluduly audited report, of the evolution of environmention of the business model and of the group’s activtal performance of the business, in a three-way perity, thereby contributing to an environmentally-fospective of openness, transparency and accountacused planning and management of the territory. bility before all stakeholders. 72 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental Management System The prevention and lowering of environmental impact and lution of this system was the development of metrics and risks are a well-established practice at Brisa, particularly in the systematisation and centralisation of the fundamenthe founding aspects of its activity: projecting and buildtal information about the Group’s environmental manageing motorways and their respective operation and mainment, defined and implemented in 2009. The Eco-Efficiency tenance. Index and the Sustainability Management Information System that supports it is the result of this action. In time, and seconding the evolution of scientific knowledge about these subjects, Brisa’s environmental management The work carried out by Brisa within the scope of the Sussystem has been addressing new themes and matching tainable Mobility Project 2.0, by WBCSD, is the precursor of new criteria, aiming at operational eco-efficiency, as well as a broader action and vision, by the company, of all aspects that of support activities. A strategic leverage for the evoof Mobility environmental management. PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 Project Building Operation 1. Coordination of environmental ›› Specification of environmental ›› Execution of general environmental studies / projects criteria monitoring plans 2. Minimization measures: ›› Ongoing environmental training ›› Monitoring of wildlife ›› noise reduction ›› Implementation of an ›› Monitoring of flora ›› water runoff treatment environmental management ›› Cleaning campaigns systems system ›› Control of the growth and planting ›› landscaping ›› Environmental monitoring of of tree and bush species ›› wildlife crossings contract works by teams of Brisa ›› Control of infesting and invasive 3. Environmental monitoring: and of the contractor species ›› surface water ›› Environmental monitoring ›› Preventive action against the ›› noise ›› Archaeological monitoring propagation of forest fires ›› fauna ›› Integration and recovery of the ›› Installation of acoustic barriers ›› flora landscape of all the areas affected ›› Landscape integration projects 4. Draw up a Procedure Manual ›› Environmental audits 5. Stakeholder involvement in the ›› Installation of acoustic barriers project 6. Incorporation of minimization measures in the project BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 73 Eco-efficiency Indicator CHALLENGES TO ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Brisa maintained its effort and ongoing improvement work After the major impact felt in 2013 by the inclusion of the related with its respective environmental performance BCI (Brisa Conservação de Infraestruturas – Brisa Infrathat it started in 2009, when it set objectives for five critstructure Conservation), one sees that in 2015 Brisa’s enical areas: electricity consumption, fuel consumption, wavironmental performance is positive, as it was in 2014, with ter consumption, waste production and greenhouse gas energy efficiency and environmental gains. emissions. This improvement in the overall performance, reflected in In the last five years, Brisa has managed to achieve the the Eco-efficiency indicator, should be interpreted as a sign global objective of implementing more efficient systems that the work undertaken so far needs to be continued and procedures to manage the main consumptions and and that variations should be interpreted and looked at as impacts of its activity. a management tool. ECO-EFFICIENCY INDICATOR 24,1 2015 5,3% 15,6 2014 7,1% 3,7 7,1 5,3 2013 -1,9% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 -1,9 The environmental indicators presented are the basis for the calculation of the organization’s eco-efficiency indicator. This indicator measures the creation of value by the organization, measured by its activity – number of km operated – against the environmental impacts arising from it – in this case accounted by the consumption of water, electricity, the generation of waste and GHG emissions. Eco-efficiency = Value of the product or service / Environmental impact = no. kms operated / (electricity consumption + water consumption + generation of waste + GHG emissions) In 2015, the eco-efficiency indicator recorded a positive performance of 5,3%, after five consecutive years with gains in eco-efficiency, followed by a negative indicator in 2013 due to the inclusion of the BCI in the Brisa Group’s consolidated information. In 2015, the positive trend verified in the five previous years was maintained, with consistent progress in terms of eco-efficiency, reinforcing the organization’s and its employees’ increasing alignment with the values of efficiency. This positive indicator, simultaneously economic and ecological, is a good reason to believe that Brisa will continue with the same level of commitment in the following years. 74 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ELECTRICITY 126.8 122.6 116.5 113.8 2015 101.9 101.7 101.7 2014 101.9 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 113.8 Electricity Consumption [103GJ] Between 2010 and 2015, electricity consumption by the Brisa group recorded a 20% reduction, thereby justifying the decision taken, since 2009, to monitor and centralise all environmental information, reinforcing the group’s excellence in energy efficiency initiatives. FUEL 101.7 99.7 2015 97.8 90.2 95.0 93.0 2014 95.0 90.2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 97.8 Fuel Consumption [103GJ] Fuel consumption recorded a decrease of 11% over the last five years, despite the 2013 increase caused by the integration of BCI’s automobile fleet. It was therefore possible, by increased operational efficiency and the positive impact of the fleet management measures taken by Group, to return to the savings’ cycle, noticeable since 2010. GHG EMISSIONS 2015 18.4 18.4 14.5 16.4 16.3 14.9 14.5 2014 14.9 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 18.4 GHG Emissions [103tCO2 eq] In Brisa’s case, greenhouse gas emissions result from the company’s consumption of electricity and from the fuel consumption of its automobile fleet. From 2010 till 2015 a 20% decrease in emissions was recorded, due to an increase in electricity and fuel consumption efficiency. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 75 WATER 186.5 2015 170.6 92.8 140.6 124.0 2014 92.9 92.8 92.9 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 124.0 Water Consumption [103m3] Water consumption due to the group’s activity decreased by 50% between 2010 and 2015. This is the result of a transversal policy of adopting new technologies, changing behaviours related to the usage of water by the company and to the last several years’ favourable weather conditions. WASTE 1832 2015 743 1078 1076 2014 826 862 862 743 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 826 Waste [t] Over the last three years, the production of waste has stabilised and started to display the results expected by the group as a result of its increasingly efficient waste management. Waste from the operation and maintenance of the motorway network is gathered and stored in the Operational Centres all over the Country. Its disposal by entities qualified for that purpose is requested only when justified by its accumulation. This procedure means that there may be years without waste production being recorded, just because no waste had to be removed. On the other hand, in other years very high values may be recorded, which does not mean that more waste has been produced, but rather that it was disposed of in that same year. To invest in the development and continuous improvement of the group’s ability to apply environmental management to the operation and maintenance of motorways, as well as in the incorporation of environmental management in any future evolution of the business model and of the group’s activity, thereby contributing to an environmentally-focused planning and management of the territory. 76 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Projetos de eficiência energética CLIMATE CHANGE Brisa is aware that the global issue Brisa’s response has been focused on making a detailed and comprehensive inventory of its greenhouse gas (GHG) of climate change indirectly affects emissions, both direct and indirect, and on establishing long the company’s business, and that term quantitative targets in order to limit these emissions. In order to improve its knowledge of the risks and opporit will have an increasing impact in tunities for the organization, the Group has participated in the medium and long terms. projects and studies on the topic of climate change. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77 MOTORWAYS’ LIGHTING EFFICIENCY STUDY “...from 2013 till 2020, 19,000 lighting With the intended goal of increasing the efficiency of its resource management, Brisa deployed an energy efficiency points are expected to be changed system in parts of its motorway lighting grid, thereby conacross the whole motorway network.” tributing to significantly reduce the related power costs and environmental responsibility. BRISA DRIVING ACADEMY (BDA) This project required an investment of 1 million EURO and is based on changing the exterior lighting fixtures and Brisa’s BDA driving project started in 2011 with training thereby allowing an annual saving of around 275 M€ on tasks aimed at improving the attitude and behaviour of the electricity consumption alone. With an estimated duration company’s drivers by providing them with theoretical and of eight years, from 2013 till 2020, 19,000 lighting points practical tools that enabled them to drive more safely and are expected to be changed across the whole motorway ethically, as well as being ecologically and savings oriented, network. and thereby create a driving culture across all aspects of their personal and professional lives in agreement with the In 2015, BCR followed through with its electronic ballasts’ new paradigms for road mobility. project and installed around 2300 units, having already placed electronic ballasts in around 59% of the existing lighting fixtures. This project also includes the placement of new bulbs to achieve maximum energy efficiency by way of the luminous flux variations allowed by these ballasts. In 2015, the pace of the electronic ballasts’ replacement was kept, thereby ensuring the continuity of energy efficiency increases; however, there was no lowering of consumption due to the increase in recovered lighting fixtures. TELEMATICS PROJECT This project consists of the installation of solar energy panels as a power source for the telematics equipment available throughout the network and focuses particularly those places where access to the power grid is not possible. In In 2015, no energy savings related to this project were cal2015 there were no new installations, and the existing deculated, but the group is quite certain that the savings in ployed equipment, powered by alternative energy sources, fuel consumption were boosted by this project and by othnamely solar, was kept. er specific initiatives deployed at the level of Brisa’s automobile fleet. This project ensures energy efficiency via alternative power sources usage, without the need to resort to electrical powMEASURES APPLIED BY FLEET MANAGEMENT er obtained from the grid. Brisa’s Fleet Management has undertaken several measNWPY SOLAR PROJECT ures and programmes that take place simultaneously and across several subject matters. The Solar Project of the NWPY concession is based on a power purchase agreement (a.k.a. PPA) with Solture EnIn 2015 we continued to optimise the management of the ergy Capital. This agreement has been established for a number of vehicles in the fleet, their age-tiering profile, enperiod of twenty years and covers the installation, operagine downsizing and power source distribution (fossil fuel tion and maintenance of solar panels, on seven sites, with a engines vs. electric vehicles), training provided by BDA tartotal installed capacity of 62 kW. geted to safety awareness and behavioural changes, participation in the deployment of the power consumption raThe system has been 100% operational since June of 2011. tionalisation plan, all were assuredly contributors to make In 2015, 94,406 Kwh of energy were generated, that is: 340 Brisa more environmentally sustainable. GJ. 78 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT At BO&M, one of the largest fleet users (around 36% of all all with HC 22 KVA and 7.4 KVA. Each freighter has got a vehicles), the management measures were: power meter and RFID beds. IMPLEMENTATION OF MEASURE M1 A consumption registration process for these vehicles is currently being implemented. Description ›› 28 new AR van units (6 Ford and 22 VW) are already Implementation of a process that allows, in good time, prepared for lower CO2 emissions; in 2016 13 new VW the collection and validation of consumption and units have already been purchased. mileage figures per vehicle (in litres and kilometres). ›› Aerodynamics study for the Variable Messages’ Panel for the new AR Van models; to be tested. Specific listings for the calculation of the fleet’s mileage were devised, the completion of which is forecasted for the In the case of BCI (totalling 5.5% of the fleet’s vehicles), the first quarter of 2016. With these tools, one expects a friendbelow measures were presented: lier monitoring of fuel consumption. IMPLEMENTAÇÃO DA MEDIDA M1 IMPLEMENTATION OF MEASURE M2 Description Description Training tasks in Eco-driving. Training tasks in Eco-driving. ›› In the case of BCI more collaborators were trained in In the case of BO&M, more than 37 collaborators were Eco-driving (Academy Level I). Since the beginning trained (29% of the total of trainees) in Eco-driving (Acadof the programme, the BCI has got 179 collaborators emy Level I). trained in economy, safety, social & environmental sustainability. Since the beginning of the programme (September 2011), the BO&M (Brisa Operação e Manutenção – Operation & IMPLEMENTATION OF MEASURE M2 Maintenance) has got 436 collaborators trained in economy, safety, social & environmental sustainability. Description Renovation of the breakdown lorry fleet. IMPLEMENTATION OF MEASURE M3 Description ›› In 2015, a heavy vehicle replacement plan was also devised; it is to be fully implemented by 2018 and the Downsizing of engines from 1.5, 1.6 and 1.7 litres to replacement pace is two units per year. Older vehicles 1.4 litres – Motoring harmonisation. are prioritised. Actions proceeded according to plan, and vehicles assigned THE MOST RECENT ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECTS ARE: to AR Senior Staff were affected and are all on their way of reassignment to 1.4 motoring. LED Lighting IMPLEMENTATION OF MEASURE M4 In 2016, Brisa will start deploying LEDs for public lighting on an experimental basis, at a CREL Node/Toll, to evaluate Description the energy efficiency that one hopes translates into the following advantages: Studying of alternatives (brand/model/motoring) and assorted technical and technological improvements. ›› Environmental improvements, the LED light does not emit infrared or ultraviolet rays; ›› Kick-starting of the purchasing process (due in February of 2016) of eight additional units, all 100% ›› Environmental improvements, the LEDs are recyclable; electric (VW eup.) Said vehicles are to be assigned to groups in P. Lima + Maia + Coina + Almodôvar + ›› Environmental improvements; lower CO2 emissions, Carcavelos + Loures. A small network of freighters was avoids the emission of ~33 tons/year; also kick-started at the farthest ends of this network, 80 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ›› Robustness, LEDs are built with semiconductors and ›› Calculation and presentation of energy costs. are therefore shock-resistant; Besides these initiatives, two services worth mentioning ›› Luminous flux, hardly any changes in luminance from that improve energy efficiency from the use of the infracontinuous usage; structures by clients are Via Verde and Via Mais Verde: ›› Cost reduction, very low power requirements; Via Verde ›› Cost reduction, very low maintenance; Via Verde is an electronic payment system which automatically debits the user’s bank account with the toll amount ›› Cost reduction, allows the reduction in the subscribed corresponding to the distance travelled. power demand with the power providing company. Having developed and applied this product for over 24 Energy Measurement and Management System years, Brisa has proven its technological capabilities and has contributed to increased environmentally-friendly and In 2015, Brisa implemented at the Brisa CAMPUS a system energy efficient mobility. comprised of equipment (modules and sensors) and software that allow the monitoring of energy feeding and conBy avoiding the slowing down and speeding up of vehicles sumption, with the following advantages: at the toll barriers, Via Verde contributes to fewer emissions and at the same time to greater energy efficiency, ›› Managing and optimising of the power grid by identifythanks to a better use of fuel. ing the most demanding charges and detecting unexpected electrical values; Reduction in energy consumption ›› More efficient maintenance, which translates into a betAccording to the independent study Measuring and Modelter and bigger energy efficiency by means of verifying ling Emission Effects for Toll Facilities, the use of Via Verde the quality of the energy provided and, thereby, foresee significantly reduces greenhouse gas emissions, namely more easily and in advance, any possible power cuts; CO and CO2 emissions, by 60% and 40%, respectively. This reduction is a direct consequence of lower fuel consump›› The possibility of monitoring several circuits from a sintion by vehicles. gle workstation; Throughout 2015, 195,507,886 transactions were recorded ›› The possibility of real time measurement and history in Brisa’s motorway network, which represents a growth logging of tension values, current, potency factor e harof 6% vs. the figure recorded in the previous year, thereby monic distortion rates (HDT); contributing to a decrease in greenhouse gas emissions. The distribution across the three types of tracks was as This system, known as DIRIS DIGIWARE, the precision of which follows: is in compliance with the IEC 61557-12 and ISO 14025 standards and regulations, allows accurate energy management decision making due to its monitoring and analysis features: 2 14, % ›› Measurements’ and consumptions’ history; ›› Alarms for surcharges, events and changes in the grid; 13,3% ›› Distribution of consumptions by area, usage, service and period; ›› Identification of opportunities for power savings; ›› Identification of savings and losses in comparison with 72 ,5% consumption history in any given period; ›› Comparison of consumptions across different sites and periods; Via Verde | Via Manual Semi-automatic | Via Manual with Toll Collector 82 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FREE FLOW SYSTEM (Via Mais Verde) EVOA PROJECT Bird Watching and Interpretation Centre In 2008, Via Verde developed into an even more advanced solution: Free Flow System. This solution incorporates a EVOA – Bird Watching and Interpretation Centre – started sensor system, based on 3 portal frames over the motorwith a protocol in 2007 between Companhia das Lezírias way which read the identifier, detect and classify the vehiand Brisa – Auto-Estradas de Portugal under Brisa’s Biodicle, thereby eliminating the need for a physical toll barrier. versity Programme. Free Flow System provides unparalleled comfort to Via Verde users, because it no longer requires lowering one’s After seven years of intense work between both parties speed when driving through the toll. and an investment by Brisa totalling 1,293,000 EURO, the project culminated in the inauguration of the centre on the The main advantages of the Free Flow System are: 1st of December of 2012, in the presence of the Minister of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and Territorial Plan›› Greater comfort; ning, Assunção Cristas. ›› There is no need for speed reductions; Today, in the Lezíria Grande (Greater Marshlands) of Vila Franca de Xira, people can visit and enjoy a unique natural ›› Improved road safety; landscape, comprised of three fresh water zones – covering a total of 80 hectares – which is a refuge and nesting place ›› Reduction of CO2 emissions (by preventing vehicles for 120 thousand birds. from stopping and then speeding, there is a 41.8% reduction in CO2 emissions). EVOA also includes observatories in the three main lagoons, various camouflaged viewing points and an InterBIODIVERSITY pretation Centre. The latter, besides being the main visitor reception centre, also houses the permanent exhibition Biodiversity is identified in Brisa’s Declaration on Environ“EVOA, where the world meets the Tagus” and invites one mental Policy as a strategic area of its activity in terms of to take part in a variety of activities complementary to bird environmental management Brisa has set the goal of havwatching. ing an overall positive balance in its impact on biodiversity. To do so, it has committed itself to: The EVOA Project is therefore a fundamental component of Brisa’s Biodiversity Programme, through which the com›› To further develop biodiversity management capacipany aims to help promote knowledge and the developty in the design, construction and operation stages of ment of collective awareness, as well as to ensure the rallymotorways, and to include the assessment of its iming and engagement of all in the challenges of biodiversity. pact on biodiversity, aimed at minimising the negative impact arising from its activity, enhancing the positive impact and compensating the inevitable one; ›› To foment knowledge about biodiversity and to strengthen the collaboration between the academic-scientific sector and the corporate world, by carrying out studies and initiatives that can be applied to the company’s activity; ›› To implement regular and transparent reporting of the Group’s performance in terms of biodiversity, verified by independent entities, as well as developing internal and external communication channels that reflect the real activity of the company in this matter, in order to make stakeholders aware and involve them in the adoption of the best environmental management practices. EVOA WWW 84 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Human Resources Material Topic Courses of Action Ethics and Transparency Channel for the communication of irregularities Development of Competences Corporate culture Action Social Health and Safety Safety and Health in the work Talent Management Performance management system Balance one’s personal-professional life Reconciliation between one’s professional and family life BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 85 Development of Competences Projects and initiatives at the level The Brisa Group believes that knowledge is at the founof personal development dation of organisational development. By focusing on the knowledge held by its collaborators, the Group sustains its own growth and ensures that its work-force is increasingly efficient and capable of, in each single moment, handling the strategic goals of every company. WE HAVE The investment made by the Grupo Brisa in its training ENROLLED 1.996 area is based on the premise of aligning goals and intended strategic directives and, to that effect, there is a commitment shared by direct management (or functional co-ordinator), the collaborator and the HR Manager. COLABORADORES The continuous participation of our collaborators in training sessions or programmes is meant to guarantee the company’s ability to provide an adequate answer to new organisational demands by developing the necessary competences and motivations and simultaneously boosting a healthy and fulfilling working environment. Continuous development of all WE HAVE INVESTED Brisa Group’s collaborators The development of competences in a structured and guided manner has allowed the adjustment of our human cap42.216 ON TRAINING ital to new challenges and contexts, and is the sustaining foundation of all evolutions, changes and consolidations in different areas/companies of the Group in 2015. Company Staff Participations Participants Hours (hrs) Hours (Employees) Brisa Autoestradas 192 471 154 4 192,47 21,84 Brisa Concessão Rodoviária 11 50 11 787,75 71,61 Brisa Conservação Infra-Estrut 182 387 164 3 483,08 19,14 Brisa Engenharia e Gestão S.A. 87 344 78 2 076,50 23,87 Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia, S.A. 47 176 44 692,14 14,73 Brisa O&M 1147 2414 936 17 461,45 15,22 Controlauto 371 693 313 5 791,75 15,61 ITEUVE 85 158 75 898,03 10,57 M.CALL,S.A. 69 619 74 2 592,20 37,57 Via Verde Contact 20 101 20 606,50 30,33 Via Verde Portugal 132 574 127 3 634,50 27,53 Total 2 343 5 987 1 996 42 216 18,02 86 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Subgroup of Employees No. of Employees Training (Hrs.) Hours (Employee) Administrative 384 7.103,38 18,50 Customer Assistance 268 4.986,00 18,60 Service Heads 58 2.694,49 46,46 Designers / Topographers 7 17,00 2,43 Managers and Directors 65 1.734,08 26,68 Electricians / Electronic 75 718,65 9,58 Foremen / Supervisors 51 1.897,00 37,20 Vehicle Inspectors 343 5.397,28 15,74 Mcall Operators 58 1.973,70 34,03 Tolls 722 5.880,62 8,14 Civil construction workers 148 2.218,50 14,99 Senior Technicians 164 7.595,67 46,32 Total 2.343 42.216 18,02 Highlighted Projects cepts were understood and assimilated, and only then moving to the realm of new applications, namely to platPROJECT:TRAINING – OFFER 2.0 forms and technologies related to social media and to new programmes and services (Loyalty, site and apps). The Brisa Group has decided to rethink the strategic model of all services’ offers and customer relations. In 2015, the The formal process of training required the preparation of common emphasis on “moving from the infrastructures’ era 45 internal trainers who ensured 968 enrolments and a toto the age of mobility” represented a change of paradigm tal of 3,593 hours of training provided to the collaborators and required considerable effort for the creation of new of several companies within the Group, namely VVP, VVC, concepts and adaptation to new realities and technologies. Mcall, BO&M and BAE. This new concept of what a customer is has allowed the TRAINING PROJECT – “CCO LEADERSHIP PROGRAMME” Group to reposition itself as a reference brand in sustainable mobility. The development of close relationship strategies with simpler and more agile processes had the intention of furthering the brand by developing a new strategy of integrated information and guidance towards the satisfaction of personal needs. Training was the catalyst for this paradigm shift. The training process was designed to ensure the involvement of all collaborators, starting with those responsible for project Offer 2.0 who then, in cascade, would hand over concepts 2015 was also the year of following through with the emand knowledge to new groups that again had the task of powering process of CCO Shift Overseers, the purpose of disseminating knowledge in a structured manner. which was to create leadership habits in all CCO Shift Overseers (identifying and standardising best practices), in line All training actions were focused in supporting the change with the CCO strategic positioning and aimed at sustaining management process and thereby ensure that new conexcellence in the performance of all teams. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 87 The CCO operates under uninterrupted labouring cycles ›› Opportunities to deepen mutual knowledge amongst and each shift has its own hierarchical lead person. From peers and specific leadership situations; that follows the existence of five direct managers for a group of about fifty people. This reality, unique within the ›› Moments to instil the mission spirit, involving every team Group, has made it clear that there is a need to develop in answering new challenges and exploring the fullness specific principles for the commanding unit, because the of the collaborators’ capabilities; latter is shared by all five elements. ›› Opportunities to take all participants to assimilate leadAs part of this process, all overseers had the task of fosterership principles, perfecting team-work techniques and ing a culture of constant monitoring and improvement of boosting motivation, performance and creativity. Customer Services and of developing specific communication and mobilisation competences for all Shift Overseers. This Project was executed with a high level of commitment and was well accepted by everyone with a lot of enthusiTRAINING PROJECT – “THE TEAM IS US” asm, with a clearly visible level of satisfaction displayed at the ending by all collaborators. The team building exercise prepared for the Mcall collaborators had the following goals: to intervene in the team, realigning all collaborators towards excellence, strengthening the leadership and cohesion in the team; to reinforce Continuous Improvement Projects interpersonal relations, mutual assistance and self-esteem; TRAINING ON SAFETY SUBJECTS to increase the level of initiative and continuous improvement of the team. Training on subjects pertaining to Labour Safety and Health was, in 2015, still a primary focus of the Brisa group, which was This programme allowed all Mcall collaborators to experience: translated into an increase of the collaborators’ awareness of all measures that must be adopted to ensure daily adherence ›› Ways of motivation that impact performance; to the best labour safety regulations and practices. 88 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To strengthen the existing culture of Safety, several prosaid works, aimed at divulging the most significant aspects jects and initiatives were deployed, representing an investof the Safety and Health Plans, given that their content ment of 9,218 training hours and totalling 1,740 participants. pertains to several safety aspects (e.g. risk assessment and recommended preventive measures, identification of The Safety training provided to the collaborators of the conditionalities, organisational measures, activities’ planseveral Grupo Brisa companies is grounded on the proning, etc.). The SHP (Safety and Health Plan) is a document cedures defined for the several companies/activities and of vital importance to the definition of all safety rules and workstation typologies. The safety procedures are a comrequirements. pilation of the safety measures issued by the Internal Service for Labour Health and Safety (ISLHS), validated and The current practices in use for Temporary Signage for All made known by the Group to its collaborators with the inMechanics Officers and Patrolling Operators was also part tention of defining all safety measures and, by their impleof the projects executed in the safety issues subject area, mentation, control all risks to which they are exposed. thereby allowing the study and improvement of the procedures defined for all Signage activities. Several competences’ development projects were executed, aimed at the company’s technicians – Brisa OperThe Academia Brisa Condução (Brisa Driving Academy) ação e Manutenção (Operation and Maintenance, for Toll was also involved in the projects developed for the Safety Station Operators and Toll Station Chief Operators), Brisa subject area, to ensure that all those driving company veConservação e Infraestruturas (Conservation and Infrahicles for professional usage are capable of adopting a new structures, for Civil Works Officers and Assistants) and Driving Culture, acquiring habits of Eco-efficiency, Safety Brisa Engenharia e Gestão (Engineering and Management, on the Road and Environmental Sustainability. This trainfor Laboratory Technicians – with the intention of raising ing proved beneficial on a professional and personal level. awareness of the Safety Procedures’ forms where all risks and preventive measures pertaining to the execution of TRAINING AT THE OPERATIONAL LEVEL civil works are listed, as well as divulging the emergency plan that allows a prompt and adequate reaction in case of At the operational level, continued efforts were made towards an emergency. the technical development of the different professional profiles in the company, comprised of a strong investment in Within the scope of the Development of Safety and Health continuous improvement processes; collaborators had also Plans defined for the execution of several works, we now the chance of participating in awareness-raising events (conhighlight the “On Job” actions aimed at the collaborators of gresses, colloquia, seminars, workshops) to be made aware Brisa Engenharia (Brisa Engineering) that were involved in of existing best practices applicable by and helpful for the BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 89 company and encompassing a plethora of subject matters. different methodologies for Directors, Managers and other professionals, the common basis for all of these groups QUALIFYING TRAINING is the assessment of the competences inherent to the job and of the individual contributions towards the results As usual, the company senior management participated achieved by the companies. There is a top-down definition on several occasions in qualifying training programmes, of objectives starting with a cascading definition of team thereby increasing their competences even more. We and individual objectives. single out the participation in the Programa Avançado de Gestão para Executivos (PAGE – Executive Management Performance management is achieved by a systematic Advanced Programme), as well in the Programa de Perforanalysis of individual contributions towards the defined remance e Controlo de Gestão (Management Performance sults and is implemented through a systematic methodoland Control Programme), both owned by the Catholic Uniogy of aligning competences to ensure that all employees versity. Ph. D’s and MBA’s were also part of the actions actively participate in the creation of value as members of taken by the company, thereby allowing the acquisition of a team. competences crucial to the company and to the collaborators that took part in them. The assessment process is annual and its results can lead to promotions. In recent years, due to the results achieved Furthering the work already done in the previous year, the by the companies, has been possible to award extraordicompany started the 2nd edition of the BEM – PAM Pronary bonuses. gramme (Brisa Excellence Marketing – Programa Avançado de Marketing (Marketing Advanced Programme)), developed conjointly with the ISCTE, and for which several case studies were created, based on the different realities Reconciling one’s professional and existing in some of the Group’s companies, and aimed at family life developing Marketing competences; this programme was extended to the middle and senior management populaThe Brisa Group applies practices that try to help people to tion, thereby allowing them to acquire subject matter base better reconcile their professional life with their family life concepts, work on specific aspects of the Brisa Group and and that advocate equal opportunities between men and promote the interaction among different areas and comwomen. panies, creating new synergies. The diversity of solutions in terms of the organization TRAINING IN LEADERSHIP AND TEAM MANAGEMENT of work time helps employees to take better care of the needs of their personal life without prejudicing their reLeadership, team management, the competences required spective professional career. to manage schedules and meetings, as well presentation techniques, are all aspects that the company values greatAmong current practices one of the main ones is flexible ly, namely in a context of extraordinary demands and on working hours, which allows employees to adjust their perthe need to achieve good results. sonal needs, within certain limits, the time they start and finish work, and meal breaks which can be extended up to It is therefore of paramount importance for the compatwo and a half hours. ny to provide training in the development areas related to personal efficiency, as that will allow senior and middle In continuous operations employees can exchange shifts. management to deploy the defined strategy appropriateIn some types of working hours there are variable days off, ly, involving their teams in said deployment. To ensure the booked whenever possible according to the employee’s inabove mentioned development of its management teams, terests. Employees who work in the toll booths can also the company has therefore conducted several training prowork on a part-time basis. jects in the said subject matters, which translates into an investment of 1,690 training hours. The Collective Labour Agreement allows for the annual payment for up to 15 days of absence for family leave in situations that are not covered by the Social Security. Performance management system The Brisa Group has a performance management system that applies to most of its staff. While this system allows for 90 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Social Development Material Topic Courses of Action Donations Involvement of Stakeholders and Positive Internal fundraising External Factors Internal involvement Citizenship and Solidarity Voluntary Service Program (Solidarity and Voluntary Service Projects) Brisa has followed a policy of reactive social development positive impacts in the communities with their benevolent and has focussed on making donations towards a model of efforts. It is not the expression of a desire to interfere or greater involvement with the communities and with mandominate the management of social solidarity institutions agement that is more geared towards concrete objectives or of Non-Governmental Development Organizations with that are verifiable in time. This understanding of social rewhich the company is involved. There are projects the responsibility tendentially oriented towards results is the exsults of which are intangible and harder to verify. pression of the company’s shareholders’ desire to produce BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 91 In this context, in its actions of social responsibility Brisa Based on this conceptual framework, Brisa continues to follows one of the following three philosophies of support: develop intense activity in the social area through simple financial support to institutions, especially through pro1. Commit & Engage – to assume a medium/long term jects of intervention, in the area of education in topics partnership relationship, through structured and that are central to its business and in terms of voluntary ongoing support, providing material and human reservice, providing field support for social solidarity institusources of the company, and constructing the comtions, as part of the José de Mello Group’s Voluntary Serpany’s involvement with the institutions and commuvice Program. nity involved (e.g. the José de Mello Group’s Voluntary Service Program); In 2015, Brisa made donations totaling 475,000 euros, benefiting 85 institutions throughout the country, as varied as 2. Act & Connect – making action or a project viable Johnson Academy Association, New Future Association, with donations in cash or in kind, based on which a CERCICA, Limitless Sailing (year celebration 10 years), relationship and collaboration with the institution and Youth Centre Father Amadeu Pinto, among others. community involved is developed, through the provision of volunteers, management support or fresh donations (e.g. Call to Action or Ser Solidário); 3. Pay & Forget – making of a donation in cash or in kind, in a one-off act, without other involvement with the institution or with the community involved (e.g. sporadic donations). 92 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Brisa Volunteer Program During 2015, 103 volunteers from Brisa actively contributed towards the growth of the José de Mello 103 volunteers from Brisa Group’s Voluntary Service Program in which the company actively contributed to participates. This Voluntary Service Program stands out for having a model in which the volunteers contribute consolidate the volunteer towards the institutions and projects not only with their time, but also with their know-how, breathing life into Program functional areas for which they have specific competences and with which they add significant social value. VOLUNTEER DAY 2015 JOINT OVER 100 EMPLOYEES The Volunteer Program supports the Private charitable institutions, Solidarity Association Coração Amarelo (Yellow Heart), CERCICA facilities (Cooperative for Education and Rehabilithe delegations of Lisbon and Porto, ATL Galicia, Community tation of Misfits Citizens of Cascais), in Estoril, welcomed, on Center of Carcavelos Parish, Obra do Frei Gil in Oporto, Defense the 26th of June, another Volunteer Day. Movement of Life, and Junior Achievement Portugal. For the fourth consecutive year, more than 100 employees In these institutions, Brisa volunteers dedicate their time to of various companies of the José de Mello Group, volunperform various post profiles as school support, home care for teers in the five partner institutions of the Volunteer Prothe elderly, legal support, computer training to unemployed gram, gathered to spend a different day, in a joint action people and the elderly, administrative support, assistance in with trainers and CERCICA users for various works in plant social shops, psychological support the intervention teams production area and improvement of the institution green and support in the management of social and cultural events spaces. and activities. Volunteer Day 2015 CERCICA BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 93 Refood Project In 2015 Brisa signed a partnership with Refood. This partnership aimed to launch a new operation center, which benefits needy families of the parishes of Carcavelos, Parede and São Domingos de Rana. The REFOOD operation takes place in the facilities provided The REFOOD is an by Brisa, located at the company's headquarters in São Doindependent community mingos de Rana, being the basis for the collection, repackaging and distribution of meals to local families covered by movement, 100% voluntary, the project. driven by citizens and In addition to the facilities, Brisa employees also have joined integrated into IPSS whose this initiative through volunteer work. purpose is to food recovery The involvement of Brisa in REFOOD project meets the work of the company as part of its social responsibility polin good condition to feed icy, favoring social projects directed to the needs of local people in need. communities. REFOOD Operation Center open at Campus Brisa 03 GRI INDICATORS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 96 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Index PAGE OMISSIONS / ADDITIONAL EXTERNAL GENERAL CONTENTS RS INFORMATION ASSURANCE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization (such as G4 1 CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to 10 Limited the organization and the organization's strategy for addressing sustainability. G4 2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 10 Limited ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4 3 Name of the organization. 6 Limited G4 4 Primary brands, products, and services. 26 Limited G4 5 Location of organization's headquarters. Back cover Limited Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries G4 6 where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically 28 Limited relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4 7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 7 Limited Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of G4 8 28 Limited customers and beneficiaries). Scale of the organization, including: Total number of employees Total number of operations Net sales(for private sector organizations) or net revenues(for public sector G4 9 10 Limited organizations) Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) Quantity of products or services provided Total number of employees by employment contact and gender. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender Total workforce by region and gender Whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by 117 G4 10 Reasonable workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other LA 1 than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. Any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) G4 11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 119 Reasonable G4 12 Organization's supply chain 16 Limited Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including; Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions G4 13 13; 48 Limited Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including seclection and termination Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the G4 14 39-42 Limited organization. List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, G4 15 principles, or other initiatives ot which the organization subscribes or which it 22-23 Limited endorses G4 16 List membership of associations 22-23 Limited BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 97 PAGE OMISSIONS / ADDITIONAL EXTERNAL GENERAL CONTENTS RS INFORMATION ASSURANCE IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents Whether any entity included in the organization’s G4 17 28 Limited consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is no covored by the report Process for defining the report content and the Aspects Boundaries. G4 18 How the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining 16-18 Reasonable Report Content. G4 19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 16 Reasonable G4 20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary witin the organizations 18 Limited G4 21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 18 Limited Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the G4 22 6 Limited reasons for such restatements. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect G4 23 6 Limited Boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4 24 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 22-26 Limited Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including asG4 25 sumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of 22-26 Limited the Indicators and other information in the report. Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder groups, and an indication of whether G4 26 22-26 Limited any of the engagements was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and G4 27 20-21 Limited concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns REPORT PROFILE G4 28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 6 Limited G4 29 Date of most recent previous report 6 Limited G4 30 Reporting cycle 6 Limited G4 31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 6 Limited In accordance’ option the organization has chosen GRI Content Index for the chosen option G4 32 96-103 Limited Reference to the External Assuarance Report, if the report has been externally assured. Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, G4 33 report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. 7 Limited Relation ship between the organization and the assurance provides Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest G4 34 governance body. Identify anny committees responsible for decision-making on 36-37 Limited economic, environmetal and social impacts. Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics G4 35 36-37 Limited from the highest governance body to senior exectives and other employees. Whether the organization has appointed an exective-level position or positions G4 36 with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether 36-37 Limited post holders report directly to the highest governance body. 98 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE OMISSIONS / ADDITIONAL EXTERNAL GENERAL CONTENTS RS INFORMATION ASSURANCE Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance G4 37 body on economic, environmental and social topics. If oncultation is delegated, 36-42 Limited describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. G4 38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 36-42 Limited Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an exective officer G4 39 (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and the 36-42 Limited reasons for this arrangement). Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its G4 40 committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest govern36-42 Limited ance body members Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are G4 41 avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interrest are disclosed to 36-42 Limited stakeholders The highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value of mission G4 42 36-42 Limited statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collecG4 43 36-42 Limited tive knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and socal topics. Whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its freqency. Whether such evaluation is a G4 44 self-assessment. 36-42 Limited Actions taken in response to evaluation of the higest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice The highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risk, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence G4 45 processes. 36-42 Limited Whether stake holder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. The highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the G4 46 organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and 36-42 Limited social topics. Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental G4 47 36-42 Limited and social impacts, risks, and opportunities The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organiG4 48 36-42 Limited zation’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4 49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 36-42 Limited Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the G4 50 highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to adddress and resolve 36-42 Limited them. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior exectivesHow performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest G4 51 36-42 Limited governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. Process for determining remuneration. Whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of G4 52 36-42 Limited management. Any other relation ships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regaring remunerG4 53 ation, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if 36-42 Limited applicable. Ratio of the annual total compensation for the oraganization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total G4 54 36-42 Limited compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the G4 55 36-42 Limited median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 99 PAGE OMISSIONS / ADDITIONAL EXTERNAL GENERAL CONTENTS RS INFORMATION ASSURANCE ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as G4 56 14-15; 36-42 Limited codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Internal and External mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful G4 57 behavior, and matters related to oraganizational integrity, such as helplines or 36-42 Limited advice lines. Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns aboutt unethical or G4 58 unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as esca36-42 Limited lation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4 DMA 18 G4 EC1 Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed 104 Reasonable Financial Implications and other Risks and Opportunities Related with Climate G4 EC2 104 Limited Change G4 EC3 Coverage of the Pension Plan 104 Limited G4 EC4 Significant Financial Benefits Given by the Government 104 Limited MARKET PRESENCE G4 DMA 18 G4 EC5 Ratio of Entry Level Wage Compared to the Minium Wage 105 Reasonable Percentage of top management in operational units who were recruited in the G4 EC6 105 Limited local community. PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4 DMA 18 Limited G4 EC9 Percentage of costs with local suppliers in significant operational units. 105 Reasonable AENVIRONMENT ENERGY G4 DMA 18 G4 EN3 Direct consumption of Energy by Primary Source 105 Reasonable G4 EN4 Indirect consumption of Energy Outside of the Organization 106 Reasonable G4 EN5 Energy intensity 106 Reasonable G4 EN6 Reduction in the consumption of Electricity 106 Reasonable G4 EN7 Reduction in the energy requirement of products and services 106 Reasonable WATER G4 DMA 18 G4 EN8 Total Withdrawal of Water segmented by Source 106 Reasonable G4 EN10 Total Volume and Percentage of Water recycled and reused 107 Limited 100 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE OMISSIONS / ADDITIONAL EXTERNAL GENERAL CONTENTS RS INFORMATION ASSURANCE BIODIVERSITY G4 DMA 18 Areas of land in protected areas operational areas owned, rented or adminG4 EN11 istered, inside or adjacent to protected areas and in areas with a high index of 108 Reasonable biodiversity outside protected areas Significant impacts on Biodiversity in protected areas or in areas of high value G4 EN12 108 Reasonable for Biodiversity G4 EN13 Protected and Restored Habitats 111 Reasonable Total number of species on the IUCN Red List and the national conservation list G4 EN14 with habitats in areas affected by the operations, broken down by level of risk 112 Reasonable and extinction EMISSIONS G4 DMA 18 G4 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 113 Reasonable G4 EN16 Emissions indirect of greenhouse gases (Scope 2) 113 Reasonable G4 EN17 Other relevant indirect emissions of GHG (Scope 3) 114 Limited G4 EN18 Intensity of GHG emissions 114 Reasonable G4 EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 114 Limited G4 EN20 Emission of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 115 Limited G4 EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant atmospheric emissions 115 Limited EFFLUENTS AND WATE G4 DMA 18 G4 EN22 Water discharged by quantity and destination 116 Limited G4 EN23 Total waste by type and method of disposal 116 Reasonable SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4 DMA 18 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sancG4 EN29 116 Reasonable tions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Percentage of new suppliers who were tested in accordance with environmenG4 EN32 116 Limited tal criteria Current and potential significant environmental impacts in the value chain and G4 EN33 116 Limited action taken LABOR PRACTICES EMPLOYMENT G4 DMA 18 Total workforce and the new employment rates and rotation of employees by G4 LA1 117 Reasonable age group, gender and region. Benefits offered to full-time employees that are not offered to temporary or to G4 LA2 118 Limited part-time employees, by significant operational units G4 LA3 Rate of retention and return after paternity leave by gender 118 Limited BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 101 PAGE OMISSIONS / ADDITIONAL EXTERNAL GENERAL CONTENTS RS INFORMATION ASSURANCE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4 DMA 18 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker G4 LA5 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational 119 Limited health and safety programs Type of injury and the rates of injuries, occupational illnesses, days lost, G4 LA6 absenteeism and total number of deaths related with the work, by region and 120 Reasonable by gender G4 LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of illness related with their occupation 123 Limited G4 LA8 Health and Safety topics covered by formal agreements with trade unions 123 Limited TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4 DMA 18 G4 LA9 Average number of hours of training by year, by employee and by category 124 Reasonable Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continG4 LA10 124 Limited ued employability of employees and assist them in their career management Percentage of employees who regularly receive performance and career develG4 LA11 125 Reasonable opment analyses, by gender and category DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4 DMA 18 Composition of groups responsible for corporate governance and discrimination G4 LA12 of workers by category, according to gender, age group, minorities and other 126 Reasonable indicators of diversity EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4 DMA 18 Ratio of basic salary of men in comparison with that of women by professional G4 LA13 127 Reasonable category and significant operating units SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4 DMA 18 Percentage of new suppliers who were selected using the criterion of labour G4 LA14 128 Limited practices Main real and potential impacts of labour practices on the supply chain and G4 LA15 129 Limited actions taken SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4 DMA 18 Percentage and suppliers and contractors who were subject to verification of G4 HR10 129 Limited Human Rights Actual and Potential Significant Negative Impacts of Human rights on the supG4 HR11 129 Limited ply chain and actions taken 102 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE OMISSIONS / ADDITIONAL EXTERNAL GENERAL CONTENTS RS INFORMATION ASSURANCE SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4 DMA 18 Percentage of operations involved with the local community, impact assessG4 SO1 130 Limited ments and development programs Business activities with significant potential or actually negative impact on local G4 SO2 131 Limited communities ANTI-CORRUPTION G4 DMA 18 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to G4 SO3 133 Limited corruption G4 SO4 Communication and training in counter-corruption policies and procedures 133 Reasonable G4 SO5 Steps taken in response to the occurrence of situations of corruption 134 Limited ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4 DMA 18 Total number of legal proceedings regarding unfair competition, anti-trust, and G4 SO7 134 Reasonable monopolistic practices SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4 DMA 18 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on G4 SO9 134 Limited society Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain G4 SO10 135 Limited and actions taken BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 103 PAGE OMISSIONS / ADDITIONAL EXTERNAL GENERAL CONTENTS RS INFORMATION ASSURANCE PRODUCT REPONSABILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4 DMA 18 Percentage of categories of significant products and services for which the G4 PR1 137 Limited health and safety impacts are assessed and improved Total number of incidents of non-fulfilment of the regulations and code in relaG4 PR2 tion to the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life 140 Limited cycle, detailed by type of result PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4 DMA 18 G4 PR5 Results of Surveys to measure customer satisfaction 140 Limited PRIVACIDADE DO CLIENTE G4 DMA 18 Limited Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer G4 PR8 141 Limited privacy and losses of customer data l Fully reported ½ Partially reported ¢ Not Available 104 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Indicators EC1 Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed 123 Please refer to page 43. CONSULT EC1 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities EC2 for the organization’s activities due to climate change 123 Please refer to page 68 and 69. CONSULT EC2 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit EC3 plan obligations 123 In accordance with a estimate updated for 31 December 2015, of the value of the Pension Fund and of the respective liabilities, according to the Benefit Plan currently in force in the company and allowed for in the Constitutive Contract of Brisa’s Pension Fund, there is a superavit of the fund in 2015 amounting to 3 313 000 Euros over its liabilities. The current value of the projected liabilities is 14 473 000 Euros. BAE VVP BO&M BIT BEG BCI Total No. employees covered 196 125 1146 44 52 177 1740 Total no. of employees 203 152 1147 47 87 182 1818 % of employees covered by the Pension Fund 97% 82% 100% 94% 60% 97% 96% EC4 Financial support was received from the Government 123 In 2015 no financial support was received from the Government. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 105 Ratios of the lowest wage of the organization and minimum wage allowed at local level, in most EC5 significant operational units 123 There are no paid employees based on the national minimum wage. At the end of 2015, the lowest wage paid in the Organization was 514 euros. This remuneration is set to 1.62% of the population. 2015 Lowest wage in the organization 514 National minimum wage 505 Ratio of the lowest wage of the organization to the national minimum wage 1,02 Salário mais baixo do grupo mais representativo da organização 754 Rácio do Salário mais baixo do grupo mais representativo da organização 1,49 If the most representative operational group is considered, which includes the toll booth operator and the main toll booth operator, the ratio changes to: 1.49%. Percentage of top management in operational units EC6 who were recruited in the local community. 123 Brisa does not practice any form of discrimination in the selection of its workers, actually being prevented at law from exercising any type of discrimination in the recruitment of new employees within the national territory. Internationally, there were no recruitments. Percentage of costs with local suppliers in significant EC9 operational units. 123 Brisa does not practise any form of discrimination in the selection of its suppliers, making market consultations of both local and international suppliers. Brisa comes under the regime of public procurement under which it is obliged to hold tenders pursuant to the law. In 2014, the percentage of costs with local suppliers was 91%. EN3 Direct consumption of Energy by Primary Source 123 Please refer to page 74. CONSULT EN3 106 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EN4 Indirect consumption of Energy Outside of the Organization 123 Under this indicator, Brisa only considers itself responsible for the indirect consumption of energy inside the organization and not outside of it. EN5 Energy intensity 123 Under this indicator, the Brisa Group’s consumption of fuel and electricity, and the Kilometres of the network consolidated for this report were used for the calculation of energy intensity. Given these facts, Brisa’s energy intensity is 168 Gj per Kilometre. EN6 Reduction in the consumption of Electricity 123 Please refer to page 74. CONSULT EN6 Reduction in the energy requirement of products EN7 and services 123 Please refer to page 76. CONSULT EN7 EN8 Total Withdrawal of Water segmented by Source 123 Source Quantity Own withdrawal (m3) 38 533 Public Supply (m3) 53 774 Total (m3) 92 307 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 107 Water sources significantly affected by the EN10 Consumption of Water 123 Under their contract work inspection activities, BEG performs laboratory tests, to control compliance of materials and construction elements. In this sense, it maintains two laboratories in operation, associated with the sites of Maia and Loures. The tests performed by BEG aim to control compliance of materials and construction elements of the jobs which it oversees. These tests focus on materials such as soil, aggregates, concrete and bituminous materials, for determining the characteristics of samples collected on the job. The determination of the vast majority of physical characteristics in question does not involve water. Indeed, the lab wastewater originates from the washing of aggregates and in the washing of equipment and material used in the tests. From among the equipment used in the labs, they were identified as consumers of a large volume of water due to the operation of the cooling system, the solvent recovery equipment, water distillers and the rotary evaporator. In this sense, it was decided to develop a recirculation system of this water, resorting to its storage and subsequent pumping, making this process a closed cycle and water consumption reduced to zero. The test conducted using the rotary evaporator is the recovery of bitumen from bituminous mixtures. Each test involves the operation of the rotary evaporator for 2 hours. Taking as an estimate that the flow rate is about 3 l/min, there is a verified reduction in water consumption of about 360 l for each test performed. Since from the analysis of lab records it follows that, in 2015, 22 tests were performed (Record in internal lab document), we are able to conclude that the use of recirculation of water used in cooling the rotary evaporator led to an annual saving of about 7.92 m3. For Maia, solvent recovery equipment works (when there are samples of extraction of bitumen) of 4 in 4 samples, 2h each time, with an estimated flow rate of 3 l/min. Since from the analysis of lab records it follows that, in 2015, 754 tests were performed of bitumen extraction and taking into account that the water used comes from the reuse system, we can deduce a saving in water consumption of about 67.86 m3 / year. For Loures, solvent recovery equipment works (when there samples of extraction of bitumen) of 4 in 4 samples, 2h each time with an estimated flow rate of 3 l/min. . Since from the analysis of lab records it follows that, in 2015, 61 tests were performed of bitumen and taking into account that the water used comes from the reuse system, we can deduce a saving in water consumption of about 5.59 m3/year. The existing water distiller in the lab of Maia ran about once a week during the year. The estimated flow rate is 4 l/min, running 8h/day. Given that the reused water comes from the reuse system we can deduce a saving in water consumption of about 99.84 m3 per year. It can be concluded that the recirculation of water used in the recovery solvent, and water distiller and rotary evaporator, in 2015, lead to a saving in water consumption of about 181.11 m3 in the year 2015. 108 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Areas of land in protected areas operational areas owned, rented or administered, inside or adjacent to protected areas and in areas with a high index of EN11 biodiversity outside protected areas 123 In relation to 2015, the area administrated included in the Natura 2000 Network totalled 3 591 221 m2, which corresponds to 359.12 hectares. The area is identical to the areas reported on in previous years (2009-2014), because in 2015 there was no construction of new infrastructures and the road widening carried out on the Carvalhos-Santo Ovídio sub-stretch of the A1 did not intersect any areas of the Natura 2000 Network. In relation to this Indicator we should also point out the existence of a rented area for the implementation of measures to compensate impacts, under Brisa’s Protocol with the ICNB (Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Institute) relating to the Herdade do Pardieiro. The area involved covers 10,000 m2 in the Castro Verde Special Protection Area with the objective of preserving the habitat of the Lesser Kestrel. Significant impacts on Biodiversity in protected areas EN12 or in areas of high value for Biodiversity 123 The EN12 indicator reports on the occurrence of significant impact on biodiversity in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity, which are considered to be the areas identified in Rede Natura 2000 (Nature Network 2000). This analysis was divided into the Design and Works Stage and an Operating Stage to facilitate the explanation of procedures and the reasoning behind it. Procedures Design and Job Stages The impact on biodiversity related to the construction and operation of motorways is evaluated previously during the process of Environmental Impact Assessment, in the study stage and implementation of the project, with the analysis of different layouts and designs being carried out. Based on this analysis measures are outlined to minimize or offset the impact expected on biodiversity. During the construction stage, environmental monitoring, implementation of the Environmental Management Plan and programmes of monitoring are carried out whose main purpose is to ensure the proper collection of information for assessing the main environmental impact of the construction stage, as well how to ensure good environmental project execution. Such practices also allow timely identification of possible situations that may lead to the need to adopt additional measures to minimize or compensate impacts. Rationale Project and Job Stage For the year 2015, there were no interventions in areas inside the Rede Natura 2000 (Nature Network 2000), and therefore there are no environmental impacts to report. Procedures Operating Stage With regard to the Operating Stage of the motorway itself, the whole motorway network under concession to Brisa is covered by an animal-vehicle collision monitoring system and all motorways built or subject to undergoing extension work after entry into force of Decree-Law No. 69/2000 dated May 3 (currently repealed by Decree-Law No. 151-B / 2013 dated 31 October), are covered by General Environmental Monitoring Plans (GEMP) in order to proceed to post-impact assessment. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 109 In the context of biodiversity, the main environmental impacts caused by the operation of motorways are fragmentation and changing habitats, fauna roadkill and increasing human pressure. Rationale Operating Stage Monitoring wildlife roadkill carried out throughout the entire network for which Brisa is the concession holder, has shown that in the sub-stretches that cross areas included in the Rede Natura 2000 (the Natura 2000 Network), there were no roadkills detected of species with an endangered status according to the book Red Book of Vertebrates of Portugal “Livro Vermelho dos Vertebrados de Portugal” (2005) In the sub-stretches Almodovar / S. Bartolomeu de Messines and S. Bartolomeu de Messines / V.L.A., of the A2 southern motorway, which cross Sítios do Caldeirão and Barrocal, the impact on biodiversity are also evaluated through monitoring campaigns. These campaigns involve monitoring: the quality of ecosystems, recovery projects of water crossings (PHs) and culverts and viaducts (including those regarded as recovery sites and possible ecological corridors), the effectiveness of the PHs or culverts as wildlife crossings and their use by wildlife groups as a refuge habitat, and the evolution of plant communities on the banks of water lines crossed by the infrastructure. For monitoring the quality of ecosystems, monitoring the quality of surfaces and underground waters has been taken into consideration. The monitoring carried out on the A2 has shown that there were no significant impacts consistently attributable to the motorway in question. Regarding the quality of surface water in 2015, there were no significant impacts originating from the A2. The pollutants whose origin could be directly related to automobile traffic movement on the A2 Copper, Cadmium, Zinc and Hydrocarbons – all showed low concentrations and always well below the legal limits. The only amounts above the Maximum Recommended Amount refer to the parameter Total Suspended Solids, occurring exactly on a water line and not directly related to the operation of the A2. By monitoring the quality of groundwater in 2014, there were no significant impacts arising from the operation of the A2. Only some amounts above the Maximum Recommended Amount were found relative to the Chloride parameter (3 inspections). However there is no direct relationship between this pollutant and operation of the motorway, in that this pollutant is most commonly associated with sewage and industrial effluents. As regards animal use of the PHS or culverts in crossing, structures are being monitored of various types with different dimensions length x width of 4x4, 3x3, 4x3, 2x2, 3x3, 1,80x1,80, 2.50x2.50 and 2.20x2.20 or with a diameter of 1.20, 1.50 and 1.00 and various shapes (open rectangular, closed circular, open circular, open rectangular with unevenness on the inside) so as to include the variability of these structures in the results. The method used for determination of species that cross the PHs is the detection by foot or pawprints which involves placing powder from crushed stone, a stone dust, across the width of the structures and subsequent identification of the tracks which are recorded in the powder. The campaigns in 2015 carried out in the various Culverts, Animal Crossways, Agricultural Corridors and Underpasses and Viaducts have identified indirect traces (footprints and animal waste) of the species or groups presented below. 110 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CROSSINGS OF THE CULVERTS AND ANIMAL WILDLIFE CORRIDORS SPRING SUMMER Autumn GROUPS OF FAUNA / SPECIES TOTAL 2015 2015 2015 Birds 40 40 38 118 Dog (Canis domesticus) 12 11 17 40 Rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) 16 24 18 58 Genet (Genetta genetta) 0 1 0 1 Micro-mammals 9 5 3 17 Fox (Vulpes vulpes) 25 26 2 53 Reptiles and Amphibians 6 13 7 26 Egyptian Mongoose (Herpestes ichneumon) 15 1 2 18 Badger (Meles meles) 2 1 1 4 Wild Boar (Sus scrofa) 3 2 0 5 Cat (Felis sylvestris catus) 0 2 0 2 Hedgehog (Erinaceus europaeus) 19 24 11 54 Beech Marten (Martes foina) 4 5 1 10 Common Eurasian Otter (Lutra lutra) 42 47 35 124 Weasal (Mustela nivalis) 4 5 1 10 Cows / Goats 20 14 13 47 TOTAL 217 221 149 587 During the campaigns held in 2015, the crossings of the culverts and animal wildlife corridors were counted by the presence of footprints belonging to the same species (assuming that they belong to the same individual animals) at both entries. In the case of agricultural corridors, underpasses and viaducts (overpasses), it was considered that the presence of any trace (footprints or animal waste) along the sections means it was crossed by the identified animals. Using this methodology, the crossings listed on the next table were recorded. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 111 CROSSINGS OF AGRICULTURAL CORRIDORS, UNDERPASSES AND VIADUCTS (OVERPASSES) SPRING SUMMER Autumn GROUPS OF FAUNA / SPECIES TOTAL 2015 2015 2015 Birds 17 21 16 54 Dog (Canis domesticus) 8 9 12 29 Rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) 4 13 7 24 Genet (Genetta genetta) 4 1 2 7 Micro-mammals 11 7 0 18 Fox (Vulpes vulpes) 4 10 5 19 Reptiles and Amphibians 9 1 0 10 Egyptian Mongoose (Herpestes ichneumon) 1 1 0 2 Wild Boar (Sus scrofa) 2 0 0 2 Cat (Felis sylvestris catus) 6 8 4 18 Hedgehog (Erinaceus europaeus) 2 2 1 5 Beech Marten (Martes foina) 21 40 29 90 Common Eurasian Otter (Lutra lutra) 1 2 1 4 Cattle 16 12 12 40 TOTAL 106 127 89 322 EN13 Protected and Restored Habitats 123 The restoration and protection of certain habitats is one of the strategies, integrated in the biodiversity policy to prevent or repair negative impacts associated with the activities of Brisa. The areas of protected or restored habitats may result from the following: ›› Implementation, at the end of the jobs, of landscape integration and restoration projects; ›› Implementation of active restoration or protection measures of habitats during the Operation stage of road infrastructures; ›› Protection projects and restoration of habitats resulting from partnerships with other organizations aimed at areas of habitats different to those referred to above. In relation to the implementation of landscape integration and recovery projects during the construction stage, did not exist during the year 2015 activities report. Regarding the active restoration and protection measures in the operating stage and in connection with the implementation of compensation measures associated with the Aljustrel / Castro Verde A2 sub-stretch, a protocol was signed with the ICNF (the Nature and Forestry Conservation Institute, which when the protocol was signed, was called the Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Institute ICNB) in order to ensure the implementation of management measures of the Lesser Kestrel colony (Falco naumanni) that ended in 2013. Under this protocol a lease agreement was signed with the owners of Monte do Pardieiro (nesting ground of the Lesser Kestrel) for an area of 10,000 m2 inside the Castro Verde Special Protection Area, whose contract was renewed in 2007 and its term extended until the end of 2032. 112 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In addition, vegetation burned by fires was cut and removed in order to facilitate the rapid installation of native vegetation, thus contributing to habitat recovery. This measure resulted in an intervention area of about 21.250 m2 (2,125 hectares) during the year 2015. Aware of the impacts of their activities on biodiversity, Brisa promotes voluntary actions in a perspective of environmental responsibility with regard to habitat restoration and protection projects resulting from third-party partnerships. These actions lead to projects which are part of the Business & Biodiversity Protocol. Within the context of projects integrated into the Business & Biodiversity Protocol described in previous years, the project Biodiversity of the International Tagus continues to be active until the end of the year 2017. As from 2013, Brisa assumed an active role in promoting and visiting protected areas. It launched a programme aimed at promoting visits to these areas, by the general public, on a larger scale. This initiative was included in Brisa’s educational programme and is called Environment First, and involves an area of about 800 ha, between Poceirão do Cunha and Malhada Alta. For this project, the major interventions in reception facilities and visitor infrastructure have been completed. Taking into account the data provided above, in 2015 the area of protected or restored habitats totalled 803,13 hectares. Total number of species on the IUCN Red List and the national conservation list with habitats in areas affected by the operations, broken down by level of EN14 risk and extinction 123 During the year 2015, on the IUCN Red List and species from the national conservation list with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of risk of extinction, there were two species of avifauna (birds). AVIFAUNA SUB MW EXTENSION STATUS STRETCH SPECIES COMMON NAME A1 5 Carvalhos / Santo Ovídio Anthus Trivialis Tree pipit R A4 3 Novo Túnel de Águas Santas Caprimulgus europaeus Grey Nightthawk VU No. of species: 3 VU Vulnerable R Rare BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 113 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 123 The Indicator reports the gross direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) originating from the Brisa Group’s activities during 2015. The gross direct greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) reported in this indicator are the emissions generated by the burning of fuel (gasoline and diesel) resulting from the circulation of the group’s fleet vehicles. In this calculation no negotiations of GHG are considered, such as purchases, sales or transfers of compensations or of subsidies. The calculation of the emissions generated by fuel consumption take into account the emission factors presented in 2006 by the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Based on these factors it is possible to calculate the emissions relating to the gases carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). Conversion of the direct emissions (Scope 1) in ton CO2 equivalent 2013 2014 2015 Direct emissions Resulting from fuel consumption (t CO2eq) 7.294,30 7.160,24 6.686,45 Direct emissions of pollutants (Scope 2) in tonnes Year 2015 Resulting from fuel consumption (t CO2eq) CO2 (t) 6.686,45 CH4 (t) 0,36 N2O (t) 0,35 EN16 Emissions indirect of greenhouse gases (Scope 2) 123 The gross indirect greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) reported in this indicator are the emissions generated through the consumption of electricity supplied by EDP. Conversão das emissões indirectas (Âmbito 1) em ton CO2 equivalente 2013 2014 2015 Emissões directas resultantes do consumo de combustíveis (t CO2eq) 11.141,37 7.728,04 7.719,25 Indirect emissions of pollutants (Scope 2) in tonnes Year 2014 Resulting from electricity consumption (t) CO2 (t) 7.719,25 CH4 (t) 0,00 N2O (t) 0,00 114 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EN17 Other relevant indirect emissions of GHG (Scope 3) 123 The Indicator EN17 is not included as travelling in service is mostly carried out in the Brisa Group’s fleet vehicles. The emissions generated during these journeys are therefore counted as direct emissions. Taking into account that the company does not transport its staff, the other journeys made, namely by air carriers, are very marginal and not very significant, and are not shown in this report. EN18 Intensity of GHG emissions 123 Under this indicator, the Brisa Group’s emissions, and the length of the network in Kilometres consolidated for this report were used to calculate the intensity of emissions. Given the data, Brisa’s intensity of emissions is 13 tCO2eq per Kilometre. EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 123 Please refer to page 74. CONSULT EN19 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 115 EN20 Emission of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 123 This indicator is considered not to apply to the Brisa Group given that the processes, products and services of the organization do not use substances that deplete the ozone layer. Besides this, ozone-depleting substances contained or emitted by products during their use or deposit should not be counted, this being the case of substances contained in air conditioning equipment. In view of the above and although it does not seem that the scope of this indicator is applicable to the organization, it is important to draw up and report the inventory of existing equipment and the type of refrigerant used in order to monitor the degree of compliance with the legislation that establishes that as from 1 January, 2015 there should be no equipment that uses hydroclorofluorocarbons and show/ demonstrate the degree of effort made by the Group in these global matters. For this purpose, Brisa keeps its inventory up-to-date through of the control sheets on the replacement of refrigerant gas in air conditioning equipment. EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant atmospheric emissions 123 The Brisa Group performs no activity that produces significant atmospheric emissions given that none of Brisa’s activity can be included in the category of the manufacturing industry. The Brisa Group’s atmospheric emissions are generated only by the circulation of its fleet vehicles. These emissions are of the diffuse type and only come from 633 vehicles (including BCI). With regard to other atmospheric emissions, the data from the monitoring of the quality of the air, under the General Environmental Monitoring Plans, on motorways with average daily traffic much higher than the number of vehicles in the Brisa Group’s fleet (A2 and A5, for example) generally indicate low concentrations of atmospheric pollutants, and so the 645 vehicles that circulate throughout the country are not significant and are negligible under this indicator EN20 and this report. EN22 Water discharged by quantity and destination 123 The calculation of the amount of water discharged is based on the water consumption values obtained through indicator EN8 for BEG’s work yard in Maia, considering that the domestic discharge volume produced corresponds to 80% of water consumption. The laboratory in Maia is estimated to discharge around 114 m3 and the laboratory in Loures around 61 m3, in accordance with information obtained through the indicator EN8, relating to water consumption, making a total of 175m3. The analysis sheets prove that the quality of this discharge complies with legal requirements. 116 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EN23 Total waste by type and method of disposal 123 DESTINATION DEPOSIT RECYCLING TOTAL Quantidade (t) 156,79 586,26 743 TYPE HAZARDOUS NON-HAZARDOUS TOTAL Quantidade (t) 28,94 714,06 743 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with EN29 environmental laws and regulations 123 In 2015 there were no proceedings to report in this indicator. Percentage of new suppliers that were tested EN32 according to environmental criteria 123 The selection of suppliers of the company within the Brisa Group, considered strategic and whose activity can somehow impact the environment theme, as the production of waste, consider in their criteria the existence of environmental practices or presentation of environmental management systems. Nevertheless, in 2015, new suppliers were not selected whose activity is framed within this indicator. Current and potential significant environmental EN33 impacts in the value chain and action taken 123 As in 2014, in 2015 no negative impact was identified by supplier situations. However, suppliers who, by virtue of the activity, use or supply products that present a potential risk, were controlled. This control was carried out at the level of documentation, and training on handling, as well as certification of companies and the respective technicians. No negative environmental impact situations were identified in 2015 in the supply chain. As such, there was no room for complaints on this matter. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 117 Total workforce and the new employment rates and LA1 rotation of employees by age group, gender and region 123 2013 2014 2015 Admissions 264 75 61 Departures 111 75 105 Employees at the end of the period 2 480 2 387 2343 Average nº of employees 2 492 2 393 2357 Turnover rate % 15% 6,27% 7,05% New Admissions Distributed by Regions DISTRIBUTION BY REGIONS Nº Centre 14 Lisbon Region 33 Alentejo 1 Algarve 4 North 9 Total Employees 61 New Admissions Distributed by Gender Gender Nº Female 19 Male 42 Total 61 New Admissions by Age Nº % <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total 26 34 1 61 43 56 1 118 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Turnover Rate by Gender REGIONS OF THE COUNTRY FEMALE MALE TURNOVER RATE % Centre 0,34 1,53 1,87 Lisbon Region 1,02 2,33 3,35 Alentejo 0,04 0,21 0,25 Algarve 0,13 0,08 0,21 North 0,34 1,02 1,36 Total Employees 1,87 5,18 7,05 Turnover Rate by Age <30 30-50 >50 Total Total 1,4 3,61 2,04 7,05 Benefits offered to full-time employees that are not offered to temporary or to part-time employees, by LA2 significant operational units 123 The advantages attributed to part-time employees are the same as those attributed to full-time employees, respecting the proportion in relation to the number of working hours worked. Rate of retention and return after paternity leave LA3 by gender 123 The advantages attributed to part-time employees are identical to those assigned to full-time employees, complying with the ratio in relation to the schedule executed. 2013 2014 2015 Employees who took parental leave 66 87 32 No. of employees who returned after taking parental leave 66 87 32 Employees who continue in the company 12 months after taking parental leave* 66 86 28 * This amount is calculated regarding 2014. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 119 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on LA5 occupational health and safety programs 123 The Collective Bargaining Agreement has set out the terms of the formal constitution of a Health, Hygiene and Safety at Work Committee since 2006. This joint committee, which allows for the election of the workers’ representatives, the existence of which by way of election is formally agreed with the trade union organizations, is made up of a total of seven members, three the workers’ representatives and three representatives of the company. In 2007, Brisa’s representatives, members of the Health, Hygiene and Safety at Work Committee, were appointed with the objective of advising the company on its occupational health and safety systems and processes. 2013 2014 2015 Population on 31 December 2480 2387 2343 No. of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 2430 2308 2274 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 97,98% 96,69% 97,06% Notes: Of the total no. of workers of the group, 97% are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). Calculation formula: (no. of workers covered by the CBA / total of workers of the Brisa Group at the end of the period under review) *100 120 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Type of injury and the rates of injuries, occupational illnesses, days lost, absenteeism and total number of LA6 deaths related with the work, by region and by gender 123 In 2015, the Internal Health and Safety at Work Service (IHSWS) undertook the routine activities determined by the legal framework of the Health and Safety at Work and by the Brisa Group’s Policy. • Development of Safety Procedures for the CTA and ITV Vehicle Inspectors. • Preparation of Programme Risks and Content Identification specific to delivering to each of the service companies contracted by the companies of the Brisa Group. • Assessment of the Health and Safety conditions of MCALL facilities. • Monitoring of the BCI and BIT ventures: Development of documents encompassed by Decree 273/2003, including Safety Procedure files; Control of SST documentation for each venture; observation and analysis, at the job site, of some activity(ies) carried out. • Delivery, discussion and monitoring results of the Occupational health and Safety Conditions Reports on all BO&M Operational Centres. • Annual Health and Safety at Work Report (Single Report, MSST model) of each one of the Brisa Group companies BO&M, BIT, BEG, BCI, CTA, VVP and MCALL. • Annual Report on the traffic accidents of 2014 of each company within the Brisa Group. • Monitoring and support in selecting the PPE (Individual Protection Equipment) appropriate to the individual characteristics of some employees. • Work Accident Reports with absence due to incapacity to work or which were revealed as particularly serious from the security perspective. In the year 2015 special emphasis was given to training in OSH, namely: BO&M • Training courses for new Mechans Officials and Patrol Operators of BO&M / Roadside Assistance on Safety Procedures. • Training courses for the Main Operators of Toll Booths and Toll Booth Operators of all Operational Cbetweens on Safety Procedures. BIT • Training courses, in the specific context of each job, on the safety procedures file required by Decree Law No. 273/2003, for all teams involved in the jobs. Training courses for the new Civil Works Foremen. • Training courses, within the specific context of each job, on the Safety Procedures file required by the Decree Law No. 273/2003, for all the Civil Works teams involved; • Training courses on the main activities of the Civil Works Officials and Civil Works Assistants. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 121 BEG • Training courses for the Lab Technicians. CTA e ITV • Training courses, for new employees and for those who missed the campaign in 2014, on safety measures for all the Centre Managers, Vehicle Inspectors and Receptionists. Campus Brisa • Revalidation of the training course for the evacuation teams of the companies at the Brisa Campus. The objectives proposed by the IHSWS for 2015 were generally achieved. As regards the evolution of the accidents of the companies that are part of the Brisa group, the following most important aspects can be highlighted: Overall, the number of accidents in absolute numbers and associated days lost, stabilized or decreased in almost every company within the Brisa group. The accidents stabilization was not yet achieved at BCI, integrated at the Brisa Group in 2013. This company contributed to the overall results, with about 36% of accidents in absolute terms and 24% of days lost, though it only represents about 7.5% of the actual total workforce. This differentiation of results and performance is directly related to the scope of BCI`s specific company activities and incorporates a substantially more severe risk level than the other companies in the Brisa group. It is also important to note that they did not exist during the year 2015 and with the exception of an accident by being run over, purely road characteristics, fatal or serious accidents. It is also noted, that did not exist during the 2015 year any fatal accident, there was only a serious accident by trampling. At company level there has been a significant decrease in accidents with a fall in the number in the following companies: BO&M, BIT, Mcall and Controlauto. There is only a significant increase in BCI as mentioned above. 2013 2014 2015 No. of accidents 96 100 93 Days lost 3 491 4 013 4064 Men x hours worked 4 272 499 4 631 774 4564259 Frequency rate 22,47 21,59 20,38 Rate of serious injury 817,09 866,41 890,40 Incidence rate 38,52 41,89 39,22 Duration rate 36,36 40,13 43,70 No. of deaths resulting from accidents at work 0 0 0 122 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Number of Hours of Absenteeism Main reasons 2013 2014 2015 Accident at work 23 093 24 088 28185 Trade union activity 6 707 9 305 9084 Urgent assistance 3 681 8 081 8040 Illness 74 401 115 260 122141 Unjustified absence 99 758 1093 Strike 43 18 8 Other causes 7 925 11 371 9651 General Total 115 949 170 894 178202 Rate of Absenteeism Main reasons 2013 2014 2015 Accident at work 0,46% 0,50% 0,62% Trade union activity 0,13% 0,19% 0,20% Urgent assistance 0,07% 0,17% 0,18% Illness 1,48% 2,39% 2,68% Unjustified absence 0,00% 0,02% 0,02% Strike 0,00% 0,00% 0% Other causes 0,16% 0,24% 0,21% General Total 2,30% 3,55% 3,91% Absenteeism = hours of absence / potential maximum at work Note: excluding absences due to study/exams and for maternity or paternity leave. Rate of Traffic Accidents at Work: Incidence rate (no. accidents work / average staff numbers)x103 Frequency rate (no. accidents work x 106/no. hours worked) Rate of serious injury (no. days lost x 106 / no. hours worked) Duration rate (no. days lost / no. of accidents) Days lost are considered to be working days, and they are counted from the day immediately following the day of the accident. The formulas used for the calculation of this indicator are the same for the years 2012, 2013 and 2014, using the basis of calculation agreed in Ministerial Order no. 1184/2002, of 29 of August – which approved the Annual Model of Activities of the HHSW Services. The other indicators are not legally mandatory, but are frequently used in Health and Safety at Work studies. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 123 Workers with high incidence or high risk of illness LA7 related with their occupation 123 Brisa outsources health services in the area of Occupational Medicine and Curative Medicine. This service, which covers all workers, operates in the areas of prevention, education and risk control of diseases considered serious by the National Health Service. Occupational Medicine has regular appointments and auxiliary diagnosis exams, the purpose of which is to screen for serious diseases, regardless of where these are related or not to working conditions or professional activity. Employees perform medical exams every two years, followed by medical consultation. In the year when they do not have medical exams, consultations are still held. Workers whose age or functions carry higher health risk/probability perform exams and are seen every year this group includes employees under 18 and above 50 years old, and employees working in shifts. From another angle, Curative Medicine operates in the areas of counselling on and treatment of pathologies of any worker seeking out this service. For Cardiovascular illnesses specific tests such as diagnosis of cholesterol and triglyceride levels are carried out. For Diabetes glycaemia levels are controlled and for Liver diseases Gamma GT analysis is performed. Brisa also works in the area of Alcohol Consumption Prevention and Control. The purpose of this program is to prevent work-related accidents and to detect situations of addiction, which are oriented towards an intervention program, thus promoting the protection of workers’ health. In this area, programs aimed at local communities are covered by the National Health Service, as Brisa, given the nature of its activity, for this specific population, concentrates its efforts by making available all means and resources necessary to raise awareness and carry out training in road safety. Health and Safety topics covered by formal agreements LA8 with trade unions 123 Health and safety issues covered by formal agreements with trade unions are described below. Cláusula 10, Ponto 4 any individual admitted to the staff will be subject to a prior appropriate medical exam, at the expense of the employer; Cláusula 17, Ponto 1, Alínea g) With regard to hygiene, health and safety at work, the measures that arise for a company, establishment or activity from the application of the legal provisions and agreements in force will be adopted; Cláusula 17, Ponto 1, Alínea h) appropriate information and training to prevent accidents and illnesses must be provided to employees; Cláusula 18, Ponto 1, alínea i) there should be cooperation, within the company, to improve occupational health and safety, namely through the employees’ representatives appointed for this purpose; 124 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Cláusula 18, Ponto 1, alínea j) The rules concerning Health, Hygiene and Safety at Work established in the applicable legal provisions and agreements, as well as orders given by the employer must be complied with; Cláusula 21, Ponto 11 Workers who work uninterruptedly in equipment using a visor must make 10 minute breaks every 2 hours, which, for all due purposes, will be considered as effective working time; Cláusula 76, Ponto 1 Employers must comply with the legislation on Health, Hygiene and Safety at Work and adapt it with the collaboration of workers representative bodies, to the specific characteristics of their work, by means of internal rules and later transposition to this C.B.A.; Cláusula 76, Ponto 2 As there are corporate relations between all the companies adhering to this CLA, and as regards the main activities undertaken in the premises and for the provision of services related with Health, Hygiene and Safety at Work, these will be considered as only one, particularly with regard to the workers’ representatives; Cláusula 76, Ponto 3 Given the different geographic locations of the companies’ working places, the election of the workers’ representatives will be performed by correspondence, under the terms of the law; Cláusula 76, Ponto 4 Following the election of the workers’ representatives, a common joint Health, Hygiene and Safety at Work Committee (H.H.S.W.), will be set up, to act as an advisory body, comprising an equal number of members from both parties; Cláusula 76, Ponto 4.1 The H.H.S.W. will comprise three of the seven elected members, within the terms of the previous paragraph, as representatives of the workers and three members appointed by the employer; This indicator is only applicable to the following business units: BO&M, Via Verde, BIT, BEG, BCI, BAE. Average number of hours of training by year, LA9 by employee and by category 123 Please refer to pages 85 and 86. CONSULT LA9 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in their career LA10 management 123 Please refer to pages 86 to 89. CONSULT LA10 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 125 Percentage of employees who regularly receive performance and career development analyses, by LA11 gender and category 123 The Performance Management System is one of the most important tools to support the establishment of specific objectives to be achieved and in the requirement of the definition of lines of action to be taken by employees and their respective hierarchical levels, to achieve them. The system, established on a spiral logic is based on the annual setting of concrete objectives to be achieved by the company, where each employee recognizes the importance of individual contribution to the team's results, and thus to the overall results. It is also characterized as a dynamic system in which continuous improvements are introduced resulting from analysis of processes that integrate elements of several companies, also taking into account the contributions of employees and respective managers. The Performance Management process involves all employees. Other Considerations: • In the Management System of Senior Staff Performance and Senior Managers all employees are evaluated, classified in the respective functional groups, provided they have been accepted by 30 June of the year in which the assessment takes place. • In the system of Non Senior Staff Performance Management all workers are evaluated in the respective function with the exception of: • Workers hired after April 1st of the year of assessment reports; • Workers with absenteeism greater than 6 months (absenteeism from January to December of the year to which the assessment reports); • Professionals who have changed duties, with changes due from July 1st of the year that reports the assessment. 2013 2014 2015 No. of Employees assessed 2 347 2 287 1 967 No. of employees eligible for assessment in 2014 2 522 2 387 2 343 Total percentage 93% 96% 84% 126 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Composition of groups responsible for corporate governance and discrimination of workers by category, according to gender, age group, minorities LA12 and other indicators of diversity 123 The most represented functional group works in the toll sector, accounting for 31% of the total number of employees, followed by administrative functions, customer assistance and motor vehicle inspection as the second most represented areas. Functional Subgroups No. Employees % Functional subgroups Female Male Administr./Warehouse 361 15% Administr./Warehouse 76% 24% Customer assistance 270 12% Customer assistance 2% 98% Clerks 7 0% Clerks 14% 86% C.A.Executives 4 0% C.A.Executives 0% 100% Service heads 58 2% Service heads 29% 71% Designers/Topographers 7 0% Designers/Topographers 14% 86% Directors 56 2% Directors 18% 82% Managers 5 0% Managers 0% 100% Electricians 19 1% Electricians 0% 100% Electronic technicians 56 2% Electronic technicians 5% 95% Foremen / Supervisors 51 2% Foremen / Supervisors 4% 96% Inspectors 343 15% Inspectors 8% 92% Mcall Operators 58 2% Mcall Operators 74% 26% Toll operators 465 20% Toll operators 37% 63% Main 255 11% Main 3% 97% Civil contruct. workers 148 6% Civil contruct. workers 1% 99% Secretaries 16 1% Secretaries 100% 0% Senior technicians 164 7% Senior technicians 45% 55% Total 2343 100% Total 28% 72% BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 127 Functional subgroups <30 30-50 >50 Administr./Warehouse 4% 81% 15% Customer assistance 1% 73% 26% Clerks 0% 29% 71% C.A.Executives 0% 25% 75% Service heads 0% 79% 21% Designers/Topographers 0% 71% 29% Directors 0% 46% 54% Managers 0% 20% 80% Electricians 0% 26% 74% Electronic technicians 0% 68% 23% Foremen /Supervisors 0% 65% 35% Inspectors 1% 83% 7% Mcall Operators 0% 76% 14% Toll operators 0% 75% 25% Main 0% 69% 31% Civil contruct. workers 0% 64% 36% Secretaries 0% 69% 31% Senior technicians 0% 80% 13% Total 3% 74% 23% Ratio of basic salary of men in comparison with that of women by professional category and significant LA13 operating units 123 The Group does not restrict access by women to any job or category and the remuneration they receive is not different to that of men. The wage table agreed pursuant to the CLA applies equally to the base salary of men and women covered by the CLA. The same principle applies to Mcall, Controlauto and other group companies in the car inspection business, even though they are not covered by Brisa’s Collective Bargaining Agreement; Remuneration and recruitment policies followed by the organisation 30 years ago were quite different from those of today. Only in recent years do we find women performing functions that were traditionally reserved for men. On the other hand, employees who have worked the longest at the company may have had more progression opportunities. Taking these factors into consideration, the Company determined the base salary ratio differently for men and for women, having in the first case considered only a sample of the total workforce and in the second case determined the ratio for the overall workforce of the Group. 128 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ratio of Basic Salary by Gender FUNCTIONAL SUBGROUPS FEMALE MALE RATIO M/W ADMINISTRATIVE Office clerk 818,87 837 1,02 Administrative technician 1211 1529 1,26 OPERACIONAIS DE COMUNICAÇÕES Operador central de comunicações 1174,33 1164 0,99 TOLL OPERATOR Toll Booth Operator 801 851 1,06 MANAGEMENT STAFF Technician 2212,5 2506 1,13 Assistant Technician 2132 1837 0,86 Senior Technician 3256 2624 0,81 Ratio of Basic Salary by Operational Units COMPANY FEMALE MALE RATIO M/W Brisa Autoestradas 1942 2349 1,21 Brisa Engenharia e Gestão S.A. 2435 1858 0,76 Brisa O&M 1106 1055 0,95 Via Verde Portugal 828 837 1,01 ASSUMPTIONS: Employees of the Companies who subscribed the CBA in 2014; Only employees working full time are considered; The average wage per category was used to calculate the ratio; Employees admitted in the last 10 years; Functional groups where there are no women were excluded. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 129 Percentage of new suppliers who were selected LA14 using the criterion of labour practices 123 In 2015, the percentage of suppliers already certified in OHSAS 18001 is very small, so the selection criteria based on this typology, although introduced (already in previous years) ends up not being effective or expressive. In 2015, new strategic suppliers were not selected that provided evidence of these practices. However, the Brisa Group continues to work on raising the awareness of its suppliers to the importance of these practices. The main real and potential impacts of labour LA15 practices on the supply chain and actions taken 123 In 2015, there were no suppliers identified that provided evidence of actual negative or potential impacts inherent to a non-adherence to work practices. In 2015, the percentage of suppliers already certified in OHSAS 18001 is very small. However the Brisa Group continues to work on raising awareness of its suppliers to the importance of these practices, including through specific points in its meetings of the situation, as well as the inclusion of specific criteria in business processes, even if currently they are not considered as a factor for elimination. From these actions we know of at least two new entities already in the process of certification. Percentage and suppliers and contractors who were HR10 subject to verification of Human Rights 123 All new suppliers are selected considering the compliance with labor law, so it is considered 100%. Still, the level of contractors and sub-contractors, are monitored with regard to its employees, in particular in relation to illegal labor and child labor. Additionally Brisa is committed to review its policy of selection of suppliers by including specific criteria and contractual articulated, related to the impact on society and human rights. Actual and Potential Significant Negative Impacts of HR11 Human rights on the supply chain and actions taken 123 All new suppliers are selected considering the compliance with labor legislation, currently we have more than 2,200 suppliers. Were have not identified suppliers with significant human rights impacts, actual or potential. 130 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Percentage of operations involved with the local community, impact assessments and development SO1 programs 123 % of Aspect Description operations At the construction stage, Brisa monitors the local entities through the Concessionaire responsible, and holds public consultations with regard to Processes of Environmental Impact Assessment, performed by BEG (see Indicator SO10); Social impact assessment 100% At the operation and maintenance stage, Brisa identifies, through its analysis of materiality, the topic of Road Safety as having the most relevant impact on the local communities on a social level; the Safety First Programme is a national initiative that aims to address this need; Environmental monitoring is described in Indicator EN12. In 2015, at the Operating Stage, the Brisa Group’s motorway network was Environmental impact monitored in environmental terms along a length of 296.13 km. assessment and ongoing The AEDL, Brisal, AELO and AEBT concessions are not considered because they 27% monitoring are excluded from the scope of this report. AEA is excluded from this number as we still do not have environmental monitoring data for this concession; Public disclosure of results of Environmental information is public. 100% / NA assessments On a social level, the percentage is considered to be not applicable. Development Programs of the Based on the needs identified, solutions are found on a case-by-case basis. local communities based on their 100% needs E.g. Protocol developed for the A4 Maia Activity in the construction stage is very low due to the maturity of the network under concession, and therefore the risk associated to the local communities in this stage is not considered relevant and neither justifying a permanent Stakeholder engagement plans mechanism for the mapping and involvement of stakeholders. 100% based on stakeholder mapping At the operation and maintenance stage, stakeholders are involved through the channels described in the response to standard AA1000, and there is no permanent mechanism for the mapping and involvement of stakeholders. The involvement and consultation of the local community is critical in the project development stage of new road works and road widening works. Brisa consults local entities, described in Indicator SO10, at local authority level along Consultation of the local with relevant public institutes, in order to gauge the expectations of the local 100% communities communities and if it is possible to include them right from the design stage. The involvement of the local communities is also ensured through the Concessionaire responsible. The Workers Committee of the Brisa Group is active; Workers’ Committee, In relation to the Formal Health and Safety Committees, the election of the occupational health and safety workers’ representatives, which is the exclusive responsibility of the trade union 100% committees representatives, is awaited. See Indicator LA6. The customer support service provides a channel for the reception of grievances, which includes the local communities. Formal local community In the case of grievances presented by non-customers, these are channelled to 100% grievance processes the respective concessionaire. See Indicator PR5. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 131 Business activities with significant potential or actually SO2 negative impact on local communities 123 CONSTRUCTION STAGE The main impact on local communities in this stage has to do mainly with territorial planning and with other specific concerns as a consequence of the occupation of the land. List of works in progress in 2015: Road Widening: A1 – Sub-stretch Carvalhos / Sto. Ovídio – Road Widening and Improvement to 2x3 Lanes A4 – Sub-stretch Águas Santas / Ermesinde – Road Widening to 2x4 lanes – New North Tunnel of Águas Santas Improvement of road surfaces: A1 – Sub-stretch Vila Franca de Xira II/ Junction A1/A10/Carregado. Localized improvements of the road surface between km 29+000 and 25+000 of the right lane (direction N/S) A2 – Sub-stretch Fogueteiro/Coina. Improvement/reinforcement of the road surface of the toll booths at the Junction of Coina A2 – Sub-stretch Junction A2/A6/A13/Alcácer do Sal. Improvement/reinforcement of the road surface A2 – Sub-stretchs Alcácer do Sal/Grândola Norte. Improvement of the road surface of the right lane of the viaduct of Albergaria (direction N/S) A3 – Sub-stretch Santo Tirso/Famalicão. Improvement/Reinforcement of the road surface A3 – Sub-stretch EN201/Ponte de Lima South/Ponte de Lima North. Improvement/Reinforcement of the road surface A4 – Sub-stretch Águas Santas/Ermesinde. Improvement/Reinforcement of the road surface at the Junction of Ermesinde A4 – Sub-stretch Valongo/Campo. Improvement/Reinforcement of the road surface A5 – Sub-stretch Oeiras/Carcavelos. Improvement/Reinforcement of the road surface A6 – Sub-stretch Évora Poente/Évora Nascente. Improvement/Reinforcement of the road surface A14 – Sub-stretch EN335/Ançã. Improvement/Reinforcement of the road surface A14 – Sub-stretchs Ançã/Coimbra North (A1/A14) /Zombaria. Improvement of the road surface Rehabilitation and structural reinforcement: A1, A2, A4, A5 e A12 – Conservation work on Viaducts of the Brisa network A1 – Sub-stretch Coimbra South/Coimbra North. Rehabilitation and reinforcement of Viaduct B over the Baixa of the Mondego River. A1 – Sub-stretch Coimbra South/Coimbra North. Repair of the slabs on Viaduct E over the Baixa of the Mondego River A2 – Sub-stretch Alcácer do Sal/Grândola South. Replacement of the expansion joints of the Sado Bridge (direction South/ North) A2 Sub-stretch Alcácer do Sal/Grândola North. Rehabilitation and reinforcement of the viaducts of Arapouco, Albergaria e Burgão 132 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A2 – Sub-stretch Almodôvar/S. Bartolomeu de Messines. Rehabilitation and reinforcement of Culverts (Lot 1) A3 e A5 – Rehabilitation and structural reinforcement of the Culverts PH46 and PH 48 on the A5 and PH 26 and PH 37.1 on the A3 A3 – Sub-stretch Águas Santas/Maia. Construction of drainage downstream of the PHs 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 and Connection to Ribeira do Leandro A3 – Sub-stretch Maia/Santo Tirso. Extension of the Protection Guard of the Catenary, on the Viaduct of Covelas A3 – Sub-stretch Ponte de Lima North/EN303. Rehabilitation and reinforcement of the roadway across the bridge of the Viaduct over the Ribeira da Portela A5 – Sub-stretch Linda-a-Velha/Estádio Nacional. Rehabilitation of the Underpass 15.1 A10 – Sub-stretch Arruda dos Vinhos/Carregado. Construction of the Drainage system of the Viaduct of Santana da Carnota A13 – Sub-stretch Pegões/Marateca. Repair of corroded support devices at the viaducts V1 and V2 A14 – Sub-stretch Vila Verde/Santa Eulália. Rehabilitation of Culverts of the current cross drainage system (PHs km 5+980, 8+580, 9+260, 12+300) Stabilization of Embankments: A1 – Sub-stretch Alverca/Vila Franca de Xira. Stabilization of the excavation embankment at km 19+700 (direction N/S) A1 – Sub-stretch Fátima/Leiria. Stabilization of the excavation embankment of Branch B of the Junction of Leiria A1 – Sub-stretch Torres Novas/Fátima. Stabilization of the excavation embankment (km 96+400) A1 – Sub-stretch Condeixa/Coimbra Sul. Repair of the unstable embankment at km 182+130, aterro (direction S/N),km 182+400, escavação (direction N/S) e km 184+000, Muro M1 (direction A/N) A2 – Sub-stretch Almodôvar/S. Bartolomeu de Messines. Stabilization of the excavation embankment at km 211+100 / direction N/S) A9 – Sub-stretch Radial da Pontinha/Radial de Odivelas. Stabilization of excavation embankments between km 12+500 and 13+000 A9 – Sub-stretch Radial da Pontinha/Radial de Odivelas. Stabilization of the excavation embankment of the Portal South of the Tunnel of Montemor at km 15+690 A14 – Sub-stretch Santa Eulália/Montemor-o-Velho. Stabilization of the eart embankments of Branch B of the Junction of Santa Eulália Construction of Noise Barriers: A1 – Sub-stretch Carregado/Aveiras de Cima. Conceção/Construction of Noise Barriers A3 – Sub-stretch Porto (VCI) /EN12/Águas Santas. Conceção/Construction of Noise Barriers A4 – Sub-stretch Penafiel/IP9/Amarante. Conceção/Construction of Noise Barriers A4 – Sub-stretch Baltar/Paredes/Guilhufe. Conceção/Construction of Noise Barriers OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE STAGE In this stage, the main impacts identified on a local community have to do with noise, traffic-related accidents and biodiversity. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 133 Percentage and total number of business units analyzSO3 ed for risks related to corruption 123 Compliance with the audit directives/standards divulged plays a fundamental role in the internal audit work carried out by the Audit, Organization and Quality Department of the Brisa Group. The works undertaken in 2014 took the following aspects into consideration: 1. Assessment of the risks inherent to the activities of the areas audited; 2. Testing of the existing internal control mechanisms; 3. Verification of the degree of implementation of the recommendations made following previous audits. As corruption is a quite sensitive topic but which is important in view of the current economic context, it implies serious consequences for organizations, with substantial on-costs. In this regard, the organization has taken the trouble to develop controls that allow the introduction of ongoing improvements in the processes, so as to make them more robust and to mitigate the risks associated to the activities performed. After the risks and controls were identified and measured by the areas/companies of the Brisa Group, during 2013, we continued to configure the risk management applicational platform, with the objective of systematising the information gathered. Lastly, there is still no systematised quantification of the risk of corruption in the organization. Communication and training in counter-corruption SO4 policies and procedures 123 Given the specific nature of this type of training, we calculated the percentage of Staff who received training in these matters compared with the total number of employees in the departments most directly connected to this activity – Audit Board, Organization and Quality Department (DAQ), Financial Board (DFI) and Legal Board (DJR). In 2015, there was no training of this type due to the non-integration of new employees in the departments mentioned above. It is expected to return to these trainings in 2016. 134 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Steps taken in response to the occurrence of SO5 situations of corruption 123 The Brisa Group is governed by a series of standards and best practices that in their adoption / execution allow for a number of mechanisms aimed at improving internal control. In terms of mechanisms / measures already adopted by the Brisa Group, in previous years, to address the issue of corruption, we highlight: 1. The existence of a Code of Ethics and an Ethics Ombudsman; 2. The channel for communicating non-conformities (irregularities); 3. Publication of specific rules on the treatment of personal data and information protection; 4. The existence of policies applicable to the whole Brisa Group, namely: • Risk; • Procurement; • Information systems; • Receipts and payments. Regarding the balance of 2015, we would mention the following: 1. Total number of cases of employees dismissed or punished for corruption: We have no knowledge or records of situations of this nature; 2. Total number of cases in which contracts with partners and businesses were not renewed due to violations related with corruption: 0; 3. Legal proceedings referring to practices of corruption filed against the reporting organization or its employees: 0 Total number of legal proceedings regarding unfair comSO7 petition, anti-trust, and monopolistic practices 123 In 2015 there were no proceedings to report in this indicator. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using SO9 criteria for impacts on society 123 There were not selected new suppliers based on society impacts. However Brisa is committed to review its policy of selection of suppliers by including specific criteria and contractual, related to the impact on society and human rights. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 135 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on SO10 society in the supply chain and actions taken 123 Brisa's activity is characterized by a high geographical dispersion and strong impact on local communities. Being aware of this fact, Brisa has several mechanisms at different levels, to prevent and mitigate the impacts on the communities in which it operates, or to ensure compliance of the law, or in some cases, to ensure a level of performance for beyond the minimum legal requirements. MEASURES TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW • Measures resulting from the accompaniment of local entities, performed directly by the Concessionaire responsible • Measures resulting from public consultations made under the Processes of Environmental Impact Assessment, performed by BEG Brisa Engenharia e Gestão • Press Service: press conferences, communiqués and other relevant actions, performed in the DIS Investors, Communication and Sustainability Department • Customer Support Service • Installation of acoustic barriers • Environmental monitoring MEASURES TO ENSURE A DEGREE OF PERFORMANCE BEYOND THAT REQUIRED UNDER LAW All of the above on a case-by-case basis, as necessary. In 2015, the works listed in the Indicator SO2 were in progress. A close relationship of collaboration is maintained with the Town Halls, with the GNR (National Republican Guard) and with Civil Government. Specific work groups are set, as is the case of the Road Safety Work Group, promoted by the Civil Government, which involves other entities such as the PSP (Public Security Police) and INEM (Emergency Medical Services). We should also mention the process of public consultation held under the Processes of Environmental Impact Assessment. Underlying the development of studies and projects is a major concern to find environmentally sustainable technical solutions. In fact, with the objective of improving the quality and efficacy of the undertakings managed by Brisa, measures are implemented, right from the preliminary stages to the final stages of the studies and projects, to guarantee the quality of the engineering project, namely through the execution of an efficient process of coordination of environmental studies, which leads to the incorporation, in the overall project, of measures to avoid or reduce the impacts. Inherent to the Environmental Impact Assessment Process, meetings are held with the local authorities involved in the project, together with other entities (in accordance with the Portuguese Environment Agency), where the plans are presented and all the questions raised by the interested parties are clarified by Brisa as the developer. Adopting a pro-active posture, during this stage Brisa also ensures that entities interested in the project are consulted, namely Town Halls, Services Affected, amongst others. This consultation of entities with a long experience in the area where the undertaking will be built, helps to incorporate the different concerns in the projects in good time, and thus prevent them from emerging at a later stage. This methodology therefore helps to get the project approved more quickly by the relevant authorities and to begin land expropriation proceedings and construction of the infrastructures. 136 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In respect of project coordination for the design and construction stages, and during 2015, around 5 dozen work meetings were held with the stakeholders, corresponding to the following projects: • A1 – Motorway of the North • A2 – Motorway of the South • A3 – Motorway Porto/Valença • A4 – Motorway Porto/Amarante • A5 – Motorway of the Costa do Estoril • A9 – Exterior Regional of Lisbon (CREL) • A10 – Motorway Bucelas/Carregado/IC3 • A12 – Motorway Setúbal/Montijo • A14 – Motorway Figueira da Foz/Coimbra Norte Environmental Inspection of contract works is a very important and pertinent aspect as construction activities can provoke significant impacts on the environment and their control is thus imperative to minimize negative impacts. This situation is monitored / controlled by Brisa’s supervision department. Local communities are also accompanied by the Communication Department, namely by the Press Service, which conveys information to the local communities, providing communication channels to any part of the media that wants clarifications. Information concerning long-term works or those with a significant impact on local communities is provided on the website, through press conferences and of regular press releases. In 2015 there were 111 press releases. 4 Press Conferences / Encounters with journalists were also held: 23/24th March – Visit of journalists to the Student Drive Camp (Aveiro) 18th June – Press Conference on widening Carvalhos-Santo Ovídeo with the Town Hall of Gaia 21st October – Launch of the new brand Via Verde 27th October – Press Conference, work on the Tunnel at Águas Santas The Customer Support Service (BO&M) provides customers of the concessions operated by Brisa O&M, S.A. various forms of communicating with the company, namely by letter, fax, e-mail, RSVP envelopes, forms in the shops and on the website or the complaints book. RSVP envelopes can be obtained at any toll barrier or electronically on the websites of the concessions and sub-concessions operated or through e-mails sent there. The management of complaints is centralised in Brisa O&M, S.A.’s Customers’ Department which, if so required, sends a request for an opinion from the area responsible for the matter mentioned by the customer. The sending of responses is also centralised. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 137 At any time the Website of Via Verde, the Helpline and Information number 707 500 900, are available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year for assistance and information, and the shops are geared to respond all questions raised by customers. They have access to the complaints handling platform and, through this platform, they come into contact with the Customers Department which is always informed of the contact from the customer. In specific cases telephone calls may be made to the customer. Customers’ contributions provided through these channels are very relevant and, in some cases, the information collected will help us to make specific improvement measures at operational and management levels. Percentage of categories of significant products and services for which the health and safety impacts are PR1 assessed and improved 123 In this indicator the impacts are identified on health and safety throughout the three stages of organizational activity: Design, Construction and Operation. DESIGN STAGE The main objective of the Project Safety Coordination (PSC) is to ensure that General Prevention Principles are included in the elaboration of the project in order to reduce the risks in the construction and use/maintenance stages after the conclusion of the works. As it is statistically proven that more than 50% of the causes of accidents in the construction and public works industry can be attributed to the design stage, it is BEG’s responsibility to act at this point so as to facilitate the construction process and the management of the construction in terms of Safety at Work. Making use of BEG’s vast experience in accompanying construction works, the PSC can prepare or control the preparation of the Building Specifications Contracts, Health and Safety Plans (HSP) and Technical Compilations in a more effective manner. It is therefore essential for BEG’s technicians to be in mutual contact to ensure that all of its responsibilities as Safety Coordinator in the design stage are met (Decree Law 273/2003). CONSTRUCTION STAGE The main objective of the Works Safety Coordination (WSC) is to ensure the continuous improvement of the working conditions in the construction yards under BEG’s management and responsibility, in order to effectively reduce the rate of road accidents in relation to the sector of activity in question. WSC will be tightly exercised by BEG, in strict fulfilment of applicable legislation and of the documents issued at the design stage, especially the HSP (Health and Safety Plan). GUARANTEE PERIOD A Provisional Reception Survey is carried out on the Works at the end of construction. In the guarantee period the works are monitored by the Operations Centre which reports any anomalies to BAE which subsequently notifies BEG to intercede with the Contractors in order to repair these anomalies. 138 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT At the end of the guarantee period a Definitive Reception Survey is carried out on the Works. After this Statement is issued if everything is in order, the bank guarantee is returned to the Contractor responsible for the execution of this work. OPERATING STAGE The most relevant aspects with the greatest impact on Health and Safety with regard to the ongoing conservation of the road infrastructure network were identified as being: • Vertical signposting • Horizontal Signposting (road markings) • Viaducts (structural elements) • Road surfaces TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION Vertical Signposting Retro-reflection levels required for all the new vertical road signs in Brisa specifications are those defined by the specification of retro-reflector screens with Level 2 H.I ; There are no indicators established for the minimum quality of vertical road signs applied in addition to those defined in the regulations in force. Quality assurance of the reflective screens normally used is 7 years for the EG screen and 10 years for the HI screen. At the end of this period the minimum guaranteed by the supplier for retro-reflection is at least 50% of the initial value. Brisa on its vertical road signs conservation process have made their replacement, considering the lifetime of these materials and their quality. From 2005 it started the application of vertical reflecting screen signal with level 3 DG in order to increase the quality of the retro-reflection and the replacement period is 12 to 15 years. Horizontal Signposting (road marking) Thermoplastic material (spray) or water-based acrylic paint and projection of glass beads is used in the Horizontal Signposting. Functional performance measurements are carried out, as retro-reflection RL , luminance coefficient in diffuse lighting Qd skid resistance SRT . The Horizontal Signalling painting life time is a function of its wear and tear with repainting occurring when the retro-reflection reaches values of 150 mcd.lx-1m-2. Structural Works Verification Tests: 1. Inspections of structural works – Frequency: OAC (current structural works PS, PI, PA, PP, PE and PH) • 4 Years current structural works of the BCR network; • 3-5 years current structural works from other networks. BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 139 The first inspection when still under guarantee, is performed by the team of BEG/dep/oa. The following inspections are carried out by teams from Brisa Conservação de Infraestruturas (Brisa Infrastructure Conservation), which are given specific training for OAC inspection. OAE (special structural works viaducts, bridges and tunnels) • 6 Years special structural works from all networks; All inspections are carried out by the team from BEG 2. Identification of required indicators: • Special Structural Works Conservation Status Indicator (IM); • Special Structural Works Annual Conservation Indicator (GI). Objectives of the Brisa Group for indicators: • Special Structural Works Conservation Status Indicator ……… IM ≤ 2 Good • Special Structural Works Annual Conservation Indicator.......... IG ≥ 80% Sufficient for the year 2015, and for the Brisa Group, the values calculated for indicators are: • Special Structural Works State of Conservation. IM = 1.12 • It is estimated that the Annual Conservation of Special Structural Works ... GI = 80% With the approval of the indicators mentioned by the regulatory authority, it is intended that these guarantee the global conservation status of networks and also the annual conservation status. Road Surfaces 1. Frequency of acoustic investigation / inspections to be carried out on the road surfaces: The acoustic investigation / inspections are carried out at intervals of 4 years for the functional parameters (grip and longitudinal regularity) and variable for the structural parameter (deflection). 2. Identification of the quality indicator required: The overall condition of road surfaces is characterized by the performance indicator IPAV FUNCTIONAL (SIG indicator). This results from the weighting of a set of simple performance indicators (ICAT: adherence or grip, IREG: regularity, ICE: life cycle) that are based on technical parameters measured by specific equipment, whose activity falls within the domain of the acoustic investigation of road surfaces. IPAV FUNCIONAL (2015) – 73 •• ICAT (2015) – 63 •• IREG (2015) – 71 •• ICE (2015) – 100 The parameters 2015 can only be delivered by March 15, because only now have we had access to data from the acoustic investigation of the works carried out during 2015. 140 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Total number of incidents of non-fulfilment of the regulations and code in relation to the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, PR2 detailed by type of result 123 In 2015 there were no incidents under this indicator. PR5 Results of Surveys to measure customer satisfaction 123 Brisa Concessão Rodoviária or “Brisa”, continues to attribute decisive importance to the satisfaction of its customers with the quality of the service provided. This is reflected in the level of service required from Brisa O&M. The satisfaction indicators adopted by Brisa for assessing the quality of the service provided, now through a service provision contract with Brisa O&M, continue to be included under SIG (Management Information System), designed and implemented with the support of a consultancy company from the beginning of 2007. SIG imposes target values (to one year) and target values (to three years) to achieve these indicators. The source of these amounts uses the results arrived at from the internal monitoring of the service provided, as well as other relevant business indicators. MONTHLY MONITORING OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Every month, Brisa O&M and Via Verde sound out its customers so as to react more immediately at the level of customer service provided, namely: In the Road Assistance Service; In telephone answering service through the number of information and assistance; In the service provided by Via Verde shops. Customer satisfaction surveys are carried out monthly, with a view to implementing measures to improve the service in customer service channels. In 2015, the overall average customer satisfaction of each one of the services analysed: Results 2015 (on a scale from 1 to 4): Information and assistance number Annual average level of satisfaction: 3.32 Roadside Assistance: Annual average level of satisfaction: 3.77 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 141 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of PR8 customer data 123 This indicator is not considered to be relevant in terms of Brisa’s business. 04 ASSURANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 144 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 145 146 BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BRISA 2015 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 147
