PUBLIC STATEMENT OF PERFORMANCE 2011-2015 Contents Stakeholders Issuance of Product Organizational Management Company Accounts Human Rights 5 6 7 12 17 Labour Relations Environment Prevention of Corruption Cultural and Social Projects Development Strategy 20 35 37 47 50 2 / 51 Mission Terms and Standards PLASKE JSC means the Private Joint-Stock Company PLASKE OMS means the Company Management System Motion energy – for society’s success UNGC means the United Nations Global Compact EFQM means European Foundation for Quality Management ISO 9001 means ISO Quality Management Systems. Requirements ISO 10018 means ISO Quality Management -Guidelines on People Involvement and Competence Vision ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems — Requirements with Guidance for Use ISO 20121 – Event Sustainability Management Systems –Requirements with Guidance for Use ISO 21500 – Guidance on Project Management We are moving forward managing the motion energy in favor of social success. ISO 26000 – Guidance on Social Responsibility In our movement we are committed to social justice by preserving the environment, ISO 27000 Information Technology. Safety. Information Security Management Systems. creating safe products and promoting the Company’s sustainable economic growth. General Provisions and Vocabulary ISO 27001 – Information technology. Safety. Information Security Management Systems – Requirements“ 27002 Information Technology. A Set of Rules for the Management of Information Security Goal 27003, Information Technology — Security Techniques — Information Security Management System Implementation Guidance 27004, Information Technology -Security Techniques -Information Security Management Measurement 27005 Information Technology -Security Techniques -Information Security Risk Individual logistic solutions – for an efficient economy. Management 27007 Information technology -Security techniques -Guidelines for information security management systems auditing ISO 28000 – Supply Chain Security Management Systems. Technical Conditions Idea ISO 31000 – Risk Management System. Principles and Recommendations OHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems. Requirements SA 8000 – “Social Accountability” RILO means Rules for Internal Labour Order. Making individual decisions, implementing intellectual logistics and representation of cargo owners’ interests at all stages of the secure supply chain in organizing transportation and delivery of freight to the specified location just on schedule for the purpose of reducing economic risks and Customers’ costs. 3 / 51 Opening Address JSC PLASKE pending their 17-year journey have constantly improved the activity In the course of the Company internal environment strengthening, in 2015 we being guided by national and international standards of doing business. In 2015, the completed the path of implementation of ISO 27001 standard information security adoption of “Sustainable Development Goals” (SDG) and the Climate Agreement by the requirements, began the improvement of the Company Management System in the states at the United Nations level has become the starting point for building a new field of accelerating particles stream through the introduction of electronic document strategy of our Company. management, and strengthened the skills of our top managers by starting their study of Nine Modules of the “School of Managers”. Judging by the 2015 outcomes we clearly Key challenges as before are poverty, climate changes, corruption and inequality understand that we continue to move forward constantly improving our activities and that have led to an unacceptable increase in violence and conflicts in the world. We realize the planned results. Our success is the success of Stakeholders of our Company. believe that, together, representatives of business parties are increasing their influence in the world for the purpose of converting SDG into new stable markets to meet the In 2016, we have decided to publish a report, which is built on the requirements and recommendations of all Stakeholders and society in general. In order recommendations of the UN Global Compact and shows the status of JSC PLASKE to identify and use our capabilities in the name of peace, we are actively involved in processes trends for a period from 2011 to 2015. This will allow our Customers, the development of national and international projects aimed at promoting social Partners, Staff, Government and society in general to see the dynamics of the responsibility. In performing the task of maintaining the process of sustainable Company development over the past period. We appreciate your feedback about the development and attaining UN SDG we urge the leaders of the business community to report, which serve as tools of assessment and obtaining feedback on our join our way and make a contribution to the implementation of the basic tasks of performance. On behalf of the Supervisory Council of JSC PLASKE we express our humanity and to act in the name of peace and prosperity. gratitude to all people and the team members of our Company for the highest efficiency and professionalism in the implementation of our strategy and intentions. For the last 9 years JSC PLASKE has been a signatory to and supported the UN Thanks to our team the Company firmly stands on the path of sustainable Global Compact, which is the basis for the business community, and seek to harmonise development. their activities with 10 universally accepted principles in the fields of fight against corruption, human rights, labour relations and environmental protection. Through Oleg PLATONOV participation in the UN Global Compact we support the initiative “A Call to Action: Chairman of the Supervisory Board, JSC PLASKE Program against Corruption and Global Development”, which was initiated by the UN Global Compact Anti-Corruption Working Group. In 2015, our Company joined the UN platform for the business community “Business for Peace” initiated by Pan Gi Moon, the UN Secretary-General, that allows for collective peace promotion actions in the workplaces, at the market and local in communities. Among the projects, in which our Company plays one of the major roles, and which positively change the socio-economic environment, are implemented the projects on facilitation of international trade and logistics, implementation of the Single Window – Local Solution Project, participation in the Interagency Working Group and the development of the National Strategy whose possibilities allow to reach a higher level of production, reduce the impact of corruption, simplify international trade and logistics, thereby attracting additional cargo flows to Ukraine, and to contribute to sustainable development. The demonstration of the outcomes of the “Single Window – Local Solution” Project within the framework of the 16th meeting of the UN Global Compact Anti-Corruption Working Group concerning the 10th principle against corruption, which took place in June 2015 in New York, received a lot of positive feedback and support from the Working Group members. 4 / 51 Stakeholders JSC PLASKE have created values aimed at maintaining the balance of interests of Stakeholders in the Company throughout the whole period of their activity. The concerns of Stakeholders of JSC PLASKE are the guideposts for the development of our activities in consideration of social responsibility. To systematize the process of social responsibility we follow the principles of the UN Global Compact and recommendations of the Standard ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility , which allow one to define the reference point in determination of the Policy and Strategy of the Company towards Stakeholders. Taking an active part as a business entity in the international and national markets as a business entity, we cooperate with many Stakeholder groups highlighting a number of key Stakeholder groups whose interests are most significantly associated with our activities and which, in their turn, can have most significant effect on the ability of our Company to implement its strategic goals. In order to identify the Stakeholder expectations from the results of activity of JSC PLASKE , we use various communication channels and based on the results of the received information processing make management decisions for the future improvement of the Company management process. The definition of Stakeholders and aspects of the relationship with them are defined at the Company Management System strategic planning stage. The most important groups and aspects of the relationships with them are indicated in Fig. No.01: Fig. No. 01. Main interests of stakeholders 5 / 51 Issuance of Product Private Joint-Stock Company PLASKE was founded on 5 November 1998 as a freight forwarding company providing for the cargo door-to-door delivery. In 1999, for the purpose of improvement two new directions were opened:  Transport and Travel Agency for provision of travel arrangements and passenger transportation services; and  Information and Consulting Agency for improving the professional skills and training. In 2007, for the purpose of business expansion a new trend emerged in the form of Trading and Commercial Agency that provided mediation services in the commercial sphere. In 2011, the Company improved their activities by opening two additional fields:  Publication of printed products in supporting the socio-political and historical-and-cultural life of society – the Production Arrangement Agency; and  Organizational and Management Agency providing management consulting services. Our Company is not sticky, we constantly develop our activities through integration and harmonization of the main activities processes with recommendations and requirements of the international community. In 2014 we reformed our approaches to the management system, which allowed us to look at and visualize the control system in a new form that integrates the basic ideas, philosophy and principles of the Company. This reform helped us to organize three main activities, which are presented in Fig. No.02: Today PLASKE a partnership geographically separate organizations, united by one brand. In Ukraine, JSC PLASKE represents 5 international organizations and projects, which allow the possibility to reach a higher level of production and its continuous improvement. We are actively involved in the development of national projects, including the facilitation of international trade and logistics procedures, the introduction of the Single Window a local solution , participated in the interdepartmental working group, and work on a national strategy, enables to simplify the procedure of international trade and logistics, implementing deregulation in the field of public relations and to counter corruption. Photo gallery: Customers Service Centers of JSC ”Plaske” Fig. No.02. JSC “Plaske” activity lines 6 / 51 Organizational Compliance with international standards management Due to the implemented management system of the company, our Consumers get ready products that comply with the national and foreign requirements and the Concerned Parties satisfy their interests. We permanently study the world trends and borrow the best practices and adopt UN GC – Global Compact of the United Nations recommendations of international organizations so as to build-up our management system. Buy now Organization we defined the main vector to build the organization management system (OMS) which means sustainable development with due account of social responsibility. We support the UN Global ISO 10018 – “Quality Management Systems” – Compact principles and use the international management experience, including recommendations Manual on participation and competence of and requirements of the International Standardization Organization (ISO), UNECE and EFQM which personnel” documents are priority for us to design and improve the management system. Altogether, our ISO 9001 – “Quality Management Systems. Company implemented principles of 14 generally recognized international standards and regulatory Requirements” documents (Fig. No.03) that govern the management system and continues to support and promote them in our society at the national level. ISO 10018 – “Quality Management Systems” Manual on participation of people” ISO 14001 – “Environment Management Systems. General requirements and application guidelines” ISO 20121 – “Sustainable System of Managing Measures – Requirements and user manual” ISO 21500 – “Project Management Manual” ISO 26000 – “Social Responsibility manual” ISO 27001 – “Information Technologies – Occupational Safety – Information Security Management Systems – Requirements’ ISO 28000 – «Supply Chain Safety Management Systems – Specifications » ISO 31000 – “Risk Management System. Principles and Recommendations” EFQM – European Fund of Quality Management QHSAS 18001 – “Safety and Health Protection Management System. Requirements” SA 8000 – “Social Responsibility” Fig. No.03. Organization management system that complies with the recommendations and requirements of the national and international standards 7 / 51 When integrating basic international documents in the Company management system, we rely on the principles of standardization and harmonization. It enables us to preserve temporary resources for a search of information in one source. The examples of such harmonization achieved during 2011-2015 are: implementation of the ISO 9001, ISO 28000, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and SA 8000, the principles, requirements and recommendations of standards ISO 26000 «Social Responsibility Manual» (2012), ISO 10018 «Quality Management – Manual on Participation and Competence of Personnel» (2012), ISO 21500 «Project Management Manual» (2013) and ISO 27001 «Information Technology. Occupational Safety. Management Systems» (2014-2015) requirements in the OMS that already functions according to the UN Global Compact principles. With a view of determining the JSC «PLASKE» level as compared with Ukrainian and European companies, in 2013 we decided to participate in the external independent complex appraisal of the Company activity in accordance with the European Foundation for Quality Management EFQM model. By the results of such appraisal JSC «PLASKE» got 451-500 points, which made it possible to be awarded with the EFQM «4-star» Certificate of Quality management, the Laureate Diploma of the «18th Ukrainian National Quality Contest» as well as obtain a comprehensive report containing expert recommendations on improvement of the activity. Administrative technology tools Due to the conducted appraisal which we used for our annual analysis of the OMS performance, which was aimed at finding weaknesses and strengthening them in the nearest future, we have determined the improvement priorities. One of the most important directions for improving the Company management system was to search for new practical tools for managing the Copy of the «4-star» certificate issued by the EFQM after appraising JSC «PLASKE», 2013. Company. As a result, in 2014 we commenced to implement tools of the «Administrative Technology». The main goal of the «Administrative Technology» project was to raise the Company management efficiency by optimizing the existing and implementing new approaches to management. The «Administrative Technology» includes the following managerial tools: organizational diagram, administrative management scale and efficiency indication system – statistics, weekly planning, strategic planning and management, system of written communication and coordination, and financial planning. During 2014 and 2015 we completed implementation of a part of the «Administrative Technology» tools set. In 2016 we are planning to develop a new strategy of the Company by way of training the management in the strategic planning tools. Based on the results of the successful completion of the «Administrative Technology» project, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development awarded a grant to our Company which covered, partially, our costs for the project implementation. Photo gallery: Official ceremony of completion of the Company’s «Business Owners’ School»-44, 12.09.2015, Odessa Fig. No.04. «Administrative Planning Scale» 8 / 51 European recognition In autumn 2015 with a view of getting an intermediate evaluation of the OMS perfection stages in accordance with the EFQM model, we participated in assessment of the Company activity within the frame of the 11th International Quality Tournament among the countries of the Central and Eastern Europe and in the 20th Ukrainian National Quality Contest. The International Tender Commission awarded JSC «PLASKE» with the Laureate Diploma of the Tournament and the Winner of the Contest, as we have achieved the level of 501-550 points, which is, above all, the qualifying requirement for a transition to the next stage of the Company development and confirmation of the right perfection vector. Photo gallery: EFQM experts assess the Company so as to identify strengths of the Company and the areas where our performance can be improved Styled award of JSC «PLASKE», a Photocopy of the EFQM 5* certificate Laureate of the 11th International Quality Tournament 9 / 51 Thus, JSC «PLASKE» demonstrated its proactive approach and an aspiration to perfection through sustainable development at the European level. On April 18, 2016 the formal award procedure by the results of the Tournament took place in the EFQM office (Brussels, Belgium) within the frame of the European Fund of Quality Management. Awards to the 2015 Tournament were handed out to winners, including the representatives of JSC «PLASKE». Photo gallery: European Fund of Quality Management (EFQM) event on occasion of the summing up of the Tournament A photocopy of the Diploma awarded to JSC «PLASKE», a Laureate of the 11th International Quality Tournament 10 / 51 Introduction of electronic document As a result of the strategic session at the beginning of 2015, we have planned and began the introduction of electronic document management to improve the efficiency of internal communications in June. For this we have allocated resources and ensure all employees access to the software product, which enables an integrated approach to document management, including the provision of planning, setting goals and objectives, performance monitoring, registration and storage of documents and so on. The second half of 2015, we completed the phase of active implementation and testing program. In 2016, we planned to use the complex and complete transition to electronic document management system. To do this, set up and successfully running a working group consisting of experts of organizations and software vendors. Introduction of electronic document will reduce the impact on the environment by reducing paper usage. Independent examination for compliance with OMS In July 2015 JSC PLASKE passed external review by an independent certification body of SE STC STANKOSERT . The evaluation confirmed the organization of the work of the OMS according to the requirements of ISO 9001, ISO 28000, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, SA 8000, and passed the certification test and received a certificate for information security management system according to ISO 27001 requirements. We have passed the hard way in the preparation and implementation of the requirements in the organization of the OMS, information security, carrying out an internal program of risk management in accordance with the strategic plan of the Organization. As it turned out in the course of studying the requirements of ISO27001, were needed drastic changes to the approach to the whole OMS security. In order to avoid duplication of requirements and largest merger of all security standards (ISO28000, ISO14001, OHSAS18001) to the control system based on risk management (ISO31000), we redesigned the internal approaches and documents and published a single document that defines the operation of the control system security of the Organization of life, including significant safety aspects. A photocopy of certificate for information security management system according to ISO 27001 Photo gallery: Research Organization experts SE STC STANKOSERT“ 11 / 51 Company Accounts Gaining profit for JSC “Plaske” is a stepping stone for achieving the key target and design. We transfer the financial performance energy into economic values for the purpose of Stakeholders’ interests forwarding. In order to sustain the Company activity transparency principle, we publish our financial outcomes. In Fig.s Nos. 5-6 presented the financial performance in a period from 2011 to 2015. Fig. No.05. Financial performance of the Company, Part 1, 2011-2015, thous of hryvnias 12 / 51 Fig. No.05. Financial performance of the Company, Part 2, 2011-2015, thous of hryvnias 13 / 51 Sales Account of the Company 2011 – 2015 is shown in Fig.s No.07, 08а-08b. Fig. No.07. General Volume of Sales (less VAT), 2011-2015, thous of hryvnias Fig. No.8а. Sales volume by lines of activity (less VAT), Part 1, 2011-2015, thous of hryvnias 14 / 51 Fig. No.8b. Sales volume by lines of activity (less VAT), Part 1, 2011-2015, thous of hryvnias 15 / 51 The yield of finished products is ensured by the OSM provision processes requiring operating expenses. For the purpose of comparison shown in Fig.s Nos.09,10 are the operating expenses in 2011-2015. Fig. No. 09. General data on the Company’s operating expenses in 2011-2015, thous of hryvnias Fig. No.10. Data on the Company’s operating expenses in 2014-2015, thous of hryvnias 16 / 51 Human Rights To ensure the protection of Human Rights we have integrated into our activities and support the national and international human rights norms including the principles of the UN Global Compact. We build relationships with Stakeholders without distinction as to race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national or social origin, property, descent or other status, and adhere to the principle of equal rights and opportunities . We believe that every person, being an equal member of society, has economic, social and cultural rights, compliance with which is necessary to maintain the dignity and personal development, except those rights that are restricted by law. During the entire period of our operation there have been no cases of human rights violation at the Company. To monitor compliance with and assess the protection of Human Rights, we have implemented and use management tools determined by the organizing policies, which helps us to prevent the likelihood of any impacts on the rights of people (Fig. No. 11): The image freeware logo Fig.No.11. OMS tools for ensuring human rights in support of the Human Rights http://www.humanrightslogo.net/ 17 / 51 We do not tolerate violation of labour rights and provide all our personnel with equal professional advancement opportunities by maintaining the gender ratio balance among top managers (Fig. No. 12). Fig. No. 12. Top managing personnel gender ratio within a period of 2011 to 2015, % 18 / 51 The organization particularly values in people ethics, professionalism and efficiency, regardless of age. At the same time young professionals like no other reflects the Organization's slogan Energy of motion”. Since the founding of PLASKE supports the initiative of young professionals and students in an effort to gain practical experience in their chosen profession and develop, contributing to the prosperity of the Organization. The data in Figure №13 demonstrate the dominance of specific weight for workers aged 21 to 30 years, reflecting the selected policies of the Organization in the field of youth support. In turn, young professionals help organizations to develop innovative, bring fresh ideas and work with full dedication and, depending on performance, the Organization promotes the most successful employees. Fig. No. 13. Age structure of employees, 2011-2015, % 19 / 51 Labour Relations Personnel Management 2015 brought significant changes in the personnel management system of the Company. The main reason was the implementation of the tools of Administrative Technologies , which revised and improved the existing system of labour relations in JSC PLASKE . In the field of human resource management, the Company is guided by the basic aspects of labour relations (Fig. No. 14), which define the organizational policy in respect of Personnel management. Fig. No. 14. Principal aspects of labour relations 20 / 51 In connection with structural changes and expansion of the Company there had arisen a necessity to search for additional Personnel. Thus, in 2015 the Personnel number increased by 5 persons as against 2014 (Fig. No. 15). Fig. No.15. Total quantity of the Company’s employees, 2011-2015, persons 21 / 51 Without changing the principles in the field of human resource management the Company has refined the technology of selection of the most efficient applicants and their adaptation in the Company. In 2015, we introduced an innovation, which was recruiting homeworkers. Launching of this project became possible thanks to the Administrative Technology tools, such as coordination and written communications system, as well as automation of the processes of production and setting and execution of tasks with the use of the electronic program. The Company Personnel distribution according to their length of service over a period from 2011 to 2015 is presented in Fig. No.16. Fig. No.16. Employees distribution according to their service experience, 2011-2015, % 22 / 51 To develop and maintain a system of internal communication, the Company have established and use two-way dialogue and feedback being guided by the principles of the UN Global Compact in the area of labour relations and provisions of ISO 26000, ISO 10018 and SA 8000. We urge all employees to open communication and promote the establishment of good relations between all Stakeholders. Through the implementation of the “Administrative Technology” tools, we have increased the speed and quality of internal communications by using vertical command and horizontal communication lines. This has allowed us to generate a “rapid stream system”, which suggests to solve the problems that do not require executive decision-making through horizontal communication lines between the specialists of different units bypassing managerial staff. One of the solutions aimed at facilitating the interaction between employees concerning job-related issues was the automation of the documents and tasks accounting process through the implementation of the electronic software product. The program provides for effective collaboration by joint access of employees from their workplaces to the tasks and files both for viewing and editing with the use of access right differentiation. Special attention is paid to feedback from the Personnel. We hold monthly meetings of the whole staff when the employees can review the programs implemented for the previous month and to take part in planning activities. In such meetings the managers of internal units give information on the achievements of main activities, innovations in the management system and new trends in the market. If an employee for whatever reason is unable to participate in the meetings, there is a possibility to obtain information about the outcomes of the meetings on the Electronic Portal of the Company. The EPortal is a link for all Personnel of the Company concerning both formal and informal questions. Photo gallery: Top managers meeting the Company Personnel: L.I. Platonova, Deputy Chairman, S.B. Sokolov, Deputy Director I.O. Platonova, Deputy Chairman, Supervisory Council General Supervisory Council A.O. Mshar, Executive Director O.I. Turchak, Chief of Ye.A. Sverchkova, Chief of R.N. Mardar, Chief of Providing A.N. Skidan, Chief of Compliance Department of Finance Circulation Department freight forwarding services Department Department 23 / 51 Supporting our Youth In 2015, the Company continued the young people supporting policy and hosted internship students from Odessa Universities, and also organised and conducted activities to improve the professional level of young specialists working for the Company. Today we can cite a number of examples where students who have completed their practical training at the Company were assessed and recruited to work for the Company. For many years, the Company has cooperated with such higher educational establishments of Ukraine as ‒ Odessa National Economics University; ‒ Odessa International Humanitarian University; ‒ Odessa National Polytechnic University; and ‒ Institute of Economics and Management of the National Aviation University. JSC “PLASKE” encourage the employees’ initiative to independently develop their professional skills by getting the primary or additional higher education and provides the opportunity to combine study and work by establishing an individual work schedule in accordance with the labour legislation. In Table No. __ and Fig. No. __ the statistics of employees who had self-trained on a part-time basis. Fig. No.17. Quantity of People who have Obtained their Education in Off-Work Hours, 2011-2015, persons 24 / 51 Continuous Development of Personnel The most important means of the Personnel professional development is professional training – the process of direct transfer of new professional skills or knowledge to the employees of the Company. JSC PLASKE are geared to the modern professional training of their employees, which is a comprehensive and continuous process that includes several stages. The management of this of the professional learning process begins with defining the requirements that are based on the needs of staff development and the need for the Company employees to complete their current work responsibilities. The needs associated with the implementation of work responsibilities are determined based on the requests of the subunits managers and the employees themselves through interviews of managers and professionals, analysis of the Company performance and testing the employees. According to the results of 2015, 97 of the Company’s employees had been professionally trained by participating in 46 events. The driving force of the Company are competent workers who know their precisely established and well understood functions. Fig. No.18 display the quantitative trend of the employees who had undergone training during a period from 2011 to 2015. Sharp increase in 2014 is to be associated with the implementation of the “Administrative Technology” tools and teaching the Company’s staff to use them. Fig. No.18. Total Quantity of Personnel that have Passed Professional Training, 2011-2015, persons 25 / 51 Training of Managers and Mid-Level Administration Staff The establishment of an effective internal corporate training system has become an important stage in the Company's activities and allowed the Company to create in 2015 the internal Academy of JSC PLASKE with the use of learning and administration technologies. It is worth noting that long before the founding of the internal Academy we had paid great attention to the professional development of our employees. At first it was learning by means of open seminars and workshops, as well as by several corporate training courses per year for employees of different divisions, or for employees of a certain level (middle and senior section). We know from personal experience that the most valuable persons for us are those that have grown up in the Company. This is the reason why launching the program of professional development School of Leaders whose learning period continues for as long as 9 months was an important stage in 2015. During this time 19 managers of all levels receive in 9-module training, which includes all aspects of the leading manager activities and key management tools. In 2016 we are planning to start the implementation of the School of Leaders project for employees occupying managerial posts who, in the future, thanks to the acquisition of knowledge and skills, will be able to lead new projects and take more responsible positions in the organizational structure of the Company. Fig. No.19. Quantity of Trained Managers and Mid-Level Administration Staff, 2015, persons 26 / 51 Internal Academy enables organising any training including the initial training of new employees, training, teaching technologies and know-how of the Company or training of top managers, professional and advanced training of specialists in various fields thus increasing professional skills and ethical competence of the personnel. The scope of the internal Academy application is huge. But the main and most important thing, which the studies at the internal Academy give, is the responsibility growth of the trained employees and, of course, the positive experience of working as a single, well-coordinated team towards common goals and values. Photo gallery: Professional training of the Company’s Personnel according to “School of Leaders” programme Professional and Advanced Training on the Company’s Professional Activities Specialised Issues The Company apply a proactive approach to the management of changes based on the current and future expectations in the market. The training of the Staff is planned in consideration of implementing the objectives of strategic planning, one of which is to reduce risks of lack of professional competence. To do this, special attention is paid to the process of continuous professional development of specialists at the Company. The components of this process are professional and advanced training of employees on specialised topics. In 2015 training was in the increased focus of our attention, and in the spring of 2015 the employees (in a number of 28) involved in forwarding completed a course under the title Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Sea and Rail and received corresponding certificates confirming their qualifications and granting the right to engage the transport of dangerous goods. In the autumn of 2015 a seminar on Chartering of Ships , which was attended by 22 employees of the Company, was conducted. Both events were held on the basis of the Internal Academy. 4 employees involved in the travel arrangements field completed the internal Basic Course of AMADEUS , which is a standard for full and high-quality work in the electronic air transport booking system AMADEUS . In addition, working in this direction we always tend to be on the wave of changes and trends that occur in the field of tourism by visiting exhibitions and conferences. In 2015 our employees participated in 3 events in the field of travel arrangements, which enabled us to obtain a new flow of information to be used in the future for the Customers’ satisfaction. Photo gallery: Freight Forwarding Training of the Company Personnel 27 / 51 Fig. No.20. Quantity of Employees that have Completed a Course of Specialized Professional Training, 2011-2015, persons 28 / 51 A project, which was started in mid-2015 and aims to help people to see themselves from the outside, was a separate investment in the Personnel of the Company made by senior management. This project involves personal testing with the use of the EXEC-U-TEST tool designed to identify potential aspects for improvement. In order to provide test results it is necessary to undergo special training. The provision of test results takes place in the form of a personal interview, which lasts for 45 minutes and includes a discussion of the ten parameters that reflect important personality characteristics: stability, happiness, selfpossession, confidence, activity, perseverance, ability to be the cause (responsibility), positivity of evaluation, responsiveness as regards people and communicability. Pending several months of the project operation 81 people were tested and 46 people received the results. Starting from 2016 the above Personnel testing system has been applied to employment and staff appointments, as well as in the case of the personal advancement training for the purpose of studying the results of training. In order to maintain a high level of qualification of the employees the Company continually invest in professional training (Fig. No.21). In 2015, we invested by 32.0 thousand hryvnias more than in 2014. Fig. No.21. Investments in the Personnel Professional Training, 2011-2015, thous of hryvnias 29 / 51 Ensuring Comfortable and Safe Conditions of Work For the purpose of continuous ensuring comfortable and safe working conditions for the employees the Company have established the System of the Company Management in the field of professional security, one of whose areas includes the maintenance of health protection and, accordingly, insuring occupational hygiene and safety precautions. In order to support the operation of the system approach to the safety management we adhere to the requirements and recommendations of the international standards OHSAS 18001, SA 8000, and ISO 27001. To perform industrial tasks, the Company provides for the safe working environment that includes the following:  Modern workplaces and devices for internal and external communications.  Video surveillance in the office facilities to ensure safety of the Personnel and Consumers.  Designated areas for meals and access to purified drinking water.  The access control system “Golden Gate”.  Modern equipment satisfying hygiene and health standards.  Protection of personal computers from malfunction and voltage variations (uninterruptable power supply).  Licensed software on personal computers.  For the purpose of environmental conservation installed are the touchless faucets (to save water) and lights with motion sensors (to save power).  Adjustable temperature batteries (convectors) in the heating system, which allow the people to regulate the temperature in the office premises to feel comfortable.  Equipment of the office space with conditioning systems, ventilation and controlled temperature on the batteries (convectors) of the heating system, which allows the employees to adjust a comfortable temperature in the office premises.  Providing the office facilities and Personnel with stationery, household goods and hygiene products, and  Constantly keeping the buildings and premises in a safe condition by performing repair and construction works including the systematic seasonal maintenance of the equipment. Comfortable and safe working conditions help to reduce the risks of occupational safety and increase the productivity of the Personnel. During a period from 2011 to 2015 JSC PLASKE had no fixed cases of occupational traumas or injuries. Photo gallery: The Personnel of the Company are at their work places 30 / 51 The system of motivation of employees and increase their interest in the success is based on individual and collective results of their labor. Our reward system is closely linked to the performance indicators of the Organization as a whole and each employee individually. Figure №22 shows the performance of the average wage staff. Fig. No.22. Average Salary of a Full-time Employee of the Company, 2011-2015, hryvnias 31 / 51 Trade Union of Employees The Primary Joint Trade Union of JSC PLASKE has been established and exists for the purpose of collective protection of rights and interests of its members, for mutual support and mutual aid of employees; and recently it has played an increasingly important part in all processes of the Company activities. The Trade Union does not affect production processes, but its importance cannot be underestimated — it is the Union that ensures the team cohesion and also ensures a skilled and well-reasoned defence of interests of all its members. For the purpose of implementing the tasks, a collective agreement between the Primary Trade Union of JSC PLASKE and the employer is annually concluded; the agreement sets out all duties of the Company as an employer and of people as its employees. This document governs all socio-economic, industrial and labour relations in the Company, and ensures the creation of favourable conditions of work, leisure, sports and social welfare. This document is essentially both a form and a method of solving socio-economic issues and regulating labour relations between employees and the Company, it provides for cooperation and coordination of interests through negotiations, mutual concessions and compromises for attaining social peace. In accordance with the terms of the Collective Agreement the Trade Union of JSC PLASKE monitors the observation of all conditions contained in it, protects the rights and dignity of team members, supervises the compliance with labour legislation, and, which is most important, unites all employees of the Company connected by the common production and professional interests. As to labour relations, the Company is guided by the current Labour Code of Ukraine, Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and UN, principles of the UN Global Compact and provisions of standards ISO 26000, ISO 10018 and SA 8000. As part of the obligations to protect labor and socio-economic rights and interests of union members, we implement projects that support workers in a team, their families, and the balance between work and home. To maintain the health and emotional tone, employees have the opportunity to visit the sports section football, sports in the health club, as well as targeted assistance is paid to the improvement during the holidays. Every year for the children of employees, we organize visits to theaters with children's performances, as well as paying more attention to congratulate the New Year holidays. This allows staff to spend more time with their children, while attending cultural events. Fig. No.23. Quantity of people that have obtained financial Fig. No.24. Material Assistance Provided to the Personnel in 2011assistance, 2011-2015, persons 2015, thous of hryvnias 32 / 51 To maintain a healthy form of our staff is actively involved in strengthening health sections fitness center and a game of football. The choice of sports is held open by registering on the electronic portal of the Company. Photo gallery: production leisure of the Company employees – fitness exercises Photo gallery: active workers' organizations the game of football. 33 / 51 Upon the terms and provisions of the Collective Agreement made between JSC “PLASKE” and Joint Primary Trade Union Organization of JSC “PLASKE” the Company grant an additional leave to their employees (Fig. No.25) Fig. No. 25. Use of Additional Leaves by the Company Employees, 2011-2015, pc At the meeting on summing up the results of 2015 the leaders of sections and projects informed the audience about the work performed and plans for the coming 2016. At the meeting special mention was made of the most successful employees in their fields of activity whose professional performance reached high levels and who were granted awards and prizes under the nomination “For the Initiative, Responsibility and Professionalism”. Photo gallery: Summing up the Results of 2015 and Planning for 2016. Pre-New Year Meeting of JSC “PLASKE” Labour Collective Pre-New Year Meeting of JSC “PLASKE” Labour Collective Awarding Employees for Performance Successes in 2015 34 / 51 Environment As a result of human economic activities, the environment becomes polluted with harmful substances which leads to the climate change and is a global negative trend for many years by now. Therefore, supporting of the environment is an important social responsibility aspect of all companies. At the Paris Climate Conference held in 2015 the International Agreement on Support of the Planet Mean Temperature Growth at a level of 2 °C less has been signed and is applicable for all countries. Diagrams Nos. 26a-b present the data reflecting the Company’s impact on the environment. Higher consumption of electric power and water can be explained by the fact that the Company needed resources to expand in 2012 – 2015, specifically for: provision of the Staff with additional data processing equipment; provision of the round-the-clock operation to meet Consumers’ requirements; larger number of Staff to make valuable end product; greater number of the events held by the Company; repair works in the administrative premises of the Company. Fig. No.26a. General Data on Electric power consumption Fig. No.26b. General Data on Water consumption by the Company, 2011-2015. by the Company, 2011-2015. JSC «PLASKE» activity is not connected with health hazards of our ready products and does not bring considerable harm to the environment; to achieve our goals in the environmental sphere we determine threats and risks that might be sources of environmental damage in the supply chain of our Company. Environmental risk management makes a part of the functioning Management System of the Company in the sphere of health safety and is based upon the principle of balance between minimization of the negative impact on the environment and assurance of industrial processes with due account of the national and international legal requirements in the environment protection sphere, guidelines and requirements of the international initiatives and standards, including: Constitution of Ukraine, UN Global Compact, ISO 14001; ISO 26000; ISO 28000. The environmental goal of the Company is to support protection of the environment, therefore, in order to monitor our impact we use schedules presented as reverse statistics – the lesser use of the natural resources is, the closer we come to our goal. The main line of the Company’s activity «Cargo forwarding» includes the services connected with delivery of dangerous cargo. Being a responsible entrepreneurial entity, we manage safety risks in our supply chain by selecting reliable Service Providers in compliance with the requirements of standards and transportation processes, and preclude risks to the environment. From 2011 to 2015 there were no records of a single situation connected with dangerous cargo carriage. In 2015 we commenced study and testing of electronic document flow software program, which full implementation is expected in 2016. One of the tasks associated with implementation of the e-document flow is to reduce use of paper so as to diminish the impact upon the environment. 35 / 51 Organization of recycling of wastes is one of the tools which we may use to improve the environment. Pursuing its main activities, the Company supports the «Green office environment» fully serviceable and has determined those wastes that are to be recycled and/or processed – these are electric bulbs that illuminate premises, appropriate workstation standards, office equipment that completed its service life, including uninterruptable supply storage batteries that ensure stable performance of personal computers and equipment, and the consumed office paper for printers. Our wastes are transferred for recycling to specialized Suppliers who have been selected in accordance with the procedure of responsible purchases. Wastes are recycled after accumulation of a sufficient quantity of materials and their transfer for recycling. Fig. No.27present dynamics of the waste material recycling from 2011 to 2015. Fig No.27. Total recycled quantity of materials for 2011-2015, pcs. 36 / 51 Prevention of Corruption Principles of activity Corruption is acknowledged as one of the biggest world problems. It presents the main obstacle for sustainable development and exerts disproportionally strong influence on poor strata of the people and causes corrosion of the society proper. Considerably impacting the private sector, corruption precludes economic growth, disturbs healthy competition and raises the level of legal and image risks of entities. We advocate and call upon other organizations to run their affairs transparently and openly, adhere to legal requirements and support activities aimed at prevention and elimination of all kinds of corruption. Targets of the Company aimed at prevention and elimination of corruption are based upon strictly observed main principles of activity: ‒ legitimacy; ‒ recognition, enforcement of human rights and protection of main human rights and freedoms; ‒ publicity and openness of the activity; ‒ integrated use of modern management, information, organizational, social and economic and legal measures; ‒ prioritization of the implemented measures aimed at elimination or prevention of corruption. In order to adhere to these principles and disseminate the best practices, we proactively participate in the public projects aimed at prevention of corruption in all its manifestations. Participation in the UN Global Compact Being a socially responsible entity to Consumers, Personnel, our partners, the state and society, both in production , protection of human rights and protection of the environment, JSC «PLASKE» pays great attention to auditing its activity and fulfilment of the made decisions. Eight years ago we signed the UN Global Compact and support it because it makes the basis for business circles that wish to harmonize their activity and strategies with ten principles which have been fully recognized in the world. Today, the UN Global Compact is the main UN initiative for interaction with the business community and secures obligations of more than 13,000 private entities and other concerned parties all over the world who wish to accomplish the UN Sustainable Development Targets through responsible business practices and cooperation. Therefore, participation in the UN Global Compact enables us to determine the standardization vector, harmonize our activity and functioning of the management system of our Company. In 2014 the UN Global Compact had the 10th -year anniversary of its Tenth principle against corruption and requested private commercial entities to confirm their intentions and sign, in addition, the «Call for Action: Struggle Against Corruption and World Development Program» initiative. «Call for Action» is a result of development and consultations that lasted for more than six months and were performed by a task group which included the members of the Task Group of the UN Global Compact for struggle against corruption, of the World Bank, the Initiative for open conclusion of agreements and the International Transparency Initiative». It s important for our Company that our actions to prevent and eliminate corruption may contribute to the common cause of resolving this problem in Ukraine. That is why JSC «PLASKE» signed a letter «Call for Action» which was sent to Mr. Ban Ki-moon, the UN Secretary General. 37 / 51 In June 2015 the 2nd annual meeting of the global initiative (Business for Peace – B4P) was held within the frame of the series of the UN Global Compact meetings «UN Global Compact + 15: Business as a Force for Good» which was initiated by the UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon in 2013. The B4P platform assists business entities in accomplishment of responsible business practices and is in accord with the principles of the UN Global Compact in the conflict and high risk zones. About 300 participants got together so as to focus on why and how business may play the major role in supporting peace and stability, supremacy of law and good management which are important building blocks for achieving sustainable development of the world. Representatives of Ukraine acting through JSC «PLASKE» joined this initiative by signing the «Declaration of Support». Participation in the Project for simplification of international trade procedures and logistics in Ukraine Ukraine is a young state – this year it will be 25 years old. After gaining independence as a result of the disintegration of the USSR, Ukraine permanently improves the state management systems. Nowadays Ukraine faces serious challenges in the security sphere and it needs to put in order the state control system and fight corruption and lack of responsibility for execution of the adopted laws and rules. Long ago the Ukrainian society feels it necessary to simplify trade procedures in order to set the economy in order. The greater part of work on simplification of trade procedures is connected with customs procedures. One of the obstacles for international trade is connected with handling cargo that cross the border of Ukraine, and the situation became quite acute in the period from 2011 – 2012 when representatives of the state customs bodies withheld customs clearance documents (Fig. No.28). IMPERFECT DOCUMENT FLOW BETWEEN THE SUPPLY CHAIN PARTICIPANTS CORRUPTION FACTOR IN THE CONTROL BODIES ACTIVITY Fig. No.28. Information flows in the port community at the time when the situation became problematic in 2010-2011 38 / 51 Being an active and socially responsible representative of business community, JSC «PLASKE» took the initiative – in 2012 it participated in the contest for the best solution of this problem and won this contest. For solving the problematic situation we applied a system approach, namely found out the cause of the problem and suggested to improve the document flow between the supply chain participants. Considering the tasks of the Government aimed at creation of favourable transit conditions and development of the transport and logistic system of Ukraine for integration in the European system and taking guidance of the UNECE Recommendations Nos. 33, 34 и 35, JSC «PLASKE», jointly with the SE «Odessa Sea Commercial Port», initiated in 2012 the project aimed at implementation of the technology «Single Window – Local Solution» within the competence zone of the Southern Customs and the ports of Odessa region. The project goals were directed at prevention of corruption and promotion of deregulation, restriction of bureaucratic procedures, assurance of the supply chain security and standardization and computerization of the international trade procedures in terms of integration of Ukraine in the European and global markets. This local solution was established as a pilot project and makes the basis for further and wider national projects. For coordination and control of the project progress and determination of its directions, the Interdepartmental Task Group was set up which included representatives of the state authorities, lawenforcement bodies, business associations and unions that take part in the transportation process. Taking into account the obligations of Ukraine undertaken in December 2013 when the WTO Agreement on simplification of trade procedures was signed as well as in order to facilitate proper fulfilment of the «Reform Strategy – 2020», it was decided in 2014 to transform the Interdepartmental Task Group on «Single window – local solution» technology into the Interdepartmental Task Group on simplification of the international trade procedures and logistics in Ukraine. The renewed Interdepartmental Task Group solves such tasks as development and implementation of the National strategy of simplification of the international trade procedures and logistics, establishment of the base for setting up the National body in charge of simplification of trade procedures in compliance with the UN recommendations. The decisions adopted at its sessions find its embodiment in the orders issued by the Government of Ukraine which define specific executors and persons in charge at the level of the state executive bodies. Photo gallery: Work of the Interdepartmental Task Group on simplification of the international trade procedures and logistics in Ukraine, 2012-2015, Kyiv, Ukraine 39 / 51 Project accomplishment provides for establishment of the port community single information system for the ports of Odessa region – this is an organizational and technical system which enables the port community* to accumulate, check, process, keep, exchange and transfer e-format information and documents that are required for border, customs and other kinds of control and clearance of persons, goods, including cargo and luggage, and transport vehicles with the aid of technical and software. This system complies with the legislation on electronic paper flow and takes into consideration the internationally accepted «single window» principle and recommendations of the international organizations as well as use of the electronic records and electronic digital signature in «XML» format. For references:: «Port community» includes the state enterprise «Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority», state bodies authorized to exercise the appropriate kinds of control at the border crossing points, law-enforcement bodies, railroad stations located within the port territory, port operators, agent companies, (ship agents) carriers and forwarders, and other business entities that operate in sea ports and beyond their limits performing transportation or handling of goods, containers, passengers, luggage and transport vehicles so as to support technological processes in the territory of said facilities, any interrelated processes connected with information and document exchange required for passing persons, motor vehicles, water craft and rail transport of carriers and goods, including cargo and luggage transferred by them across the state border. To this end, JSC «PLASKE» founded a specialized organization – the Ukrainian port community data processing centre LLC «PPL 33-35» which aim is to develop a special software product for accomplishment of the tasks set by the Government, to support the software, protect electronic commercial information, develop and improve information exchange between state and non-state organizations under control of the Interdepartmental Task Group. Fig. No.29 show how the problematic situation was resolved by implementation of the Port community information system (PCIS). CONTACTLESS AND PAPERLESS CLEARANCE OF CONTAINERS WITH FOREIGN TRADE CARGO OPENNESS, TRANSPARENCY ACCESSIBILITY CONSISTENCY AUTOMATION Fig. No.29. Solution of the problematic situation through implementation of the PCIS 40 / 51 As of 2011 JSC «PLASKE», with the support and participation of the Interdepartmental Task Group, holds free training workshops on the work with the Leadership of the UNECE for the officials of ministries and administrations of Ukraine as well as for business circle representatives. These workshops are the tool for professional training of the supply chain participants and mainstreaming the PCIS in Ukraine. On June 2, 2015, within the frame of the «Transport Week» held in Odessa, the Fifth International Workshop devoted to the work with the UNECE Leadership took place under the title «Transition from Local Solution in the national Strategy». Photo gallery: Workshop on the work with the UNECE Leadership, UNECE, 02.06.2015, Odessa, Ukraine For informing the Interdepartmental Task Group participants, a site on the Internet was created ( http://singlewindow.org ) which is accessible for all Concerned parties. The site shows regulatory documents related to the project and the results of implementation of the Port community information system which are arranged as minutes of meetings, adopted resolutions, information bulletins and the diary of the project all these documents are permanently updated fixing all statistics on the use of the PCIS by the forwarders operating in the ports of Ukraine. In its Annual Report for 2014 (code ECE / INF / 2015/1) the UNECE placed information about the «Single window» in section «Annual Report http://www.unece.org/publications/annualreports/topics/annual_reports.html 41 / 51 Recognition of the project at national and international levels December 1, 2015 in Kyiv, Ukraine, at the organization Center for Development of CSR conference Business, which changes the country in which the final of the Business Case Competition 2015 . JSC PLASKE for participation in the contest filed description of the practical situation for the assessment in the nomination development of society. After the presentations were the winners in the categories and presented with awards, including JSC PLASKE was awarded for the best case for fair operating practices for the case to unite the efforts of all stakeholders in the fight against corruption. As noted by the members of the international jury is one of the best case studies demonstrating the partnership and cooperation with other organizations and, in particular, representatives of public authorities and professional organizations to promote projects aimed at sustainable development. We believe that this is another step to maintain the Business for Peace initiative in the framework of the UN Global Compact. On photocopies award for the best business case in the category Fair operating practices“ (UA), 2015, Kyiv. Aspiring to inform the international community about this socially responsible project aimed at counteracting corruption and accomplished in Ukraine, JSC «PLASKE» sent its representative to participate in the 16th session of the UN Global Compact Task Group devoted to the 10th principle against corruption that was held on June 24, 2015 within the frame of a series of meetings on the occasion of celebration of the 15th anniversary of the UN Global Compact in New York. The results of activities of the project were demonstrated in the course of the sessions and received many positive comments from the Task Group participants. 42 / 51 Project Results The Interdepartmental Task Group work resulted in implementation in the ports of Ukraine of the contactless and paperless clearance of the foreign trade containers which, among other things, proved to be an efficient tool for reducing corruption in the activity of control bodies because it minimizes direct contact of concerned persons with the state officials who make decisions in the state control sphere. Due to implementation of this technology, the information is created and processed along the entire supply chain by inputting it in the system from a workstation only once. In the course of implementation and operation of the PCIS we travel over stages of a complicated road, face various obstacles, overcome them and get experience and knowledge that allow us of moving forward towards the SDG. Fig. No.30 shows how the problematic situation has been resolved with the aid of the PCIS. Earlier, the officials took from $500 to several thousand US dollars for speeding up cargo clearance procedures. Today this problem has been eliminated Speed of cargo transit in Odessa Sea Commercial Port has increased from several weeks to 1-2 hours Fig. No.30. Results of the resolution of a problematic situation through implementation of the PCIS. 43 / 51 The achieved results facilitate consolidation of the national authorities in charge of trade procedures simplification as this is provided for in UN/CEFACT Recommendation No.4 and in Art. 23 of the new WTO Agreement on Simplification of Trade Procedures. Jointly with the UNECE we study readiness of Ukraine to adopt the measures stipulated in the WTO Agreement on simplification of trade procedures. Taking into account «Bali Agreement» (2013), work is conducted on development of the programs to accomplish UNECE Recommendation No.4. The near-term prospect is to implement two other trade simplification tools: joint risk management between departments and bringing the information exchange process in compliance with international standards. Simplification of trade procedures leads to the application of harmonized international standards and procedures of the international trade. Nowadays Ukraine is on the road to real use of several UNECE recommendations: Nos.33, 34 and 35 that concern «single window» and recommendation No. 4. We observe with interest how the future recommendation No.36 concerning interaction between «single windows» is developing. A real step towards deregulation was made by the Government of Ukraine when resolutions Nos. 491 and 492 of 07.07.2015, No.679 of 08.09.2015 and No.953 of 13.10.2015 were issued. These resolutions introduced real steps to simplify and minimize control procedures in sea ports and reduce risks of corruption when executing clearance procedures at the border. Within the frame of these steps administrations of all sea ports of Ukraine, all state control bodies and ship agents in all sea ports of Ukraine were connected to the PCIS (except the temporarily occupied territory of the Crimea). Active studies were made in 2015 aimed at improvement and formalized evaluation of the developed PCIS module costs «Forwarder», «Ship agent», «Control body», «Port Administration», «Carrier», «Port operator, «Law-enforcement body», «Administrator/operator», preparation for extension of the PCIS to non-container traffic in the ports (general and bulk cargo). The plans for 2016 are to implement new modules «Entry to port», «E-order for loading» and «Acceptance report». Besides, so as to eliminate pre-requisites of corruption, and in pursuance of the Memorandum concluded by the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine and the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, it is planned to arrange a full-scale information exchange between the PCIS, Unified automated information system of the SFS and the risk appraisal system «Cargo Targeting System» of the World Customs Organization. For many years by now JSC «PLASKE» accomplishes the railroad project «Viking» in the Baltic Sea – Black Sea transport corridor and we would like to use the information and documentary exchange between the ports of Klaipeda and of the «Greater Odessa». Today we are at the turning point: the Port Community Information System project may be upgraded to the level of the national transport «single window» as it is required by Directive 2010/65 / EU, or to the level of the national trade-and-transport «single window» as it is stipulated in the multi-year strategic plan of the General Directorate for customs and tax affairs of DG TAXUD, European Commission. The priority for us is to implement the measures of the WTO Agreement for simplification of the trade procedures. At that, the international and European standards are of overriding significance for development of the international trade and logistics, that is why we aspire to deepen our cooperation with UNECE and UN CEFACT. 44 / 51 Participation in associations and unions JSC «PLASKE» is an active participant of 14 international and national associations and unions (Fig. No.31). Participation and active work in such international organizations as IATA, FIATA, UIC, OSJD and in such national organizations as Ukrainian National Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce and European Business Association makes it possible for us to accomplish the main principles of corruption prevention in the joint activity aimed at implementation of the worldwide accepted tools for simplification of national trade procedures, logistics and transport. In 2015 JSC «PLASKE» joined still another international organization – Digital Business Alliance. The Digital Business Alliance is an incubator and coordinator of the interregional projects using harmonized digital markets in the Central and Eastern Europe and Eastern Partnership countries. The Digital Business Alliance was founded for business partnership of the digital market experts, partner associations, organizations and service providers in order to join professional skills of experts on consulting market studies, project management and information transfer aimed at the digital market infrastructure development and provision of services in the Central and Eastern Europe and the Eastern Partnership countries. Within the Digital Business Alliance frame active participation in the project «Digital Transport Corridors» (DTC) is being planned so as to set up the required foundation for developing a multimodal platform «electronic logistics» and ensure provision of the DTC services to the block train «VIKING». Also, in 2015 JSC «PLASKE», being an associated partner of the OSJD, initiated establishment of the Ad Hoc group for developing recommendations on general approaches in professional training of personnel in the sphere of cargo carriage by rail. Among other aims of this Ad Hoc group there are:  Analysis of the existing experience, developments and applied advanced technologies in professional training of personnel in the sphere of cargo carriage by rail, and  Development of common approaches to professional training of personnel in the sphere of international cargo carriage by rail as well as in other spheres of the OSJD activity. Fig. No.31. Participation of JSC «PLASKE» in the national and international organizations №1 №2 №3 №4 №5 №6 №7 №8 №9 №10 №11 №12 №13 №14 Membership status of JSC «PLASKE» in associations and business unions: 8. Full member of «ICCUkraine. 9. Participant of «UKRVNESHTRANS» Association (Association of Freight Forwarders and 1. Individual member of «FIATA» (International Federation of Forwarders’ Associations). Logistics Organizations of Ukraine). 2. Accredited cargo and passenger agent of «IATA» (International Association of Air Forwarders). 10. Full member of «ACBU» (Association of Customs Brokers of Ukraine). 3. Affiliated member of «UIC» (Union Internacionale de Chemis de Fer). 11. Member of «UAPQ» (Ukrainian Association of Perfection and Quality). 4. Attached enterprise «OSJD» (Organization for Cooperation of Railways). 12. Member of the «ORCCI» (Odessa Regional Chamber of Commerce & Industry). 5. Associated member of «Association of Exchange Brokers and Logistics Experts «BLB». 13. Member of the «Port Community» Association. 6. Corporate member of Digital Business Alliance. 14. Member of the «Odessa Tourism» Association. 7. Associated member of EBA (European Business Association). 45 / 51 Figs. Nos.32-33 illustrate participation of the Company representatives in the events held by associations and unions. Fig. No.32. Number of events attended by the Company Fig. No.33. Number of the participants who attended the events on representatives, 2011-2015, pcs. behalf of the Company, 2011-2015, pers. Photo gallery: XIІІ Day of the International Freight Forwarder, 03.06.2015, Odessa 46 / 51 Cultural and Social JSC «PLASKE» to the full extent is aware of the significance to preserve cultural heritage and develop cultural traditions and values for future generations. Social and cultural projects of the Company are components of «Odessa Brand» and facilitate intellectual and touristic attractiveness of the city and region. We cooperate with museums, Projects theatres, libraries, NGOs and render financial, organizational and technical support to a series of social and cultural projects. We are mindful of those organizations and cultural projects which we support and aspire that our cooperation is systemic and did not look like a burst of generosity. That is why our projects are vivid examples of the longstanding fruitful cooperation that brings use to the society as a whole and to the organizations with which we accomplish such projects in particular. We continue lasting cooperation with Odessa Literary Museum. This museum is justly considered to be a museum of Odessa history viewed through the prism of literature. Jointly with the Literary Museum JSC «PLASKE» runs several regular projects among them the most bright are «Sculpture Garden», «Odessa Calendar» and «Literary Festival». Also, several times a year, we commence to hold the Museum Nights in order to promote the Museum and develop the cultural level of the society, in particularly young people. The Museum Nights are themed cultural nights that are conducted in the Museum several times a year getting together to five thousand persons per night. Attending the Museum Night became popular with modern youth which is very positive for the cultural development of the society. Odessa calendar «One Street History» The hometown history is interesting and unusual: each street keeps a secret of The 2015 – 2016 calendar is devoted to Preobrazhenskaya Street – one of the past time, famous people and events. «Odessa Calendar» is one of the large-scale first and most long first streets of our city. Here, in August 1794, one of the first projects published annually since September 2004. «Odessa Calendar» is a joint buildings of Odessa – the Cathedral of the Transfiguration of the Saviour. At that culturological project of the Odessa Literary Museum and JSC «PLASKE» their time the street, which was firstly named Seredinnaya, got the name of successful cooperation lasts for 13 years by now. The idea to create Odessa Calendar Preobrazhenskaya. It became for Odessa not only the focus of the city life but also belongs to the JSC «PLASKE» management. For these years Odessa Calendar the focus of its spirituality. Fig. No. 34 shows samples of 2011-2015 calendars. acquired a status of vintage edition. The calendar reminds us what wonderful city we The work at developing calendars which is pursued by the task group consisting live in, obligates to preserve it and make, as far as possible, still better and beautiful. of researchers, Odessa collectors and representatives of The Odessa Regional Calendar enumeration is kept from September to next September as the Odessa Archive and Odessa M. Gorky National Scientific Library representatives means a birthday falls on September. permanent scrupulous scientific research which yields a wealth of interesting materials. It is quite impossible to publish them all in a calendar, therefore, the The 2015 – 2016 calendar is devoted to Preobrazhenskaya Street – one of the calendar has an addition – a booklet commemorating a street. With the course of first and most long first streets of our city. years it became monographic, very detailed and contains many dates, names and interesting materials taken from private collections. «Marazlievskaya Street» «Richelievskaya Street» «Pushkinskaya Street» «Deribasovskaya Street» «Novoselskogo Street» «Preobrazhenskaya Street» (2010-2011) (2011-2012) (2012-2013) (2013-2014) (2013-2014) (2015-2016) Fig. No34 Samples of Odessa Calendars of the «One Street History» series, 2011-2015 47 / 51 Odessa National Academic Opera and Ballet House is rightly considered to be the architectural landmark of Odessa and enters top-five the most beautiful theatres of the world. In 2007 the theatre was opened after many years of reconstruction. This architectural monument was in ideal condition but it needed equally high-quality and unique content of the opera and ballet repertoire and a serious marketing so as to promote and popularize the theatre. Since 2010 JSC «PLASKE» has been a general partner of the Odessa Academic Opera and Ballet House. Being a partner, the Company, jointly with the theatre, put up several first nights and published many colourful and presentable editions referring to the existing repertoire. Fig. No.35 presents samples of performances wherein JSC «PLASKE» participates for the benefit of Odessa Opera and Ballet House. Fig. No.35 Examples of performances with the participation of JSC «PLASKE» for Odessa Opera and Ballet House 48 / 51 World-wide Club of Odessites – is a public organization represented in many countries and uniting the Odessites who are, as Mikhail Zhvanetsky said, smeared in a thin layer all over the world. Club participants and Club friends regularly come to the Club where presentations, exhibitions, concerts and interesting discussions on various socially significant topics are held. The World-wide Club of Odessites and its Presidential Board unites people who are well known in Odessa: they are businessmen, bankers, lawyers, doctors, writers, local history experts, scientists and musicians. Within the frame of social partnership with the Club JSC «PLASKE» supports the «Odessa Library» project which issues a quarterly almanac «Deribasovskaya – Richelievskaya» as well as books of writers and poets historians, classical and contemporary writers who made outstanding contributions to the national and world literature. Odessa almanac is today a single publication which makes it possible for our society to get acquainted with creations of Odessa writers, poets, local historians, historians and journalists. The manuscripts in editor’s hand are full of materials in various genres which enables to prepare volumes that present interest for specialists and wide circles of readers. The first volume of the almanac was issued in March 2000, and in 2015 the sixth volume of the almanac «Deribasovskaya – Richelievskaya» came out. The publication is 16 years old and it became a good tradition of Odessa. Fig.No.36. Samples of dummy copies for the «Odessa Library» project 49 / 51 The basis for the formation of plans for the future are certain principles orgpolicy Organization, headed by the principles of sustainable development (SDG). JSC PLASKE constantly analyzes global trends occurring in the world and building a global development strategy by analyzing global trends. As a result of our analysis, we determine the Development Strategy National, International and European initiatives and are finding their task with value orientations of the Organization. With the adoption of the internationally agreed SDG 2030, we define an overall strategy by which a given vector of the future development of the Organization. Figure number 37 demonstrated the key strategic objectives of the Organization, harmonized with UN Sustainable Development Goals 2030. The strategic objectives of the Organization UN Sustainable Development Goals 1 High-quality production 2 Improving OSM in accordance with the standards of management systems 3 Ensuring human rights in the process of communication with the public Support for labor relations, personnel development, 4 ensuring working conditions, support for collective initiatives 5 Maintenance margin of profit sufficient to achieve the goals and objectives 6 Preservation of the environment, prudent use of resources, waste Reducing the level of corruption by participating in 7 projects and initiatives for the prevention and control of corruption 8 The maintenance and development of the society through the support of cultural and social projects Fig.No.37. The strategic objectives of the Organization, harmonized with the SDG 2030, adopted by the UN in 2015. 50 / 51 Contacts Public report on the results of the Company activity for 2014 Private Joint Stock Company «PLASKE» P.O.B. 299, Odessa, 65001, UKRAINE Tel.: +38 (048) 7 385 385 Fax: +38 (048) 7 385 375 Tel.: +38 (048) 7 288 288 Fax: +38 (048) 7 287 221 Skype: plaske.ua E-mail: odessa@plaske.ua www.plaske.ua Project Idea – Oleg Platonov Authors team – Lyudmila Platonova, Artem Khachaturyan, Denys Glagoliev, Andrei Skidan, Alexander Prunchak, Anna Glovatskaya, Larisa Zhecheva, Elena Lepskaya, Kseniya Barmotina, Anna Hubanova Editorial board – Oleg Platonov, Lyudmila Platonova, Inessa Platonova Photos – Sergey Trusov, Kseniya Barmotina, Yuri Litvinenko Ask questions or leave Your wishes for improvement of this Report addressing them to the contact person: Denys Glagoliev +38 (048) 7 385 385 +38 (048) 7 288 288 Email: quality@plaske.ua This Public Report on results of the Company activity for 2014 has been checked by the Expert Commission of the Company and is owned by JSC «PLASKE». Use of the full or partial information contained in the Report is possible provided a reference to the location of the original is made. 51 / 51
