GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – SME VERSION Company Name events by tlc Date Unit (if applicable) Address Rua 1 de Dezembro, Nr. 80, 4 Membership date June 2008 Country Portugal Number of 30 employees Contact name Claudia Dionisio Contact Position Head of HR Sector Tourism (Events) Contact telephone 00 351 213 213 060 no. Brief description of nature of business events by tlc is an international and awarded company that creates unforgettable experiences for high end clients in a global level. The company has a strong presence in the Iberian Peninsula and Latin America, with offices in Brazil, Spain and Portugal. With more than 12 years of experience in the events Industry, events by tlc, conceive, plan and implement conferences, product presentations, incentive programs, encounters, corporate and associative events, all designed with the maximum details and with meticulous planning. Statement of support events by events by tlc became a United Nations Global Compact participant since it’s committed to embrace the ten principles in its own strategy and culture by following a new approach to embrace the events industry changing landscape on such different areas from the emerging wider CSR agenda, Procurement, Risk Management to transparent pricing models. Signature Position CEO PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment or Policy events by tlc follows Governmental Laws in these matter and at the same time communicates to the competent authorities (supervisory and police) when it knows that these practices are carried out by others. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Non-applicable Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Non-applicable Measurable Results or Outcomes Non-applicable PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment or Policy events by tlc follows Governmental Laws in these matter and at the same time communicates to the competent authorities (supervisory and police) when it knows that these practices are carried out by others. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Non-applicable Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Non-applicable Measurable Results or Outcomes Non-applicable PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment or Policy events by tlc follows Governmental Laws in these matter and at the same time communicates to the competent authorities (supervisory and police) when it knows that these practices are carried out by others. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Non-applicable Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Non-applicable Measurable Results or Outcomes Non-applicable PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy events by tlc follows Governmental Laws in these matter and at the same time communicates to the competent authorities (supervisory and police) when it knows that these practices are carried out by others. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Non-applicable Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Non-applicable Measurable Results or Outcomes Non-applicable PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy events by tlc follows Governmental Laws in these matter and at the same time communicates to the competent authorities (supervisory and police) when it knows that these practices are carried out by others. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Non-applicable Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Non-applicable Measurable Results or Outcomes Non-applicable PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment or Policy Employment Policy events by tlc employs salaried staff based on a pre set criteria that are set out in a job description. events by tlc only employs salaried staff that can comply with Governmental employment regulations and that candidates possess the correct documentation to allow them to be legally employed to work in Portugal, Brasil and/ or Spain. A brief description of our Processes or Systems events by tlc issues a written job specification. Written applications are invited and then assessed against that specification. Interviews (normally two to three) take place as candidates are shortlisted. A formal job offer and contract is then issued. A pre agreed probationary period is worked and on successful completion a permanent contract is issued. Non performance: Every effort is made to find corrective action through improved training and communication but in the event that a more structured approach is required then events by tlc complies and follows the guidelines set out under Governmental employment laws. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Non-applicable Measurable Results or Outcomes Last year, events by tlc: In Portugal, contracted 7 new staff members for the following teams: project management; marketing; sales; shared services and HR. In Spain, contracted 5 new staff members for project management and finance teams. In Brazil, contracted 1 new staff members for project management team. PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment or Policy CSR Policy At events by tlc, we are aware of the importance of social responsibility in the world today and the impact that it may have in the life of our team members; business partners; clients and to each single person. A brief description of our Processes or Systems We became a United Nations Global Compact participant, supporting the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights; labour; the environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to embrace the ten principles in our own strategy and culture as we are also driven to promote them among our clients and business partners. We were the first Portuguese DMC to adopt procedures to quantify the carbon emissions produced at work. From 1st July 2008 until October 2012, events by tlc was a zero carbon company and compensate its emissions by planting and maintaining oak-trees and wild pine-trees in the PenedaGerês National Park and Mafra National Park. The forest areas will be monitored every 5 years and preserved for 30 years, broadening our commitment to nature conservation. Our daily routine in the offices includes reusing, reducing and recycling procedures in order to pursuit a better environmental friendly office. Better energy and water management solutions are also a part of our team’s vision for a sustainable planet. events by tlc also works towards the improvement of our own community by supporting social institutions committed to give support to those who have basic needs and look for some human warmth. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Reuse; reduce and recycling procedures Support to social and charitable institutions. PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment or Policy CSR Policy At events by tlc we are aware of the importance of social responsibility in the world today and the impact that it may have in the life of our team members; business partners; clients and to each single person. A brief description of our Processes or Systems events by tlc promotes towards its clients the producing of sustainable events by: Suggesting waste reduction and recycling procedures. Suggesting the use of local seasonal products in meals (liaising with the catering company). Suggesting CSR activities with local community. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year To continuing with the suggestions and developments of all knowledgeable possibilities and options for a sustainable events and office management. Measurable Results or Outcomes December 2014 – Organization of a Christmas gathering with an Institution that supports teenager mothers and their babies. Donation of items (clothes; toys; bottles; etc) for both the mothers and children. October 2015 – Contribution with 80 meals to the Refood program in Lisbon (http://www.refood.org/blog/). November 2015 – Donation of 2500 Euros to the Marine Turtles protection program from ATM, a Portuguese non-profit environmental NGO (http://tartarugasmarinhas.pt/content/atm). PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment or Policy events by tlc is committed to explore the possibilities and technology which can minimize events by tlc’s ecological footprint. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Non-Applicable. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Use of more videos and virtual tours at our client’s area in the web. Email and data servers were allocated to a data centre outside of the office. Measurable Results or Outcomes Decrease of energy consumption. Decrease of travelling needs (flights and accommodation abroad). PRINCIPLE BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, 10 INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment or Policy Events by tlc owns a Procurement Policy and an anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Procurement Policy: events by tlc operates a comprehensive procurement policy to ensure that its suppliers have the ability to perform the services for which they have been contracted. events by tlc has two nominated individuals responsible for the management and ownership of the procurement policy, one to manage freelance specialist staff and one for all other products and services. All suppliers are selected against procurement criteria to ensure they can perform to pre agreed specification standards. This will typically include areas such as: Appropriate licenses and local regulation compliance to operate Appropriate insurance cover Financially sound Qualified personnel Competitive pricing Experience Anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy: The purpose of this policy is to state events by tlc position on bribery and corruption and to provide information and guidance on recognizing and dealing with bribery and corruption. This policy covers all employees including those on temporary and fixed term contracts, external resources, agents, distributors, consultants, standards committee members, business partners, all suppliers and any other person or organization who performs services for or on behalf of events by tlc in any location around the world. It is events by tlc policy to maintain the highest standards of ethics in all of its business dealings worldwide. Events by tlc is committed to conducting itself fairly, honestly and lawfully in all its business dealings and relationships globally. events by tlc is bound by the laws of Portugal, Spain and Brazil and is also committed to upholding all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdictions in which events by tlc operates. Company employees and associated persons must comply with applicable laws in the countries where the company operates, including local anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws. The laws that may apply to the company include the criminal code as well as local anticorruption and anti-bribery laws of other countries. Note these laws can apply to conduct outside each of these countries. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Events by tlc created the anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy applied to the business in general including in its procurement process and policy. Measurable Results or Outcomes New products and services developed by vetted suppliers are communicated to events by tlc and these are evaluated on an ongoing basis and added where appropriate. Suppliers are updated regularly on changes in regulations that might affect that supplier. Risk management is managed in a collaborative manner as it is seen as a shared responsibility. Training of supplier staff and vice versa is undertaken where it is seen to be beneficial. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders?
