TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Cover art, “reflectwo (green)” by Haruka Kojin, is one of the exhibits of the solaé art gallery project. Editorial policy With the publication of the fiscal year 2016 edition, the title of the report has been changed from “Environmental and Social Report” to “Sustainability Report”. Efforts are also being made to communicate more clearly about TEL’s roles and responsibilities in promoting sustainable society and about specific activities toward achieving this goal. Recognizing the importance of stakeholder communication, we made every effort to improve the quality and organization of the report, so readers can understand the positioning of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) at TEL and the policies and initiatives for advancing CSR. In this edition, we explain the connection between society and TEL’s mediumto long-term management plans. We also clearly describe the goals and activities of each department to demonstrate our commitment to solving social issues through business operations and enhancing overall corporate value. To find out more, please visit us at www.tel.com. TEL will continue to promote CSR, including the disclosure of information in a transparent manner. Your candid opinions and inputs on this report are highly appreciated. [Scope of disclosure] Update frequency Website: http://www.tel.com/environment/index.htm Sustainability Report Amount of information Organizations covered Although some content covers only TEL subsidiaries in Japan, this report covers the entire TEL Group, 38 consolidated companies around the world. In April 2014, the status of Tokyo Electron Device Limited changed from being a consolidated subsidiary to an equity-method affiliate. Period covered Although some content covers fiscal year 2017, this report principally covers fiscal year 2016 (from April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016). Publication date Current report: July 2016 Next report: Scheduled for July 2017 Previous report: July 2015 Reference Guidelines The G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, GRI（Global Reporting Initiative） Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012, Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan Contact Tokyo Electron Limited CSR Promotion Department Akasaka Biz Tower, 3-1 Akasaka 5-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-6325, Japan Tel: +81-3-5561-7000 URL http://www.tel.com/contactus/index.htm 2 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Table of contents Editorial policy 2 Table of contents 3 CEO’ s message 4 CSR operations TEL’ s Corporate Philosophy and CSR 6 Stakeholder communication 7 Social issues surrounding our business 8 Business opportunities and mid-term vision 9 Materiality assessment 10 Innovation Innovation management 12 Protecting and using intellectual property 13 Safety Highlights, Goals and results, Framework 15 Improving employee safety 16 Improving customer/Product safety 17 Quality Highlights, Goals and results, Framework 19 Product quality 20 Streamlining operations 21 Consideration for customers 22 Procurement Highlights, Goals and results, Framework 25 Sustainable supply chain 26 Supply chain communication 27 Our people and workplace Highlights, Goals and results, Framework 29 Realizing an engaging work environment 30 Environment Highlights, Goals and results, Framework 33 Product initiatives 34 Factory and office initiatives 36 Social contribution Highlights, Principles, Policy, Goals and results 39 Toward a sustainable global society 40 Working with local communities 41 Corporate governance Corporate governance 42 Internal control and risk management 46 Compliance 47 Report review 48 Awards and recognition 49 Performance summary 50 Corporate profile 55 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 3 CEO’ s message 4 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Toward realizing the growth of a dream-inspiring society In January 2016, I was given the privilege of serving as Representative Director, President, and CEO of Tokyo Electron Limited (TEL). On behalf of TEL, I would first like to express my sincere gratitude to all stakeholders for their continued support and patronage. As is well known, the United Nations General Assembly unanimously adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in September 2015. In December, the parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change held the 21st conference (COP21) and formally adopted an agreement on the international plan for dealing with global warming from 2020 onward (the Paris Agreement). These developments represent broad participatory efforts by global partnerships to achieve a sustainable society. On the social front, the IoT (Internet of Things) is almost upon us. Soon, not only personal computers and mobile devices, but also almost everything in our society will be connected to the internet. The arrival of this new era is accelerated by semiconductors, which are supported by manufacturing systems featuring advanced technologies. With these developments in mind, TEL set forth a medium-term management plan in July 2015, laying out the business goals for the period leading up to the fiscal year ending March 2020. In addition to our scrupulous adherence to the “customer first” principle that has been TEL’s legacy since its founding, we have unified our development organizations, enabling a fusion of technologies held by our diverse business units. The plan will lead to the creation of high value-added products, raising us to the world-leading position in the customers’ minds and giving us even greater earnings power. In December 2015, we established the Tokyo Electron Corporate Governance Guidelines. The main features of our corporate governance include： An emphasis on free, open-minded discussions in the Board of Directors Management that is fair, effective, and transparent The establishment of Corporate Senior Staff (CSS) as the body that formulates and advances corporate strategy. Under this growth-oriented governance structure, we are determined to achieve further growth. Our corporate philosophy urges us to “contribute to the development of a dream-inspiring society through our leading-edge technologies and reliable service and support.” As the leading manufacturer of semiconductor and flat panel display production equipment, TEL is determined to contribute to the solution of diverse social issues. Your continued support and encouragement is very much appreciated by all of us at TEL. Toshiki Kawai Representative Director, President & CEO Tokyo Electron Limited TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 5 CSR operations TEL’ s corporate philosophy and CSR Corporate philosophy We strive to contribute to the development of a dream-inspiring society through our leading-edge technologies and reliable service and support. TEL considers CSR to be the embodiment of its corporate philosophy, which has been firmly upheld since TEL’s founding. TEL pursues sustainable operations from the viewpoints of corporate governance, legal and regulatory compliance, and business ethics while creating new value through its products and services. Based on these efforts, TEL implements CSR activities to help solve social problems. TEL will continue to pursue CSR activities to build stakeholder trust, improve corporate value, and promote the growth of a sustainable and dream-inspiring society. Advancement of Corporate Sustainable operations Philosophy dream-inspiring Contribution society Management Material to the solution Policies Business operations issues of social problems Increasing CSR Policy Creation of new value corporate value TEL Values CSR policy TEL has developed a CSR policy that outlines the principles and values that form the foundation of its CSR activities. TEL provides safe, high-quality products and services to customers around the world and works toward the 1 Corporate Activities enrichment of society. TEL acts in compliance with the laws and regulations of the countries in which it operates, observes inter2 Business Ethics national regulations, and acts in accordance with strict business ethics. We do not engage in any conduct that impedes fair and open market competition. TEL respects the character and individuality of each person. We value the diversity of employees, share a 3 Respect for Individuals strong sense of mission, and promote the development of a vibrant work environment. TEL seeks to achieve harmony with the global environment. By developing and providing eco-friendly prod4 Environment ucts, we strive to reduce our own impact on the environment and help our customers reduce theirs as well. Communication with TEL discloses information in a fair, impartial, and timely manner; strives to engage in two-way communica5 Stakeholders tions; and works to meet stakeholder expectations. As a good corporate citizen, TEL promotes the development of local communities and the betterment of 6 Social Contribution society worldwide. 6 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 CSR promotion framework Through the end of fiscal year 2016, TEL semiannually convened a CSR promotion committee, consisting of the CSR Promotion Corporate Director, CSR Promotion Executive Officer, and the heads of related departments. The committee discussed CSR, set goals, and checked the progress of ongoing action plans. TEL held CSR monthly meeting to share information about departmental CSR issues and promote improvement. Starting in fiscal year 2017, TEL semiannually convenes the CSR management council, comprising the CEO, corporate directors, and division general managers. At the same time, the CSR promotion committee has been reorganized into the CSR global promotion committee to further enhance CSR activities at the global level. Theme Goals for fiscal year 2016 Results for fiscal year 2016 ● Effectively use and maintain CSR management ● Convened management council joined by CSR Promotion Corporate DirecSustainable CSR system. tor and CSR Promotion Executive Officer to review CSR activities and set management management ● Regularly report on CSR activities at managegoals for the next fiscal year. ment meetings. ● Reported on primary CSR activities at the corporate management council. Stakeholder communication Business activities are based on good communication with stakeholders and society at large. That is why TEL considers building stakeholder trust essential to its operations. Accordingly, TEL discloses information on the progress of its initiatives and future direction of its business in a fair and timely manner through regular briefings and its corporate website. In addition, TEL interacts with stakeholders on many occasions and through various contact points. This helps us accurately understand their views and expectations, and allows TEL to quickly reevaluate and adjust its course of business as appropriate. Through these efforts, TEL is reducing the latent impact of social and environmental issues on its business while seeking to improve its competitiveness and market position to maintain sustainable business operations. Theme Goals for fiscal year 2016 Results for fiscal year 2016 Stakeholder ● Formulate company-wide stakeholder engage● Evaluated the positions and priorities of stakeholders. The formulation of engagement ment policy and execution plan. engagement policy and execution plan will continue in fiscal year 2017. Communication Disclosure ● Expand the scope of communication on main social ● Enhanced communication on TEL’s social contribution activities in Japan contribution activities. and abroad. TEL’s key Divisions in charge Key communication methods stakeholders Shareholders/investors Management, IR Earnings announcement (quarterly), Medium-term management plan briefing, Interviews, Factory tours Customers Sales, R&D, Marketing Interviews, Executive meetings, Customer satisfaction survey (annual), Technology conferences Suppliers Procurement, Purchasing Production update briefing (semiannual), Partners day (annual), STQA1 audit, Interviews Employees Management, HR Employee meetings, Technology conference, Interviews, Global engagement survey (annual) Factory tours, Participation in local activities, Visits to/interviews with local authorities, Social contribution Local communities Local administration teams activities Legal and regulatory compliance/notification/monitoring/advocacy, Industry group activities, Alliances with Governments/associations Local administration teams external organizations 1 STQA: Supplier Total Quality Assessment Examples of initiatives Technology conferences TEL holds technology conference meetings of various sizes throughout the year, addressing the needs of specific business units, markets, regions, and so forth. These conferences serve as venues for information sharing and multifaceted communication and have received positive reviews from customers, TEL employees, and other participants. Through these networking events, TEL is effectively sharing information to support innovation and the development of high value-added products and services. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 7 CSR operations Participation in international CSR initiatives TEL is taking an active part in international CSR organizations, such as the United Nations Global Compact and the EICC®*, a CSR alliance of the electronics industry. In fiscal year 2016, we assigned EICC promotion personnel at TEL locations in Japan and in the U.S. to promote effective compliance with the EICC Code of Conduct. These personnel also reinforce operational compliance for the Asian, European, and U.S. regions where TEL conducts business. For major suppliers, those whose total business with TEL accounts for over 80% of our procurement spending, we have implemented a Supply Chain CSR Assessment to ensure control over our supply chain based on the EICC Code of Conduct. * EICC® is a registered trademark of Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Incorporated. Theme Goals for fiscal year 2016 Results for fiscal year 2016 Sustainable ● Build a global framework for EICC compliance promotion ● Appointed EICC promotion personnel to overseas bases to build and EICC management and implement training. reinforce compliance. Initiated training programs. Evaluations by external organizations To enhance mediumto long-term corporate value, TEL is using evaluations by external organizations as benchmarks of its operations. In fiscal year 2016, TEL was chosen as a Sustainability Yearbook Member and an Industry Mover by RobecoSAM AG1, a research institute that cooperates with the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI). Since 2003, TEL has been a part of the FTSE4Good Global Index, a prominent index for social responsibility investment (SRI). TEL has also been selected by Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) for the MSCI ACWI ESG Index and the MSCI World ESG Index. 1 RobecoSAM AG: An investment specialist founded in 1995 focused exclusively on Sustainability Investing Social issues surrounding our business International initiatives to realize a sustainable society, such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement, have begun to be implemented. Businesses are also being requested to leverage their operational strength to help resolve diverse social issues on a global level. The semiconductor production equipment industry, which TEL is a part of, has made remarkable contributions to people’s lives through constant technology innovation. This advancement and diversification of semiconductor process technologies comes with the risk of higher development costs. In addition, any delay in responding to customer needs can lead to lost opportunities for entering markets. Insufficient compliance with climate change related laws and regulations in the countries where TEL operates can put its marketing opportunities as well as its reputation at risk. There are many other social issues surrounding TEL’s operations, as listed below. We believe being prepared for and proactively responding to these issues is critical to both ensuring our business growth and attaining a sustainable society. Social issues most relevant to TEL Risk prevention and countermeasures Technical differentiation and innovation Continued investment in R&D, Open innovation Environmentally friendly products, Prevention of global warming, energy-saving iniClimate change tiatives Unpredictable risks to business continuity: natural disasters, war, terBCP programs rorism, infectious diseases Anti-corruption measures and fair business practice Continued initiatives to reinforce governance, Education on ethics and compliance CSR-based procurement, Participation in conflict minerals initiatives, Green proCSR in the supply chain curement, BCP of suppliers Achieving an invigorating workplace, Reinforcement of diverse programs, Human Securing human resources worldwide, retention of key personnel resource development Health and safety Safety initiatives, Improvement of employee health and workplace environment Tightening of legal restrictions by governments and others Information gathering on related laws, Policy advocacy initiatives, Legal compliance Policy advocacy initiatives It is essential for a business that its products and technologies earn public acceptance in a manner that does not disregard requirements of society. Creating synergy between businesses and society can lead to greater advancement of the semiconductor industry and bring solutions to many social issues, TEL, as a member of SEMI2 and other industry organizations, is engaged in advocacy. These initiatives involve lobbying governments and local authorities for public policies and regulations that benefit society in a practical and rational way. TEL believes that when backed by a good grasp of regulatory trends, active participation in advocacy initiatives can reduce the sustainability risk of manufacturing operations, not only for TEL itself but also for its customers. 2 SEMI: A global industry association serving the supply chain of manufacturing equipment, raw materials, and related services in such fields as semiconductors, flat panel displays (FPDs), nanotechnology, MEMS, photovoltaics, and related technologies 8 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Business opportunities and mid-term vision The IoT-enabled future From a medium to long-term perspective, the electronics industry is about to enter the age of the Internet of Things (IoT), where everything is connected to the internet. The number of devices with internet connectivity is expected to reach 50 billion in 2020, and the volume of data exchanged across the global networks is predicted to soar at an average annual rate of 23%. The demand for greater data processing capabilities, faster transfer rates, less power consumption, and higher screen resolution will only continue to rise. Due to these trends, TEL is simultaneously pursuing R&D into more sophisticated miniaturization, new structures and new materials technologies, new memory chips based on new device technologies, and new packaging technologies. Being a semiconductor production equipment manufacturer with diverse technologies, TEL’s diverse capabilities will be in much greater demand in the near future. 2025 Economic impact of IoT $11.1T ($900B in 2015) 2020 Number of things with Internet connectivity: 50B 2020 Market size for semiconductors (14.2B in 2014) Automobiles Traffic $391B ($335B in 2015) Datacenter Smart home Cloud Smart city AI Memory (artificial Processor intelligence) Datacenter Datacenter Sensor Big data analytics Wearable devices Industrial equipment 2020 Market size for WFE IP traffic $36.6B CAGR 23％ 1 Mobile devices Medical treatment and healthcare ($31.5B in 2015) (2014-2019) Source: CISCO, McKinsey & Company, Semiconductor and WFE2 markets (worldwide): Gartner, Forecast: Semiconductor Wafer-Level Manufacturing Equipment, Worldwide, 1Q16 Update. April 14, 2016 １ CAGR: Compound Annual Growth Rate ２ WFE：Water Fab Equipment Mid-term vision A truly global company generating high added value and profits in the semiconductor and flat panel display industries through innovative technologies and groundbreaking proactive solutions that integrate diverse technologies. There are some factors that are required to integrate TEL’s diverse capabilities as a semiconductor production equipment manufacturer and provide innovative Enhancing solutions to customers. These include advanced technology development caproduct competitiveness pability, services and technologies for speedily addressing customers’ problems, and world-class earnings power. To attain the goals of our Medium-term management plan by the fiscal year ending March 2020, TEL has chosen these three focus areas to drive the implementation projects. Reinforcing Strengthening customer earnings power responsiveness TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 9 CSR operations Materiality assessment Process for identifying material issues TEL identifies material issues based on the following process: Step 1. Identifying social issues <External ideas and assessments used for reference> Various departments concerned with CSR ex● UN Sustainable Development Goals amined the variety of social issues from the ● The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact standpoints of SDGs, the UN Global Compact, ● EICC Code of Conduct GRI, and so on. They worked with departments ● GRI G4 Guidelines in charge of risk management and organiza● Expectations from SRI and TEL’s ranking tion strategy to select social issues that are of ● Social norms and interest of the citizenry ● Inputs from stakeholder communication great significance to TEL. ● Views and requests given in response to our reports and through the Internet ● Advice of third-party support organizations on analysis of materiality Step 2. Assessment of relevant business issues <TEL’ s principles, business environment, and prioritization and policies used for reference> After the social issues were identified in Step 1, ● Corporate Philosophy their relevance to our business issues was as● Management Policies sessed and key issues were prioritized. ● CSR Policy ● Underscored items in the medium-term vision ● Investment trends ● Plans for new businesses ● TEL Values ● Social issues and opportunities surrounding our operations ● Benchmarks of competitors in the industry Step 3. Verification of feasibility <Principal views and suggestions obtained> Inviting external experts as advisors, the ● A review of the material issues for fiscal year 2016 revealed Materiality Review Council was convened to that, in order to improve the choice of issues for the next evaluate the feasibility of each material isfiscal year, more emphasis should be placed on the persue identified in the previous fiscal year. The spectives of management strategy and social issues. In addition, operational priorities should be made clearer. principal views and suggestions gained at ● With regard to customer responsiveness, opportunities are the Council were as follows: growing at every stage of operations from equipment design through post-sales service. Customer engagement is becoming more important than ever before. ● In step with the advancement of technology, market expectations on innovation, new technologies, and speed, are increasing and must be addressed. ● Value creation in supply chain management is essential, and we need to maintain good relationships with our suppliers. ● As the labor force in Japan is shrinking, we need to take a global approach to HR management and provide an enviMateriality Review Council ronment that enhances intellectual productivity regardless of the employees’ nationality and culture. 10 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Identifying material issues TEL fulfills the roles and responsibilities of a corporate citizen in the international community through its support for the UN Global Compact and by endeavoring to solve social issues identified in the UN SDGs. In determining the materiality of the corporate issues at hand, TEL sought to thoroughly understand its business environment and risks, while also placing an emphasis on clarifying the connection between the social issues and TEL’s operations. As a manufacturer of semiconductor production equipment, Materiality matrix TEL believes it can contribute to the advancement of technoloPerspective of stakeholders Enhancing product gies that support and enrich people’s lives by fully understanding competitiveness market changes and real customer needs and by continuously Reinforcing customer delivering innovative next-generation products. TEL also considresponsiveness ers it important to streamline its operations and gain world-class Strengthening earnings power earnings power. This will allow us to attain sustainable growth Maximizing dreams and mediumto long-term improvements in the enterprise valand drive ue and to realize a dream-inspiring and engaging workplace with Establishing sustainable operations fully functional compliance and governance systems. In addition, this approach will continue to show TEL’s focus on human rights and labor issues, as we continually offer challenging opportunities for personal growth. Based on this position, and mindful of the need to be comprehensive and concise, TEL chose the material issues for fiscal Perspective of business continuity and growth year 2017 while also keeping the previous year’s material issues in perspective. CSR goals for fiscal year 2017 For fiscal year 2017, TEL has set 16 goals related to 5 material issues and is working to achieve them. Material issues Themes Goals Innovation Maintain development costs at the fiscal year 2016 level. Enhancing product competitiveness Environmental contribution Continue initiatives to reduce per-wafer consumption of energy and pure water by 10% by of products fiscal year 2019 (as compared with fiscal year 2014). Customer satisfaction Get 3.0 points or more on a 4.0 scale for every item in the customer satisfaction survey. Reinforcing customer Implement PDCA1 training and disseminate the TEL 6-Step model (8D problem solving Quality responsiveness method2). Information security Ensure all target employees take a training course in information security. Strengthening Improve profitability See Annual Report 2016 earnings power Streamline operations Maintain the number of TPM programs at the fiscal year 2016 level. Create an invigorating Provide a work environment that supports continuous growth while ensuring perforMaximizing dreams workplace mance-responsive, scrupulously fair treatment of employees. and drive Social contribution Maintain the number of social contribution programs at the fiscal year 2016 level. Corporate governance Improve the operation of the Board of Directors through annual effectiveness evaluations. Compliance and ethics Ensure all employees complete training courses in business ethics and compliance. Provide business continuity plan (BCP) training at principal manufacturing sites and headBusiness continuity quarters, revise the BCP manual and implement safety confirmation system training (all to management be performed annually). Establishing sustainable Safety TCIR3: Less than 0.5. operations Reduce energy consumption by 1% on a per-unit basis4 from the fiscal year 2016 level. Environmental management Maintain water consumption at the fiscal year 2012 level (on a per-unit basis). Reinforce supply chain management through supply chain CSR assessment*. Supply chain management * Targeted at high-ranking suppliers whose aggregate business with Tokyo Electron accounts for 80% of its procurement. 1 PDCA: A method for continually improving operations by iterating the four steps of Plan, Do, Check, and Act 2 8D problem solving method: A method for solving problems in quality improvement through eight disciplines or processes 3 TCIR: Total Case Incident Rate (the number of workplace injuries per 200,000 work hours) 4 Per-unit basis: Energy consumption (environmental burden) divided by values closely associated with energy consumption, such as production volume, number of employees or total floor area TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 11 Innovation Innovation management With the IoT just around the corner, demand for greater processing power, faster data transfer, lower power consumption, and higher screen resolution continues to increase. Against this backdrop, new semiconductor structures and new material processing technologies are being introduced, prompting the pursuit of innovative memory chips based on new devices and processing technologies that enable further miniaturization. As these issues become increasingly harder to solve with any single piece of processing equipment, semiconductor production equipment manufacturers must offer more comprehensive solutions. Development of innovative STT-MRAM chip technology Partnership with Tohoku University TEL participates in Tohoku University’s Center for Innovative Integrated Electronic Systems (CIES) which opened in October 2012, with the goal of accelerating the development of STT-MRAM (Spin-Transfer Torque Magnetoresistive Random Access Memory) manufacturing equipment and chip integration technology. STT-MRAM is a magnetoresistive random access memory device that uses a data rewrite method called “magnetization reversal induced by spin injection.” Being a non-volatile device, it can significantly reduce power consumption, has large capacity and fast data transfer rates, and can rewrite an unlimited number of times. These characteristics are ideal for semiconductor memory. Using manufacturing equipment developed by TEL, the development of STT-MRAM manufacturing technology has been moving along at an excellent pace. We expect that STT-MRAM device properties will prove suitable for next-generation memory chips in the very near future. Going forward, we intend to apply the research results of the CIES to the development of our own equipment, so we can deliver TEL products that our global customers can rely on in a timely manner. STT-MRAM STT-MRAM cell mechanism STT-MRAM rewrites information by passing currents through Bit Line magnetic thin films and changing Low resistivity: “0” High resistivity: “1” (spins are aligned in parallel directions) (spins are aligned in antiparallel directions) the directions of spin (magnetic Free layer moment) in the free layer, which (ferromagnetic) alters the resistance in a memory Source Line Tunnel barrier layer cell. This method, called spin torque switching, is ideal for Reference layer scaling and reducing power Word Line Direction of spins (magnetic moment) (ferromagnetic) consumption of memory devices. EXIM™ sputtering system wins Award for Excellence at Semiconductor of the Year 2015 TEL has been developing equipment for manufacturing STT-MRAM, which is attracting attention as an energy-saving memory device. One example is the EXIM™ sputtering system for next-generation semiconductor devices, which won the Award for Excellence in the semiconductor manufacturing equipment category at the Semiconductor of the Year (sponsored by Sangyo Times, Inc.) in June 2015. The EXIM incorporates advancements in thin film deposition technology, which is considered to be crucial to the manufacture of STT-MRAM, featuring an MR ratio1 as high as 230%, enabling production of large-capacity memory chips. The EXIM’s unique and flexible modular design allows the system to be freely reconfigured for various purposes, ranging from development to mass production. 1 MR (magnetoresistive) ratio: The ratio of the resistance change that occurs when the magnetization directions between free and reference layers switch from parallel state to anti-parallel state, and vice versa. Higher MR ratio is essential for manufacturing large capacity memory devices. 12 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Miniaturization initiatives Evolution of semiconductors has been driven by miniaturization, which enabled faster processing, less power consumption, and less cost. Now, as the industry is reaching 10nm node, TEL is making extensive efforts to achieve further miniaturization. In addition to the conventional scaling method that shortens wavelengths of exposure, TEL is applying innovative technologies through the use of process tools, such as film deposition, coating, etching, and cleaning. Self-Aligned Multiple Patterning (SAMP) technology, for instance, forms a film on the sidewalls of an existing pattern to double the patterning density without changing the original pitch. By repeating this process, it further enables the doubling of the pattern density on a chip. TEL is also developing high precision tools for other self-alignment technologies to improve alignment accuracy in multiple patterning processes and improve etch consistency across wafers. TEL is also conducting joint research and development with IMEC, a world-leading nanoelectronics research institute based in Belgium, to develop advanced patterning technologies. Backed by these efforts, TEL is working to introduce original patterning schemes using new semiconductor structures and materials, and contribute to advancements of miniaturization through our comprehensive process technology expertise. Self-aligned multiple patterning (SAMP) 1. Patterning by 2. Deposition 3. Etching 4. Etching 5. Mask formation photolithography Form pattern (core) by Form oxide film on the core. Remove oxide film on top of Remove the core. Double density patterns are photolithography. the core. formed within the conventional pitch. Principal systems supporting advanced patterning technology TELINDY PLUSTM TactrasTM VigusTM Certas LEAGATM CLEAN TRACKTM CELLESTATM -i NS300Z LITHIUS ProTM Z Protecting and using intellectual property TEL’s fundamental tenet for intellectual property (IP) is to contribute to an increase in corporate revenues by supporting operations in both existing and new market sectors through IP protection. In line with this fundamental direction, TEL allocates IP personnel to product development centers and manufacturing facilities where research and development are performed, as well as to corporate headquarters where its sales and marketing departments are concentrated. These employees work closely with their departments to develop an IP portfolio in line with TEL’s technological and product strategies. They also work to minimize the risk of IP disputes by monitoring the competitive environment. To protect and use IP effectively in regions where TEL and its customers operate, TEL files patent applications in appropriate countries. The global application rate* at TEL has remained at around 70% for five consecutive years. In 2014 its patent application success rates in Japan and in the United States were 78% and 71.2%, respectively. The strength of this IP portfolio strategy allows TEL to boost revenues by differentiating its products and enhancing its competitiveness. * Percentage of applications for inventions filed in multiple countries TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 13 Safety Through our “Safety First” culture, we focus on keeping everyone safe and continually improving our working environments. As a manufacturer of semiconductor and flat panel display (FPD) production equipment, TEL places the highest priority on the safety of everyone involved in its operations. Our objectives include providing safe products, continually improving the working environments, educating them about safety, and eliminating workplace accidents. 14 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Highlights TCIR* Percentage of employees 0.21 completing basic and advanced safety refresher training * Total Case Incident Rate (the number of workplace accidents per 200,000 work hours.) 100 ％ Goals and results for fiscal year 2016 Theme Goals Results ● Appropriately address equipment ● Responded to customer inquiries on specifications of emersafety compliance requirements gency stop, material safety standards, remote operations, through customer request for quotaProduct etc. Comply with local safety laws and tion (RFQ) process. ● Expanded service areas of product safety engineers to exsafety regulations in a timely manner. ● Develop knowledge and skills of tend safety support. product safety engineers. ● Continued safety compliance support for evaluation equip● Verify safety compliance of newly ment. developed equipment. ● Attained a 38% reduction in TCIR. ● Reduce Total Case Incident Rate ● Number of incidents that could lead to serious injury: 12 in (TCIR) by 38% over fiscal year 2014. fiscal year 2016 compared to 8 in fiscal year 2014 (figures inPrevent accidents. If accidents ● Reduce incidents that could lead to clude incidents that did not result in serious injury or disAccident occur, perform root cause analysis serious injury by 50% over fiscal year ease). prevention and share this information to 2014. ● Conducted safety monitoring and new fab safety checks prevent similar accidents. ● Continue safety patrols, new fab globally. safety checks, and dissemination of ● Disseminated preventive measures through Global Safety preventive measures. Council, Field Safety Council, Manufacturing Company Presidents’ Council, etc. ● Provide basic and advanced safety re● Provided basic and advanced safety refresher training to all Safety fresher training to all employees. Improve overall safety skills through employees globally. ● Provide web-based accident preveneducation practical training, etc. ● Provided web-based accident prevention training to 47,000 tion training to over 15,000 employemployees (cumulative). ees (cumulative). ● Implement the PDCA continual improvement cycle through the Safety ● Evaluated the current situation of safety at TEL and impleClarify policies and set organizational global EHS Council and through each mented remedies and improvements through the global EHS management framework for sustainability program. company’s Safety Council. Council. ● Check and revise safety activities in all TEL companies. Framework Increasing the safety awareness of individual workers is crucial Representative Director, President & CEO for providing worksites where everyone can work safely. To fully support our “Safety First” culture, TEL has established the Senior Executive Vice President, General Manager, Development & Production Division equipment safety promotion meeting and the work safety promotion meeting under the supervision of the EHS council. The Development & Production Division equipment safety promotion meeting revises TEL’s design rules Manufacturing companies presidents’council based on international laws and local regulations for equipEHS council ment safety. It also determines TEL’s compliance with new regulations and administers corrective measures. The work safety promotion meeting investigates work safety issues at Equipment Work Product Product Operation safety safety environment environment environment customer sites and TEL Group locations and implements appropromotion promotion value compliance value meeting meeting meeting meeting meeting priate remedies. These meetings also examine incidents involving personal injury or property damage, determine whether the incidents were caused by equipment trouble or other work-related factors, and take measures to ensure similar incidents do not occur in the future. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 15 Safety Improving employee safety Initiatives for safety improvement To ensure the safety of its employees, customers, and all others involved in its operations, TEL places a 1 OHSMS: Occupational Health and Safety Management Sysstrong focus on preventing work-related accidents. tem. A management system to reduce the potential risk of At each TEL factory and office, monthly safety and health committee meetings are held to discuss safety work-related accidents and improve the overall level of monitoring and to manage any workplace safety or employee health issues. In addition, representatives safety and occupational health. from appropriate departments monitor safety performance at least once a month at each manufacturing Based on the policy set by senior management, a series of site as part of an overall systematic effort to solve problems at their sites. PDCA (Plan, Do, Check, Act) processes for safety and occuAlso, TEL has implemented a management system based on OHSMS1 to identify and analyze potential pational health management is workplace hazards. The knowledge obtained from this system is shared throughout TEL. Before starting drawn up and implemented on the employees’ own initiative. work, all workers discuss the risks involved and the required actions to prevent mistakes. The group leader oversees the work at all times to eliminate any unsafe conditions or behavior that could lead to accidents. In addition, whenever employees perceive that workplace safety is at risk due to lack of preparation or an unplanned event, they are encouraged to stop work and implement any needed corrective action. Additionally, safety managers regularly give advice on how to manage hazards, further raising worker safety awareness. As a result of these initiatives, the TCIR (Total Case Incident Rate) improved from 0.24 to 0.21. Safety education To improve employee safety awareness, TEL provides a wide variety of web-based training. 2 Web-based training courses focus on 13 themes: preventing In fiscal year 2016, TEL provided basic safety refresher training to all employees. Advanced safety refreshequipment confusion; preventing falls from openings; stop work er training was also provided. This advanced training used actual incidents as learning examples with a goal authority (SWA); preventing being caught in a drive unit; preof preventing similar incidents from happening again. venting work-related back pain; To eliminate accidents, TEL also provides risk assessment training and 13 additional web-based training pointing and calling; preventing exposure to liquid chemicals; courses2 (statistically proven to be effective) at offices and factories worldwide. TEL also provides safety work safety rules; detailed work safety instructions; rules for acinformation to suppliers as part of ongoing activities to prevent accidents. cident reporting; assessing risks; measures against ergonomic incidents; and criteria for SWA. Response to workplace accidents When a workplace accident occurs, TEL analyzes the cause, or causes, and takes appropriate countermeasures. In addition to the principal cause, further causes are also identified through multi-faceted analyses of the state of injured persons , facilities, environment, co-workers, and the actual work. The results are shared with the entire company through safety promotion meetings and other forums to prevent recurrence. Workplace accidents that could lead to serious injuries are classified as critical workplace accidents, and their circumstances, causes, and remedies must be reported to the executive in charge. When concern is high, the accident is also reported to the President. Information about these accidents is shared at the global EHS council meetings to ensure organization-wide prevention efforts. 16 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Improving customer safety Giving assurance to customers Because TEL’s products often require the use of hazardous chemicals and high voltage electricity, TEL pro1 EU languages: German, French, Italian, Dutch, Russian vides the relevant safety information to customers. 2 Asian languages: Korean, ChiAll products supplied by TEL come with a standard TEL Safety and Environmental Guidelines manual. This nese (traditional characters), Chinese (simplified characters) manual describes the risks associated with the use of TEL products by category, such as chemical, electrical, mechanical, and ergonomic, together with the methods for averting those risks. The manual also describes the safety measures built into the products and the recommended methods of product disposal. The manual is prepared in 10 languages including Japanese, English, five EU languages1, and three additional Asian languages2 to ensure the content is understood by a wide range of customers. Also, each product comes with a manual detailing the procedures for avoiding product-specific risks and securing safe operation and maintenance, thus providing an additional safeguard for customers. TEL also assists customers in learning how to operate and maintain the equipment. Our training centers located in Japan and abroad offer practical skills training for TEL equipment. TEL also provides on-site training at customer sites. When we deliver our products to new customer plants and production lines, we check the facilities, equipment, and workplace safety standards beforehand, as dictated by internal TEL rules. This process allows TEL to resolve any safety concerns and secure a safe working environment. Improving product safety Initiatives for improving work safety Taking the entire product life cycle into consideration, TEL carries out product risk assessments as early 3 Safe equipment design: Innovative machinery designs eliminates as possible in the development phase. Based on the assessment results, TEL implements intrinsically safe causes of machinery-related hazards posed to humans. equipment design3 to reduce the risks posed to humans. TEL also examines and ensures compliance with changing laws and regulations around the globe, abiding by all safety regulations of the regions where our equipment is shipped, and allowing inspections by safety certification organizations as required. Safety education In recent years, it has become increasingly important for TEL to ensure compliance with international safety standards and guidelines early in the equipment design and development processes. Since fiscal year 2008, TEL has been offering its engineers web-based training on safe equipment design. Through risk assessment exercises and examples of actual accidents, the participants acquire basic safety knowledge for equipment design. In fiscal year 2016, we revised the education program using updated information, including new safety standards. In addition to the training for design engineers, we are also promoting equipment safety education for all workers in areas such as manufacturing, start-up, service, and off-site logistics. This allows these employees to apply the knowledge to the handling of equipment as well as assist in the development of safer equipment. For fiscal year 2017, lectures and training by outside experts are also being planned. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 17 Quality Knowing our customers’ real needs enables us to attain world-leading product quality. Winning the trust and satisfaction of our customers requires precise understanding of their critical needs. TEL attentively listens to customers and uses this feedback to continually improve all aspects of operations, resulting in even higher quality products and services. 18 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Highlights Customer satisfaction Percentage of wafers with no-defect after survey introduction of TELeMetricsTM 62 ％ Receive 3.0 or more points (Very Up 2.3 percentage points Satisfied or Satisfied) on a 4.0 scale for 62% of questions. Goals and results for fiscal year 2016 Theme Goals Results Quality Reduce accidents that result ● Reduce product-related accidents resulting in property damage by 20% ● Reduced these accidents by improvement in property damage. year-over-year across the organization. 14.5% year-over-year. ● Scored an average of 4.6 points, Improve quality of equipment ● Score an average of 4.0 points or more on a 5.0 scale in trainee feedback. receiving 4.0 points or more for Improving training. all questions. customer satisfaction Improve customer satis● Receive 3.0 points or more on a 4.0 scale for all questions in the customer ● Received 3.0 points or more faction. satisfaction survey. for 62% of questions. ● Implement the PDCA continual improvement cycle to check compliance ● Implemented compliance Compliance Compliance with regulations and processes in TEL . checks at 8 key sites. Framework TEL has a quality assurance framework headed by the Representative Director and President and supported by the Senior Executive Vice President in charge of Development and Production. Quality improvement, as well as other important quality issues and other shared concerns, are addressed through collaboration amongst TEL presidents and the Quality General Managers (GMs). To ensure efficient and stable quality control, TEL has five working groups in place, including the Quality council, Engineering council, Production council, Purchasing council, and EHS council. These working groups collaborate to pursue organization-wide quality assurance activities across all divisions. To constantly maintain high quality standards, TEL has also been working since 1997 to acquire ISO 9001 quality management system certification at various sites. Ten sites (primarily manufacturing operations) have achieved this certification to date. Thanks in part to our efforts under this framework, there were no legal or regulatory violations of TEL’s products and services in fiscal year 2016. Representative Director, President & CEO Senior Executive Vice President, General Manager, Development & Production Division Presidents of Group companies Heads of Council Quality Promotion Dept. TEL Quality Committee Quality council Engineering council Production council Purchasing council* EHS council * Official name: Purchasing department manager council TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 19 Quality Product quality Initiatives for improving quality TEL is continually improving the quality of its products to win customer satisfaction and trust. An important statement from the quality policy is that “We build quality into every TEL product during the design phase by focusing on leading-edge technology. By bringing quality into our processes early and focusing on quality throughout all processes, we succeed in providing high quality products and services.” This is the foundation of our quality assurance activities. Specifically, we have adopted the front-loading approach. This involves identifying and solving problems early in the product development and design processes to enhance design quality. In addition, we have expanded our training programs and established a system to verify skill levels in order to improve individual skills and design quality, ultimately ensuring proper identification of problems and appropriate analysis. In addition, we implement in-process quality control1 during each process̶from development and de1 in-process quality control: The idea that, at each process, emsign to shipment. Semiconductor production equipment consists of various components and modules, ployees take responsibility to ensure product quality with no and assembly involves multiple processes. Making each of the manufacturing processes responsible for defects component quality is very effective, significantly reducing production costs and defects. Each of our process teams constantly seeks improvement, helping to produce superior products by taking ownership of quality assurance within a given process. Because the quality of each component can affect the overall quality of the end product, we also focus on the quality of components early in the design phase. TEL’s development and quality assurance divisions exchange information among themselves and with suppliers in order to improve the quality of drawings and purchase specifications. This also enables early sharing of component information. As a result, the quality of components has improved, leading to fewer component defects. Education To promote high-quality manufacturing in alignment with customer needs, TEL continually carries out cross-functional quality improvement activities with involvement of not only its development and design departments but also other departments such as planning, sales, administration and field service. As part of these efforts, we encourage TEL employees to obtain external quality certification. Administered by the Japanese Standards Association and the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers, the QM/QC Exam (Quality Management and Quality Control Examination) is a major quality certification, with more than 363,000 certification holders in Japan as of September 2015. The certification enables employees to improve their knowledge and skills in the area of quality control, improve the quality of their work, and provide customers with high-quality products. Starting in fiscal year 2012, this initiative has increased the number of certified employees each year to a total of 1,273 as of March 2016. In addition, we are also educating our employees in the Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA) cycle. Although PDCA is most frequently used to improve management of production and quality, we have chosen to employ this method in every aspect of our business, not just in production activities. PDCA is already being used in many areas, driving process efficiency and greater value for our customers. Response to quality problems Despite our efforts to produce high-quality products with the front-loading approach, in-process quality control, and employee education, unforeseen quality problems occur from time to time. When any such problem is reported by customers, the information is fed into our proprietary Q-VICS knowledge management system. This information is distributed to the departments concerned, enabling information sharing and quick problem resolution. If disclosure of defect information is deemed necessary based on our internal criteria, we issue necessary technical documents and inform our customers. 20 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 For particularly serious problems, we employ the TEL 6-Step problem-solving model, a customized ver1 8D problem solving method: A quality improvement method sion of the eight discipline (8D) problem solving method1 widely used in quality management. The TEL for solving problems through eight disciplines or processes 6-step model enables systematic and highly reliable analysis of a problem to determine the root cause, leading to quick implementation of countermeasures and preventing recurrence of similar problems. We are currently training our personnel to actively use this method. When a quality issue occurring in one business unit has the potential to affect other business units, we use a proprietary system called QABOX to prevent the problem from spreading. The system allows relevant information to be centrally managed on our secure network. The information is shared with quality assurance managers at TEL manufacturing companies and with the corporate quality division to discuss appropriate resolution. Following the discussion, critical information is reported to the corporate executive officer in charge of quality to quickly determine the future actions on the issue. Streamlining operations Quality and productivity improvement through TPM TEL has been implementing TPM2 for over ten years. The purpose of TPM is to eliminate inefficiencies, 2 TPM: Total Productive Maintenance or Total Productive Manwaste, and loss, and thereby improve productivity. The TPM approach is playing a role in employee educaagement tion and skill development and has been successfully integrated into our production lines. TPM activities that have produced outstanding results are shared with the rest of TEL at the annual TPM presentation. In fiscal year 2016, the participants included not only teams from Japanese manufacturing sites but also the first overseas presenters from Tokyo Electron (Kunshan) Limited (established in 2012). Production division initiatives At Tokyo Electron Miyagi Limited, the standard practice was to hold shipment of the equipment until all component modules were available. Because of this, many of the finished modules had to be kept in the clean room for an extended period, taking up precious production space. Accordingly, the team in Miyagi revised the process management practices during the production planning phase. They adopted a module-based rather than product-based logistics approach, ensuring no deterioration in the quality level. The change allowed the modules to be packaged and shipped as they were finished. At the same time, improvements were made in the loading area layout as well as in shipping list preparation and cargo packaging. This freed up even more production space and improved productivity while reducing lead time. Additionally, the new approaches have made it easier to respond to any changes in specifications that customers might require. Administrative division initiatives TEL is pursuing TPM not only at its production sites but also in its factory administration and sales departments. As a manufacturer of production equipment, we need to communicate our customers’ technological needs for improving productivity (including system modifications and enhancements) to the Development & Production Division as quickly as possible. This allows us to share the information and respond with actual products. Accordingly, we have established a system capable of processing customer requests within 24 hours of receipt. We have also standardized the system modification formats and request forms in an effort to remove ambiguity in the requests. This has enabled the departments concerned to share highly specific information and respond more quickly to customer requests. To better manage requests for substantial modifications to our equipment, we have also improved the ordering system for products with long lead times to achieve faster delivery. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 21 Quality Consideration for customers Customer satisfaction Improving customer satisfaction Accurately assessing customer needs is critical to providing quick, innovative solutions. TEL’s policy on quality and service states, “TEL strives to understand the true needs of our customers to achieve customer satisfaction and secure customer trust while continuously improving quality and service.” Under this policy, TEL has a customer satisfaction system headed by the President. This enables TEL to engage in various activities to offer high value-added products and services to meet customer needs now and in the foreseeable future. Customer satisfaction survey TEL conducts a customer satisfaction survey every year, with the goal of making continual improvements based on customer feedback. The survey started in 2003 with a limited number of sales departments. Since then, TEL has made numerous improvements in the questionnaire, survey method and analysis, feedback to customers about targeted improvements, and overall management of the program. The survey grew to include all semiconductor production equipment departments in 2014. The FPD production equipment division and overseas subsidiaries were added in 2016 to make the survey a key organization-wide initiative. The questions are designed to allow multi-faceted analyses of customer opinions, so the feedback can directly lead to practical improvements in the sales, development and production, and service divisions. In the survey for fiscal year 2016, over 1,000 individual customers responded, and the results were satisfactory. On a 4-point scale (from 0 to 4), TEL received an average of 3 points or higher (Very Satisfied or Satisfied) on 62% of the questions. For questions that were rated below 3.0, we have analyzed the results to further improve the quality of our products and services. Responding to customers’ suggestions for improvement Each year, we receive many important suggestions from our customers through this survey. The results are shared in a timely manner, not only by the management team but also by the sales, development and production, and service departments. When improvements are identified from the customer responses, we assign a responsible department for each area and implement corrective actions. In this manner, we make full use of the responses to the survey̶both positive and negative̶to improve our services and product development. We also regularly communicate the results of the survey and our plans for improvement to our customers. By engaging in organization-wide PDCA activities on an ongoing basis, TEL provides comprehensive and innovative solutions to its customers. Conceptual image of understanding customer needs Planning and sales Customer needs Requests Expectations Development and design Compile and analyze Grasp customer needs Procurement and manufacturing Services Enhance quality through continual improvement 22 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Improving customer productivity In addition to providing high quality products to customers, TEL also recommends ways to operate the equipment most efficiently at customer fabs and offers optimization services. TEL has introduced TELeMetrics, a service that connects the equipment installed at customer sites with TEL via a communications network, enabling TEL to monitor and analyze data to improve equipment performance. Specifically, the service takes advantage of TEL’s unique technological insights and specialized analytic tools to multilaterally analyze data such as equipment functionality, component degradation over time, and product variability. This allows TEL to identify problems in real time and offer appropriate solutions. This service can significantly reduce the costs for installation, operation, and management of facilities and equipment. TELeMetrics also has a proven record of improving the overall efficiency of facilities at customer fabs. For example, one customer reported that TELeMetrics successfully reduced the percentage of nonuniform wafers from 2.8% to 0.5%. As the yield improved, the customer could also reduce the impact on the environment and reduce costs. Effects of TELeMetrics on the rate of wafer non-uniformity (%)* 2.8 0.5 Before After * In low-pressure chemical vapor deposition (LP-CVD) processes TEL receives Intel’ s prestigious SCQI award TEL received Intel Corporation’s prestigious Supplier Continuous Quality Improvement (SCQI) award in March 2016. The SCQI award is part of Intel’s Supplier Continuous Quality Improvement program to encourage Intel’s key suppliers to strive for excellence and continual improvement. Only the highest performing suppliers receive this honor. TEL provides coater/developers, dry etch systems, wet etch systems, thermal processing systems, deposition systems, and test systems, all essential to Intel’s success. TEL was selected as one of eight companies to receive this honor. The award illustrates TEL’s exceptional performance in attaining Intel’s goals in 2015 and demonstration of industry-leading commitment across all critical focus areas measured: quality, cost, availability, technology, customer service, labor and ethics systems, and environmental sustainability. This was the 16th consecutive time that TEL received this quality award, and we intend to keep demonstrating stellar performance on cost competitiveness, leading-edge technology, quality programs, and outstanding customer service. Intel and the Intel logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries. * Other names and brands may be claimed as the property of others. Photo: Chip Holley Productions TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 23 Procurement We value a trust-based relationship with our suppliers and collaborate together for mutual growth. Manufacturing high value-added products is TEL’ s unwavering goal, achieved only if all components and materials function as planned to enhance overall product quality. We seek to be fair with our suppliers, and value mutual trust and growth. 24 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Highlights Percentage of Number of Percentage of suppliers who showed CFSP-certified suppliers who showed improvements in smelters improvements in the 204 the supply chain CSR supply chain BCP assessment assessment 34 ％ companies 27 ％ Goals and results for fiscal year 2016 Theme Goals Results Promotion of ● Conduct the third Supplier CSR Survey with key suppliers, those ● Conducted Supply Chain CSR Assessment with key suppliers, those accountsuppliers that account for more than 80% of our procurement ing for more than 80% of procurement spend. Improvements were observed CSR program spend. in 34% of suppliers. ● Conducted a conflict minerals survey with our principal suppliers using the ● Conduct the second conflict minerals survey. CFSI1 reporting template. Identified 204 CFSP2-certified smelters. Conflict minerals ● Improve data accuracy. ● Improved the percentage of known CFSP-certified smelters covered in our operations (99.5%). ● Conducted a Supply Chain BCP Assessment with key suppliers accounting for ● Conduct the fifth procurement BCP survey with key supplimore than 80% of our procurement. Improvements were observed in 27% of BCP ers, those accounting for more than 80% of our procurement suppliers. spend. ● Implemented improvement activities at suppliers with low scores. 1 CFSI: Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative. Founded by members of the EICC and GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative), the CFSI inspects 3TG smelters to certify they do not have conflict minerals. 2 CFSP: Conflict-Free Smelter Program. The CFSP is promoted and led by the CFSI. Framework To maintain a robust supply chain capable of supporting streamRepresentative Director, President & CEO lined product manufacturing, TEL has instituted a procurement policy and established a system for administering fair procurement practices based on mutual trust with suppliers. Under the Senior Executive Vice President, General Manager, TEL Representative Director and President as the top of the proDevelopment & Production Division curement system along with the Senior Executive Vice President in charge of development & production, the manufacturing Development & Production Division companies presidents’ council and the purchasing department Manufacturing companies presidents’council manager council are convened to share information on various procurement issues. Purchasing department manager council The council also serves as a venue to address current problems and discuss approaches to improve partnership with suppliers. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 25 Procurement Sustainable supply chain BCP framework As part of its business continuity plan (BCP), TEL collaborates with its suppliers for disaster preparation. When crises arise, a database of our suppliers’ production sites plays a major role in our response. The database is updated annually to help promptly identify impacted suppliers and quickly take recovery steps following a disaster. The system was introduced in 2011 and is now firmly established with our suppliers. In fiscal year 2016, the database contained information about 14,000 locations. The information was used to assess the impact of six disasters that occurred during the year. TEL also conducts an annual survey on our suppliers’ business continuity plans. In fiscal year 2016, key suppliers, accounting for more than 80% of our procurement spend, were asked to participate in a procurement BCP survey. We found that 27% of suppliers showed improvement over the previous year. Survey results were shared with suppliers to promote further improvement. CSR procurement TEL aims to build and maintain a robust and sustainable supply chain. To achieve this goal, we have established a procurement policy that requires strict compliance with labor laws and regulations and respect for fundamental human rights (including prohibitions against child labor and forced labor). Suppliers are required to abide by this policy. Additional documents regarding our compliance with the EICC Code of Conduct are posted on the TEL website where information about our “green” procurement guideline-based environmental activities is also available. In fiscal year 2016, we conducted a Supply Chain CSR Assessment for our key suppliers, who account for more than 80% of our procurement spending. The assessment, which evaluates the compliance with the EICC Code of Conduct, showed year-over-year improvements in 34% of suppliers. The assessment included a questionnaire on child labor, forced labor, bonded labor, inhumane treatment, false reports, falsification of records, and bribery. The answers we received indicated that none of our suppliers were engaged in these practices. Also, none of our suppliers had a sufficient number of employees* to be considered high risk in terms of compliance. As with the BCP survey, the assessment results were shared with suppliers to encourage additional improvement. * 500 employees or more Conflict minerals TEL considers taking action against conflict minerals1 an important part of its corporate social responsibility. 1 Conflict minerals: Minerals mined in the Democratic Republic of the Conflict minerals are illegally mined and give rise to poor working conditions and human rights violations. Congo (DRC) and neighboring countries used to finance armed Our goal is to eliminate the use of raw materials and components containing conflict minerals. groups or minerals mined in other conditions where human In fiscal year 2016, we conducted our second annual survey on countries of origin and smelters of potenrights abuses and labor probtial conflict minerals (3TG: tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold), using the CFSI reporting template. As a result, lems occur. The term commonly applies to four minerals: tantawe identified 204 CFSP-certified smelters, providing us confidence that 3TG sourced from these smelters lum, tin, tungsten, and gold. were conflict-free. None of the materials that TEL procured were found to contain conflict 3TG. This survey will continue every year, with the cooperation of our suppliers, to further improve the quality and accuracy of the survey. 26 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Supply chain communication Cooperation with suppliers In addition to daily communications, TEL holds Production Update Briefings and a TEL Partners Day to enhance relationships with suppliers. At these events, we present and exchange information on the management plans, market trends, business policies, and CSR initiatives. We also ask for continued cooperation in strengthening our supply chain, and honor outstanding suppliers to express our appreciation for their constant support. Strong quality management at suppliers is essential to improve product quality. Since 2000, we have regularly conducted a Supplier Total Quality Assessment (STQA) to clarify what is expected of our suppliers in terms of maintaining and improving quality. Before starting business with new suppliers, an STQA is conducted to evaluate their handling of product quality, cost, information security, and CSR issues (including human rights, ethics, safety, and the environment). The entire management system is comprehensively assessed. After we have an existing business relationship with suppliers, they are asked for a similar self-assessment every three years. If the results do not meet TEL standards, TEL-certified auditors visit the supplier to explain the problems revealed by the assessment. Once the supplier understands the issues, they are asked to implement improvement measures in line with our written requests for improvement. TEL internally keeps track of all requests and improvement measures, offering continual support to suppliers until all necessary improvements have been made. TEL is also partnering with our suppliers to implement a TPM program. The production of any piece of equipment involves a number of supplier processes. In the TPM program, supplier shop floor improvement teams collaborate with TEL employees to enhance productivity and product quality. In one example, the program led to a 30% reduction in the number of steps required to assemble modules and systems. The program also plays a key role in educating supplier improvement team members. TEL Partners Day Cooperation with industry organizations In June 2015, TEL joined the EICC, an electronics industry coalition on CSR. EICC participation includes adopting the EICC Code of Conduct, a set of standards to improve labor practices, health and safety, environmental impact, and ethics in the electronics supply chain. TEL adheres to the EICC Code of Conduct to maintain and strengthen its supply chain, in cooperation with other EICC member companies. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 27 Our people and workplace TEL provides a workplace filled with dreams and vitality where employees can reach their full potential. We strive to create a workplace where employees are engaged and collaborate as a cohesive team of creative and responsible individuals. We also provide challenges to develop our employees and distribute compensation in a fair manner based on performance. We respect basic human rights and have mutual respect for our diverse values. This allows us to utilize the full potential of our employees and build a dynamic organization. 28 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Highlights* Percentage of qualified Number of employees employees who took child who took care leave refreshment leave 93 ％ 1,045 people * Target: All TEL companies in Japan Goals and results for fiscal year 2016 Theme Goals Results ● Leverage diverse workforce and help individuals unleash ● Planned and implemented the Global HR Project. their full potential. Pursue diversity management; ● Implemented employee training in management Diversity understand and respect different ● Understand and respect cultural values in global operations. and communication skills. values. ● Analyzed issues related to empowerment of women ● Provide work environments that empower women. and formulated an action plan. Work-life ● Offer support systems to improve working behavior to Support work-life balance. ● Conducted a self-declaration questionnaire. balance achieve a better balance between work and personal life. Framework TEL maximizes its corporate value by maintaining an open and Representative Director, President & CEO dynamic organization that enables all employees to apply their abilities to the fullest extent. TEL is also optimally structured to Executive Vice President be flexible and respond quickly to any changes in the operating Corporate Administration Division environment. The HR (human resources) departments at the head office and VP & General Manager Human Resources, General Affairs in the various TEL companies work closely together on personnel issues, convening the Japan HR leaders meeting1 every month and Global HR leaders meeting2 twice a year. These meetings serve as the forum for sharing corporate missions, setting goals, communicating activities, and discussing key issues. Under this manJapan HR leaders meeting Global HR leaders meeting (6 group companies in Japan) (12 group companies worldwide) agement framework, our HR departments identify risks from an organization-wide perspective and make sure appropriate measures are implemented throughout TEL. 1 Japan HR leaders meeting: A meeting comprising the heads and principal managers of HR departments at Japanese Group companies 2 Global HR leaders meeting: A meeting comprising the heads and principal managers of HR departments at worldwide Group companies TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 29 Our people and workplace Realizing an engaging work environment Principles on diversity TEL operates globally through 38 subsidiary companies (at 74 locations in 16 countries and regions), with overseas sales of semiconductor production equipment accounting for over 80% of our total sales. In this operating environment, TEL is making every effort to enhance our energy and creativity by ensuring that our diverse workforce can realize its full potential regardless of gender, age, race, special needs, or religion. As part of this endeavor, TEL is focused on establishing an inclusive working environment for people with disabilities, and implemented a project to promote their employment in fiscal year 2016. As a result, the proportion of employees with disabilities in fiscal year 2016 was 1.96% at TEL headquarters and 1.98% at all TEL companies in Japan. Initiatives for work-life balance TEL has a refreshment leave system that offers employees with 10 years or more of continuous service a special paid leave every five years, ranging from two weeks to one month*. The purpose is to encourage employees to refresh their body and mind so they can fully utilize their abilities when they return to work. In fiscal year 2016, 1,045 employees in Japan took the leave. TEL has also enhanced our family and medical leave systems, enabling employees to navigate through various life events and maintain their employment and careers. TEL’s childcare support system in Japan allows employees to extend their leave until a child’s third birthday. Also, TEL gives guardians of children an option of taking reduced work hours until their children finish elementary school, which goes significantly beyond the legal requirement. As a result of these measures, 42 employees (or 93% of those eligible) took childcare leave in fiscal year 2016, and 46 returned to work after taking childcare leave during previous years. About 35% of female TEL employees in Japan are successfully balancing work and family as working mothers. * Employees with 10, 15, 20, and 25 years of continuous service can take a leave of two weeks, three weeks, two weeks, and one month, respectively. Employees’ voice: On child care leave for men When my first baby was born, I took a leave of absence to care for our child for about a month. My colleagues were supportive by helping the transition and allowed me to go on leave with few worries. The fact that I was taking child care leave was very reassuring for my wife as she faced the challenge of giving birth. I was also able to spend a lot of time with my wife and our newborn, and could help with household chores. It is great that TEL not only has a program for child care leave, but also an environment that encourages Toyohiro Kamada men to take it. I recommend my male colleagues take advantage of this benefit and participate more actively Development Department 1, Tokyo Electron Tohoku Limited in raising their children. Employee motivation Highly motivated employees are essential to a workplace filled with dreams and vitality. That is why TEL provides a wide range of HR development programs, including career building for individual employees. The Global Engagement Survey is conducted annually for all TEL employees. The anonymous survey results help improve the organization and ensure proper use and management of our human resources. To improve engagement, a self-declaration questionnaire on desired career paths and reassignment is provided to all employees once a year. Private consultation is offered to those who request it. In addition, each year TEL presents the Employee Excellence Award. The award recognizes employees who have achieved outstanding results during the year, based on nominations by respective departments. In fiscal year 2016, 17 TEL employees both in Japan and abroad received the honor. 30 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Human resource development TEL UNIVERSITY To enhance its HR development and organizational capabilities, TEL has established a corporate educational Example of programs hosted by TEL UNIVERSITY institution called TEL UNIVERSITY. Its curriculum includes courses that provide world-class knowledge and Number of participants by skills, training programs for next-generation leaders, and courses for developing managerial and organizaprogram for fiscal year 2016 tional capabilities. English conversation classes 2,775 in total Main activities in fiscal year 2016 Support for self-learning language study In fiscal year 2016, a number of on-demand programs for learning English were introduced for employees 440 whose work involves global interactions. Examples include: consultations in work-related practical English, Workshop for engineers team-based classes in English, self-paced online courses, and a learning method seminar. In addition to lan183 guage courses, support for e-learning and correspondence courses on other subjects was also made available. Semiconductor seminars The TEL University also organized workshops by TEL’s experts in specialized technologies, and training for (12 classes) 141 new employees was enhanced by taking full advantage of internal skills and talents. A joint group training Training for young employees 215 course for young employees offered an opportunity to reflect on their current work and to take their caLife design seminars reers to the next level. 276 Life design seminars were offered for employees who were aged 51 or over as they neared retirement. The program used concrete examples and Q&A sessions to show what preparations were needed before the retirement is reached, helping the participants to clear up any doubts and worries they may have on the subject. Improving employee health and work environment Initiatives based on wellness declarations TEL places the highest priority on the health and safety of its employees, and issued a wellness declaration in February 2012. Based on this declaration, TEL is conducting a number of ongoing wellness promotion programs, including walking events, healthy food choice initiatives for company cafeterias, and body composition measurement sessions. Other ongoing initiatives for workplace wellness promotion include health help desks, supported by doctors, and regular counseling services supported by clinical psychologists. In fiscal year 2016, various events were organized according to the specific needs of each location. Of these, a nutrition seminar held for employees in the Akasaka area (Japan headquarters) was particularly well received, as it helped them to understand the importance of improving their diet. Introduction of stress checks Effective December 2015, Japanese companies were mandated by law to offer stress checks to employees. This involves testing the employees’ stress levels regularly and informing the employees of the results to raise their stress awareness. The goal is to reduce mental health risks and improve working conditions through analysis of aggregate results. TEL is planning to implement the first stress check in July 2016, and is currently preparing the implementation plan, methods, and manuals. Long Term Disability insurance coverage In fiscal year 2016, TEL started providing Group Long Term Disability (GLTD) insurance coverage to companies in Japan. Under this plan, workers who become unable to work due to illness or injury can receive partial income replacement benefits, allowing them to focus on recovery. All TEL employees, excluding part-time and temporary workers, are covered in this plan. It includes both standard coverage, paid for by TEL, that provides 50% of the employee’s standard monthly remuneration to qualified employees, and optional coverage that provides additional monthly benefits of 10% to 30% of standard monthly remuneration that can be purchased by individual employees. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 31 Environment Under the slogan of “Technology for Eco Life,” we help solving environmental issues through our leading-edge technologies and services. In the world today, there are various environmental concerns, including climate change, depletion of energy and natural resources, pollution by chemicals and waste, and decline in biodiversity. TEL helps solving these issues through our leading-edge technologies and services. 32 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Highlights Energy consumption Reduction of water Environmental level of a new equipment consumption education 65 5,000 model compared to a previous generations 40 ％ people The Koshi factory in About 5,000 employees took a ％ Kumamoto reduced water web-based education course on The latest TiN metallization system consumption by 65% during environmentally friendly design. reduced energy consumption by equipment evaluation 40% compared to previous model. process. Goals and results for fiscal year 2016 Theme Goals Results ● Develop a roadmap for understanding the current situation and achieving ● Completed assessment of current situation of prodReduce environmental the goals for fiscal year 2019*. ucts manufactured in Japan and completed future impact of products. * Reduce energy and pure water consumption per wafer by 10% roadmap. (using fiscal year 2014 as the baseline). ● Integrated compliance initiatives for Chinese RoHS Comply with Chinese RoHS. ● Implement initiatives globally. with environmental product compliance initiatives in Products other countries. Promote voluntary prod● Maintain the percentage of compliant parts in major models of each uct compliance with Euro● Goal was achieved and the results were tallied. business unit at 98.5% or greater. pean RoHS. Comply with the environ● Conducted initiatives on an ongoing basis and ex● Continue to ensure products comply with environmental regulations mental regulations of each panded the scope of these activities to production (including China RoHS, GHS, etc.) country. sites outside Japan. ● Of the 12 sites in Japan and abroad with an established ● Reduce energy consumption by 1% year-over-year. Promote energy efficiency. goal, 7 sites successfully reduced energy consumption ● Continue activities. by 1% year-over-year. Factories ● Maintain recycling rate at the fiscal year 2012 level for Japanese sites, and Reducing water consump● Attained 11 out of 15 goals set for Japanese and overat the base year level for overseas sites. and offices tion seas sites. ● Continue activities. ● In Japan: Attained a recycling rate of 98.4%. ● In Japan: Attain a recycling rate of 97% or higher. Waste recycling ● Outside Japan: Attained an increase of 0.3 percentage ● Outside Japan: Attain a higher recycling rate year-over-year. point year-over-year at manufacturing sites. ● Continue activities. ● This year’s green procurement survey was integrated Green procurement ● Plan activities based on analysis of survey results, conduct the third green Procurement with the Supply Chain CSR Assessment. procurement survey, and improve evaluation of low-scoring suppliers. and logistics Reducing the environmental ● Continue activities. ● Continued activities and monitoring. impact of logistics ● Established an in-house project to adhere to the reEnvironmental manage● Adhere to the revised ISO 2015 standards. vised ISO 2015 standards and consolidate the environment system mental management systems for sites in Japan. ● Provided web-based education to approximately Environmental education ● Provide web-based education on environmentally friendly design. 5,000 employees. Environmental Environmentally friendly Programs implemented as part of the environmental ● ● Implement education programs at design and procurement departments. design education mentioned above. management Environmental commu● Continue to publish Environmental and Social Report. ● Continued to publish the report. nication ● Based on the guidelines, conduct ecosystem tours multiple times at each ● Conducted ecosystem tours in each area. factory in Japan. ● Held symposiums. Biodiversity ● Hold symposiums. ● Created a list of conservation activity targets in key ● Create a list of conservation activity targets in key areas. areas. Framework TEL promotes environmental activities across TEL through its corporate EHS ProRepresentative Director, President & CEO motion Department. TEL executives appoint members to the product environment value meeting, the product environment compliance meeting, and the opSenior Executive Vice President, General Manager, Development & Production Division eration environment value meeting, all of which carry out activities to achieve our Development & Production Division environmental goals. The EHS council convenes twice a year to assess progress Manufacturing companies toward our environmental goals and encourage continued improvement. presidents’council Since 1997, we have been working to obtain certification for the ISO 14001 enviEHS Council ronmental management standards. Seven sites, including many of our manufacturing subsidiaries, are currently certified. In fiscal year 2017, we plan to adhere to Equipment Work Product Product Operation safety safety environment environment environment the revised ISO 2015 standards by consolidating the environmental management promotion promotion value compliance value meeting meeting meeting meeting meeting systems of our subsidiaries. Our Japanese systems will be consolidated first, followed by the overseas systems. Through these efforts we continue to assess our compliance with environmental laws, emission standards, and other voluntary standards. TEL has not been involved in any environmental incidents or accidents. We have not been in violation of any environmental laws or subject to any associated legal proceedings in fiscal year 2016. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 33 Environment Product initiatives Environmentally friendly products The total CO2 emissions from the TEL value chain (including raw material procurement and product manPercentage of energy-saving model sales in total sales ufacture, transport, use, and disposal) was calculated according to the greenhouse gas (GHG) protocol. 84.8 Emissions arising from product use currently account for 90% of our total emissions. For this reason, TEL 72.0 has made it a key corporate objective to promote environmentally friendly product design and has been striving to lower the energy consumption of its products. In fiscal year 2015, TEL established a goal to re52.0 duce energy and pure water consumption by 10% by fiscal year 2019 (using fiscal year 2014 consumption as the baseline). In fiscal year 2016, TEL expanded the scope of this program to include products produced by its overseas subsidiaries. TEL also monitored TEL’s global energy use while seeking to improve overall 2014 2015 2016 （FY） throughput. In addition, the percentage of sales of energy-saving models* increased to 84.8% of the total product sales. To reduce the overall environmental impact of our products at our customers’ sites, we must examine our primary equipment, peripherals, associated facilities, and management of our own factories. Increasing the operational efficiency of the entire production system is increasingly important, along with encouraging energy-efficient operations of our customers’ sites. We will continue to focus on monitoring and controlling our energy use. We also plan to demonstrate the importance of energy saving measures through compliance with SEMI S23, a semiconductor industry standard for assessing energy conservation. To meet our goals, we are promoting environmentally friendly manufacturing through development of new technologies, further reduction in the use of energy, water, and chemicals, and proactive measures to contain greenhouse gases. * Based on in-house standards Customer fabs Save energy in fab operations (by scheduling and optimization) Equipment Reduce equipment energy use Systems Operate systems efficiently Peripherals Reduce energy use in peripherals Energy conservation features of TiN metallization system Thin film deposition is a key process in semiconductor manufacturing. Conventionally, chemical vapor 1 CVD: A method for depositing thin films on substrates by dedeposition (CVD) 1 was the technology of choice for this process; however, the need for continued semicomposing source materials using thermal and/or chemical conductor miniaturization from our customers called for development of new equipment based on the processes. Advanced Sequential Flow Deposition (ASFD)2 process technology. This new technology not only enables 2 ASFD: Advanced Sequential Flow Deposition, a low-temdeposition of nanoscale film with highly engineered properties, but can also be implemented at temperaperature processing method for forming nanoscale metal tures lower than those for CVD, making it a superior deposition technology in terms of energy conservation. films with highly-engineered TEL’s TiN metallization system was developed in response to this shift in process technologies. Due largely properties. to its low temperature processing and idle-time energy conservation feature, the system achieved a 50% reduction in per wafer energy consumption in fiscal year 2014 as compared with its performance in fiscal year 2008. The latest Triase+TM EX-ⅡTM TiN Plus model features a newly developed reactor chamber and unique gas injection mechanism to attain significant improvement in throughput while reducing the energy consumption level to 40% of the previous model. As a result, the new model achieved the corporate target of reducing energy consumption per wafer by 10% from the fiscal year 2014 level. This is three years ahead of the fiscal year 2019 deadline. 34 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Management of chemical substances contained in products To achieve our goal of manufacturing environmentally friendly products, TEL has set up a system for man1 EU REACH: EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Reaging hazardous chemicals in our products. In addition, we proactively collect information on relevant laws striction of Chemicals. An EU regulation pertaining to the regand regulations in Japan and abroad to properly ensure compliance. For example, when any substance of istration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals. very high concern (SVHC) is present in our products at a level of 0.1% or higher, we disclose the information 2 GHS: Globally Harmonized Sysappropriately, based on EU REACH1 regulations. We also provide safety data sheets (SDS) on the chemicals tem of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals we use, in accordance with GHS2 requirements. 3 China RoHS: Chinese regulation To comply more effectively with regulations such as REACH and China RoHS3, in April 2015 we conducted on materials including lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent a survey of our Japanese suppliers regarding the chemicals contained in their products based on the JAMP chromium, polybrominated biAIS4. phenyls (PBBs), and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs). In fiscal year 2016, we expanded the previous year’s Seminar on Design for Environmental Compliance Businesses are required to provide customers with relevant and offered the course not only to managers but also to staff members from relevant departments. The information on the use of these materials. seminar consisted of an overview of frequently revised environmental laws and regulations, lectures on 4 JAMP AIS: Article Information target chemicals, and comprehension tests. About 5,000 employees took the course during the fiscal year. Sheet (AIS) promoted by the Joint Article Management ProWe will continue to closely monitor and appropriately respond to relevant laws and regulations worldmotion-consortium (JAMP). This wide, further increasing our global efforts to reduce hazardous chemical substances. sheet is used to communicate basic information on regulated chemical substances contained in products. Logistics initiatives Transport regulations are becoming more stringent due to worldwide environmental concerns such as 5 Modal shift: A change in the mode of transport; specificalglobal climate change and the rising demand to reduce the environmental burden of logistics activities. ly, switching from conventional freight transport by truck or TEL has been implementing modal shifts5 to use less environmentally harmful means of transport where aircraft to a means that has a lower impact on the environapplicable. For example, we have adopted ocean shipment for some semiconductor and FPD production ment, such as rail or ocean. equipment, and we are making efforts to reduce production lead time to compensate for the extra time it takes to ship by ocean rather than by air. We have extended the use of shelved trolleys from the shipment of FPD production equipment to semiconductor production equipment as well, thereby improving the load factor of trucks and reducing both CO2 emissions and costs. Our CO2 emissions in fiscal year 2016 were 65 kilotons, down about 11% year-over-year. This is primarily due to the increase in the ratio of outbound international ocean shipments. To conserve resources, we are using recyclable cardboard boxes for packaging. After equipment has been shipped and installed, casters and other specialized transport fixtures are collected and brought back to TEL factories for reuse. These are only a few examples of TEL’s resource-saving efforts. Product reuse and recycling As the need for more varied semiconductor production equipment increases, TEL is encouraging reuse and recycling of equipment and components by marketing refurbished TEL equipment and offering modification services to customers who have TEL equipment already installed. Our refurbished equipment operations start with procuring used equipment from the market. This equipment is then properly tested and refurbished, before being offered to customers as TEL Certified Used Equipment. Our equipment modification services boost the productivity of installed equipment by maintaining and improving its quality and availability. Through these approaches, we address our customers’ cost, speed, and performance needs, while also contributing to waste reduction and resource conservation and utilization. These efforts help reduce the use of resources and CO2 emissions associated with procuring and manufacturing equipment and components. They are also effective in reducing the costs of production, logistics, and waste disposal. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 35 Environment Factory and office initiatives Initiatives to prevent global warming and save energy Each TEL factory and office has an established company goal of reducing energy consumption by at least 1% Electricity consumption (Million kWh) year-over-year. Initiatives to achieve these goals include energy-saving clean room operation, optimum tem223.0 208.8 198.4 perature settings for office cooling and heating, and the introduction of highly energy-efficient equipment. Photovoltaic power generation systems have been installed at some of our factories and offices in Japan, and the renewable energy they generated in fiscal year 2016 totaled 4,486 MWh. Tokyo Electron U.S. Holdings, Inc. has also been purchasing green electricity since 2001. Green electricity usage totaled 3,833 MWh 72.2 65.6 55.8 in fiscal year 2016. Out of the 12 TEL factories and offices worldwide with reduction goals, 7 achieved them in fiscal year 2014 2015 2016 2016. Organization-wide power consumption in fiscal year 2016 was 254 GWh, down 7% year-over-year, Japan Overseas (FY) and CO2 emissions from energy consumption* were 147 kilotons, down 8% year-over-year. * In calculating CO2 emissions, the emission factor for TEL’s electricity consumption in Japan in fiscal year 2016 was substituted by adjusted emission factors for the electrical power providers concerned. The emission factor for TEL's overseas electricity consumption was substituted by estimated factors calculated by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan based on values published by the International Energy Agency (IEA). Water consumption (thousand m3) 1,058 1,043 Example of initiatives 896 The Hosaka factory in Yamanashi installed a new air conditioning control system for its clean room. The 612 503 atmosphere in a clean room must be precisely controlled, not only for cleanliness, but also for temperature Electricity consumption and humidity. When controlling temperature and humidity, overcooling should be avoided, because over(Million kWh) 180 cooling must be compensated for by heating, which increases wasted energy. The newly installed system 223.0 208.8 198.4 accurately monitors the atmospheric temperature and humidity inside and outside of the clean room and 2014 2015 2016 (FY) enables the air conditioning equipment to operate in an energy-efficient manner. As a result, the Yamanashi Japan Overseas Factory saved about 670 MWh of electricity (335 tons of CO2) and 140 kl of heating oil (350 tons of CO2) 72.2 65.6 55.8 in a year, reducing CO2 emissions by 685 tons. The factory estimates that the system upgrade costs can be recovered within three years. 2014 2015 2016 Recycling rate and (FY) Japan Overseas generation of incinerated and landfill waste in Japan Initiatives to reduce water consumption (tons) Water 98.9 TEL has established a goal of keeping water consumption at the same level or below that of a baseline year 98.0 consumption 98.4 (thousand m3) (fiscal year 2012 for factories and offices in Japan, and a fiscal year of their choosing for overseas operations). 1,058 172 1,043 Target: Maintain recycling rate of In fiscal year 2016, we achieved 11 out of the 15 goals at our sites worldwide. Continued efforts to achieve 97% or more 896 122 these goals include installing water-saving devices, watering lawns with rainwater, and implementing in94 612 termittent operation of cafeteria faucets. Overall, we reduced water consumption by 30% year-over-year 503 to 1,076,000m3 in fiscal year 2016, due in part to the closure of some overseas facilities. In fiscal year 2016, 2014 2015 2016180 we discharged an estimated 905,000m3 of wastewater. (FY) Incineration 2014 and land¬fill 2015 2016 Example of initiatives Recycling rate Japan (%) Overseas (FY) In fiscal year 2016, the Koshi factory in Kumamoto opened a facility for reusing water discharged from the semiconductor production equipment evaluation process, reducing water consumption by about 65%. The plant expects to recover its investment for this facility renovation in 1.8 years or less. In another example, the Fuchu Technology Center in Tokyo installed water-saving devices in the restrooms and the kitchen, reducing the overall water consumption by 12% year-over-year. Recycling rate and generation of incinerated and landfill waste in Japan (tons) 98.9 98.4 98.0 172 Target: Maintain recycling rate of 97% or more 122 94 36 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 180 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Japan Overseas Initiatives to reduce waste TEL is contributing to waste reduction and recycling whenever possible by sorting waste, switching to Recycling rate and generation of incinerated waste-free production processes, and disposing of non-recyclable waste in an appropriate manner. TEL and landfill waste actively advocates waste sorting, and some of its facilities have participated in the electronic manifest sysin Japan tem1 to ensure proper waste management. In fiscal year 2016, the amount of incinerated and landfill waste (tons) 98.9 98.0 98.4 generated by TEL in Japan was 122 tons. As a result of our waste-reduction initiatives, the recycling rate2 at sites in Japan in fiscal year 2016 was 98.4%, achieving our goal of maintaining a recycling rate of 97% or 172 Target: Maintain recycling rate of 97% or more higher for the 10th consecutive year. The recycling rate for TEL’s overseas factories and offices was 87.9% 122 in fiscal year 2016. 94 Example of initiatives 2014 2015 2016 TEL FSI, Inc., in Chaska, Minnesota, takes waste recycling measures, such as eliminating the use of disposable (FY) Incineration and land¬fill plastic cups and composting paper towels. As a result, TEL’s recycling rate for 2015 increased to 70%, an Recycling rate (%) increase of 6% from 2014. 1 Electronic manifest system: A system for electronically tracking the flow of industrial waste instead of using paper-based manifests (i.e. paper forms for Management of chemical substances tracking industrial waste). With this system, data processing TEL uses chemical substances in our product development and manufacturing phases. The use and release of centers, businesses that generate waste, and waste collection chemical substances that are under the purview of the Japanese PRTR3 law are consistently monitored and /disposal companies can share information over communicamanaged. Whenever we introduce a new chemical substance or change the way an existing substance is used, tions networks to streamline waste tracking. we check for environmental, health, and safety risks beforehand. We dispose of hazardous substances prop2 Recycling rate: (Recycled amount/ erly after use, either through expert waste disposal contractors or by using in-house processing equipment. Amount of waste generated) × 100 In response to the April 2015 revision to the Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction Law, we have been conducting simple, regular inspections to monitor the amount of fluorocarbons that have been released and 3 PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register. A framework for have been used in equipment as a refrigerant and the amount that has been recovered. In fiscal year 2016, our tracking, tabulating, and disclosing quantitative data on chemical factories and offices did not exceed the level of fluorocarbon leakage that requires reporting. substances that may be hazardous to human health and the ecosystem, including the amounts used and discharged into the environment and the amounts transferred (as part of waste) off Biodiversity the original business’ premises. TEL’s activities impact biodiversity while also benefiting from it. In recognition of this, we are making efforts to conserve biodiversity and improve the conservation system. In fiscal year 2016, as in 2015, TEL met our goal of conducting at least two ecosystem tours at our Japanese sites, as part of our biodiversity conservation activities. The Koshi factory in Kumamoto held a lecture on biodiversity and biomimicry4, as well as an ecosystem tour of the property surrounding the plant, 4 Biomimicry: An approach to creating innovative technologies by guided by members of the Forest Instructors Association of Kumamoto Prefecture. The tour’s participants emulating the characteristics of living things. observed nearly 50 different plant species, and learned about the plants’ characteristics. In addition, TEL 5 Red List: A list of wild plants and drew up a list of targets for its conservation activities for fiscal year 2017, assessing the impact of previous animals facing extinction. ecosystem tours and consulting the Red List5 of threatened species in the prefectures where TEL’s offices and plants are located. Environmental communication TEL’s environmental policy requires that we foster a cooperative partnership with our wide-ranging stakeholders to reduce our environmental burden and properly respond to their expectations. In both 2014 and 2015, the Esashi factory in Iwate invited its neighbors and local government representatives to the 6th Environmental Debriefing for the Local Community. TEL also held lectures at an environmental skill-building seminar for local businesses in Oshu City, Iwate Prefecture, and at the 2nd Environmental Business Seminar in Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture, to enhance communication with our stakeholders and provide transparency around TEL’s environmental activities. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 37 Social contribution We are committed to fulfilling our corporate responsibilities and contributing to the development of local communities. We believe businesses have an important role in collaborating with society to achieve sustainable growth. TEL has a goal of developing a company that is engaged in various initiatives to contribute to society and collaborate with neighboring communities, helping them achieve greater prosperity and enhancing mutual trust. 38 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Highlights Number of social Number of student research contribution programs teams that participated in a 175 TEL-supported event 176 teams* * The number of teams that participated in the 5th Science Intercollegiate Our opinion on social contribution activities Local communities are the foundation of all business operations. TEL intends to fulfill its role as a responsible corporate citizen by working to solve problems faced by the local communities, thereby nurturing a communal relationship based on solid trust and building a robust partnership. As a member of the global economic society, TEL is striving to protect the irreplaceable environment of the planet. To achieve the future prosperity of the international community and to attain a dream-inspiring society, TEL is taking a long-term approach to the universal issues affecting the world’s sustainability by leveraging its technological prowess and stakeholder network. TEL’s social contribution activities are both local and global in nature, because long-term development of society can only be achieved by combining these two aspects. Social contribution policy ● In line with our Corporate Philosophy, we set education, health and human services, the environment, and culture as the focus areas of our social contribution activities, and choose specific initiatives that best meet the requirements of each locality. ● Keeping an eye on the direction of our mediumto long-term management strategy, we operate our business in a manner that contributes to the mitigation of future risks, industry-wide sustainability challenges, and factory problems that affect the global society. ● We review the suitability of the initiatives every year, weighing such factors as their social impact, budget, and long-term contribution to business operations. Goals and results for fiscal year 2016 Theme Goals Results ● Formulated a basic policy for social contribution activities to ● Formulate an organization-wide policy for social contribution be implemented throughout the organization in fiscal year Social contribution activities activities and establish standards for implementation. 2017. ● Expand employee volunteer programs. ● Provided employees with volunteering opportunities at educational events, among other events. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 39 Social contribution Toward a sustainable global society Toward solving major issues faced by humanity The Tohoku Forum for Creativity at Tohoku University The Tohoku Forum for Creativity (TFC) at Tohoku University is an advanced research program that brings together Nobel Laureates and other world-renowned researchers, junior researchers, and students in a collaborative setting, with the aim of solving major problems facing humanity and society at large. Tokyo Electron has been providing comprehensive support to the TFC ever since the pilot program began in 2012. TEL is committed to developing the leading minds of the next generation, as well as to supporting the growth and prosperity of the Tohoku area where its key manufacturing bases are located. In April 2015, the TFC organized the Spring School event to mark the beginning of the academic year. Leading researchers, including Nobel Laureate in Physics Prof. Gerard’t Hooft (Utrecht University, the Netherlands), were joined by 60 students in this five-day program. The TOKYO ELECTRON House of Creativity̶the central facility of the TFC̶was completed in May of the same year, and became operational as a visitor research institute. Four thematic programs were implemented in the academic year that started in April 2015, including Frontiers of Brain Science, the Effects of Technological Changes on Social Mobility and Income Distribution, Fundamental Problems in Quantum Physics, and Spintronics. URL http://www.tfc.tohoku.ac.jp/ Supporting a diverse innovation platform SUNY Polytechnic Institute In October 2015, TEL agreed to jointly support $262.5 million in new investments over the next five years at SUNY Poly’s NanoTech* megaplex in Albany, NY. TEL has been a major partner for the advanced R&D center at SUNY Polytechnic Institute (SUNY Poly) and the Colleges of Nanoscale Science and Engineering (CNSE) since 2003. SUNY Poly and corporate partners across New York State, and enables a diverse mixture of different kinds of talents into one place where collaboration and innovation happens. TEL is committed to supporting the finest semiconductor R&D center in the world through contributions to New York State and to communities developing the nanotechnology-driven ecosystem. * SUNY Poly: The State University of New York Polytechnic Institute (SUNY Poly) was formed from the merger of the SUNY College of Nanoscale Science and Engineering (CNSE) and SUNY Institute of Technology. URL https://sunypoly.edu/ 40 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Working with local communities TEL is operating from 45 locations throughout the world, including 29 locations in Japan and 15 abroad. One third of TEL employees are working at its overseas locations. As TEL’s field of operations is spread across the world, gaining the support and understanding of local communities is essential to the sustainability of its business. France Japan U.S. SEMI High Tech U Science Intercollegiate SPARK program Tokyo Electron Europe Limited providTEL supports the Science IntercolleTokyo Electron America, Inc., has been partnering with ed support to the SEMI Foundation’s giate, a competitive event in which Texas State University to sponsor SPARK, a program High Tech U education program for lostudents of natural sciences present for supporting STEM1 education by providing students cal high school students, in collaborathe results of their research. The event with opportunities to participate in internships, job tion with our customers and industry is designed to foster next-generation shadowing2, plant tours, and mentoring. peers. The employees used corporate engineers with skills to advance Japan’s training materials to give lectures on expertise in science and technology in 1 STEM: Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics the semiconductor industry and nana sustainable manner. At the compe2 Job shadowing: A work experience option where students learn otechnology. tition held in March 2016, 176 teams about a job by walking through the work day as a shadow to a competent worker. who passed the qualifying round gathered from around Japan. China Taiwan U.S. ZhangJiang Fun Run Exchanges with local universities Partnership for Children The eighth ZhangJiang Fun Run event Tokyo Electron Taiwan Limited has rePartnership for Children is a non-profit was held in September 2015 in Shangceived 102 visitors from local univerorganization dedicated to promoting hai, with the objective of making friends, sities so far, including students and the welfare of children through varhelping people, and building commuprofessors. By communicating inforious programs including study supnity. The event drew 2,250 participants mation such as an overview of TEL and port. The group also offers casework from 59 local businesses. Tokyo Electron briefings on semiconductors, Tokyo services and provides children with (Shanghai) Limited has been a regular Electron Taiwan is promoting local unclothes and school supplies. supporter in this event ever since its inderstanding of the semiconductor inauguration. dustry as a whole. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 41 Corporate governance Corporate governance Basic view on governance that will lead to sustainable growth for TEL TEL declares in its medium-term vision that we are determined to become “a real global company generating high addedvalue and profits through innovative technologies and groundbreaking solutions with diverse integrated technologies.” Given that over 80% of our sales now come from overseas, TEL regards building a governance system as essential to becoming a real global company that achieves sustainable growth. To that end, TEL has built a framework to maximize the use of its worldwide resources and works to incorporate a wide range of opinions. In addition to strengthening its management platform and technology base, TEL maintains a governance structure that will enable it to attain world-class profitability. The corporate governance framework TEL uses the Audit & Supervisory Board System, which consists of a Board of Directors and an Audit & Supervisory Board. Effective governance is achieved based on the supervision of management by the Audit & Supervisory Board. Based on this organizational structure, TEL has also established systems that will facilitate growth-oriented governance directed at sustainable growth for TEL including the following: The Board of Directors, whose role is to make major operational decisions and play a supervisory role in the execution of those The Nomination Committee and Compensation Committee to ensure fair, effective, and transparent management The Corporate Senior Staff (CSS) to formulate and advance company strategy Corporate Governance Framework, Internal Control System and Risk Management System Shareholders' Meeting Cooperate Board of Audit & Supervisory Board Independent Auditors Directors Compensation Committee Chief Business Ethics Director Nomination Committee Chief Internal Control Director Chief CSR Promotion Director Confirm the progress of Cooperate improvements and give instructions Representative Directors Request for improvement/Report Audit and Request for improvement/Report improvement reports Compliance & Internal Control Executive Officer CSS & Executive Officers Internal Audit Dept. CSR Promotion Executive Officer (Global Audit Center) Committees Ethics Committee Information Security Committee Export Trade Control Committee Request for improvement/ Audit CSR Management Council Report CSR Global Promotion Committee Risk Management & Internal Control Function (General Affairs Dept.) Request for improvement/Report Monitoring Administrative Depts. Business Depts. Check and balance 42 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Roles and responsibilities of the Board of Directors The role of Executive Directors does not end with reThe Board of Directors works to achieve sustainable ferring and explaining proposals as the representative growth and increase corporate value over the mediumto of each division. They also contribute to active debate, long-term based on its fiduciary responsibility to shareproper decision-making, and supervision of execution holders. The roles and responsibilities of the Board of through objective, constructive opinions coming from Directors are as follows: different perspectives of each Corporate Director. 1 Establishing management strategy and vision 2 Making major operational decisions based on Policy on election of Independent Directors and strategic direction Audit & Supervisory Board Members 3 Engaging in constructive, open-minded debate By stating their unreserved opinions from an independent perspective, independent directors and outside AuThe Board of Directors seeks the active participation of dit & Supervisory Board members guide Board of Directhose present in discussions in order to obtain a widetors debates in the proper direction for success in global range of opinions, and supervises management and opcompetition that does not follow the same line of discuserational execution based on active debate. sion proposed by internal Corporate Directors. The Board of Directors respects opinions even when To achieve our previously stated goals, independent directhey are minority or opposing viewpoints, including opintors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members shall ions voiced by outside directors; revises the conditions consist of people who offer a good balance of the following for implementation or the content of proposals as necqualities: essary; and engages in extensive debate with the goal of Knowledge of global business reaching decisions based on consensus. However, emBroad insight into related industries phasis is placed on making necessary decisions quickly to An extensive network of personal contacts avoid missing opportunities. Objectivity from social, capital market, In the TEL Board of Directors meetings, proactive, frank and other perspectives opinions are indeed continually presented, not only by Knowledge of finance and accounting internal Corporate Directors, but also by independent Broad legal knowledge directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, enabling active debates thereby. The reason for Appointing the CEO, individual Corporate Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members; View on overall balance of knowledge, experience, and status of concurrent duties at other listed companies, are skills in the Board of Directors, its diversity found in the Appendix of the following document: Policy on election of Executive Directors URL http://www.tel.com/ir/policy/cg/document/index_02.pdf Executive Directors of TEL are required to have superior executional abilities underpinned by experience, insight, and a track record in management, high sensitivity to all possible risks, being able to properly analyze and judge matters, and frankly state the opinion that they believe to be correct during debates. Moreover, in electing Executive Directors, consideration is given to achieving a balance of Corporate Directors who are well-versed in each division of TEL, including: Sales and Service Manufacturing R&D Corporate Administration and other divisions, to the extent possible in order to ensure constructive debate in Board of Directors meetings born out of a broad range of backgrounds and knowledge. The current Executive Directors have been elected in a manner that has achieved such balance. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 43 Corporate governance Corporate governance Size of the Board of Directors, number of IndeNomination of Corporate Directors and the CEO pendent Directors and criteria for independence TEL has established a Nomination Committee to ensure TEL considers it essential to maintain a Board of Directors fairness and efficiency in management. No Represenwith the appropriate size to ensure high quality, active tative Directors, including the CEO, is a member of the debate and the diversity expected of both executive diNomination Committee. The authority to propose elecrectors and independent directors. The number of Corpotion or dismissal of the CEO or Corporate Directors is enrate Directors shall therefore be the appropriate number trusted to a Nomination Committee member who is not for the operating environment at the time, considering a Representative Director. a good balance in terms of knowledge, experience, and skills. There is a maximum of 18 directors established in Ensuring the independence of the the Articles of Incorporation. Nomination Committee The current Board of Directors consists of 11 Corporate The Nomination Committee shall consist of three or Directors, and TEL believes this to be the appropriate, more Corporate Directors or Audit & Supervisory Board well-balanced size at the present time. members. In order to ensure the independence of those members, Representative Directors may not be elected Number of Independent Directors and to the Nomination Committee. Moreover, the Nominacriteria for independence tion Committee recommends Nomination Committee TEL regards the active expression of opinions, not only members for the next period and the Board of Directors by independent directors, but also by Audit & Supervielects the members based on those recommendations. sory Board members, as the cornerstone that supports This method achieves a high degree of independence and the sound decision-making of the Board of Directors. fairness in the election of candidates and ensures the auCurrently, 5 of the 16 participants in the Board of Directors thority of the CEO and other Representative Directors meetings, including the Audit & Supervisory Board memdoes not extend to the management of the Nomination bers, are outside members, consisting of two independent Committee. directors and three outside Audit & Supervisory Board The term of Nomination Committee members shall be members. TEL believes that the current Board of Direcone year. Re-election up to a maximum of four years is tors meetings achieve an appropriate sense of productive permitted. tension and constructive debate due to the combined presence of executive directors, essential for making opEnsuring fairness in evaluation erational decisions, and outside members, who provide TEL takes the following steps to ensure fair and highly objectivity. TEL actively considers candidates equipped transparent evaluation of the executive management, with the knowledge and character that TEL thinks will including the CEO. contribute to sustainable growth for TEL for independent 1 Executive Directors bear the responsibility of directors and other outside members. achieving performance goals for the division where TEL also ensures the independence of independent they are in charge based on the budget and Medidirectors and independent Audit & Supervisory Board um-Term Management Plan. The degree to which members through separately specified independence that is achieved is an important factor in personnel requirements for outside directors and outside Audit & evaluations for performance-linked compensation. Supervisory Board members, in addition to the requirements under the Japanese Companies Act. 2 The formula for calculating the performance-linked Details on independence requirements for outside dicompensation of the CEO is determined by the rector and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members Board of Directors, based on the proposal of the can be found in the following document: Compensation Committee. It is decided fairly and URL http://www.tel.com/ir/policy/cg/document/ in a highly transparent manner. index_03.pdf 3 In nominating candidates for Executive Director, the Nomination Committee will evaluate the appropriateness of the candidate based on past performance, including an evaluation of performance on assigned duties, and considering his or her personality, including the character and dignity, as a manager. They then determine whether or not he or she is capable of shouldering those responsibilities. 44 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Compensation On transactions among related parties Policy on compensation TEL requires Corporate Directors or Audit & Supervisory TEL aims to strengthen its global competitiveness and Board members to obtain the approval of the board increase management transparency by adopting a diwhen engaging in transactions with TEL or transactions rector and executive officer compensation system that that are in conflict with the interests of TEL and the Coris closely linked to performance and shareholder value. porate Directors or Audit & Supervisory Board Members. The compensation of directors and executive officers This includes engagement in competing business with comprises a fixed monthly wage and an annual perforTEL. Moreover, after such transactions take place, a remance-linked bonus. port must be presented to the board regarding material matters concerning such transactions. Role of the Compensation Committee In addition, irrespective of whether a transaction is beThe Compensation Committee, which comprises three tween a Corporate Director or Audit & Supervisory Board or more directors, including at least one outside direcmember, or a relative of them and TEL, TEL undertakes tor, performs an analysis of industry wage levels inside regular annual investigations. and outside of Japan, accounting for both monetary and Furthermore, in regard to transactions between TEL non-monetary aspects of the total compensation packand shareholders, there are no major shareholders (deage. Based on this comprehensive analysis, the commitfined as a shareholder with at least 10% of voting rights) tee proposes a policy and system for director compenin TEL. If a major shareholder emerges, TEL will undertake sation to the Board of Directors. The proposal includes procedures to ensure appropriateness of transactions specific amounts for individual compensation, including according to the previously stated policies. the CEO’s bonus. Composition and roles of the Audit & Formula for calculating compensation Supervisory Board In order to better link factors that increase corporate and Composition of the Audit & Supervisory Board shareholder value to compensation, TEL has designated The Audit & Supervisory Board currently consists of five the actual net income attributable to owners of the parmembers and includes three outside Audit & Supervisory ent company and ROE (Return on Equity) for the current Board members. Three members, including one outside period as the main calculation benchmarks in the permember, are full-time. The full-time Audit & Supervisory formance-linked compensation system for the CEO and Board members collect information through onsite surother Corporate Directors. These are adjusted, as necesveys, and the board maintains appropriate coordination sary, for extraordinary income/losses and other special with the Internal Audit Department and the independent factors. auditors as part of a structure that enables Audit & SuIn principle, performance-linked compensation conpervisory Board members to obtain all information necsists of monetary compensation and share-based comessary for audits. pensation. The composition is roughly 1:1 for Corporate Moreover, the composition of Audit & Supervisory Directors, and single year performance is appropriately Board members provides a good balance of knowledge reflected in the performance-linked compensation of the required for operational audits and accounting audits, inCEO and other Corporate Directors. Share-based comcluding financial and accounting knowledge, legal knowlpensation is awarded in the form of stock options with edge, and audit experience at other companies. TEL thus the exercise price set at one yen per share, and the rebelieves its Audit & Supervisory Board members are able striction that they may not be exercised for three years to perform the auditing functions effectively. from the date of allotment. Evaluating the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Based on an evaluation survey filled out by the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, the Board of Directors discusses, analyzes, and evaluates its own effectiveness, and discloses a summary of the results from the end of the current fiscal year. URL http://www.tel.com/news/2016/0512_006.htm TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 45 Corporate governance Internal control and risk management Basic stance In order to enhance the Tokyo Electron Group’s corporate value and remain accountable for our actions to our stakeholders, we are making efforts to strengthen effective internal control. This involves implementing practical measures that are in line with the Fundamental Policies concerning Internal Controls within the Tokyo Electron Group, set out by Tokyo Electron’s Board of Directors. We are also annually evaluating our internal control over financial reporting based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan. Risk management system Business continuity management To more effectively strengthen the internal control and Since 2012, the Group has been improving its Busirisk management systems of the entire Group, Tokyo ness Continuity Plan (BCP) for large-scale earthElectron has established a dedicated risk management quakes. The BCP is being updated at the headand internal control function within the General Affairs quarters, local offices and plants so that it will work Department of the corporate headquarters. This function effectively in the event of a disaster, facilitating early manages and reduces risks through appropriate mearecovery and alternate production. sures, such as by analyzing the risks that could affect the In fiscal year 2016, the Group focused on revising Group, and instructing responsible departments to conthe manuals and plans, as well as on implementing duct self-assessments of major identified risks. The funcBCP drills and employee education. tion also regularly reports the status of risk management In addition, emphasis has been placed on improvactivities to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members and ing early emergency response with top priority givthe Board of Directors. en to securing employee safety, including stockpilIn fiscal year 2016, the Group thoroughly reevaluated ing emergency supplies (including food and drinking the material risks surrounding its operating environment water), and reinforcing essential infrastructure. in order to improve the effectiveness of its risk manageAs a result of these preparedness initiatives, we ment. Based on this reevaluation, the Group is redefining were able to smoothly implement the BCP to rematerial risks and clarifying each risk owner to enhance spond quickly to the Kumamoto Earthquake in April the efficacy of its risk management framework. 2016. Auditing by internal audit department Information security management The Global Audit Center of the corporate headquarters To ensure appropriate management and safe and effecis the Group’s internal audit department. This Center is tive use of information assets, the Group has established responsible for auditing business activities, compliance a framework for preventing information leakage under and systems at domestic and overseas Group companies the Tokyo Electron Group Information Security Policy and business units (BUs) in accordance with each fiscal and the Regulation for Management of Technical and year’s auditing plan. The Center also annually evaluates Business Information. These rules have been disseminated the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control over figlobally throughout the Group companies and are upnancial reporting based on the Financial Instruments and dated whenever necessary. Exchange Act of Japan. In order to strengthen information security, the Group At operating divisions where issues have been identiis enhancing training and education for all of its execufied through audits and assessments, the Center montives and employees worldwide. These programs ensure itors progress and provides necessary guidance for imthat they can protect technical and business data and provement. abide by the IT security rules. Additionally, we have established a system for reporting both actual and potential cases (incidents) of information leakage. Such reports are critical in making quick responses, and their analysis can offer valuable insights into improving Group-wide measures to prevent leakage. 46 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Compliance Basic stance Stakeholder trust is the cornerstone of business activities. In order to maintain trust, it is necessary to continuously act in rigorous conformity to business ethics and compliance. In line with the Fundamental Policies concerning Internal Controls within the Tokyo Electron Group, all Group executives and employees are required to maintain high standards of ethics and to act with a clear awareness of compliance. Theme Goals for fiscal year 2016 Results for fiscal year 2016 ● Review the current management Ethics and compliance ● Conducted a review of the current management system, Rework and reinforce the system. and enhanced cooperation between the Ethics Commitmanagement management system. ● Formulate an improvement plan based tee and the compliance department. on the review. Make the Code of Eth● Check conformity with the EICC Code ● Checked conformity with the EICC Code of Conduct, and TEL’s Code of Ethics ics conform more to social of Conduct. began a partial revision of TEL’s Code of Ethics to inchanges. ● Review TEL’s Code of Ethics. crease conformity with the EICC Code of Conduct. Business ethics to ensure that all individuals who take part in the busiIn 1998, Tokyo Electron formulated the Code of Ethics of ness activities of the Tokyo Electron Group clearly underthe Tokyo Electron Group to establish uniform standards stand the pertinent laws and regulations, international to govern all of its global business activities. In the same standards and internal company rules, and consistently year, TEL appointed a Chief Business Ethics Director and apply these rules in all of their activities. established the Ethics Committee, which is responsible for promoting business ethics awareness throughout the Compliance education Tokyo Electron Group. The Ethics Committee comprises Through the Group’s e-learning system, we provide stanthe Chief Business Ethics Director, the Ethics Committee dard web-based training programs covering the basics of Chairman, and presidents of major Group companies in compliance, export-related compliance, protection of perand outside Japan. The members meet semiannually, resonal information, the Act for Subcontracting and other port on ethics related issues facing each company, and topics. All executives and employees are required to comdiscuss measures to further improve ethical behavior and plete this training. In addition, other web-based programs compliance. tailored to specific positions and job roles are also available, The Code of Ethics is reviewed in response to changincluding those on insider trading and the Social Security es in the expectations of society. In January 2015, an anand Tax Number System. ti-corruption statement was added to its introduction We also have a quiz-based business ethics compliance based on Principle 10 of the UN Global Compact, which education course for all Group executives and employees. concerns working against corruption including extortion Updated yearly, the quiz is intended to maintain compliand bribery. In fi scal 2016, the Group reviewed its Code of ance awareness throughout the Group and disseminate Ethics in response to the Code of Conduct of the EICC, an the latest information. electronic industry CSR consortium that the Group joined In addition to these web-based courses, we organized in June 2015. in-house seminars in fiscal year 2016 for Corporate DirecThe Tokyo Electron Group’s Code of Ethics and its Q&A tors and domestic Group company presidents on the subsection are published in Japanese, English, Korean and jects of compliance and internal control. Chinese and disclosed on the intranet to enable all Group executives and employees, including those overseas, to Internal reporting system view them at any time. The Code of Ethics is also publicly The Tokyo Electron Group has an internal reporting sysaccessible from the corporate website. tem that employees can use to report any activity susURL http://www.tel.com/environment/corp_governance/ pected of being in breach of laws, regulations or busicompliance/ethical.htm ness ethics principles. An ethics hotline and a compliance hotline have been established to receive reports from all Compliance system Group companies, and each overseas location also has its Tokyo Electron has appointed a Compliance & Internal own reporting system. In all instances, the system enControl Executive Officer from among its executive offisures that whistleblowers remain anonymous and are cers to raise awareness of compliance across the Group protected from any disadvantage or repercussions. and further improve Group-wide compliance. TEL has There were no reports or cases of non-compliance also drawn up the Compliance Regulations, setting out with laws, regulations, or principles of ethics in fiscal basic compliance-related requirements in line with the year 2016 that could have had a material impact on the Code of Ethics. The Compliance Regulations are intended Group’s business or local communities. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 47 Report Review Takatoshi Yamamoto Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Tokyo Electron Limited Comments on Tokyo Electron Sustainability Report 2016 Company stakeholders expect business to thrive and grow with society in a sustainable manner. Corporations are nowadays requested to improve mediumto long-term corporate value by leveraging their business activities and company resources to contribute to the resolution of current social issues. To attain these goals, we must generate new value through a cycle of CSR activities that builds on itself and becomes even more competitive in the global market. The nature of CSR programs is shifting these days, from a passive set of activities to a proactive program based on societal needs. The thinking behind this approach is that by seamlessly integrating business operations with CSR, social contribution and profitability can be achieved simultaneously. To emphasize TEL's new focus on sustainable development and growth that is aligned with society, the title of this report has been changed from “Environmental and Social Report” to “Sustainability Report.” The report includes a description of the medium-term management plan formulated under the leadership of our new management team. The plan outlines TEL's business goals up to fiscal year 2020. The report also clarifies the relationship between the medium-term management plan and various social issues surrounding our business. It lists a revised set of key issues and provides a simple overview of the goals and activities of each department. TEL chose five key issues for this fiscal year: “Product competitiveness” , “Customer responsiveness” , “Earnings power” , “Maximizing dreams and drive” , and “Establishing sustainable operations.” The first three of these come from the mediumterm management plan. A total of 15 themes and 16 goals have been established under these key issues, and we have been pursuing these goals. The themes and goals that fall under “Establishing sustainable operations” are especially important, as they include corporate governance, compliance and ethics, safety, environmental management, and supply chain management―items that are essential to the enhancement of corporate value. We hope to share our progress on these objectives with all employees and ultimately to achieve the goals through our united efforts. Our business operations and CSR initiatives cannot be successful without strong stakeholder communication and engagement based on mutual trust. As we put our corporate philosophy into practice, we are aware how essential CSR is for enhancing our corporate value in both financial and non-financial terms. Just as we must engage in investor relations (IR) activities in the capital markets, we must keep our shareholders and other stakeholders well informed about both our basic position with CSR and the specific activities we are pursuing. This includes our CSR policy, the internal promotion system, our CSR goals, and company results. We believe such communication will give the stakeholders a deeper understanding of our CSR management overall. 48 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Awards and recognition Main awards and recognition received in fiscal year 2016 Category Award received * Awards received in fiscal year 2017 Sponsor Recipient＊ Excellent Service In F10 Expansion Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. TEL BEST PARTNER OF THE YEAR SK hynix Inc. TEL TowerJazz’s 2015 “Most Reliable Tool Set” Tower Semiconductor Ltd.（TowerJazz） TEL Supplier of the Year Award 2015 Partner Award Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. TEL Best in class SanDisk Corporation TEL Outstanding Support Award WIN Semiconductors Corporation TEL 2015 SCQI Award Intel Corporation TEL Business partner Yokkaichi Operations, Semiconductor & Storage Partnership Award TEL Products Company, Toshiba Corporation Best Supplier Award 2015 Skyworks Panasonic Filter Solutions Japan Co., Ltd. TEL Appreciation Award* United Microelectronics Corporation TET Supplier Excellence Award* Texas Instruments Incorporated TEL AUO Global Partner Summit 2016 Award* AU Optronics Corporation TEL Best Supplier Award LG Display Co., Ltd. TEL Special Contribution Award* Xiamen Tianma Micro-electronics Co., Ltd. TEL Semiconductor of the Year Excellence Award in the semiconductor manufacturing equipment Product category Sangyo Times, Inc. TEL EXIM™ sputtering system for next-generation semiconductors Minnesota Safety Council Governor's Safety Award* Minnesota Safety Council TEF CDP Disclosure Score: 94 Environment/ CDP TEL CDP Performance Score: B safety The 19th Nikkei Environmental Management Nikkei Inc. TEL Survey: Ranked 23rd Certificate of appreciation: For supporting the Tohoku Forum for Creativity and establishing the Tohoku University TEL TOKYO ELECTRON House of Creativity FTSE4 Good Global Index FTSE TEL Communication/ The Sustainability Yearbook 2016 society Yearbook Member RobecoSAM AG TEL and Industry Mover MSCI ACWI ESG Index and MSCI TEL MSCI World ESG Index 2015 Internet IR Excellence Award Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. TEL ＊ TEL: Tokyo Electron Limited / TET: Tokyo Electron Taiwan Limited / TEF: TEL FSI, Inc. TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 49 Performance summary (Environment) Energy consumption/generation CO2 emissions from Scopelogistics FY2014 and FY2015 FY2016 Electricity consumption the proportion of marine transport (Million kWh) (kilotons)metric Energy consumption 42.2 223.6 221.6 223.0 37.8 (energy consumption/sales) 1.3036.1 1.20 1.02 208.8 198.4 (kiloliters/billion yen) 31.0 25.9 Japan 7458,927 54,973 52,002 66 60 5 65 Energy consumption3 54 6 72.2 65.6 (crude oil equivalent) 2 Overseas 20,432 18,448 15,497 55.8 3 27.8 40.5 (kiloliters) 63 68 58 59 Total 51 79,359 73,421 67,499 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Japan 222,9762016 208,753 198,404 (FY) Japan Overseas Logistics (MWh) Power consumption in Japan International logistics Overseas 72,239 65,615 55,797 Proportion of marine transport in international logistics (%) Total 295,215 274,368 254,201 Japan 2,027 1,929 1,602 CO2 emissions from energy consumption Gas consumption (tons) (crude oil equivalent) Overseas 1,850 1,572 1,146 125,921 (kiloliters) 117,396 120,913 114,956 Total 3,877 3,501 2,748 87,124 Japan 1,156 870 706 Fuel consumption 36,317 34,513 32,591 (crude oil equivalent) Overseas 4 1 0 23,316 (kiloliters) 15,063 Total 1,160 871 706 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Green power purchase (MWh) 2,618 2,405 3,833 (FY) Japan Overseas Japan 4,698 4,536 4,486 PV power generation (MWh) Overseas 26 23 0 Total 4,724 4,559 4,486 Water consumption (thousand m3) 1,122 1,078 1,058 1,043 315 300 896 297 327 226 612 506 466 471 503 416 368 180 301 70 312 104 300 302 290 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Environmental impact of logistics Industrial water (Japan) Scope FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 COTap 2 emissions water (Japan)from logistics and the proportion Groundwater of marine transport (Japan) Overseas use (kilotons) Japan 3,099 5,348 5,901 42.2 37.8 CO2 emissions Recycling from logistics rate and generation of incinerated 31.0 36.1 (tons) and landfill wasteOverseas in Japan 51,131 68,241 58,735 Volume of25.9 PRTR Class I designated chemical (tons) substances handled in Japan Total 54,230 73,589 64,636 (kg)66 74 98.9 60 5 65 97.4 97.3 98.0 98.4 3 54 6 14,361 2 3 Proportion of marine transport in 14,067 42.2 31.0 36.1 63 11,73258 12,665 1,617 68 785 international logistics (%) 59 331 Target: Maintain recycling rate of 97% or more 51 2,059 10,781 4,541 2,031 4,004 1,035 215 2012 2013 3,787 20144,144 2015 2,408 2016 172 (FY) 122 8,203 in Japan 9,278 94 Logistics 5,914 International 6,462 logistics 7,338 Proportion of marine transport in international logistics (%) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) (FY) Incineration and landfill Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble salts Recycling rate (%): Recycled amount / Methylnaphthalene Amount of waste generated × 100 Other 50 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 66 74 60 5 65 3 54 6 72.2 65.6 2 55.8 3 27.8 40.5 63 68 58 51 59 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) (FY) Japan Overseas Logistics in Japan International logistics Proportion of marine transport in international logistics (%) Greenhouse gas consumption/emissions Scope FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CO2 emissions from energy consumption (tons) Japan 120,913 125,921 114,956 120,913 125,921 117,396 114,956 CO2 emissions from energy 87,124 Overseas 36,317 34,513 32,591 consumption (tons) Total 157,230 160,434 147,547 36,317 34,513 32,591 Metric for CO2 emissions from 23,316 15,063 energy consumption 2.57 2.61 2.22 (CO2 emissions/sales) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (tons/billion yen) (FY) Japan 7,550 6,620 5,576 Japan Overseas CO2 emissions from logistics and Electricity CO2 emissions consumption in fiscal year 2012 totaled 87,124 tons in Jathe proportion Scope 1 CO2 emissions 1 (tons) of Overseas marine transport 3,601 3,066 2,242 (Million kWh) pan, from which 50,000 tons was deducted through the (kilotons) use of a domestic clean development mechanism (which 42.2 223.6 223.0 37.8 Total 11,15136.1 9,686 7,818 allows large221.6 corporations credits for CO2 emisto receive208.8 sions reductions made by small and medium-sized busi198.4 31.0 25.9 nesses in exchange for financial and technological support Japan 113,363 119,301 109,380 Water for reducingconsumption CO2 emissions). 66 74 (thousand m3) 60 5 65 Scope 2 CO2 emissions 3 2 (tons) Overseas 54 32,716 6 31,447 30,349 1,122 72.2 65.6 2 1,07840.5 1,058 1,043 55.8 3 27.8 63 Total 68 146,079 315 896 58 51 59150,748 139,729 300 297 327 2012 2013 2014 612 2015 226 2016 Scope 3 CO2 emissions3 (tons) 3,650,734 3,566,479 3,491,1 1 1 503 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 506 466 471 416 368 (FY) Japan Overseas Non-energy-derived greenhouse 180 Logistics in Japan Japan 20,794 International logistics 21,795 32,848 104 gas emissions (tons) 301 70 312 290 300 302 Proportion of marine transport in international logistics (%) HFCs (tons) Japan 2,610 1,501 2,452 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) PFCs (tons) Japan 7,416 5,784 7,784 CO Industrial water (Japan) 2 emissions from energy consumption Tap water (Japan) (tons) SF6 (tons) Japan 10,755 14,499 17,095 Groundwater (Japan) 125,921 Overseas 117,396 use 120,913 114,956 Other (tons) Japan 13 11 5,517 87,124 Recycling rate and generation of incinerated and landfill waste in Japan Volume of PRTR Class I designated chemical 1 Scope 1: Direct(tons) GHG emissions from use of fuel and gas owned or controlled by TEL substances handled in Japan 2 Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from use of electricity, steam and heat purchased by TEL (kg) 36,317 34,513 32,591 98.0 98.9 98.4 23,316 97.4from corporate 3 Scope 3: Emissions 97.3 value chains (excluding scope 1 and 2 emissions), such as prod15,063 14,361 14,067 uct transportation, employee business travel, and major outsourced production processes 12,665 1,617 11,732 785 331 Target: Maintain recycling rate of 97% or more 2012 2013 2,059 10,781 2014 2015 2016 4,541 2,031 4,004 1,035 (FY) 215 Japan 3,787 Overseas 4,144 2,408 172 122 8,203 9,278 94 5,914 6,462 7,338 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Resource consumption (FY) (FY) Water Hydrogen consumption fluoride and its water-soluble salts IncinerationScope and landfill FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 (thousand m3) Recycling rate (%): Recycled amount / Methylnaphthalene Japan 1,058 1,043 896 1,122 1,078 1,058 Amount of waste generated × 100 Other 1,043 315 300 896 Groundwater 297 327 226 297 327 226 612 Water Tap water 471 416 368 506 466 471 503 416 368 consumption (thousand m3) Industrial water 290 300 302 180 301 70 312 104 300 302 290 Overseas use 612 503 180 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Total 1,670 1,546 1,076 Industrial water (Japan) Tap water (Japan) Use of copier Groundwater (Japan) Japan 116 162 128 paper (tons) Overseas use Recycling rate and generation of incinerated and landfill waste in Japan Volume of PRTR Class I designated chemical (tons) substances handled in Japan (kg) 98.0 98.9 98.4 97.4 97.3 14,361 14,067 1,617 11,732 12,665 785 331 Target: Maintain recycling rate of 97% or more 2,059 10,781 4,541 2,031 4,004 1,035 215 3,787 4,144 2,408 172 122 8,203 9,278 94 5,914 6,462 7,338 2012 2013TOKYO ELECTRON 2014 Sustainability 2015 2016Report 2016 51 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) (FY) 117,396 120,913 114,956 87,124 Performance summary (Environment) 36,317 34,513 32,591 23,316 15,063 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Japan Overseas Amount of waste generated Scope FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Recycling rate and generation of incinerated and landfill waste in Japan Japan 8,780 8,858 7,721 (tons) Amount of waste generated 98.9 Overseas 1,185 1,206 663 97.4 97.3 98.0 98.4 (tons) Water consumption Total 9,965 10,064 8,384 (thousand m3) 331 Target: Maintain recycling rate of 97% or more Amount of specially controlled 1,122 1,078 1,058 industrial waste generated 2,627 2,842 2,125 1,043 315 215 896 in Japan (tons) 300 297 172 327 226 122 Japan 8,608 8,764 7,599 612 94 506 466 471 503 416 368 Recycled amount (tons) Overseas 813 1,064 583 2012 180 Total 9,421 9,828 8,182 301 70 312 2013 104 290 2014 300 2015 302 2016 (FY) Japan 172 94 122 2012 Incineration and landfill2014 2013 2015 2016 (FY) Amount incinerated or put into Recycling rate (%): Recycled amount / Overseas 372 142 80 landfill (tons) Industrial Amount water of waste(Japan) generated × 100 Total 544 236 202 Tap water (Japan) Groundwater (Japan) Overseas use Chemical substances Recycling rateconsumption/emissions and generation of incinerated and landfill waste inScope Japan FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Volume of PRTR Class I designated chemical (tons) substances handled in Japan Volume of PRTR Class I designated (kg) chemical substances Japan 98.0 98.912,66598.4 10,781 14,067 97.4 handled97.3(kg) 14,361 14,067 Hydrogen fluoride and its 1,617 11,732 12,665 785 331 Japan 6,462 7,338 9,278 water-soluble salts (kg) Target: Maintain recycling rate of 97% or more 2,059 10,781 4,541 2,031 4,004 1,035 Methylnaphthalene (kg) Japan 4,144 2,408 4,004 215 3,787 4,144 2,408 172 Other (kg) Japan 2,059 1,035 785 122 8,203 9,278 94 5,914 6,462 7,338 Atmospheric release (kg) Japan 21 12 21 Amount transported as waste 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 Japan 2014 2015 8,4992016 8,254 9,941 (kg) (FY) (FY) Amount discharged in sewage Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble salts (kg) Incineration and landfillJapan 1 114 101 Recycling rate (%): Recycled amount / Methylnaphthalene (kg) Consumption Amount Japan × 100 4,144 of waste generated 2,401 4,004 Other NOx emissions (tons) Japan 9.7 12 7.5 SOx emissions (tons) Japan 2.8 2.7 2.2 Environmental management/biodiversity Scope FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Japan 7 4 4 Number of ISO 14001-certified companies Overseas 3 4 3 Total 10 8 7 Number of ecosystem tours Japan 16 13 15 Number of ecosystem tour participants Japan 42 69 281 Compliance Scope FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Number of breaches of environmental laws and regulations Group 0 0 0 Amount of fines on legal breaches (yen) Group 0 0 0 Other Scope FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Total product shipment (tons) Japan 16,331 13,596 17,342 52 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Performance summary (Social) Employees and workplace Target: Group companies in Japan (excluding Tokyo Electron Device Limited) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Men 6,262 6,165 6,075 Regular employees Women 1,009 1,001 985 Composition of employees Total 7,271 7,166 7,060 Non-regular employees 1,570 1,455 1,677 Men 135 65 21 Women 26 8 3 Number of new graduates hired Total 161 73 24 Percentage of women 16 11 13 Percentage of employees TEL (unconsolidated) 1.80 2.00 1.96 with special needs Group companies 1.90 1.94 1.98 Number and percentage of Group companies 30/1.2 32/1.3 39/1.5 women among managers Retention after three years of joining TEL 94.3 94.3 93.7 (average in recent five years) (%) Men 15 yrs. 9 mos. 16 yrs. 6 mos. 17 yrs. 2 mos. Average service years Women 14 yrs. 3 mos. 15 yrs. 3 mos. 16 yrs. Employee retention Overall 15 yrs. 7 mos. 16 yrs. 4 mos. 17 yrs. Men 1.4 2.5 1.5 Turnover (%) Women 3.3 3.4 3.9 Overall 1.6 2.7 1.8 Use of annual paid leave (%) 59.6 61.8 62.6 Number of those who took child care leave 70 52 42 Percentage of those among the eligible who 95 95 93 actually took child care leave Number of those who returned to work after 53 46 46 child care leave Percentage of those who returned to work after 93 88 85 child care leave Number of those who took paternity leave 211 192 172 Child care support system Men 8 11 13 Number of those who used the shorter working hour system Women 151 172 175 Number of those who took child care leave Men 240 246 245 to care for a sick/injured child Women 195 214 208 Number of those who took child care Men 17 24 15 support leave Women 75 72 88 Number of those who took extended Men 0 0 0 nursing care leave Women 2 2 0 Number of those who took short nursing Men 13 11 10 Nursing care support care leave Women 9 9 21 Number of those who used the shorter Men 1 1 0 working hour system for nursing care Women 0 0 0 Men 663 1,091 926 Special paid leave system Number of those who took refreshment leave Women 109 194 119 Retirees who used Men 68 74 98 reemployment system Women 0 0 3 Users of second career Men 68 59 43 support system Women 14 10 6 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 53 Performance summary (Social) Safety FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Number of breaches of regulations and self-imposed restrictions on health Framework 0 0 0 and safety that occurred during product/service lifecycle Percentage of employees who received training or refresher 100 100 100 Percentage of employees who received training on basic safety training on health and safety standards Employee in the past 2 years Percentage of employees who safety received training or refresher 100 100 100 training on advanced safety LTIR (lost time incident rate) for the past 3 years (%) 0.67 0.61 0.56 TCIR (%) 0.37 0.24 0.21 Quality FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Amount of significant fines for breaches of laws and regulations on provision/ Framework 0 0 0 use of products and services (yen) Customer satisfaction rates for the past 4 years and latest target (%) 79 80 87 Customer satisfaction Number of substantiated complaints regarding customer privacy infringement 0 0 0 and loss of customer data Procurement FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Rate of improvement after supply chain 25 34 CSR assessment Improvement of Rate of improvement after supply chain Supply chain 41 27 procurement CSR (%) BCP assessment management Rate of improvement after 46 -* green procurement survey Conflict minerals survey Number of identified CFSP-certified smelters 117 204 Local operations Percentage of spending on local suppliers at critical business bases 99 99 99 * Integrated with supply chain CSR assessment. Social contribution FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Spending on social contribution (million yen) 259 184 277 Charity donations 5 2 14 (providing donations/relief supplies to charity organizations) Cash donations Community investment 38 47 52 breakdown (%) (charitable expenses for long-term cause for community) Commercial initiatives 57 51 34 (charitable expenses with anticipated effects on business growth) Compliance FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Percentage of employees who have received web-based training 100 99.7 98.4 Enforcement of on business ethics and compliance compliance Percentage of employees who have consented to the information 100 100 99.9 security agreement. Innovation FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Japan 5,227 5,288 5,172 U.S. 4,299 4,326 4,361 Europe 439 354 241 Number of active Korea 2,875 2,847 2,784 issued patents Taiwan 1,889 1,983 2,131 China 1,647 1,623 1,611 Total 16,376 16,421 16,300 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015* Global patent application rate (%) 70.3 69.5 68.0 * Calendar year when patents were filed FY2013 FY2014 FY2015* Patent application Japan 78.0 74.0 78.0 success rate (%) U.S. 66.8 62.8 71.2 * Calendar year when patents were granted 54 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 Corporate profile (as of April 1, 2016) Company name: Tokyo Electron Limited Main business: Semiconductor production equipment business, flat panel display (FPD) production equipment business Address: Akasaka Biz Tower, 5-3-1 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Capital: 54,961 million yen Tokyo 107-6325, Japan Number of employees: 1, 441 Established: November 11, 1963 Number of Group employees: 10,657 Representative: Toshiki Kawai Number of locations: Representative Director, President & CEO In Japan: 8 companies at 29 locations Outside Japan: 30 companies at 45 locations in 15 countries and regions Worldwide total: 38 companies at 74 locations in 16 countries and regions Main products Semiconductor production equipment Coater/Developers Plasma Etch System Atomic Layer Thermal Processing Single Wafer Single Wafer Cleaning CLEAN TRACKTM TactrasTM Deposition System System Deposition System System LITHIUS ProTM Z NT333TM TELINDY PLUSTM Trias e+TM CELLESTATM -i Semiconductor production equipment FPD production equipment Wafer Prober Gas Chemical Etch System Electrochemical FPD Etch/Ash System Inkjet Printing System for PrecioTM XL Certas LEAGATM Deposition System ImpressioTM manufacturing OLED panels StratusTM EliusTM Financial data Consolidated net sales Consolidated operating income R&D expenses (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) 663.9 116.7 81.5 633.0 612.1 613.1 73.2 78,6 76.2 71.3 497.2 88.1 60.4 32.2 12.5 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Net sales by division (consolidated) Composition of sales by region (consolidated) FPD production equipment Others Other 44.6 billion yen (6.7%) 6.2 billion yen (1.0%) Europe 2.6％ 8.5％ China Taiwan 13.2％ 25.6％ FY2016 FY2016 U.S. Japan 15.6％ 18.3％ Korea Semiconductor production equipment 16.2％ 613.0 billion yen (92.3%) Assets 2015 2016 Liabilities and net assets 2015 2016 Total 876.1 793.3 (billion yen) Total 876.1 793.3 (billion yen) Cash and cash equivalents 317.6 236.6 Net assets 641.1 564.2 Trade notes and Other liabilities 234.9 229.1 110.8 116.5 accounts receivables (As of March 31, each year) Inventories 175.5 195.0 Other current assets 66.7 69.1 Note: Figures are rounded down to the nearest 100 million. Tangible fixed assets 106.8 96.3 Intangible fixed assets 27.5 17.6 Investments and other assets 70.8 62.0 TOKYO ELECTRON Sustainability Report 2016 55 solaé art gallery project The solaé art gallery project uses part of the “solaé” cafeteria at TEL headquarters to provide a venue for rising new artists and display their work. The highly creative exhibits, which integrate art, technology, and science, are designed to inspire TEL employees who come into contact with them. This crossing of paths of aspiring artists, supportive stakeholders, and TEL employees has the potential to create value in new ways for TEL. About the cover art “reflectwo (green) ” by Haruka Kojin Haruka Kojin is also an active member of the modern artist group “Me” (“Eye” in Japanese). PR54-161
