Infinite Headquarters Business Tupolevlaan 41–61 and sustainability 1119 NW, Schiphol-Rijk performance The Netherlands report 2015 Inside this opportunities Corporate offices 830 Third Avenue, 9th floor report… New York, NY 10022 United States Washington Plaza 40–44 Rue Washington Full contents are listed under this flap. 75008 Paris France Max Hoegger-Strasse 6 8048 Zurich Switzerland www.constellium.com Constellium – Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Constellium – Business and sustainability performance report 2015 About this report Reporting period Financial year 2015 (January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015) Reporting cycle Annual Date of publication June 2016 Report scope T  he data or financials relate to Constellium worldwide falling within the scope of consolidation at December 31, 2015. Report content The content of this report is based on our business data and the results of our dialogue with stakeholders, the Global Reporting Initiative G4 requirements and other sustainability ratings and rankings. Global GRI G4 guidelines – Core Reporting Initiative Assurance The report is in compliance with the GRI G4 guidelines and maintains code of reporting as advised by GRI. It is not externally assured. Contact For further information please contact: communications@constellium.com or sustainability@constellium.com Ideas. Materialized. www.constellium.com Business and sustainability performance report 2015 01 Inside this report Overview Chief Executive Officer insights 2 We are Constellium. Highlights of the year 4 Our value chain 6 We are a global leader Overview How we are organized 8 in aluminium solutions whose business is to Strategy and markets in focus materialize today’s Achieving our vision In focus: EHS 11 13 and tomorrow’s ideas. In focus: Lean 14 For us, aluminium is In focus: Innovation 16 Market trends 18 more than a metal. It Business unit perspectives: Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products 20 Aerospace and Transportation 22 Automotive Structures and Industry 23 is part of the solution Governance in focus Board of Directors 26 for tomorrow’s lighter, Executive Committee Our Sustainability Council 28 30 faster economy. Abundant, endlessly recyclable and Sustainability in focus reusable, aluminium’s Our sustainability targets Our materiality assessment 32 34 unique properties Engaging with our stakeholders In focus: Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 35 36 mean that, together with our partners, Making our products more sustainable 38 Supporting our people 44 Making our operations more efficient 50 Doing business responsibly 56 we can shape a future Performance in focus of infinite possibilities Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of financial position 61 62 and infinite Consolidated statement of cash flows Share information Sustainability performance 63 64 65 opportunities. GRI content index 71 Memberships76 Forward-looking statements 77 02 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 03 Chief Executive Officer insights Positioned for growth 2015 has been another year of transformation for Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact Constellium. Pierre Vareille, Chief Executive Officer, reveals Overview “For the fourth consecutive year we support These principles lie at the heart of our the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global commitment to sustainability. In this report the highlights of the past year, the main actions for 2016 Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. we communicate on our progress and have referenced the UNGC Communication on and the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead. Progress logo where applicable.” In 2015, we completely reshaped Group sales €m Adjusted EBITDA €m Revenue by business unit €5,153m €343m “Constellium is well-placed our R&T organization and approach Packaging and Automotive to drastically reduce process lead Rolled Products €2,748m to execute its ambitious times from ideation to production. Aerospace and strategy and to continue During 2016, we will be opening Transportation €1,355m to deliver profitable and a new R&T hub in the US in 5,153 343 Automotive Structures sustainable growth.” Plymouth, Michigan in order to 3,666 280 275 and Industry €1,047m 3,495 further strengthen and expand our leadership position in innovation. 20.3% Finally, Constellium’s University Technology Center, a joint project with Brunel University London, has 2013 2014 2015* 2013 2014 2015* opened its doors in the UK. We expect 53.4% Where does Constellium But most importantly, we achieved this initiative to cut prototyping times What were the key What are your hopes a significant improvement in safety, challenges of the year? and ambitions for 2016? stand today? with 20% fewer recordable cases by at least 50%, and then transfer 26.3% 2015 proved to be another year of compared to 2014. those processes to our plants at The performance of our Muscle Over the last four years, we have transformation and development, speed and with minimal risk. Shoals facility continues to be high laid the foundations for growth and a year of marked improvement in on our agenda because its results are and success. Our quality and onHas your BiW among the main factors impacting our time delivery performance have our performance. strategy changed? From a financial stock price. We have taken a number improved dramatically, thanks to I want first to highlight the record BiW definitely remains our core focus perspective, how did the of corrective actions and these will the implementation of our Lean Full-time equivalent employees (FTE)** 10,699 performance of our Automotive for mid to long-term growth. business perform? continue during the months ahead. Transformation program, and Structures and Industry segment. 2015 showed a clear improvement We are optimistic. this has solidified our reputation Constellium has become a leading In the US, our strengthened partnership in our performance. We experienced among customers. global supplier of structural with UACJ positions us as the only In parallel, our BiW strategy demands strong growth in shipments (up 39%) components for the automotive global player in this promising market. a long-term transformation that will At the same time, we have made while our revenue was up 41% to industry. The recovery of our We have started the qualification of our undoubtedly be accompanied by focused investments to strengthen €5.2 billion. Our adjusted EBITDA aerospace business also reflects our first US BiW finishing line in Bowling challenges, but we are on track to our leadership position in the was €343 million, an increase of FTE by geographic region commitment to continuous operational Green, Kentucky. We expect to soon execute our ambitious plan. aerospace market and to become 25% due to the acquisition of Wise France Switzerland improvement. The teams should announce the location of the first of a partner of choice for automotive Metals, a record performance in be especially proud of the renewed two additional finishing lines scheduled the Automotive Structures and What progress did you make manufacturers in the US and Europe USA Eastern Europe contract we signed recently with to be launched before the end of for both extruded and rolled products. Industry segment, and a marked on sustainability in 2015? As a result, our Adjusted EBITDA more Germany Asia Airbus. Finally, packaging remains the the decade. recovery in the Aerospace and We made significant progress bedrock of Constellium and proves to than doubled in the last four years. 2% In Europe, the ramp-up of the new Transportation segment. in many areas of sustainability. be highly resilient in all circumstances. 6% finishing line in Neuf-Brisach is One of the most important initiatives I expect 2016 to be a breakthrough 7% Efficient cash conservation and We completed the acquisition of Wise expected to significantly increase our of the year was the introduction of year that will demonstrate our working capital management Metals early in 2015. This represents BiW capacity as early as 2017. a new Supplier Code of Conduct, continuing success. I am very 39% are key financial targets. With our a major step forward in our strategy. which outlines the standards confident about the future. strong liquidity, we believe that 20% Despite disappointing financial results What about innovation? of integrity we expect from our Thanks to the outstanding efforts we are well-positioned to execute in 2015, we expect the Muscle Shoals suppliers. Our work with suppliers of our teams of talented and Innovation, and more generally our strategy. facility to enable us to become a and the monitoring of their committed individuals, Constellium is Research and Technology (R&T), is global leader in the packaging market performance triggered our promotion well‑placed to execute its ambitious 26% one of the key pillars for our success. and to play a role of paramount from Silver to Gold Recognition Level strategy and to continue to deliver importance in our Body-in-White We have outstanding results in this by EcoVadis, a well-known agency profitable and sustainable growth. (BiW) strategy in the US. field, with 2015 seeing a new record that specializes in sustainable * Includes Wise Metals’ sales from the date of acquisition, number of patents from Constellium’s development and ethics. Pierre Vareille which occurred on January 5, 2015 Technology Center, C-TEC. Chief Executive Officer ** Permanent and fixed-term employees 04 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 05 Highlights of the year Our key achievements This has been a year of significant achievements, as we made good progress in our drive to seize key Overview market opportunities. On these pages, we share the major highlights. Completed the acquisition Invested $40 million to expand our plant Invested $35 million of Wise Metals at Van Buren, Michigan in Ravenswood, On January 5, 2015, we completed This state-of-the-art facility produces customized West Virginia the acquisition of Wise Metals, a Received a Gold level automotive structures and features advanced At Ravenswood in the US, private aluminium sheet producer recognition for corporate prototyping and development capabilities. The 210,000 we are installing a new, located in Muscle Shoals, Alabama. social responsibility square foot expansion project has doubled plant state-of-the-art pusher The acquisition gave us immediate manufacturing capacity at Van Buren. furnace, primarily dedicated We were awarded Gold level access to 450,000 metric tons of hot to the manufacturing of recognition by EcoVadis, an mill capacity from the widest strip advanced aluminium alloys. independent rating agency mill in North America with potential The new equipment is due to which specializes in sustainable to add incremental capacities, start production at the end development and performance positioning us on the can market of 2016 and will significantly monitoring. We achieved the and preparing for Body-in-White expand the plant’s ability highest level of recognition capabilities expansion. to support the growth for our results in corporate responsibility practices in the ambitions of our customers. environmental, social, ethical and supply chain areas. Expanded our US manufacturing Created a new aluminium Formed an R&D facilities for automotive structures solution for aerosols partnership to explore We are constructing a new $32 million manufacturing facility in Aeral™ is a new aluminium solution Bartow County, Georgia, in response to growing demand for our designed for the production of 3D printing automotive structures in North America. This project, which includes aerosol containers using the Drawn We formed a partnership with a $12 million investment by developer Seefried Properties, is expected and Ironed (D&I) technology currently STELIA Aerospace, a worldto create approximately 150 high-tech manufacturing jobs by 2019. used to produce beverage cans. leading player in the design and Aeral™ allows up to 30% weight production of aircraft equipped $32m 150 saving compared to traditional fuselages, and CT INGENIERIE impact extruded containers, while Invested €22.5 million in a research and development Signed an agreement to maintaining the same level of to expand capacity in project. This project, called FAST, focused on topological develop energy-saving Construction spend to meet automotive Approximately 150 high-tech manufacturing performance in terms of ductility aluminium automotive optimization of aero structures and pressure resistance. remelting technologies structures demand jobs created by 2019 hard alloys and additive manufacturing, also We have signed a joint development The investment at Decin in known as 3D printing. What makes 30% agreement to use Linde’s oxy-fuel the Czech Republic includes a this project so unique is its technology in our recycling and new casthouse, a new indirect unparalleled scale and its holistic melting furnaces, with a goal of extrusion press line for the optimization approach. cutting energy consumption by production of hard alloy bars and half while increasing melting rates Weight saving achieved with Aeral™ profiles, a new drawing line, and by 20%. This is the latest initiative a complete refurbishment of an in our long-term partnership with existing extrusion line to meet Linde in the area of energy-efficient increased demand. Our Decin remelting technologies. plant is now the largest integrated hard and soft alloy plant in Europe. 06 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 07 Our value chain Our role in the life-cycle How we partner with our customers Recycling Collecting and sorting We work closely with customers to understand Aluminium can be endlessly recycled We have rigorous processes in place their needs and create the innovations that of aluminium to deliver new products that can exhibit to collect and sort scrap produced at meet them. Each of our business units has the the same properties as products made our own facilities and also offer these Overview objective to carry out a customer satisfaction out of primary material. There are services to customers, creating value survey every two years. three sources of recycled aluminium: by reducing costs and enhancing the For more detail scrap produced during our processes; recycling of products into new ones. see page 39 scrap produced during our customers’ Aluminium is the world’s third most abundant element and a How we collaborate with processes, such as stamping and milling; and scrap recovered at the Value creation Aluminium recycling within the vital material in 21st century manufacturing. Here, we explain our partners We are active supporters of the ASI (see pages end of a product’s life. We recycle all of these three categories. manufacturing process loop makes sense both economically and the various stages of production – from bauxite mine to finished 36–37) and also members of many other industry organizations including European Value creation environmentally. We ensure that no metal is lost. product and recycling – and outline how some of our initiatives Aluminium, The Aluminum Association and the International Aluminium Institute. We are particularly focused on ensuring that a product is recycled at the end of its Efficient collection and sorting systems are critical for the effective are creating value for customers, suppliers and society. life, as this saves 95% of the energy needed to produce primary metal. We believe that recycling of end-of-life scrap and also help retain the value of the alloy Through these organizations, we work on many we can further improve recycling through initiatives, particularly end-of-life collection, in the loop. collaboration and partnership with all sorting and recycling programs. On the relevant stakeholders including customers, For more detail innovation side, we work with an extensive associations and research centers. see pages 42–43 network of universities and research institutes. For more detail For more detail see pages 42–43 see page 35 Understanding our role in the value chain Further information Our role varies as aluminium passes through Here we provide an overview of our value chain, more detailed information on this and related the different stages of the value chain. topics can be found on pages 34–59 and online at: 8 7 Where Constellium directly controls www.constellium.com/sustainability/ responsible-business Where Constellium indirectly controls Where Constellium influences 1 2 3 4 5 6 Casting/rolling Product design Product use Bauxite extraction Alumina refining Aluminium smelting Our products are used extensively in the Aluminium is produced from bauxite ore, In refineries, bauxite is processed into Primary aluminium is produced in and extrusion and manufacturing aerospace, packaging and automotive which is predominantly extracted from pure aluminium oxide (alumina) via the smelters, where pure aluminium Other metals are added to the molten We work closely with our customers sectors – reducing weight and improving open cast mines. Bayer chemical process. The residue of is extracted from alumina by the aluminium to create customized to develop, produce and deliver fuel consumption in a large range of the Bayer process is strictly managed Hall-Héroult process. Aluminium alloys before being cleaned of oxides innovative and sustainable applications that enhance products according to industry standards. output has increased by a factor of and gases, and then cast into ingots. aluminium solutions that are and improve lives. 13 since 1950, making aluminium the These are then cast into billets or helping to transform the world. Value creation most widely used non-ferrous metal. slabs. Billets are transformed into Value creation We have developed stable, diversified extruded products. Slabs are rolled and long-standing customer relationships Our track record of innovation to produce plate, sheets or coils. through which we deliver products that is founded on C-TEC, Constellium Value creation Value creation world-class technology center offer improved strength, lightness and Extraction, refining and smelting are production steps which create value for raw material suppliers and local communities. But they can At our sites in North America, Europe where over 250 specialists create durability. Of particular relevance to also have impacts related to biodiversity and human rights in bauxite mining, waste management in alumina refining and greenhouse gas and China we put our know-how and the ideas that bring new standards the transportation sector, our material emissions in aluminium smelting. expertise in alloys and semi-product of performance to our customers reduces weight, thus leading to significant elaboration to work, sustaining and to consumers worldwide. reduction in CO2 emissions during the As a buyer of slabs and ingots, we have developed our own responsible purchasing policy. However, we recognize that this is not enough to life of the product. communities by providing employment We also have product design cover the whole value chain. This is why we became a founding member of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) (see pages 36–37 for and investing in people and capital capabilities in other areas, most For more detail more information on the ASI). expenditure projects. In addition, notably automotive structures. see pages 20–24 we work hard to prevent and minimize For more detail environmental impacts in terms see pages 41–42 How we engage with our suppliers of energy, waste and water and to improve our safety performance. Suppliers are a crucial part of our value chain. We engage with them formally via our Supplier Code of Conduct, site visits, audits and by sharing For more detail sustainability targets as well as through the ASI for aluminium suppliers. see pages 50–53 For more detail see pages 56–59 08 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 09 How we are organized A global sector leader Our global footprint: Constellium is a global sector leader strongly committed to designing and manufacturing innovative and high value‑added Overview aluminium products and solutions for a broad range of applications. Our primary markets are aerospace, automotive and packaging – and we meet the needs of customers in these markets through three business units: p Plant  Office ¦ Technology center ut Joint venture Main plants Packaging and Automotive Aerospace Automotive Structures North America Europe Asia Rolled Products and Transportation and Industry Develops, provides and recycles Provides technologically advanced Produces advanced solutions for Van Buren | MI Singen | Germany Neuf-Brisach | France Changchun | China aluminium sheets and coils for aluminium alloys with wide the global automotive industry, ––Produces customized ––Integrated hot/cold-rolling line ––Second largest volume, ––Joint venture with Engley packaging applications (beverage applications across the global including Crash Management automotive structures and Crash ––Recognized for closure stock fully integrated, rolling mill ––Provides global customers Management Systems (CMS) in Europe and food cans, closures, foils) aerospace, defense, transportation Systems (CMS) and other structural and functional surfaces with CMS and other ––Features advanced prototyping ––Dedicated primarily to can structural modules as well as automotive solutions, and industrial sectors. The business and safety parts and extrusions. and development capabilities ––One of the largest extrusion stock and BiW including high-performance unit offers a wide range of products This business unit also manufactures presses in the world ––Advanced and highly ––World-class recycling center products for Body-in-White (BiW) including plates, sheets and large profiles mainly for road and Bowling Green | KY productive integrated CMS and heat exchangers. extrusions which allow Constellium rail transportation, energy and ––Joint venture with UACJ/ manufacturing lines Valais | Switzerland to provide tailored solutions to other industrial applications. Body-in-White (BiW) finishing line ––Precision plate shop for general our customers. Issoire | France engineering products Ravenswood | WV ––One of the world’s two leading ––Leading large profile supplier for For more on performance For more on performance For more on performance ––Worldwide unique assets for aerospace plate mills, with high-speed train manufacturers see page 20 see page 22 see page 23 aerospace plates wingskin capabilities ––Casthouses in Steg and Chippis ––Recognized supplier to the highly ––AIRWARE® casthouse for ––Plate shop and casthouse Revenue €m Revenue €m Revenue €m demanding defense industry low-density alloys qualified for aerospace 2,748 1,355 1,047 ––Wide-coil capabilities and ––Recycling facility 1,204 1,197 largest stretcher Plant worldwide Decin | Czech Republic 921 Office 859 enabling unique product creation R&D centre Voreppe | France Joint venture ––Europe’s largest hard alloys ––C-TEC, our world-class extrusion plant 1,480 1,576 Muscle Shoals | AL technology center ––Widest strip mill in the US ––World-class recycling center 2013 2014 2015* 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Our key Aerospace: Packaging: Automotive: ––Airbus ––Amcor ––Audi Adjusted EBITDA €m Adjusted EBITDA €m Adjusted EBITDA €m customers ––Boeing ––Anheuser-Busch inBev ––BMW Group 183 120 73 80 include: ––Bombardier ––Ardagh Group ––Fiat Chrysler Automobiles 103 ––Dassault Aviation ––Ball ––Ford 91 58 ––Embraer ––Can-Pack S.A. ––General Motors 118 105 ––KAI ––Coca-Cola ––Jaguar Land Rover ––Lockheed Martin ––Crown ––Mercedes-Benz ––Pilatus ––Rexam ––Porsche ––SpaceX ––PSA Peugeot Citroën 2013 2014 2015* 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 ––Tesla ––Valeo * Includes Wise Metals’ sales from the date of acquisition, which occurred on January 5, 2015 10 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 11 Achieving our vision This section focuses on our strategy, markets and business units, outlining the achievements of 2015 and our ambitions for 2016. We report progress against Delivering our our strategy and take a closer look at our work around Environment, Health and Safety (EHS), our Lean program Body-in-White strategy and innovation, before providing greater detail on the Developing a world-leading Body-in-White (BiW) capability activities and performance of our three business units. is at the heart of our strategy. Strategy and What is your vision of >500kt “We expect a growing number the BiW market in the Strategy and markets in focus of automotive OEMs to rapidly integrate a higher United States? Constellium considers the US to be a The aluminium market in North America volume of aluminium in their has already increased from 70kt in 2012 very promising market for aluminium markets in focus future models.” in automotive, and this is illustrated to approximately 500kt in 2015. Peter Basten by the undisputed success of the new Vice President, Strategy and version of the Ford F-150. What is Constellium’s BiW Business Development The aluminium BiW market in North development strategy? America has already increased from Our strategy is clear and consistent: 70kt in 2012 to approximately 500kt we are focusing on two growth in 2015. Experts forecast that it will areas, Europe and North America, grow to 950/1,200kt in 2020, with With stringent regulations and where we are expanding our further growth to 2025. standards requiring a significant industrial footprint to serve our improvement in fuel efficiency over Even when viewed conservatively, automotive customers. the next decade, and consumers this means that the market will In the US, this strategy has already becoming increasingly sensitive double over the next five years. seen us achieve two important about climate change, greenhouse The experts’ view, which is shared milestones. Firstly, the acquisition gas (GHG) emissions and fuel by the aluminium industry, of Wise Metals, the widest hot mill consumption, we expect a growing is primarily based on the forecasted in the US, strengthens our industrial number of automotive Original penetration rates of aluminium platform and is expected to provide Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) to BiW per product. incremental capacity to feed our rapidly integrate a higher volume of For light vehicle bodies and closures, BiW finishing lines. Secondly, the aluminium in their future models. aluminium is expected to grow from partnership signed with UACJ in Aluminium is considered to be 6% to 26% from 2015 to 2025*. 2014 and extended in 2016, will a material of choice capable of enable us to be among the largest delivering exceptional weight And in Europe? global producers in BiW and ideally reduction to the automotive industry. positioned to serve US, Japanese and We expect to benefit from strong Aluminium also goes beyond European OEMs. Our first finishing market growth as the integration of lightweighting: aesthetics, design, line in Bowling Green, Kentucky, has aluminium components continues strength, safety, energy absorption, already started ramping up, and to expand, not only in premium corrosion resistance and infinite we intend to build two additional vehicles but also in the high-volume recyclability are other reasons for lines, with the locations still to be car segment. carmakers to prefer aluminium over announced. The cost of these two other materials. European automakers must reduce additional lines will be shared by average carbon emissions across Constellium and UACJ under the their fleets, from around 140 g/km terms of our expanded partnership. in 2010 to 95 g/km in 2020. In Europe, we are long-time partners Today, industry analysts believe of automotive OEMs and have been that the aluminium BiW market in providing them with aluminium BiW Europe could leap from approximately for decades. 400kt in 2015 to around 700/800kt in 2020. *Source: Ducker Worldwide 12 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 13 Achieving our vision (continued) In focus: EHS Supporting our drive for growth Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) is our first and foremost priority. We are strengthening this leadership What level of investment What are Constellium’s key Progress, but no cause position with significant investments do you need to support competitive advantages in In summary “Keeping our people safe and for complacency Strategy and markets in focus in our plants to increase capacity healthy at work is our #1 your strategy? the BiW market? 20% and respond to the demand of the During 2015 we continued to make good progress on delivering our objective. We are constantly European market as early as 2017. While we previously announced a We are very well-positioned to take $620 million investment to support advantage of this growing market in commitment to EHS. Safety is our exploring new and better We completed a significant our BiW strategy in the US, we North America and in Europe. We have reduction in our accident #1 priority and our Recordable Case ways to work. This is a investment in BiW at our Singen Rate continues to be among the best never-ending but rewarding lowered our capital investment plan longstanding partnerships with Recordable Case Rate facility in Germany, which will increase capacity by 20,000 metric to $340 million in order to upgrade the automotive industry, unrivaled in the industry. project, because we are 0 Muscle Shoals and fund our share Research and Technology (R&T) However, we recognize that the making Constellium a place tons. In Neuf-Brisach, France, of two additional finishing lines. capabilities, and renowned industrial we invested €180 million in a expertise. We provide carmakers nature of our industry’s materials from which everybody can new finishing line, which is now We have reduced the capital required with more than just the extensive recordable cases at our plants in Burg, and machinery mean that there go home safely and enjoy ramping up. to complete the upstream portion of are inherent risks during our advantages of lightweighting. Changchun, Dahenfeld, Gottmadingen, operations – and every procedure their lives in good health.” our North American BiW investment. Decin, Landau, Valais (Automotive Volker Brockhagen Are you considering China as Structures and Industry), Montreuilis therefore conceived and Group EHS Director Under the terms of our expanded “We have devised a Juigné, Ussel, Bowling Green and C-TEC implemented with accident part of your BiW strategy? partnership with UACJ, we will be comprehensive and very avoidance as the primary objective. sharing the cost of the two additional 2.6m+ We are present in China with a plant 100kt finishing lines. consistent vision and So although this year’s performance producing Crash Management strategy. This will enable is pleasing, it is in no way cause Systems from extruded products and In addition, the joint venture will for complacency. have a good knowledge of this market. us to become one of the co‑market our products and technical hours worked without a recordable We continue to monitor the Chinese services to our automotive customers global leaders in this case at Decin The next step for our team is to BiW market and regularly review our promising market.” engage and empower our operators, in North America. supporting the Standard Operating 2m+ strategy and options based on this analysis. We will of course evaluate Overall, this approach should Procedures we introduced in 2014, significantly enhance our ability We also provide car makers with and which are currently being Initiatives such as the Contained opportunities as we identify them, but to serve automotive customers engineered, tailor-made alloys and implemented, with programs Hazards project, the Five Minute at this stage, we believe that there is hours worked without a recordable through the combination of our solutions: products and modules for focused on modifying behaviors. Safety Talks and a renewed focus on no significant market for BiW products case at Decin, Gottmadingen and Ussel broad portfolio of BiW alloys, strong The aim is to ensure that our our Leadership Safety Tours form the in China – no Chinese OEM is yet using improved fuel economy, high technical capabilities and multiple people buy into our safety culture cornerstone of our drive for improved 0 aluminium and our European plants performance of parts and material hot mill diversification. and understand the personal performance in 2016. currently ship BiW to German OEMs utilization, and reductions in tooling producing and selling cars in China. costs. At the same time, we continue benefits that will be generated We work hard to keep our people by correct behaviors. healthy as well as safe and regularly to focus on innovation, with a new major or significant research center in Plymouth, Michigan. environmental incidents carry out specific programs, such as “We work hard to reduce stress-related disease prevention, at We have devised a comprehensive our environmental impact our sites. In 2016 we are rolling-out a and very consistent vision and strategy. This will enable us to and that of our suppliers – health program at two major plants become one of the global leaders and are committed to to encourage healthy eating and physical activity. in this promising market. doing even more in the years ahead.” Our overall environmental Didier Vasner performance improved during the Group Manager, year, although our figures have been Environment impacted by the acquisition of the Muscle Shoals plant. The focus for the year ahead will include energy efficiency and reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill. 14 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 15 In focus: Lean Transforming how we work Since 2012, our Lean Transformation program has brought significant changes to the way we work. During 2015 we began to implement Lean phase 2, a new five-year initiative aimed at driving continuous improvement. In summary Maintaining our focus This was again achieved during Longer, deeper, wider scope Emails received 2015. For 2016 and beyond, the KPI from Lean phase 1 for Lean phase 2 Unnecessary email communications Strategy and markets in focus that tracks employee suggestions is waste time and slow down performance. 2% 2% In 2012, we identified six Lean Key being incorporated in Lean phase 2, During 2015 we began to implement We measure the number of emails Performance Indicators (KPIs) and where we expect it to drive significant Lean phase 2, which builds on the received throughout Constellium. targeted progress of at least 2% per improvements at production unit level. success of phase 1 and extends it We have identified 22 emails as an improvement per month targeted at each improvement month-on-month targeted month on each of them. The support into new areas. Phase 2 is: acceptable daily average for most facility in Lean phase 1 at each Autonomous Production Unit of our people backed by a range of Product quality (APU) in Lean phase 2 –– Longer – this is a five-year program employees and are confident that as specific, very efficient Lean tools and Our business is built on high quality aimed at anchoring continuous the Lean office is developed over the the engagement of our management products. This KPI tracks customer improvement in Constellium. coming years we will see a significant Our Lean program demands the commitment and involvement has enabled us to achieve most of complaints and our performance is The target for each KPI is a 2% reduction towards that number. of all our people. It has already had a great impact on our performance these demanding targets. based on detecting any defects during month-on-month improvement, and with the introduction of Lean phase 2, will continue to do so for production – before the product goes which equates to a year-on-year Specific KPIs for each function the next five years. Environment, Health and Safety to the customer. 2015 was another improvement of 20%. Our goal is to Our teams in each function have ––The number of accidents we experience ––Our employees are deeply engaged in the Our most important priority, we work excellent year for quality, with only achieve a 70% improvement in the identified a target specific to their has reduced by 80% over the 10 years of continuous improvement process, with an hard to protect the environment and one-third of the customer complaints five years of the program; our EHS First initiative. Our record is now average of one suggestion per employee roles. While some functions are ensure the health and safety of our received in 2012 when the Lean significantly better than the aluminium being implemented every month. –– Deeper – where phase 1 was on target, others have work to do. industry average. teams. As we reported last year, program was first implemented. ––The availability of our key equipment has implemented at a plant level, phase However, we expect each of them progress on safety in 2014 stagnated. ––Our customers’ satisfaction has achieved our uptime target, improving 2 goes down to APU level; and to make good progress over the dramatically improved over the three during the two years of Lean phase 1 from However, during 2015 we addressed On-time, in-full delivery next five years. years of our Lean Transformation. 70% to 95%. Under Lean phase 2, we have this matter and have delivered –– Wider – phase 2 extends the The number of quality complaints extended this focus to include more of our This KPI also shows significant a step change in performance. principles of Lean to our support and missed deliveries have both been key equipment. improvement. The percentage of late reduced by two-thirds. Our Recordable Case Rate reduced functions such as Sales, Purchasing, deliveries to customers has been by 20% in 2015 compared with 2014. Finance, IT, R&T and HR. reduced from 55% in 2012 to 18% –– Continuing to track specific KPIs from Lean phase 1 Although this performance, which is at the end of 2015. significantly better than companies Each office is tasked with achieving –– Extending Lean into support functions via phase 2 across the European and American Inventory two of the three targets set out below: –– Introducing new KPIs for phase 2 aluminium industry, gives us some satisfaction, we remain committed Designated as the ‘Year of Just-inUsage of Lean tools to further improvements – see Time’, during 2015 we focused on reducing our inventory through the This KPI tracks the degree to which pages 44–45 for details on how we extensive implementation of pull our Lean tools are being utilized in our aim to achieve this. flow systems, in order to address the support functions. During the year, relatively disappointing performance 60 administrative managers received Empowering our people in the previous year. We are retaining coaching sessions on a quarterly Behavioral issues have a huge impact basis to ensure that our teams the 2% per month target, supported on both safety and performance, and understand how to use the tools by a new focus on flexibility during nobody is better placed to identify available. Overall, after just 2016 (see the case study opposite). where improvements can be achieved one year the usage of Lean tools 2016 – the Year of Flexibility than our own people. Our aim during is already running at 35% of our We need our processes to be flexible in Equipment downtime Lean phase 1 was that employees expectations (with considerable order to deliver high quality products The amount of time that key equipment in the correct quantities at the right at each site should make at least disparity between different time. During 2016 our goal is to carry one suggestion for improvements is not operational has been reduced functions). The target is to raise this out frequent, safe, efficient and each month. from 30% to 15% during Lean phase 1. right‑first‑time equipment changeovers level to 65% across the organization In 2015 we identified additional key so that we can produce small batches of during 2016, with much less disparity products, on demand. This will reduce our equipment which will broaden the between the functions. inventory and improve our performance scope of this KPI in Lean phase 2. in terms of quality and, most importantly, service to our customers. 16 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 17 In focus: Innovation Powering our future Innovation is the engine that drives Constellium. Based in France, C-TEC is a world-class technology center responsible for the process and product innovations that create competitive advantage for our business and our customers. In 2015 we finalized plans to expand C-TEC’s capabilities through a new research hub in the US. In summary Value through innovation In addition, we further improved Although initially developed for this We see another emerging megatrend Further trends include the advent our rapid prototyping capability. specific request, this welding alloy around 3D-printing, additive of Industry 4.0, with its use of big Strategy and markets in focus C-TEC brings together high-level This means that when we make has significant further potential manufacturing that enables the data, smart sensors, the ‘internet 260 specialists from 22 different a scale 1 version of a product, across the automotive sector. production of components that of things’, and atomistic modelling nationalities. During 2015, we invested it is more likely to be in line with would not have been possible even with the potential for alloying by €46 million in order to provide this expectations and able to move Twin-track approach 24 months ago. design. These could revolutionize full-time equivalent employees team with industry-leading resources rapidly into full-scale production. At C-TEC we balance shorthow aluminium is used, integrated to and facilities. Together, our skilled This is a fast-growing area that is 22 term commercial initiatives with create hybrid materials, and designed and experienced people focus on attracting significant investment Key highlights a long‑term strategic focus. and manufactured to create new harnessing the benefits of aluminium and at C-TEC we are working with Our expert teams develop practical While we create the breakthroughs products. As part of the ‘internet of and developing innovative solutions partner organizations to understand solutions that help our customers that transform our customers’ ability things’ the development of driverless nationalities for our customers in the shortest the technology and define its seize new opportunities to market to rapidly deliver new products to cars is another trend that is likely possible time. This not only creates potential. Although this technology 93 products with new qualities or higher market, we also constantly monitor to impact our business and the value for our customers, it also is at an early stage, we envisage a levels of performance. and evaluate the megatrends that solutions we offer to the automotive creates value for Constellium by range of practical applications and are shaping the next generation of market. We are also working on new giving us a demonstrable competitive The last 12 months have seen are exploring how merging additive engineers including 58 PHDs materials and the opportunities that AIRWARE® solutions and advanced advantage over our peers. several notable successes for manufacturing with traditional will open up for us and our customers hybrid materials for the next set of 150 C-TEC, including the development rolled aluminium production can in the coming decades. challenges in aerospace applications. Improving time to market of a new billet casting technology create something new in terms of For our customers, time is a for tranche 2 of our AIRWARE® Our C-TEC teams work closely with the functional capabilities. active patent families and trademarks commodity in short supply. technology. This new aluminiumInternational Scientific Council (ISC) of Whether they are working in lithium processing route has now Constellium, drawing on its members’ Rapidly bringing innovations aerospace, automotive or packaging, been qualified by Airbus for its A350 global knowledge and expertise to to market their key objective is to take new aircraft and is being delivered through provide the Board with specialist input ideas to market at speed. To achieve our investment in new casthouse on trends and challenges, and advice Supporting Constellium’s this, they rely on the expertise of technology at Issoire. on how Constellium can best take drive for new products C-TEC, and in 2015 we again improved advantage of upcoming opportunities. In automotive, we have further Monitoring trends, a track record that was already highly For more details on the ISC, please developed our leadership position seizing opportunities respected in our industry. see pages 18–19. by creating a new welding alloy for Opening of a new R&T hub We evaluated our processes and a key customer. This innovation, The major megatrend in our industry in the US identified a number of opportunities which facilitates robotic technology is the continuing “aluminization” where we could improve our and laser welding without the need of Body-in-White (BiW) in the Partnerships with approximately ability to rapidly deliver new and for filler wire, meets the customer’s automotive market, where the 50 universities and laboratories better products to our customers. requirement for faster and more challenge is to deliver high volumes including: For example, we expanded our team, cost-effective production while at acceptable costs and at the ––USA: University of Michigan, adding new competencies that have also endorsing our own marketright time. C-TEC is central to Massachusetts Institute of Technology enhanced our modeling capabilities. leading reputation. Constellium’s ability to exploit the (MIT), Northwestern University, Bright minds, bright future University of South Carolina, Worcester Modeling enables us to shorten full potential of BiW. We are investing By being close to our customers, we are The hub will create close links with both Polytechnic Institute the cycle time between concept in new research to ensure that the able to interact in their language and share the University of Michigan (Ann Arbor) and ––UK: Brunel University London, University and industrial trial by allowing us to business is well‑positioned to drive both a common culture and an understanding Northwestern University and support our of Manchester, University of Oxford replicate production conditions and the BiW sector over the next five years of the market. In 2015 we finalized plans reputation for collaborating with the brightest ––France: CNRS/University laboratories, to expand C-TEC’s capabilities through a minds at academic institutions across the world. identify any potential challenges and beyond. new research hub in the US, close to the IRT M2P, IRT Jules Verne Our partnership with Brunel University London, earlier in the process. automotive industry in Detroit, Michigan. ––Germany: RWTH Aachen, German which is helping to support our relationships Later in 2016, the doors of the hub will open, Aerospace Center DLR with academia and key automotive customers, to support our growth in North America and took another important step forwards in 2016. ––Switzerland: EPFL Lausanne expand our connections with academia. Please see the case study on page 24. ––Netherlands: TU Delft 18 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 19 Market trends Broadening perspectives As Chairman of the International Scientific Council (ISC) of Constellium, Professor Heinz Voggenreiter plays a key role in nurturing and broadening our perspective on emerging technologies and trends. Here he outlines how the Council operates, the progress it has made and the opportunities now offered to our company. What is the ISC and what is How does the ISC influence What have been the greatest What was the highlight A watchful eye should also be kept The Council is currently evaluating on potentially upcoming competition recycling processes in other your role as Chairman? innovation at Constellium? achievements of the ISC? of 2015? Strategy and markets in focus from glassand carbon-fiberindustries and organizations and will Established in July 2013, the ISC The Council is an external-facing Over the last two and a half years, We met with the Executive Committee reinforced polymers. make recommendations accordingly. provides Constellium with an external organization that pulls in a huge we generated a map of the technical of Constellium and presented a perspective on technological and amount of information from the worlds competencies and research at summary of the work we have In aerospace, new alloys incorporating Competition from steel and fiberscientific matters. Our six members, of academia and industry in order to Constellium and this has given us a achieved since the creation of the elements like lithium will improve reinforced polymer technologies who are all scientists working in provide a solid basis for innovation. broad overview of the company and its Council in 2013. We mapped our lightweighting and this is an area demonstrate the value of R&T in leading academic institutions, come capabilities. We have made significant research activities, demonstrated where Constellium has a significant aluminium, which must be maintained Efficient Research & Technology competitive advantage. The next at a constant high level in order to from five different countries the UK, inputs on many issues. However, four the value of the ISC to Constellium (R&T) is central to the success of step is to work on formability and capture future business. the US, Japan, France and Germany. key achievements stand out: and presented our strategic view on Constellium, and the ISC supports welding technology. Friction welding, Together, we offer a wide range of how we should proceed in the next the company in its drive to develop We have given a significant amount complementary skills and experiences a world-class R&T capability in two of advice on casting technology and two years. for example, can reduce the need How can Constellium for milling and also reduce scrap, in technologies such as fiber distinct ways. how to improve this to achieve better therefore improving the buy-to-fly ensure that it is wellreinforced polymers, microstructures products. Constellium now has a Where do you see the ratio. In the mid-term, glass-fiberpositioned to seize the and mechanical behavior, surface Firstly, we have a technical role under technology and casting processes, which we give advice to C-TEC on lot of data on casting and this will greatest potential for polymer/aluminium laminates (GLARE) opportunities ahead? to mention them. issues that are outside the company’s underpin further developments in aluminium in future years? could gain importance, especially To achieve its strategic objectives, the coming years. Although our role is for fuselage skins, and could open direct scope, such as technologies Aluminium has tremendous potential, Constellium must constantly evaluate My own strength is materials and only advisory, it has been rewarding an additional business opportunity that compete with aluminium as not only in terms of performance research findings to identify new structure technology for aerospace, to see most of our recommendations for Constellium. Looking further well as emerging technologies but also sustainability. While the applications and better processes. specifically material technologies that turned into actions with the new ahead, the evolution of competing in the field of aluminium alloys, cost/performance ratio is at the The organization has the right culture compete with aluminium. As Chairman, casthouses at Issoire, for example. carbon-fiber-reinforced polymers such as 3D-printing technology. heart of its increasing adoption, and resources in place to ensure my task is to structure the work of (CFRP) should be carefully monitored. This role is about the properties and We have also been instrumental aluminium also offers significantly that the consulting work the Council the ISC, to chair meetings, take an Once design and production is effectiveness of particular materials in raising issues around material less mechanical complexity when conducts can be successfully overview of interactions between optimized to fulfill the cost targets, and processes. We analyze these mechanics, such as instabilities compared to materials such as fibertransferred into practical initiatives Council members and Constellium CFRP will be more competitive and make recommendations on in the mechanical response of reinforced polymers. at a business unit level and ultimately and ensure that we continue to deliver with aluminium. This is the reason new processes or applications that aluminium alloys. We gave advice into new products and services that high-level advisory support and In the automotive sector, I think we why it is important to work on can be used by Constellium to gain on how to test material behaviors enrich lives. recommendations to Constellium. will see a steady increase in the cost-efficient business models for competitive advantage. and envisage this being used in the contribution made by aluminium. the new aluminium alloys, in addition Each year, the Council attends development of new structures with Secondly, we provide organizational New alloys with high strength to the constant improvement of their two two-day formal meetings with improved performance. advice via strategic interaction with and enhanced ductility and crash structural performance. C-TEC, the Constellium technology the top management of the company In terms of advice on the structure of performance will certainly push “Aluminium has tremendous center. These are held at C-TEC in Voreppe, France, as well as at on areas including the structure of the R&T network, we have evaluated the application of aluminium in Sustainability based on infinite potential, not only in the R&T organization. For example, our own research universe and this automobiles. Aluminium is seeing recyclability is another core terms of performance various Constellium plants. The local advantage of aluminium. Fiberwe have suggested how best to has helped Constellium strengthen some competition from new variants knowledge we gain through these of high-strength steel but personally I reinforced polymers can only be but also sustainability” develop the R&T network, drawing its co-operation with partners across visits provides the foundation for down-cycled, and this leads to Professor Heinz Voggenreiter on our own global connections to the world. believe that the competition between Chairman of the high-quality advice. In addition, decreased quality. However, although advise on possible partnerships with these different technologies is healthy International Scientific we also arrange demand-oriented Finally, we have played an important aluminium has clear advantages Council of Constellium other organizations. as developments in one will stimulate meetings with individuals at C-TEC part in the expansion of Constellium’s in recycling terms, it can make progress in the others. or the business units to discuss R&T capability into new geographies. further progress. We need to reuse specific issues. We gave advice on which countries scrap more effectively and make would be most suitable for a C-TEC it part of the business model in team, and are pleased to see that order to reduce costs and retain as a new research hub is set to open much aluminium as possible in the shortly in Michigan in the US. manufacturing process. 20 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 21 Business unit perspectives An eventful year This has been a period of sustained activity for Constellium, with good progress in a number of important areas. On the following pages, we report on the key operations, highlights and goals of our three business units. Meeting customer needs As a result of the acquisition, Automotive highlights We remain firmly committed to These three lines will be supplied Packaging and Constellium is now a global leader in our strategy and are rapidly growing by the hot mills at Muscle Shoals and Strategy and markets in focus Our Packaging and Automotive Rolled As the demand from the automotive the packaging market. The Muscle our capacity to meet demand in at the UACJ/TriArrows Logan facilities. Automotive Products business unit develops and provides aluminium sheets and coils Shoals facility also recycles the industry for aluminium products is growing rapidly, we expect this this market. On March 10, 2016, Rolled Products for packaging applications (beverage equivalent of 14 billion cans per year, helping to ensure that aluminium market to become increasingly we announced a planned expansion of our existing joint venture with Our investments in BiW and food cans, closures, foils) as well fulfills its potential as an infinitely important for Constellium. UACJ. This strategic move establishes finishing projects are as automotive solutions, including recyclable material. Our portfolio continued to expand the joint venture as a leading player proceeding according to high-performance products for BiW and heat exchangers. during the year, thanks to our in the North American BiW market. schedule. Our first BiW 14 billion strong commitment to innovation Our investments in BiW finishing finishing line in Bowling It is a leader in recycling end–of-life and the R&T capabilities of C-TEC, Green, Kentucky, has projects are proceeding according scrap from packaging products, in which have delivered Surfalex® HF, particular from cans. We are the world our high formable skin solution, to schedule. Our first BiW finishing started pre-qualification Our Muscle Shoals facility recycles the leader for closure stock, and #2 in equivalent of 14 billion cans per year. as well as Kool X™, our new multiline in Bowling Green, Kentucky, production as planned, has started pre-qualification and is expected to ramp-up Europe and North America for can clad solution for demanding heat production as planned and is body stock. Our packaging customers In 2015, we began the process of exchanger applications. expected to ramp-up in 2017. in 2017. include major beverage and food can integrating the Muscle Shoals plant In North America, experts forecast manufacturers, such as Anheuserinto our organization, benchmarking Furthermore, we intend to build We are also increasing our BiW that demand for BiW aluminium Busch InBev, Coca-Cola, Crown, the it against our other facilities and two additional 100,000 metric ton capacity in Europe by completing rolled products is likely to reach 1.3 forthcoming Rexam/Ball merged sharing technical knowledge from finishing lines, at locations yet to a significant investment in Singen, to 2 million tons in the next decade. business, and specialty-packaging both sides of the Atlantic Ocean. be announced. Germany during the year and ramping 2015 was a year of transformation for providers such as Amcor. up production on a new BiW finishing our Packaging and Automotive Rolled Despite Muscle Shoals’ disappointing The Packaging and Automotive line in Neuf-Brisach, France (see below). Products business unit. The acquisition results in 2015, the turnaround is Rolled Products business unit is well underway thanks to corrective of Muscle Shoals in early 2015 was also the largest non-integrated Completing BiW a major step forward in our strategic measures being implemented since producer of foil stock in Europe the acquisition. investments in Europe development. It enabled us to become and a global leader in aluminium a global leader in the packaging market, We are also launching new innovative We invested €180 million in a new solutions for specialty products while preparing for our Body-in-White packaging solutions such as Aeral™ continuous annealing and conversion including decorative applications (BiW) strategy. We are on track and well for aerosol containers, which we line at our Neuf-Brisach, France and cosmetics. positioned to execute this strategy, believe achieves up to 30% weight facility with a targeted capacity of which will be accelerated due to the reduction compared to traditional 100,000 metric tons. We have already strengthened partnership signed in early Packaging highlights started to produce coils ahead extruded containers, with the same 2016 with our joint venture partner, UACJ. A stable and growing market that level of performance in terms of of schedule for the qualification We were also pleased to report excellent is resilient across economic cycles, pressure resistance. process. During the year, we also progress in our safety performance, packaging remains the bedrock completed our investment in a especially at Muscle Shoals. of Constellium. new furnace at our Singen facility, Our packaging capability has been with an improved capacity of significantly strengthened by the 20,000 metric tons. acquisition in early 2015 of Wise Metals, whose facility in Muscle Shoals, Alabama has the widest strip mill in North America. This broadened our US industrial platform and enhanced our customer portfolio. BiW finishing line in Bowling Green, Kentucky, US 22 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 23 Business unit perspectives (continued) Our facilities in Europe and North Meeting customer needs Aerospace and America work seamlessly together Automotive Strategy and markets in focus Automotive Structures and Industry to provide our customers with a Transportation wide portfolio of products and Structures produces advanced solutions for the global automotive industry, services, sharing complementary and Industry Machined wing skin at our plant in Issoire, France including Crash Management industrial capabilities. Systems (CMS) and other structural We are on track with our plan to Together, they add value through and safety parts as well as a range improve operational performance and The investments planned customized services, which improve of hard and soft alloy extruded address capacity constraints, and for 2015 were completed our customers’ operations and solutions. This business unit also well-positioned to take full advantage on schedule, including reduce their costs, including premanufactures large profiles mainly for of the continued strong demand in the ramp-up of our second machining, advanced welding and road and rail transportation, energy the aerospace market. recycling solutions. and other industrial applications. AIRWARE® casthouse Constellium complements this product Meeting customer needs at Issoire. Transportation, industry range with a comprehensive offering of downstream technology and services, The world #1 in value-added and defense highlights including pre-machining, surface aerospace plates, our Aerospace and Also at Issoire, we invested in a new In order to bring stronger focus to the treatment and logistics support Transportation business provides cut-to-length and finishing line, which specific priorities of these markets, services. With plants in North America, innovative aluminium rolled and provides state-of-the art online surface we have created a dedicated sales Europe and China, we have the extruded products, which contribute inspection to ensure impeccable quality organization that is making good capacity to serve our customers locally. to lightweighting and therefore greater for our aerospace sheets. progress in developing targeted 2015 was the year of recovery for fuel efficiency. Our capabilities commercial strategies and growth 2015 was another excellent year At Ravenswood in the US, we Automotive Structures our Aerospace and Transportation include rectangular and machined plans. The team is structured for the Automotive Structures achieved record plate production and business, which recorded a 14% plates, as well as extrusions for made good headway in our vertical regionally to meet needs in Europe, and Industry business unit with and Industry enjoys increase in adjusted EBITDA and aircraft wings and frames, and integration efforts, fully aligning our North America and Asia-Pacific. adjusted EBITDA reaching strong, long-term and fuselage sheets. We also supply cast revenue growth of 13%. As we products for engine parts from our product offering to the needs of our A major achievement in this segment €80 million, an 11% increase from well‑established relationships continue to deploy Lean tools and customers. Together with our local was our preparation to transition the 2014 and the sixth consecutive with most of the world’s processes to drive operational plant in Ussel, France. In addition, wide roof coil business from Muscle year of growth. For the first time, pre-machining partner we can now leading automotive OEMs. excellence, we have made significant we serve the space industry as well Shoals to Ravenswood. the business unit’s revenues offer tailor-made solutions to our progress in terms of customer as the transportation, industry and exceeded €1 billion, increasing customers, thus facilitating their service, on-time delivery and quality. defense sectors. We have strong The business unit is the #1 or #2 market positions in rolled aluminium operations and improving the buy-toPushing up capacity by 14% mainly due to automotive fly ratio (the amount of raw material extruded products. global player in all of its chosen market for truck floors, tank trailers and roof In Ravenswood, the new 100Kt pusher segments. In 2015, we became the joint We recently signed a coils in North America and Europe, required to produce a finished part). furnace is on track for completion We are well-positioned to achieve #1 in CMS, thanks to our unmatched multi-year contract with and provide specialized plate for Last but not least, we recently by the end of the year, and we our goal to be the fastest-growing alloy portfolio and unrivaled innovation Airbus for the provision armored vehicles. signed a multi-year contract with anticipate it to be in full production by global leader of extrusion-based capabilities. This leadership position the end of December 2016. This new advanced products in the automotive, of advanced aluminium Airbus, underlining the fact that the furnace is set to meet the growth transportation and industry markets. gives us a great competitive advantage products and solutions. Aerospace highlights technology and industrial investments ambitions of our customers. It will for the future, as analysts forecast that we have made in recent years have by 2018 aluminium will account for The investments planned for 2015 add pre-heating capacity, which will increased our operational and 30% of the total CMS market in Europe were completed on schedule, including increase output across our entire We also continued to develop our business performance. The contract and 20% in the US. the ramp-up of our second AIRWARE® product range. industrial capabilities, with highlights further solidifies our longstanding casthouse at Issoire. Now fully Automotive Structures and Industry including the second AIRWARE® partnership with Airbus and confirms qualified by our main customers, this enjoys strong, long-term and wellcasthouse in Issoire and the decision our position as a leading partner for casthouse is supporting production of established relationships with most of to build a new pusher furnace high value-added aluminium products our innovative AIRWARE® aluminiumthe world’s leading automotive OEMs. in Ravenswood. and solutions for the aerospace sector. lithium alloys for different usages in the aerospace industry. 24 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 25 Business unit perspectives (continued) On the following pages, we detail our approach to how Constellium is directed and controlled. We include information on our Board and its members as well as the various committees and policies which facilitate the effective management of the business. Governance Partnering with them early in the During 2015, we again won a wide This partnership, which combines the concept design, we produce tailorrange of nominations, which led strengths of Constellium and Can Art, made solutions to help our customers to our decision to invest in a new is expected to enable us to engineer create vehicles that are safer, lighter manufacturing facility in Bartow and produce new higher strength, and more fuel efficient to cope with County, Georgia, further rolling out lighter weight, advanced components in focus ever more stringent environmental our strategy of working in partnership for our automotive customers, while regulations worldwide. with automakers, by being close to securing our supply source. their assembly plants. Finally, we announced a €22.5 million Major achievements We also decided to partner with investment at our site in Decin, Czech The automotive market continued Can Art, a Canadian company, to Republic, which is the European leader to be promising worldwide. Analysts build a new press in Lakeshore, in hard alloy extrusions, particularly expect the extrusion market for Ontario, Canada, near the US border for the automotive sector. The site is Body Structures to reach 120 kt in and Detroit. increasing its casting, extrusion and North America and Europe in 2025, fabrication capacity to meet the rising Closely modeled on our Singen facility representing a CAGR of 14%. demand from automakers for specialty Governance in focus in Germany, this press will exclusively hard alloy extrusions. Our major achievement was the produce our new advanced patented successful production ramp-up to high-strength alloys. supply structural components for the Ford F-150, the world’s best selling vehicle. For Ford, the switch from steel to aluminium was a very demanding transition, and was greatly supported by our outstanding record of 99.7% on-time delivery. We expanded our Van Buren, Michigan facility to cope with Ford’s demanding requirements for high-volume high-quality products. In addition to being a privileged partner of Ford for extruded structural parts, we are now also producing parts for the heavy-duty F-250 and F-350. Nominations, the industry term for new contracts, are the lifeblood of our business because they generate steady demand throughout the lifetime of the vehicle model/platform, Constellium University Technology Center (UTC) at Brunel University frequently for seven years or more. London – a center of excellence for automotive structural components We supply high-strength Our partnership with Brunel University London expanded in 2015, with the We will then transfer those alloys and processes to our plants at high speed and aluminium structural Constellium UTC opening its doors in April with minimal risk. The UTC will also attract parts for the lightweight 2016. This one-of-a-kind, industrial-scale center is expected to reduce development new international talent and develop the scientists and engineers of the future through Ford-150, the world’s times of the advanced aluminium alloys a fellowship program for PhD students and best selling vehicle. required for the continued lightweighting of automotive structural components post-doctoral fellows. For more information by at least 50%. see page 42 26 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 27 Board of Directors Our Board members Director independence Our Committees We maintain a one-tier Board of Directors consisting of an Executive Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Director and Non-Executive The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the management Directors (each a ‘Director’). Members: On December 31, 2015, the Audit Committee Members: On December 31, 2015, the Remuneration of the Company, the general conduct of the Company’s business Under Dutch law, the Board of consisted of five Independent Directors under the NYSE requirements: Committee consisted of two Directors: Peter F. Hartman Chair Directors is responsible for the and its corporate governance structure. The Non-Executive Directors policy-making and management of Werner P. Paschke Chair Philippe Guillemot Richard B. Evans supervise and provide guidance to the Executive Director, who is the company. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide Guy Maugis John Ormerod entrusted with the day-to-day management of the Company. guidance to the Executive Director. Lori A. Walker Function: Function: As a foreign private issuer under Our Board of Directors has determined The principal duties and responsibilities of the Securities and Exchange the Remuneration Committee include: that at least one member is an “audit Commission (SEC) rules, we are committee financial expert” as defined ––to review, evaluate and make not required to have Independent by the SEC and also meets the additional recommendations to the full Board of Directors on our Board of Directors, criteria for independence of audit committee Directors regarding our compensation members set forth in Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under policies and establish performance-based 3 2 1 8 5 except to the extent that our Audit 4 the Exchange Act. incentives that support our long-term goals, Committee is required to consist objectives and interests; The principal duties and responsibilities of Independent Directors. of the Audit Committee include overseeing ––to review and approve the compensation of and monitoring the following: our Chief Executive Officer, all employees who However, our Board of Directors ––our financial reporting process and internal report directly to our Chief Executive Officer has determined that, under current and other members of our senior management; control system; NYSE listing standards regarding ––the integrity of our consolidated –– to review and make recommendations to the independence (which we are not Board of Directors with respect to our incentive financial statements; currently subject to), and taking into and equity-based compensation plans; ––the independence, qualifications and account any applicable committee performance of our independent registered ––to set and review the compensation of standards, Messrs. Evans, and reimbursement policies for members Governance in focus public accounting firm; Brandjes, Guillemot, Hartman, of the Board of Directors; and ––the performance of our internal Maugis, Ormerod, Paschke and Ms. audit function; ––to provide oversight concerning selection of officers, management succession planning, Walker are Independent Directors. ––our related party transactions; and expense accounts, indemnification and ––our compliance with legal, ethical and insurance matters, and separation packages. regulatory matters. Nominating/Corporate Board meetings in 2015 6 9 7 Governance Committee In 2015 the Board of Directors Members: reviewed matters including: On December 31, 2015, the Nominating/ Corporate Governance Committee ––reports from the Board’s Committees; 1 Richard B. Evans* 2 Pierre Vareille 3 Michiel Brandjes* consisted of two Directors: Richard B. Evans Chair –– reports from the Chief Executive Officer (including Environment, Health & Safety Chairman Chief Executive Officer Mr. Brandjes has served as a member of our Michiel Brandjes (EHS) and M&A activity); Mr. Evans has served as Chairman of our Board Mr. Vareille has served as Chief Executive Board of Directors since June 2014. since December 2012 and as a member of our Officer of Constellium and as a member of our ––approval of the 2014 Annual Accounts; Function: Board of Directors since January 2011. Board of Directors since March 2012. The principal duties and responsibilities ––approval of filing of Form 20-F of the Nominating/Corporate Governance with the SEC; Committee include: 4 Philippe Guillemot* 5 Peter F. Hartman* 6 Guy Maugis* ––approval of the draft agenda for the Constellium General Meeting ––to establish criteria for Board and Mr. Guillemot has served as a member of our Mr. Hartman has served as a member of our Mr. Maugis has served as a member of our of Shareholders of June 11, Committee membership; Board of Directors since May 2013. Board of Directors since June 2014. Board of Directors since January 2011. 2015, including nomination of Board members visit our ––to recommend to our Board of Directors Non‑Executive Directors; technology center and sites proposed nominees for election to the Board of Directors and for membership on ––finance reports; Our Board of Directors carry out site visits committees of our Board of Directors; and as part of a program which enables them to ––approval of the Wise Metals integration; 7 John Ormerod* 8 Werner P. Paschke* 9 Lori A. Walker* gain additional and first-hand insight into ––to make recommendations to our Board –– r eports from the business units Mr. Ormerod has served as a member of our Mr. Paschke has served as a member of our Ms. Walker has served as a member of our our people, expertise, products, processes of Directors regarding Board governance (on any major projects); and Board of Directors since June 2014. Board of Directors since May 2013. Board of Directors since June 2014. and technologies. Between December matters and practices. 2014 and April 2015 Board members visited –– review of 2016 budget. C-TEC, Gottmadingen, Issoire, Neuf-Brisach and Singen in Europe and Ravenswood, *Independent Director under NYSE listing standards Muscle Shoals and Van Buren in the US. Martha Brooks (not pictured) was appointed on November 30, 2015 as a Special Advisor to For full biographies visit the Board of Directors. The Board expects to put forward the nomination of Ms. Brooks as www.constellium.com a Non-Executive Director at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held in June 2016. 28 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 29 Executive Committee Our leadership team Business Governance Executive Committee Operations Committee Our Executive Committee focuses on our strategy, commercial ––Chief Executive Officer ––Business unit Presidents ––Chief Executive Officer ––Business unit Presidents developments, program execution, financial and competitive –– Chief Financial Officer ––Vice President, Strategy and ––Chief Financial Officer ––Vice President, Strategy and program, organizational development and Group-wide policies. Business Development ––Vice President, Human Resources Business Development ––Vice President, Human Resources ––Vice President and Group General Counsel ––Vice President, Communications ––Vice President and Chief Technical Officer –– Vice President, EHS and Lean Transformation ––Chief Information Officer ––Vice President, Business Planning Function: Function: ––reviews all strategic issues and evaluates ––develops and implements the operational all significant proposed acquisitions or business decisions, as defined by divestments, financial restructuring, management and the Board of Directors; alliances and strategic partnerships; ––monitors the implementation and progress 11 9 1 6 ––develops and monitors implementation of significant operational projects; of key strategic, financial, investment 7 10 12 2 and organizational decisions; ––monitors the execution of the budget, and in particular the Free Cash Flow ––controls the execution of the five-year generation of the business; and plan and of the budget; ––submits reports, proposals and ––reviews reports and proposals made by recommendations on all matters the Operations Committee to evaluate its relating to the operations to the economic and financial consequences; and Executive Committee. ––as and when required, submits reports, proposals and recommendations on all matters within its scope of responsibility Governance in focus to the Board of Directors. Leadership in action Our CEO and business unit Presidents regularly undertake site visits to demonstrate their full commitment to our EHS and Lean initiatives. In 2015: CEO: 12 plant visits BU Presidents: 40 plant visits 13 4 5 8 3  or more information F see page 45 1 Pierre Vareille 2 Peter Basten 3 Marc Boone 4 Nicolas Brun Code of Conduct Whistleblower policy Chief Executive Officer Vice President, Strategy Vice President, Human Resources Vice President, Communications Our Worldwide Code of Employee We have implemented a and Business Development and Business Conduct sets out the whistleblower policy to foster an standard of behavior we expect from environment where our employees our employees. The Code governs the can act without fear of retaliation 5 Béatrice Charon 6 Didier Fontaine 7 Ingrid Jörg 8 Arnaud Jouron way Constellium acts in business, and report wrongdoing or suspected Vice President, Business Planning Chief Financial Officer President, Aerospace and Transportation President, Packaging and Automotive Rolled business unit Products business unit and how we expect our business wrongdoing or irregularities of a partners, customers and suppliers to financial, accounting, banking or behave. It applies to all Constellium corruption nature in Constellium 9 Simon Laddychuk 10 Jeremy Leach 11 Yves Mérel 12 Vittorio Rossetti employees, subject to applicable to a reporting official. To facilitate Vice President and Chief Technical Officer Vice President and Group General Counsel Vice-President, EHS and Chief Information Officer local law. this reporting, we have established Lean Transformation an external hotline in all the countries Compliance with the Code is and languages we have operations in. essential to preserving and enhancing 13 Paul Warton the Company’s reputation as a President, Automotive Structures responsible corporate citizen, and Insider Trading policy and Industry business unit ultimately, to maximizing shareholder We have an Insider Trading policy value. For suppliers, we have which sets out the restrictions on developed an ad hoc Code of Conduct trading in Constellium securities For full biographies visit www.constellium.com which is also available on our website. and the use of inside information. 30 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 31 Our Sustainability Council Managing sustainability Here we provide details on our sustainability commitments and targets, our material issues and how we engage with our stakeholders. We also publish an interview with the The role of our Sustainability Council is to ensure that Executive Director of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative sustainability is fully integrated into our business in line (ASI) and report our progress and ambitions in the key areas with stakeholders’ expectations. of products, people, operations and responsible behavior. Sustainability Our Sustainability Council The Council meets four times a Council members year, including one meeting with the Founded in 2012, our Sustainability Executive Committee of Constellium, Council is a formal body responsible Ingrid Jörg to recap actions and decide on President, Aerospace and for defining and updating our future priorities. Transportation and Chairwoman in focus sustainability policy and linking this of the Sustainability Council to the overall Constellium strategy. Responsibilities of the It includes 12 representatives Sustainability Council include: Catherine Athènes Sustainability Council Leader from every area of our business, –– defining a sustainability vision and and Director, Marketing, Packaging in recognition of our view of and Automotive Rolled Products setting targets for the Constellium sustainability as a collective agenda. Group and its business units; Olivier Néel Manager, Sustainability –– defining Key Performance “Participation in the Indicators (KPIs) to be tracked Laura Berneri Constellium Sustainability on a regular basis; Director, External Communications Council allows me to help –– providing support on achieving KPIs; Karl Butz shape the future of our Environment Health and Safety Director, Company, our communities –– guaranteeing accurate disclosure Muscle Shoals of sustainability data; and environments.” Béatrice Charon Susanne Dock –– ensuring alignment with Global Vice President, Business Planning Human Resources Reporting Initiative (GRI), Carbon Business Partner Susanne Dock Disclosure Project (CDP) and Human Resources Business Partner United Nations Global Compact Frédéric Dunod (UNGC); and Director, External Reporting and Investor Relations –– launching specific programs in coordination with business Sophia Elasri Sustainability in focus units such as employee training, Manager, Strategic Purchasing Key discussions and outcomes supplier assessments and Energy Procurement in 2015: recycling projects. Rovertos Gross ––the review of 2015 results and approval Director, Strategy, Automotive Structures of 2020 targets; and Industry ––the contribution to new developments at the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative; “Participating in Constellium’s Guy-Michel Raynaud ––the launch and expansion of a responsible sourcing policy; Sustainability Council is Director, Technology ––the Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) and a unique opportunity to Didier Vasner Group Environment Manager the Mass Flow Analysis (MFA) we will conduct; and consider value creation in a ––the implementation of a training module context that extends beyond for all sales people. financial reporting.” The issues the Council aims to Frédéric Dunod tackle in 2016 are: Director, External Reporting and ––implementing 2020 targets; Investor Relations ––establishing a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions target; ––managing the newly relaunched Energy Network; and ––further implementing the responsible supply chain policy. 32 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 33 Our sustainability targets Altogether more sustainable In 2012 we established our strategic Here we evaluate our progress Performance key: direction for sustainability at against these 2015 targets, and Achieved Constellium across four key pillars, introduce our new 2020 targets On track including a series of commitments that will help us progress towards Partially achieved We have evaluated our past performance and set new goals and and targets for each. This year these becoming a more sustainable commitments and targets almost all business across our four key Revised targets for 2020 that will help us progress towards becoming a draw to a close. focus areas. Missed more sustainable business across our four key focus areas. Looking back… Looking forward to 2020… Products Enhance the environmental We said we would… Maximize recycling rates of our products, including after the Our targets 2012–2015 75% beverage can recycling rate in Europe by 2015 Our performance in 2015 The latest data available is for 2013 which shows another improvement over 2012 with 71.3% vs. 69.5% for the We will… Increase end-of-life (EOL) recycling of Our targets 2016–2020 80% beverage can recycling rate by 2020 in Europe end of their useful life previous year aluminium products Work within the industry and with our benefits of our products stakeholders to increase the beverage can Continuously innovate and All major new innovation projects to undergo Life Cycle Achieved: 100% recycling rate in the US offer lighter, safer and infinitely Assessments (LCAs) by 2015 recyclable solutions All new innovation projects underwent a sustainability checklist, with LCAs being carried out when indicated as Increase Each business unit to carry out a customer appropriate by the checklist customer satisfaction satisfaction survey every two years Continue to innovate Target improvements in our innovation Key 10% of sales from innovative products by 2015 Achieved: 13.3% Performance Indicators (KPIs) People We said we would… Our targets 2012–2015 Our performance in 2015 We will… Our targets 2016–2020 Protect the safety and health 60% improvement in Recordable Case Rate (RCR)* by 2014 Reduction of 20% of the RCR. vs. 2014 Increase safety Reduce our RCR every year by 10% of our employees, contractors No serious injuries in 2015 (including Muscle Shoals facility) at work Ensure our people are safe, and visitors as a top priority A maximum of four serious injuries a Constellium’s RCR is 3.5 times lower than the aluminium industry average year by 2020 * Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious skilled, motivated and engaged injuries, lost time injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatments calculated by European Aluminium and 5.5 times lower than the per 1 million hours worked. Project contractors and visitors have been industry average of the US Bureau of Labor statistics (2014 figures) Be in the first industry quartile in terms systematically included in serious injuries statistics since 2008. Before that, of best safety results only ‘extended’ contractors, such as canteen and security staff were included Seven serious injuries in 2015 (including Muscle Shoals facility) Increase employee Six-point increase in overall employee Strive to enhance employee 50% improvement in employee contributions by 2014 As stated in our 2014 report: satisfaction satisfaction by 2020, from a 2014 baseline engagement and development 75% participation rate in the employee survey in 2014 60% improvement in employee contribution by 2014 Strengthen our At least one community action per Six-point improvement in employee satisfaction rate 75% participation rate in 2014 employee survey communities site every year in 2014 vs. 2012 Two-point improvement in employee satisfaction in 2014 Operations We said we would… Our targets 2012–2015 Our performance in 2015 We will… Our targets 2016–2020 Reduce landfilled 75% total landfill reduction by 2020 Due to a number of factors including the acquisition of the Reduce landfilling Reduce landfilled waste coming from Sustainability in focus production waste Muscle Shoals plant, this target had to be revised of our production production by 10%, including Muscle Minimize the impact of waste Shoals (vs. 2015) Optimize the use of natural 10% decrease in energy consumption per processed We reached the 10% target one year early, in 2014. However, 2015 our operations resources, especially energy unit by 2015 saw a slight decrease in energy efficiency. In total, we achieved with Further improve 10% energy efficiency improvement legacy Constellium a 9% reduction by 2015 from a 2010 baseline energy efficiency by 2020, including Muscle Shoals (vs. 2015) Prevent and minimize Major European sites achieving ISO 50001 certification As planned, we have certified all our major European sites to environmental impacts by 2015 ISO 50001: Burg, Crailsheim, Decin, Issoire, Landau, Neuf-Brisach, Singen and Le Valais, representing almost half of our sites Responsible We said we would… Our targets 2012–2015 Our performance in 2015 We will… Our targets 2016–2020 Subscribe to the highest 100% of key suppliers joining United Nations Global More than half of key suppliers are signatories of the UNGC Gain ASI certification Have at least one site ASI certified by 2020 business levels of transparency Compact (UNGC) by 2015 (based on the assumption that there will be and accountability Implementation of a responsible supply chain policy a certification scheme in place) and commit to develop Constellium was a founding member of the Aluminium company and industry Stewardship Initiative (ASI) in 2012 and we have played an active role Ensure responsible 100% of key suppliers and those suppliers Manage our sustainability programs in its development as an independent organization (see pages 36–37 purchasing initially assessed as high risk evaluated business in Promote the adoption for more information on the ASI) or audited according to UNGC principles by 2020 an ethical and and implementation of responsible way sustainability policies by our suppliers and contractors 34 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 35 Our materiality assessment Engaging with our stakeholders Managing what matters Encouraging dialog Materiality guides our approach to sustainability by helping us to We interact with many stakeholders across the aluminium identify and manage the issues that are most likely to impact the value chain. Proactive engagement with stakeholders helps us business and our stakeholders. to govern our business in line with their expectations and needs. Determining our What we learned Two additional issues, that did not In summary Customers Investors emerge as highly material, are also materiality issues The exercise showed good alignment between the sustainability of interest to us, namely diversity Who are our key stakeholders? Verband der Analyst field trip During 2014, we undertook a and local communities. These topics materiality assessment to identify the expectations of our internal and Automobilindustrie (VDA) In 2015, we organized an analyst visit have been communicated within the –– Academic institutions to Muscle Shoals in order to update issues that matter most to Constellium external stakeholders, and it We regularly engage with Original attendees on our automotive strategy. People pillar of this report. Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and our stakeholders. Based on confirmed that our four focus areas –– Board of Directors through the VDA, the German automotive The visit included a plant tour as well For a more detailed overview g  o online as a Q&A session. surveys and regular engagement with of products, people, operations and www.constellium.com/sustainability/ industry body, with a particular focus responsible business, remain the responsible-business/materiality–– Communities on alloy quality standards. This ensures our internal and external stakeholders, assessment most relevant for our business. that as new alloys and solutions are we identified a total of 17 issues that –– Customers developed, they continue to support form the basis of the potential topics The exercise also enabled us to product standardization. –– Employees covered in this report. identify 17 topics within these four areas (see the table below), that we –– Employee representatives Read more about our approach and the boundaries of our material issues will focus on as we look ahead, and –– Non-Governmental in our Business and sustainability evolve and develop our approach Organizations performance report 2014. to sustainability. –– Policy makers  Industry associations Industry associations –– Regulators European Aluminium (EA) Beverage Can Makers Our key materiality-related issues –– Shareholders and investors We hosted EA’s autumn meeting in our Europe (BCME) Aspects Identified issues Impact boundaries plant in Neuf-Brisach (see page 59 for –– Suppliers details), and also participated in the We work with BCME to raise beverage Products active engagement of key stakeholders can recycling rates notably through the –– Sustainability organizations such as the European Commission. Every Can Counts initiative. Products and services Customer satisfaction Primary impacts within and outside Constellium For example, at a working session with Develop products with environmental benefits Primary impacts within and outside Constellium the European Commission on growth and Innovation Primary impacts within and outside Constellium How do we engage with them? competitiveness, the Strategy Director of our Aerospace and Transportation business Recycling Increase external recycling activities Primary impacts outside Constellium We engage with our unit explained the role of aluminium Sustainability in focus stakeholders in a wide range suppliers in the aerospace value chain. Increase internal recycling activities Primary impacts within and outside Constellium of ways, from meetings People and business activities to Health and safety Ensure safety at work Primary impacts within Constellium membership and participation Reduce psycho-social risks Primary impacts within Constellium in organizations. The materiality Reduce use of harmful substances (SVHC) 1 Primary impacts within Constellium assessment exercise we Industry associations Industry associations carried out in 2014 has led to Training and education Develop training and empowerment Primary impacts within Constellium a more systematic process Can Manufacturers The Aluminum People engagement Improve employee satisfaction Primary impacts within and outside Constellium of stakeholder engagement. Operations We also actively engage with Institute (CMI) Association (AA) As a member of CMI, we support the We are actively involved on the Effluents and waste Prevent pollution from operations Primary impacts within and outside Constellium stakeholders across the US, Recycling Partnership – a non-profit sustainability committee of AA. Reduce waste from operations Primary impacts within and outside Constellium reflecting our growing footprint organization that aims to increase We contributed to the publication of in the region. participation in local curbside recycling recycling data for beverage cans, which Energy and emissions Improve energy efficiency of operations Primary impacts within Constellium programs nationwide. included post-consumer recycling rates Reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Primary impacts outside Constellium as well as industry recycling rates. Responsible business Ethical business Promote and enforce ethical business practices Primary impacts within and outside Constellium practices F  or a complete list of all the Engage suppliers in sustainability performance Primary impacts outside Constellium organizations that we engage Economic performance Increase economic performance Primary impacts within and outside Constellium with please see page 76 1 ‘Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC)’, as defined in the European Union REACH regulation 36 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 37 In focus: Aluminium Stewardship Initiative Fostering greater sustainability in the aluminium value chain Launched in 2012, the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) aims to foster greater sustainability and transparency throughout the aluminium industry. Dr. Fiona Solomon, who became its first Executive Director in March 2015, explains the ASI’s remit and the progress she is targeting in the years ahead. A full video of the interview can b  e seen at www.constellium.com/media/multimedia-library What is the ASI? What progress have “Our challenges include Participants often have a lot of We greatly encourage civil society In the future, achieving certification individual experience and expertise, organizations to participate in the will enable Constellium to The ASI is the result of producers, you made? managing expectations, so there’s a cross-education ASI. We are strongly focused on demonstrate its responsible users and stakeholders coming Since 2015 we’ve been primarily together to build consensus developing the ASI governance building consensus element to these processes that developing an initiative that achieves production, sourcing and stewardship adds real value. real impact on the ground socially and approaches towards aluminium. on responsible aluminium. model for the organization as an and having people work environmentally, and we want civil The initiative is aiming to build incorporated entity, culminating in together to articulate a How will the ASI benefit society voices to be at the table for Where will the ASI an independent third-party certification program for the the adoption of a new Constitution common vision.” member companies that process. be in five years? at the 2016 inaugural Annual General responsible production, sourcing Meeting. We have now held the and organizations? How do you see My vision is that the ASI will have and stewardship of aluminium. first elected Board and Standards What are the next key a thriving certification program For upstream companies, the ASI The key issues for aluminium include Committee meetings under this new milestones and challenges? provides the opportunity to become Constellium’s value for a diverse and growing global biodiversity and mining, greenhouse governance model, and convened an The priorities now are to continue involved in a process that sets in this initiative? membership. We want to see gas emissions, indigenous peoples’ Indigenous Peoples Advisory Forum standards for sustainability in the Constellium was one of the original sustainability and human rights to progress all of the technical rights, key wastes at specific for ASI. global aluminium value chain. In the 14 companies that first created principles embedded in the global documentation that’s required for Sustainability in focus processing stages such as bauxite future the certification program the ASI as a project under the aluminium value chain and to see In addition, we’ve started documenting a working certification program. residue and spent pot lining, as well will give members the ability to International Union for Conservation companies invest in and reward the key elements of the assurance We will continue to roll out as material stewardship and the demonstrate that they implement of Nature and Natural Resources responsible production, sourcing model for the initiative. This includes implementation of ASI’s governance broader circular economy questions. responsible practices. (IUCN). The Company has played and stewardship. things like how audits will take place, model with committees and working The ASI is seeking to drive best how member companies will prepare groups to support the work of the a leading role in advancing For downstream companies that practices on each of these. for those audits, who carries out Board and Standards Committee, sustainability in the global aluminium use aluminium, the ASI provides the audits and what gets reported and continue to grow membership value chain and no doubt will continue the opportunity to be part of a publicly, as well as what claims and engagement with ASI across all to encourage its partners and peers whole value chain initiative and to can be made about certification. stakeholder groups. to join it on that journey. demonstrate practices towards “Our aim is to build an We’ve also been working on a Chain The challenges are similar to all responsible sourcing and stewardship independent third-party of Custody standard that will have multi‑stakeholder processes: of aluminium in the products that “We want to see further public consultation over certification program for the next year or so, that will help to managing expectations, building they design and produce. sustainability and the responsible production, support approaches to responsible consensus and having people work In the future, certification will give human rights principles together to articulate a common the opportunity for companies that embedded in the global sourcing and stewardship production and sourcing. vision. We have a lot of work to do use aluminium to demonstrate aluminium value chain.” of aluminium.” as a group of stakeholders. responsible sourcing and stewardship Dr. Fiona Solomon around their products that Executive Director, Aluminium contain aluminium. Stewardship Initiative 38 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 39 Making our products more sustainable Customer satisfaction In total, 62 customer interviews Improving were conducted in 15 countries Looking ahead We continue to work hard to increase over a five-week period. –– Maintain our focus on Lean, satisfaction levels, notably through Interviews were primarily held which has now entered the application of our comprehensive performance with managers and project phase 2 and includes a focus Lean Transformation program which leaders from procurement functions on APUs and extension to will ensure we provide our customers as well as with general managers. additional functions with high-quality products, on time Customers agreed that our product and in the correct quantities. We are committed to developing, producing and selling portfolio was aligned with their –– Maximize our flexibility, in line with 2016 being named the We have committed to regularly requirements and appreciated sustainable products that meet our customers’ needs now monitoring satisfaction ratings across that we were transparent about ‘Year of Flexibility’ and in the future. We will achieve these aims by maximizing all customers – one of our targets our improvement programs. –– Implement frequent, safe, for 2020 is that each business unit On the other hand, they expected efficient, right-first-time the recycling rates of our products, including at the end of their carries out a customer satisfaction improvements to the ways in which equipment changeovers in useful lives. At the same time we will continuously innovate in survey every two years. we manage the supply chain as order to produce small batches well as claims. of products order to offer lighter, safer and infinitely recyclable solutions. Increasing satisfaction rates –– Fulfill our commitment that Extending our successful each business unit must In summary Lean approach undertake a customer carried out when indicated as appropriate Since its launch in 2012, our Lean satisfaction survey every other Materiality coverage 2015 products targets Transformation program has led by the checklist year, with all business units to ––75% beverage can recycling rate in Europe ––Customer satisfaction by 2015 ––Achieved 13.3% of sales from innovative to a demonstrable improvement in perform theirs in 2016 ––Develop products with ––All major new innovation projects to undergo products in 2015 customer satisfaction, improving environmental benefits service and product quality by Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) by 2015 ––Innovation 2020 products targets empowering people and making ––Increase external recycling activities ––10% of sales from innovative products by 2015 ––80% beverage can recycling rate in them accountable. Now we have Innovation Europe by 2020 ––Increase internal recycling activities launched Lean phase 2, which aims Innovation is a key focus for our 2015 products performance ––Work within the industry and with our business. We aim to fulfill the stakeholders to increase the beverage to make Lean longer, deeper and ––The latest data available on the can can recycling rate in the US wider: longer, because it is a fivepotential of aluminium and its recycling rate in Europe is for 2013. alloys by developing new products This shows another improvement over 2012 ––Each business unit to carry out a customer year program; deeper, because it is with 71.3% vs. 69.5% for the previous year satisfaction survey every two years being implemented at Autonomous that provide enhanced properties, ––We have 100% achieved our LCA target. ––Target improvements in our innovation KPIs Production Unit (APU) level; including greater strength, All new innovation projects underwent a and wider because it embraces lightness, durability and more sustainability checklist, with LCAs being efficient recycling. additional functions. New sawing center increases For more information on Lean performance and safety see pages 14–15 Making progress against KPIs New equipment is set to transform sawing capability and performance Recently developed products Year of Just-in-Time at our plant in Sierre, Switzerland. Our innovation strategy continues Sustainability in focus Currently in its production start-up phase, Following our emphasis on quality the new machine saws, turns profiles to go from strength to strength. in 2014 our Chief Executive Officer 180°, deposits spacers and stacks – all One of our KPIs tracks the Pierre Vareille named 2015 the ‘Year of without manual intervention. The stacks of contribution that recently developed Just-in-Time’. Initiatives undertaken profiles are then transferred on rail carts to the nearby packaging area and Truck products make to total sales: in during 2014 and 2015 that related Preparation Area (TPA). 2015, 13.3% of sales were from to these themes have helped us innovative products, ahead of our reduce the percentage of customer This investment will make it possible to reduce the lead time of our products by target of 10%. This was due in complaints by 60% and missed two days while also significantly increasing particular to our performance in deliveries by 56%. the productivity of two presses – which the automotive and transportation will no longer be bottlenecked by the sectors as well as the roll-out of Tracking levels of sawing process. The new machine will also enable us to implement pull flow our Airware® technology. customer satisfaction from the TPA. These production and lead Following the survey across our time improvements are accompanied by Packaging and Automotive Rolled gains in quality because the traceability requirements of our rail customers are Products business in 2014, in 2015 managed by the machine and the technical it was the turn of the Aerospace and capability of the saw perfectly meets their Transportation business to gauge needs. Improved safety is another key satisfaction levels. benefit: the machine will reduce the number of operations involving cranes, which means reduced risk for our operators. 40 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 41 Making our products more sustainable (continued) New patents Life Cycle Assessments This is because the lightweighting The number of new patents reflects the success of our ongoing investments in Research & Technology (R&T). Looking ahead We use LCAs to identify ways properties of aluminium improve New patents underpin our drive to create successful new products and prepare the business for future developments. –– Continue to invest in research to improve the environmental fuel consumption during the usage In 2015, we published 16 new patent families, an increase of four since 2014, and filed 18 new patent families, up from and new technologies to performance of existing products and phase, while efficient recycling also 16 the previous year. We also validated 46 new Innovation Records, which is a measure we use internally to track new allow the development of those in development. During 2015 we recovers a significant part of the ideas. This represents an increase of six new innovations since 2014. new products and solutions continued with a number of initiatives initial investment. covered in last year’s report, and Key innovations in 2015 –– Continue to work on enhanced CMS: How aluminium compares with steel kg CO2 e extended the scope of LCAs to include material performance, notably 200 Market Product Innovations two new projects. through lightweighting initiatives Automotive HSA6 A new generation of high-strength alloys, HSA6 is the highest strength Firstly, we expanded our car 150 extruded 6xxx series alloy available on the market. Extra strength allows component assessments to include 100 for lighter parts for automotive applications. Environmental benefits the extruded and machined parts used in Crash Management Systems Environmental benefits: car lightweighting delivers lower fuel consumption of products (CMS). The results show that over a 50 and associated CO2 emissions. It also has excellent corrosion resistance. The increased use of aluminium is full life-cycle, the aluminium product bringing significant environmental produced significantly fewer GHG Surfalex® HF A new skin material for complex automotive parts, which provides superior benefits to society – benefits which emissions than its steel counterpart. -50 formability in terms of deep drawing, hole expansion and stretch forming we enhance through our product Aluminium Steel Aluminium by stage by stage overall Steel overall during the stamping process without compromising on design. Builds on the portfolio and developments. Metal production Use success of our established Surfalex® product. Surfalex® HF was nominated We use specific tools such as LCAs End-of-life Overall by the International OEM Advisory Board as ‘Automotive Engineering Expo to measure these benefits. We have Innovation Star 2015’. achieved our target of ensuring that all new innovation projects undertake For more detail on our LCAs, visit our Environmental benefits: car lightweighting delivers lower fuel consumption website at www.constellium.com/ a sustainability checklist, with LCAs sustainability/life-cycle-of-aluminium and associated CO2 emissions. being performed where appropriate. In 2015 we continued to make good Aerospace Airware® 2065 A new extrusion alloy for light extrusions such as fuselage stiffeners or seat progress in conducting LCAs. tracks and heavy extrusions such as wing stringers. It has already been commercialized at our manufacturing facility in Montreuil-Juigné (France), Evaluating the environmental with Issoire (France) soon to follow. performance of our products Environmental benefits: aircraft lightweighting delivers lower fuel We currently deploy two separate consumption and associated CO2 emissions. but complementary tools to check the environmental impacts and benefits of our products. During 2015, we Industry Dokima™ & Dokima™ Aluminium alloy plates (produced by our Ravenswood and Sierre achieved our target of assessing all Endurance manufacturing facilities) for semi-conductors, flat screen displays and solar new projects using one of these tools, panel fabrication components. as part of our innovation gate review Environmental benefits: increased lifespan due to extremely low process. This commitment Sustainability in focus contamination which saves on replacement costs. Low wafer rejection rate will continue through 2016. cuts waste and increases production efficiency. Sustainability check tool Packaging Aeral™ A new product which enables the production of aluminium aerosol cans by During the innovation process, Drawn and Ironed (D&I) process which delivers a 30% mass savings compared we use a sustainability check tool to Impact Extrusion process, as well as faster processing speeds. to make sure sustainability aspects (including environmental impacts Aluminium alloy microstructure revealed after selective Environmental benefits: up to 30% less material needed, which reduces the and benefits) are taken into chemical dissolution environmental footprint of the aerosol cans. account when we decide whether Unique advantages, infinite opportunities or not to continue with a product With its unique combination of strength and Wear and corrosion resistance Heat Exchanger Kool X™ A new solution for demanding heat exchanger applications, such as water or process development. lightness, durability and recycling, aluminium The high durability of aluminium means that charge air coolers and evaporators, providing an excellent combination of has intrinsic environmental advantages over replacement products or components are not alternative materials such as steel. required so frequently. This in turn reduces claddability, improved fatigue and corrosion resistance. the need for new products or components Strength and lightness to be manufactured, together with the Environmental benefits: car lightweighting delivers lower fuel consumption These qualities lead to enhanced associated environmental impacts. and associated CO2 emissions. In addition, reusing cooled exhaust gas in the performance during use, particularly through fuel savings, and are responsible Easy sorting and recycling combustion chamber increases engine efficiency, which contributes to lower for the growth of aluminium in the general Eddy current technology means that levels of GHG emissions. transportation market – particularly the aluminium can be easily sorted and recycled, automotive segment. returning this valuable material to the starting point of the value chain where it can begin a All of our key innovations are fully recyclable at the end of their life. new life. 42 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 43 Making our products more sustainable (continued) We also used an LCA to assess The most recent industry figures These partnerships enable us to Our recycling partnerships the impact of our new GRIPSTER™ show that in 2013 the beverage can share the cost of projects while also La Boîte Boisson La Boîte Boisson brings together the main can and metal producers in France to promote and support the treadplates for refrigerated trucks. recycling rate in Europe increased to helping us share ideas and skills, national can industry. In 2015, it celebrated the 80th anniversary of the aluminium can with a number of This new product delivers improved 71.3%, up from 69.5% the previous and engage with stakeholders from events and initiatives, including a short documentary on the history of the beverage can. environmental performance through year. We are committed to developing the entire aluminium value chain. an extended lifespan, due to better and promoting recycling programs, Engaging other stakeholders is at the Canibal We have installed Canibal machines (see 2014 Business and sustainability performance report) in our Paris headquarters and the Neuf-Brisach plant. In 2015, we collected the first data since installation, wear resistance, thereby avoiding through partnerships with other core of our sustainability approach which showed that we saved 178kg of CO2 and collected 4,500 beverage containers. the need for early part replacement. organizations as well as through ‘Altogether, more sustainable’. This LCA confirmed durability our own initiatives. Our view is that working together with CR3 We continue to participate in the CR3 program, which promotes scrap sorting, notably for car recycling as a key aspect of our products’ like-minded organizations will help (see page 42). environmental performance. Doubling our recycling capacity create a range of common solutions. European Aluminium As active members of the European Aluminium Association, we supported the Circular Economy Package, Our acquisition of Wise Metals at an action plan adopted by the European Commission to stimulate Europe’s transition towards a circular Looking ahead the start of 2015 not only gave us “Our team at CR3 (Center economy. The plan aims to ‘close the loop’ of product life-cycles through greater recycling and re-use, and an ideal platform to expand our for Resource Recovery deliver benefits for both the environment and the economy. We have made constructive suggestions on –– Continue to carry out a presence in the fast-growing sustainability check on all and Recycling), which the plan and will closely follow its implementation, country by country. US marketplace, it also more than new projects doubled our recycling capacity. is supported by C-TEC , IRT M2P Following previous campaigns related to car shredding, IRT M2P analyzed aluminium-rich shredding Constellium’s technology fractions, with results presented at the International Automotive Recycling Congress in Berlin within a –– Widen the scope of products Known as Element 13, the recycling covered by LCAs, ensuring that center, has developed joint presentation with IRT M2P partners Derichebourg and ArcelorMittal. We used our mass flow analysis (MFA) tool (see below) to provide support and data to the PhD thesis undertaken by IRT M2P. facility at our Muscle Shoals plant is they are carried out on all new one of the largest recyclers of used X-ray fluorescence (XRF) major developments beverage containers in the world. systems and laser-induced Clean Sky The SENTRY program, explained in last year’s report and led by Aircraft manufacturer Dassault Aviation, concluded in 2015. The program involved Life Cycle Assessments of end-of-life aircraft fuselage panels, –– Continue our focus on innovation Every year our Muscle Shoals facility breakdown spectroscopy including standard and new generation alloys. The results were presented at the Aircraft Recycling to develop new products that recycles around 14 billion used technologies to separate Symposium in March 2016, with a contribution on recycling delivered by our Sustainability Manager, can deliver environmental beverage cans – almost one in every scrap. After the sorting Olivier Néel. The SENTRY project was awarded the first prize at the CLEAN SKY forum 2016. six cans sold in the US. benefits to our customers process with XRF, which AMAP We engaged in the Advanced Metals and Processes (AMAP) program, a collaborative platform in the and society This huge capacity, together with identifies the part by its field of metal production and processing held at Aachen University. A specific area of work during 2015 the plant’s capability to recycle chemistry, a signal is sent concerned the modeling of furnace burners in order to improve process efficiency. products at their end-of-life (EOL) Recycling as well as scrap from customers, is to pneumatic hammers Infinite recyclability is one of helping us make significant progress that eject the part into a aluminium’s key sustainability on ‘closing the loop’ in beverage bin. It involves high-speed Creating recycling initiatives in advantages over other materials. can recycling. computing as all of this has Research & Technology (R&T) Looking ahead Recycling reduces the need for to happen in nanoseconds.” We are committed to improving the –– Continue to work with various stakeholders to further improve the overall primary aluminium, and hence Building partnerships Diran Apelian efficiency of recycling processes, and aluminium recycling efficiency, particularly collection, sorting and re-melting reduces waste production and While we work hard to develop Director of the Metals therefore further enhance metal yield. Processing Institute –– Continue to improve our own recycling processes resource depletion. It also reduces our own recycling initiatives, For example, we are exploring ways at Worcester Polytechnic GHG emissions across a product’s we also believe that engaging in Institute in Massachusetts to separate and analyze batches of –– Partner with customers on closed loop recycling Sustainability in focus life-cycle. partnerships should play a key and Lead of Center for scrap to enable us to use them in the Resource Recovery –– Continue to use our MFA tool to determine future recycling flows role in further developing the appropriate applications or alloys. and Recycling world’s ability to recycle products containing aluminium. As part of this program, in 2015 we launched a dynamic Material flow analysis (MFA) tool which models Communicating the importance flows from metal elaboration to a of end-of-life (EOL) recycling Constellium University Technology Center (UTC) – a new driving force for innovation final product’s EOL and recycling. During the year we published a recycling Being innovative and close to our customers is The Constellium University Technology The new alloy and process technologies will By taking account of production brochure, as part of a communications an important driving force for Constellium. Center (UTC) at Brunel University London is a then be transferred to Constellium’s extrusion campaign to increase awareness of For our automotive business, this strategy is center of excellence dedicated to the design, and automotive structures plants worldwide, history and a product’s lifespan, our recycling metrics and the importance of EOL breaking new ground at a university campus in development and prototyping of aluminium thereby closing the gap between fundamental tool estimates aluminium flows at recycling. Targeted at employees, business West London. alloys and automotive structural components. R&T and series production. With the new different stages. Using this data, the partners and other stakeholders including Featuring industrial size aluminium casting stronger alloy portfolio, Constellium is able to policymakers, NGOs and trade media, the design, develop and deliver lightweight, hightool can identify when, how much brochure explains the role of EOL recycling and extrusion equipment in its first phase, strength aluminium automotive structures and in what form the metal is going and showcases our efforts to increase and the Constellium UTC will provide a rapid and CMSs to help automakers improve fuel to become available for recycling. improve recycling, including LCAs. prototyping capability. This will reduce economy and reduce CO2 emissions in order to development times by 50% for the advanced This brochure can be downloaded from our aluminium alloys that will enable the meet more stringent regulations. These new Work is currently in progress to include website at the following address developments, based on 6000-series alloys, continued lightweighting of automotive also improve recyclability through their details about alloy families in order to constellium.com/content/ structural components. compositional compatibility with alloy grades provide insight on the expected need download/7813/120379/version/3/file/ in current usage. for alloy separation, thus paving the Constellium+-+recycling+brochure++october+2015.pdf For more information way for much more efficient recycling see page 24 of products in the future. 44 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 45 Supporting our people Protecting the health and We made good progress on safety In addition, we have introduced a fiveThe Contained Hazards program over the last year. Our RCR1 minute safety talk at the beginning highlighted in last year’s report has decreased from 3.65 to 2.86, a of each daily site meeting to further been fully rolled out. This program reduction of 20%, with these figures embed our safety culture. Every day, encourages employees to contain safety of our employees, including our new operations at Muscle Shoals, Bowling Green and Changchun for the first time. the team leader presents a new topic to the operating team – for more details see the THANK YOU AWARDS and report hazards before they cause incidents. We saw a 2% month‑on‑month increase in contractors and visitors However, despite this achievement on page 48. employees engaging with this we recognize that there remains program during 2015. much work to do – we experienced During the year we continued to focus seven serious injuries during 2015 as a top priority on a wide range of risks, including and this is clearly unacceptable. a program to introduce hands-free We completed our 2015 safety casting to protect operators in the program as planned and have event of a molten metal explosion. Our people are the single most important factor that drives identified new targets for 2020 Our overall aim is that slab casting to further improve performance. our continued success. We are committed to supporting them units work in hands-free mode and we successfully introduced five of such at all times by: protecting their health and safety as well as Safety program and actions units in 2015. that of contractors and visitors; and striving to further enhance Behavior management Slips, trips and falls are frequent employee engagement and development. We have further improved our Improvement through integration causes of accidents and are therefore Leadership Safety Tours. Under this During the year, we began to integrate another ongoing area of focus, program, all our leaders – from senior the Constellium approach to EHS into and we are now in the process In summary managers to shift supervisors – interact processes at the Muscle Shoals plant in the US, following its acquisition in 2015. of implementing best practices. with shop floor employees to promote We have introduced a number of proven Furthermore, we produced a new 2015 people targets than the industry average of the US Bureau Materiality coverage of Labor statistics (2014 figures) safe behavior and to eliminate at risk Constellium initiatives and are pleased to video to help prevent risks associated ––60% improvement in the recordable case report that the Recordable Case Rate for the with the man-machine interface. ––Ensure safety at work rate1 (RCR) by 2014 ––60% improvement in employee behavior. Our target was to achieve a plant has reduced by 54%, compared with ––Reduce psycho-social risks contributions by 2014 quality score of 85% but we surpassed 2014. Our actions during the year included The video, which is available in four ––No serious injuries in 2015 ––Reduce use of harmful substances ––50% improvement in employee ––75% participation rate in the 2014 it with 90%. work to implement six critical directives languages via the intranet or on (SVHC) contributions by 2014 employee survey and three tools, as well as the introduction DVD, is used for training employees ––Develop training and empowerment ––75% participation rate in the employee ––Two-point improvement in employee Training plays an important role in of Safety Tours, of which 2,514 have been at plants. satisfaction in 2014 ensuring the safety of newcomers to completed so far. In addition, compliance ––Improve employee satisfaction survey in 2014 with our Man Machine Interface initiative is ––Six-point improvement in employee the business. In 2015, we improved our in progress and we have also provided twoGlobal safety management satisfaction rate in 2014 versus 2012 2020 people targets programs for newcomers, including day EHS FIRST Leadership Training courses ––Reduce our RCR every year by 10% to 164 supervisors. All our sites are integrated into our 2015 people performance a reduction in the time between ––A maximum of four serious injuries a EHS FIRST system. This ensures ––Reduction of 20% in the RCR vs. 2014 year by 2020 initial hiring and the completion that we are able to develop reliable (including Muscle Shoals facility) ––Be in the first industry quartile in terms of Environment, Health and Safety of best safety results Risk management benchmarks and share best ––Seven serious injuries in 2015 (including (EHS) training. practices. In 2015, we achieved Sustainability in focus Muscle Shoals facility) ––Six-point increase in overall employee Risk management helps us identify Constellium’s RCR is 3.5 lower than the satisfaction by 2020, from a 2014 baseline We use a structured problem-solving and prevent incidents, and in 2015 good progress on the integration of aluminium industry average calculated by ––At least one community action per process known as 8D2 to investigate the Muscle Shoals plant into our EHS European Aluminium and 5.5 times lower site every year we developed, or expanded, several all recordable cases, high-potential key initiatives. For example, we organization. See the improvement 1 Please see footnote on page 45 near misses, high-potential first have created a standard Hazard through integration case study above. aid incidents and environmental Identification, Risk Assessment, We are committed to using our events. During 2015, the number of Risk Controls (HIRARC) tool to track experiences and skills to support the 8D investigations almost doubled, risk reduction. Implementation is wider industry and participated in the from 204 to 395. currently in progress and we expect 2015 biennial European Aluminium We also introduced a number of the tool to begin improving risk safety workshop, sharing methods new initiatives in 2015, including the management in 2016. and successes. implementation of our business unit We have also developed a tool for (BU) President site visit program, in our Standard Operating Procedures line with our desire to create more (SOPs). This tool helps to analyze visible EHS leadership. Through this the work step-by-step in detail and 1 RCR measures the number of fatalities, serious program, once a year, BU Presidents produce a standard procedure to guide injuries, lost time injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatments per 1 million hours worked. exclusively dedicate at each site a full safe working. With no differences Project contractors and visitors have been systematically included in serious injuries statistics since 2008. day to EHS matters. between work practices from crew Before that, only ‘extended’ contractors, such as canteen and security staff were included to crew, we will be able to eliminate 2 8D is a problem-solving method structured as a step-byunsafe practices and practices which step road map to truly understand the problem, its root could lead to quality issues. causes and to develop robust and sustainable solutions 46 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 47 Supporting our people (continued) Employee guide for We held four onboarding seminars Constellium University for Diversity emergency situations during the year, three in Europe and all employees We manage diversity at a local The new employee guide is based on one in the US. Over 100 newcomers level. At Neuf-Brisach, for example, Leadership training observations from drills carried out in representing 24 nationalities we support gender diversity by participated and we are planning a Our Lean leadership curriculum aims 2014 as well as in-depth knowledge advertising in schools, apprentice similar number of seminars for 2016. to improve performance, building of our specialist teams across the centers and recruitment shows for business. The first emergency and Labor capability and embedding the Lean females to apply for our apprentice Job-specific training culture in all our plants. Each month, crisis management guideline has program. This has led to a higher we organize a Lean training session now been prepared and will be Within 12 months of joining, proportion of female apprentices Improving safety implemented in 2016. Strive to enhance in one of our plants, focusing on and is also expected to lead employees are required to undertake a specific topic and targeted at We continually strive to improve safety employee engagement training on their specific function. to more females gaining fullperformance and work hard to protect our Reducing the use of specific leaders. people. Although we are never complacent, and development For example, more than 50 people time employment. harmful substances In 2015, more than 500 front-line we are pleased to see that our initiatives are from sales teams from across Our drive towards greater diversity driving steady progress. During 2015 we removed more Training and empowerment Constellium attended Sales managers and APU managers also includes the issue of nationality. Zero recordable cases is a reality in many than 20% of substances of very Our training programs address our Negotiation training sessions held participated in a conflict At C-TEC, we employed engineers Constellium plants. Valais, Montreuil-Jugné high concern (SVHC) from our key strategic issues such as Lean, in Europe and in the US. management training module. and Changchung reached ‘zero recordable from 22 different countries in operations. This is part of our ongoing growth and innovation. While we In 2016, the focus will be on cases’ for 0.5 million hours worked. Decin, These two-day sessions focused 2015, reflecting the diversity of Gottmadingen and Ussel celebrated their commitment to minimize risks and have a strong training focus at a ‘Addressing Poor Performance’. on objectives including improving our customers and partners. two million hours worked without any exposure for our people and is an local level, in 2015 we launched our recordable cases. negotiation skills, developing a In 2016, we will be launching an important part of our EHS policy. Constellium University initiative to systematic negotiation preparation initiative for middle managers, Human Resources deliver corporate programs that focus process, the value-based approach focusing on the impact that particular Information System Well-being Looking ahead on broader strategic and company to sales, improved customer leadership styles have on the team As planned, we implemented our new culture issues that are relevant to environment, and the basics of We continued to implement our –– Continue to implement key all of our sites around the world. communications and best practice global Human Resources Information program to prevent stress-related safety projects such as; handssharing. In 2016, this program will finance for non-finance employees. System (HRIS) during the year in order Training delivered by Constellium illness at our Issoire site and free casting; handling molten University targets both new joiners be rolled out to support functions to harmonize and streamline HR, IT Building knowledge across C-TEC center, and this has been metal; standardization of Hazard as well as current employees, with including project management and, commencing in 2016, Identity different functions complemented by specific programs Identification, Risk Assessment, a strong focus on Lean as well as on training for IT, Finance and functional and Access Management (IAM) at other sites. For example, at NeufRisk Controls (HIRARC); and training for HR. We provided seven sustainability systems across the Group. developing functional competencies. training sessions for a total of Brisach we carried out a survey to avoiding slips, trips and falls more than 100 sales managers This new system supports all our evaluate risk associated with psycho–– Implement the Standard Constellium University for newcomers HR processes including employee social issues and stress. The plant has during the year, building an Operating Procedures (SOPs) Onboarding seminar understanding of sustainability data management, performance since appointed an external specialist and talent management and, organization to create a program to –– Implement a crane operator For professional new joiners, we have and why it matters to Constellium. created a Constellium University We are now exploring opportunities from 2016 onwards, will also help us mitigate these risks. safety program to prevent program that aims to integrate to integrate sustainability training support recruitment. fingers from being pinched when Reducing environmental risk touching suspended loads them quickly and effectively into our into Constellium University as well as Company and ways of working. planning to build an e-learning tool Standardized environmental analysis –– Implement a new safety and extending sustainability training Sustainability in focus While we cannot eliminate leadership program aimed to purchasing teams. environmental risk entirely, we at training shop floor shift can influence the likelihood of an supervisors on safety tools and accident prevention Constellium University supports environmental event by improving Lean Transformation our preventive controls. –– Launch a safety-themed Within six months of joining, all professional Our new environmental risks tool aims drawing competition among new joiners are required to attend a Lean employees’ children to bring workshop to practice and apply Lean tools to unify the methodology we follow Participants of first onboarding seminar engage in on an active Lean program. In July 2015, we to analyze environmental issues. a family perspective to safety group dynamics opened a new Lean Training Center at our It ensures that all on-site activities are at work Gottmadingen plant. covered and appropriately assessed to –– Implement a health program A multidisciplinary team provides new In our first onboarding seminar employees with a complete overview of our define significant impacts and priorities. focused on healthy eating, physical participants learned about our Lean system in miniature form – with the This enables each site to implement exercise and coping with mental entire operation represented in a space of mission and values as well as our actions to reduce its environmental risks. stress at two pilot plants, Neufonly 20 meters. The Gottmadingen team products and customers, and also is already preparing other training sessions In addition, the tool helps us to Brisach and Ravenswood took part in a dedicated training to help employees implement Lean identify emergency situations, –– Complete implementation of the session on aluminium. EHS, our first throughout the site. prepare actions to prevent accidents Environment Assessment Tool and foremost priority, was a key or mitigate their impact. aspect of the program, along with –– Continue to eliminate SVHC our Lean Transformation and Participants attempt to match CO2 emissions with the leadership training. corresponding activity 48 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 49 Supporting our people (continued) Engaging with our employees Communication The talks are focused on injury Environmental issues In 2015, these were support prevention, sharing best practice for Doctors without Borders and Ravenswood CARES We continued to take actions to We launched a local employee We are committed to recycling, increase employee engagement newsletter at Decin and Levice in from other sites and discussing which is a key environmental benefit a scheme whereby employees are In 2015, the local human resources team potential hazards and risks at Singen. at Ravenswood launched Constellium in 2015. order to improve information flow of aluminium. For example, in 2015 able to make donations via payroll. CARES, a program aimed at reinforcing and support employee satisfaction. The team provided shift supervisors our world-class technology center, the important role that employees, Global Employee Survey (GES) Community outreach At Ravenswood, we produced a local and team leaders with the skills C-TEC, partnered with a local school families, and communities have at Although we did not reach our target newsletter and also introduced ‘town to collect aluminium waste, while Family or open days showcase our Constellium. Employees request activities to lead the talks and produced daily or suggest projects they would like to take of a six-point increase in employee hall’ employee meetings. Group-wide, employees at our Ravenswood site operations, reflect the pride of our one-pagers to promote safety in the part in and a team, created specifically satisfaction results by 2014, we are our IT teams implemented our ‘flash participated in street fairs to raise people and help underpin our role rolling area and casthouse. Now we for this program, meets weekly to review working hard to increase performance meeting capability’,2 which enables environmental awareness. as a community-focused employer. submissions and track the progress of are rolling out the five-minute safety ahead of the 2016 GES. We have reConstellium people from anywhere in We held such events at many sites events being planned for employees and talk across Constellium, and in 2016 their families. Examples of activities stated our target to achieve a six-point the world to meet up virtually. Educational and social programs during 2015, including at Decin, Levice, it will be a part of every flash meeting.2 in 2015 included: a Baseball Family increase by 2020, and focused on the We believe in laying the foundations Montreuil-Juigné and Ravenswood. Night, with 800 tickets reserved for following key areas over the last year: Three other teams were honored for future skills and fund a large employees; the Relay for Life Team, which with Gold THANK YOU AWARDS Sport and healthcare saw employees raise funds for cancer number of educational initiatives, Company culture during the year. The Gold Award for The combination of sports and charity research and take 1st place at a relay such as apprenticeships. At Decin, we event; and the Toys for Tots Team, which We introduced several initiatives customer focus went to the Neufsponsored local schools and students has a positive impact on the health delivered three truckloads of toys to around communication on customer Brisach team responsible for the FT1, in 2015, recognizing the achievements as well as the community spirit of our children in need. needs. At Landau, for example, we a heat treatment furnace dedicated of the top performers. employees. We supported a number used 8D1 to help shop floor teams to the automotive body sheet market. of activities during the year, including Local HR not only produces the newsletter but also Their efforts in boosting the FT1 At Ravenswood employees took part ‘La Clermontoise & Raid’ ‘Terre become more aware of how customer complaints impact the Company. ensures all employees receive a copy of every issue capacity resulted in significant in a ‘Read aloud’ program, one of d’Equilibre’ at Issoire, ‘Relay for Life’ at Looking ahead growth rates with all key customers. the many initiatives of Constellium Ravenswood and soccer tournaments Customer feedback was also central –– Expand Constellium University, CARES (see case study opposite) and at Gottmadingen and Singen. to presentations at Neuf‑Brisach Employee recognition The team responsible for the not only in terms of program at Muscle Shoals, we participated and Singen. Part of a Group-wide We are developing initiatives to Ford F-150 program launch at At a corporate level, we continued content but also in the in a project by the local Chamber of program, these presentations ensure complement our long-established Van Buren, US, received the Gold to sponsor our employee Majid number of attendees and Commerce to address economic, social that all our people understand the THANK YOU AWARDS, including a new Award for operational excellence. Jabbour, enabling him to compete their job functions and cultural issues in the community. needs of our customers. Service Awards program to recognize Our new GRIPSTERTM vehicle flooring in international regattas and work In addition, we carry out a wide –– Develop sustainability training In addition, our Valais site held a the contributions of long service solution has been an outstanding towards the 2016 Olympic Games. range of activities that reflect for our purchasing team series of monthly lunches where employees at Ravenswood. success, and the cross-functional collaboration between the teams at our commitment to being a –– Conduct Global Employee employees could discuss issues THANK YOU AWARDS Issoire and C-TEC was recognized by responsible business. Survey 2016 with the Site Director, and at Van Buren we organized a range of This year, the THANK YOU AWARDS the presentation of the Gold Award –– Develop a community meetings between management and were again structured around the in the innovation category. engagement guide at those sites employees. These included quarterly categories that reflect our business yet to start a program, focusing business updates and monthly priorities: EHS & Sustainability; Community involvement on initiatives that provide roundtable sessions. customer focus; operational We are committed to supporting the benefits to local stakeholders excellence; and innovation. communities close to our operations, as well as Constellium Sustainability in focus Training and development playing a part in their successes and We are committed to helping our being a good neighbor. Our community –– Encourage all sites to implement employees work effectively and initiatives are currently developed at least one engagement build rewarding careers. In 2015, and implemented at a local level, program during the year ahead we continued to provide training although we are moving towards a and development initiatives, more consistent, company-wide including: evaluations, appraisals approach. Our aim is that each and mentoring; programs to develop site should implement at least one job mobility and facilitate promotion; CEO Pierre Vareille and President of Aerospace and community program per year. In 2015, Transportation Ingrid Jörg present the Gold THANK YOU and a series of structured jobAWARD to Five-Minute Safety Talk our activities were conducted across specific training courses. four broad areas of focus: The Gold Award for EHS & Sustainability Toys for Tots was presented to the Singen team in During the year, our people based at Van Employees collected toys for a week, with the Buren in the US supported Toys for Tots, an Company committing to add a further $5 for Germany. Team members increased organization managed by the Marine Corps. each toy donated by an employee, up to a total the reporting of hazards and near At Christmas, Toys for Tots provides gifts for of $500. At the end of the week, 102 toys were misses, and reduced recordable children who would otherwise not receive any, collected and the Company donated the full including thousands in the greater Detroit $500 in recognition of our employees’ efforts. cases, by introducing a five-minute 1 8D is a problem-solving method structured as a step-byarea close to the plant. step road map to truly understand the problem, its root safety talk as part of the site’s daily causes and to develop robust and sustainable solutions In the photo (left to right) are: Theresa Daws (MRO Purchasing), Ed Dover (EHS Manager) flash meetings.2 2 A daily meeting to discuss the progress of KPIs, and Paris Johnson (HR Administrator). any outstanding issues, gather suggestions from team members and organize priorities for the day 50 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 51 Making our operations more efficient Improving our Meeting our 2015 energy The implementation and Improving the efficiency energy efficiency When we consider energy efficiency efficiency target Our target for 2015 was to improve energy efficiency by 10%, from a 2010 performance of the network’s actions will be tracked quarterly. The challenge will be to activate of our operations across the full life-cycle of a product, baseline. As we reported last year, we each of the levers that affect energy aluminium has inherent advantages succeeded in reaching this target in performance: technical solutions, over alternative materials. Light 2014, 12 months ahead of schedule. including upgrading equipment and strong, aluminium content in products such as cars and airplanes One of the highlights of 2015 was the and optimizing processes; We will achieve our objectives by further improving our leads to significantly greater energy successful upgrade of a recycling managerial functions, including operational performance, by optimizing the way we use efficiency during the usage stage, furnace at Neuf-Brisach to incorporate standardizing best practices and while aluminium can also be infinitely oxyfuel technology, which resulted enhanced process parameter control; natural resources such as energy, and by preventing and recycled using only moderate in more energy efficient recycling and improving the way we manage minimizing our environmental impacts. amounts of energy. These advantages at the plant. However, despite energy recovery and productivity. outweigh the fact that aluminium this achievement, our overall In addition, the network is providing is energy intensive during the performance slipped slightly during methodologies and solutions manufacturing stage. the year which means that we have that explore the best ways to fund in fact improved energy efficiency by energy-related projects. We strive to make sure that only 9% since 2010. This was mainly aluminium delivers on its potential due to lower energy performance In summary to save energy by working hard on of specific industrial equipment energy efficiency initiatives across 2015 operations targets decrease in energy efficiency. In total, and ramp-up of new products Materiality coverage we achieved a 9% reduction by 2015 from our plants. ––75% total landfill reduction by 2020 that impaired overall efficiency. ––Prevent pollution from operations a 2010 baseline with legacy Constellium ––10% decrease in energy consumption per Most of these issues have now been ––Reduce waste from operations ––As planned, we have certified all our processed unit by 2015 major European sites to ISO 50001: Burg, resolved and they should not affect ––Improve energy efficiency of operations ––Major European sites to gain ISO 50001 Crailsheim, Decin, Issoire, Landau, Neufour 2016 results. ––Reduce our greenhouse gas emissions certification by 2015 Brisach, Singen and Valais, representing almost half of our sites Targeting an additional 10% 2015 operations performance improvement ––Due to a number of factors including the 2020 operations targets acquisition of the Muscle Shoals plant, ––Reduce landfilled waste coming from We remain committed to further we have revised the landfill target production by 10%, including Muscle gains in energy efficiency, and Shoals (vs. 2015) ––We achieved the 10% decrease in energy have targeted an additional 10% consumption per processed unit one year ––10% energy efficiency improvements improvement by 2020. In order to early, in 2014. However, 2015 saw a slight by 2020, including Muscle Shoals (vs. 2015) support this goal we have reactivated and reinvigorated our energy network. The first kick-off meeting took place in December, chaired Improving energy efficiency by Ingrid Jörg, President of our at Decin Aerospace and Transportation As a major consumer of electrical energy, Sustainability in focus our site at Decin in the Czech Republic has Energy efficiency by design business unit and Chairwoman of actively explored ways to save energy for the Our new casthouse at Issoire not only the Sustainability Council. last decade. This process continued during helps us meet increasing demand for our 2014, with the completion of ISO 50001 groundbreaking AIRWARE® technology The network’s task is clear: certification following the installation of – it also does so with state-of-the-art reduce our energy consumption energy monitoring systems on appliances energy efficiency. in the previous year. Energy-saving in order to not only cut costs but initiatives remain top priorities at Decin, For example, heat from the cooling airflow also significantly decrease our and in 2015 the site joined the Constellium of the induction system is recovered to environmental footprint. Among a Energy network project. provide building heating, ensuring its energy is not wasted. At the same time, instead of range of early actions, the network During the year we completed a major relying on air conditioning, the casthouse has determined our 2015 energy project to revamp the obsolete central draws its cooling air from outside the plant, efficiency performance as a baseline generator pump stations, where a thereby reducing energy consumption. high-pressure mixture of water and The casthouse also features an LED system and gained an understanding of how oil (AKU station) powers four press with optical sensors that save energy recent improvements have impacted lines. The project’s aim was to deliver by automatically optimizing the lighting performance. This has laid the a combination of savings in energy, according to the amount of daylight. maintenance and scrap. We therefore groundwork for future initiatives. decided to replace the old pump with Overall, the innovative initiatives at four new ones that offered better output Issoire mean that the energy required for Following this stage, the network has parameters, with the old pump retained AIRWARE® casting remains comparable defined an action plan for the coming as a back-up. to that needed for standard alloy casting, despite production being significantly more years, including the implementation Combined with other optimizations, this demanding. See page 40 for more details on of best practices. new pump system has reduced total energy AIRWARE®. consumption by 30%. 52 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 53 Making our operations more efficient (continued) Achieving ISO 50001 certification –– Scope 2 relates to emissions However, this is not a simple process Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) We have successfully achieved associated with the production of as each scope comes with its own LCA tools are central to developing our aim of having all our major the energy we purchase – primarily particular complexities. an understanding of the key issues European sites certified to the ISO electricity, although this could around reducing GHG emissions. Although Scopes 1 & 2 are relatively 50001 energy management standard, also include other energies such LCAs take into account a number straightforward to assess, they do not in line with the commitment made as steam. of factors outside our own reflect the degree of effort involved. in 2012. –– Scope 3 relates to emissions For example, while increasing our manufacturing processes – occurring both upstream recycling activity is environmentally such as product performance. ISO 50001 helps organizations (emissions associated with the sound, it will increase our Scopes 1 Among these factors, the such as Constellium conserve production of materials and & 2. This is because we will recycle lightweighting properties resources, tackle climate change, products we purchase) and and cast the aluminium scrap in our of aluminium to reduce fuel and save money at the same time. downstream (the distribution, facility, thereby increasing emissions, consumption, and EOL recycling Based on continuous improvement, use and end-of-life (EOL) of the instead of simply purchasing primary to minimize the need for primary it enables us to use energy more products we sell), as well as metal slabs or billets. The benefits metal play a major role. efficiently, through the development of an energy management system. business travel and our employees’ of recycling can be quantified in journeys to work. either Scope 3, where the need for Looking ahead Our sites at Issoire, Neuf-Brisach less primary metal means lower and Valais gained certification, –– Scope 4 relates to GHG emissions –– Define a global GHG emissions Scope 3 emissions, or in Scope 4 joining their counterparts in Germany that have been avoided. reduction target with a scope Focus on GHGs as avoided emissions. In addition, and the Czech Republic, which For example, the use of aluminium that extends beyond our own To raise employee awareness of EHS, every COP 21 was the first time that countries Scopes 1 & 2 do not measure the were already certified. Our German year Constellium dedicates a full day to from around the world attempted to reach in transportation often saves operations to include both our benefits associated with more sites successfully renewed their EHS. For the first time, the 2015 EHS day a universal agreement to limit the planet’s weight, thereby enabling lower supply chain and our products’ included a significant amount of effort spent temperature increase to less than 2°C. efficient products, such as lighter certifications in 2015, endorsing fuel consumption during product distribution, use and EOL on educating people about GHG emission The final session of the presentation gave automotive parts. These products the progress they have made to date reduction initiatives and sharing ideas. our employees practical suggestions for how usage. Recycling aluminium also may lead to higher Scope 1 & 2 and their full engagement in the their individual actions can help reduce GHG avoids GHG emissions because The day included a presentation on the emissions because they are more principles of energy management. emissions – such as using public transport, it replaces the need for primary importance of GHG emissions, putting the turning off lights and identifying energy complex to produce, even though In total, almost half of all our sites issue into context and outlining the key metal and produces significantly reduction projects in our plants. the savings during the usage phase around the world are now certified messages from COP 21 in Paris. lower emissions. There is currently largely offset the extra impacts to ISO 50001. no existing standard for Scope 4. during manufacturing. To properly account for GHG Our view is that the inclusion of Scopes Reducing greenhouse Accounting for GHG emissions emissions, we also rely on guidance 3 & 4 is the key to demonstrating Environment gas emissions GHGs include carbon dioxide documents, such as those the true benefit of a full life-cycle (CO2), Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6), Gases recognized for their provided by the GHG Protocol approach. However, they need to be methane (CH4), nitrous oxide contribution to global warming are (www.ghgprotocol.org) and handled with care to avoid the dangers (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) known as greenhouse gases (GHGs). Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) of double counting or overlooking and perfluorocarbons. GHG emissions are a key measure (www.cdp.net). some aspects of our activity. of our environmental performance, Assessing GHG emissions involves We remain committed to accurately and we have already made good identifying emissions of such gases Defining our GHG emissions target Sustainability in focus and fairly measuring our GHG headway by focusing on energy associated with given activities. As we support a full life-cycle emissions. The above challenges efficiency targets. In the case of Constellium, this is the approach to determine the explain why we are continuing to melting, casting, transformation and environmental impact of our activities Based on legacy operations, our undertake a thorough exploration of Looking ahead direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) recycling of aluminium products. and products, our aim is to assess the different scopes, before issuing –– Define and execute our roadmap emissions for the year decreased to GHG emissions are measured under the full range of scopes. an emissions target and disclosing it to achieve a 10% improvement 705kt CO2e, mostly due to the use of four different scopes – and in order to the CDP platform. in energy efficiency by 2020, more specific electricity emission to report our emissions accurately from a 2015 baseline factors in several plants. and consistently, we are carefully Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions kt CO2e considering which ones to include. 1,400 –– Use our energy network Due to its size and impressive 1,200 to share best practices beverage can recycling capability, –– Scope 1 includes direct emissions 1,000 1,185 across Constellium the acquisition of Muscle Shoals adds from our sites. In our case, 800 a significant amount of emissions to these are mainly associated 743 753 752 –– Continue to drive energy 600 694 686 701 705 our operations. However, to a large with the combustion of natural efficiency improvements, using 400 446 446 446 434 extent these recycling activities also gas in our metal furnaces and 416 403 414 the tools and methodologies of 200 278 283 287 297 307 258 enable us to reduce the volume of recycling centers, but this scope ISO 50001 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 primary metal purchased, thereby also includes emissions from Legacy Constellium* reducing the GHG emissions Constellium-owned vehicles. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1+2 associated with raw material *Compared to 2014, evolution is mostly due to the update of electricity emission factors, based on suppliers’ information, instead of national average emission factors for purchasing (Scope 3). previous years. Figures have been rounded to the nearest kt CO2e 54 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 55 Making our operations more efficient (continued) Rising to the challenge A major investment in a new furnace However, avoiding sending this of flue-gas dust and associated excavation work led waste to landfill will also be part We continue to work with leading to a significant, though temporary, of our actions. organizations around the world to increase in our overall landfilled explore ways to reduce waste sent to waste in 2015. Looking ahead landfill, particularly flue-gas dust. The acquisition of the Muscle Shoals plant more than doubled our total –– Identify solutions for non-inert For example, during 2015 we launched waste such as flue-gas dust a dedicated collaboration program amount of waste sent to landfill. with Strasbourg University aimed While the overall waste volumes –– Improve waste sorting at Muscle at identifying new ways to process generated by Muscle Shoals remain Shoals and define an action plan flue-gas dust. This is a complex issue moderate, we will address this to reduce waste from the plant and although we have no progress situation over the coming years being sent to landfill to report at this point, we remain through a set of initiatives previously committed to finding a workable deployed at our other locations. solution in time. We have set an overall Constellium reduction target (including Muscle We did achieve success at our Shoals) of 10% in the amount of Ravenswood plant during the year, landfilled waste resulting from where we reduced the amount of flueour production operations. We no gas dust we produce by improving longer have a target for demolition process control as well as identifying waste because it is closely linked to recycling solutions for other construction work and is therefore categories of waste, notably wood. difficult to predict. Reducing pollution at source Key wastes Pollution prevention measures have been Pollution prevention measures include incorporated in the facility of our joint initiatives related to air emissions control, venture with UACJ Corporation in Bowling surface treatment workshop (retention design) Green, Kentucky. These measures have been and wastewater. Our EHS team conducts designed and constructed to comply with the regular audits to monitor the pollution regulatory framework and our own internal prevention process. EHS directives and guidelines. Preventing pollution on-site Rolling out external audits Reducing waste sent Preventing pollution at our sites is In 2014 we piloted an external to landfill at the heart of our commitment to audit initiative to provide assurance Flue-gas dust Sludge Demolition waste Sustainability in focus As aluminium is a valuable resource, Origins: from filtering our furnace (melting Origins: formed during processing of Origins: from excavation, building and other minimize our environmental footprint. that our operations are compliant most of our production waste is or recycling) exhaust gases to prevent their wastewater from the aluminium surface infrastructure demolition. The amount we We do this by maintaining adequate with our internal directives and recycled. However, we do still produce emission in the atmosphere. These contain treatment workshops. As is the case with produce varies from year to year. tools and processes, including regulations. Following the successful metallic particles that need to be neutralized flue-gas dust, the production of sludge occurs some waste that is not recyclable by before further processing. because we remove and neutralize potentially Actions: can be crushed or ground and internal directives and guidelines, pilot at Montreuil-Juigné, we carried traditional means and therefore goes harmful substances to prevent their release recycled as construction material, backfill or as well as by ensuring that we have out two more external audits in Actions: ongoing partnerships with leading material for embankments. Furnace insulation to landfill. Examples of this waste organizations to explore solutions. into the environment. waste, such as refractory bricks, has been the appropriate protection and 2015, at C-TEC and Nuits-Saintinclude flue-gas dust, sludge from Actions: depending on the composition of the in contact with liquid metal and therefore containment equipment. Georges, confirming that our internal wastewater treatment and waste sludge, solutions can include recycling it as requires special treatment before recycling. procedures performed satisfactorily from demolition (see case study on construction material. Our emissions remain relatively with only minor issues identified. key wastes). stable and at a low intensity level Four further external audits are for legacy Constellium. Although Production waste Metric tons planned for 2016, at Neuf-Brisach, our acquisition of the Muscle Shoals Issoire, Ussel and Valais. 120,000 plant added a significant quantity 112,910 100,000 of air emissions, due to the size of 95,350 100,914 95,926 80,000 the plant, the intensity of these Looking ahead 90,474 91,992 86,410 82,491 78,539 79,794 78,050 78,051 76,620 60,000 71,938 emissions remains low. –– Deploy our external 40,000 25,919 environmental audit program 8,224 8,840 9,683 10,840 9,628 11,214 8,940 5,014 3,950 4,716 4,876 6,662 2,329 20,000 at additional sites 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 Legacy Constellium Total Recycling Incineration Landfill 56 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 57 Doing business responsibly Employee Code of Conduct The number of executives taking part Carrying out our business in the refresh is tracked and reported Looking ahead Every day, our people are required to every year. The relevant numbers for –– Continue to enforce our make increasingly complex business 2015 can be found on page 70 of our employee code of conduct decisions that have an impact on in line with our values performance data. colleagues, suppliers and customers, as well as the communities in which Developments in 2015 we operate. We review the code on a regular We are committed to carrying out our business responsibly and The Constellium Worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct aims basis, expanding and updating it as necessary. In 2015, we included new complying with the highest standards of governance, in line with to help our people make the correct elements to cover issues of particular our values. We do this through a combination of internal and decisions by remaining true to our guiding values. It provides practical concern for employees in certain external initiatives: internally, we subscribe to the highest levels help and guidance on our framework functions: specifically, antitrust Anti-corruption for our sales teams and anti-fraud of ethical values and outlines the of transparency and accountability, and are developing Company standards of professionalism and for our accounting teams. The latter included a new policy on reporting Sustainable Supply and industry sustainability programs; externally, we actively integrity which we expect throughout fraud and irregularities. promote the adoption and implementation of sustainability our business. Chain Management We also enhanced our Whistleblower At Constellium, sustainability does policies by our suppliers and contractors. Company-wide observance Policy during the year to include not just mean ensuring that our own details of a new Integrity Hotline. The code applies to everybody at social, environmental and ethical A confidential service conducted Constellium from boardroom to standards are in place. It also means In summary casthouse, without exception. by an independent company, the Hotline enables employees to making sure our values are reflected 2015 responsible 2020 responsible business targets For those employees without direct voice concerns and suggestions across the supply chain. Materiality coverage ––Promote and enforce ethical business targets ––Have at least one site ASI certified access to a computer, it is the for improvement anonymously by Our Supply Chain Management Policy by 2020* responsibility of individual plants to business practices ––100% of key suppliers joining United phone at any time of the day or night. reflects the fact that our priorities Nations Global Compact (UNGC) by 2015 ––100% of key suppliers and those explain and monitor the code. At our ––Engage suppliers in The Hotline has toll-free telephone are shaped by our respect for people sustainability performance suppliers initially assessed as high risk evaluated or audited according to UNGC largest sites, our internal control numbers in every country where and the environment in which we 2015 responsible ––Increase economic performance principles by 2020 framework requires each of our we have a manufacturing facility, live. We believe that our commitment business performance employees to acknowledge the Code giving employees access to trained to responsible business should ––More than half of key suppliers are signatories of the UNGC of Conduct. specialists able to communicate in extend beyond our own business ––Implementation of a responsible supply English, French, German, Czech, and embrace our entire supply For those employees with direct access chain policy Slovak and Chinese. chain. Our Policy aims to gather and to a computer, we provide an e-learning Constellium was a founding member of use knowledge about our supply the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) module for new employees, supported in 2012 and we have played an active role by an annual refresh. chain to drive improvements and to in its development as an independent reinforce our suppliers’ commitments organization. (See pages 36–37 for *Based on the assumption that there will be a to sustainability. more information on the ASI) certification scheme in place Sustainability in focus During 2015, we made good progress towards achieving that aim. Specifically, we have: –– developed our Supplier Code of Conduct. We identified 44 suppliers of products and services such as energy, metal, chemicals and machinery as key suppliers. Of these suppliers 80% have either signed the Code or produced their own Code of Conduct that we have agreed covers the same issues. Our purchasing teams Code of Conduct training at Decin are in contact with the remaining Every year, our plant at Decin runs sessions 20% of key suppliers, reminding which communicate the key aspects of the them that this is a mandatory Code of Conduct to employees. This live requirement. All new contracts training, which is attended by all employees, also includes a dedicated time for questions include this requirement; and and answers. 58 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 59 Doing business responsibly (continued) –– launched a campaign to assess the Our first step was to conduct Basic assessment – scores Traders sustainability performance of our an internal risk assessment between 30 and 37 will require the We will assess traders biennially via key suppliers and to audit suppliers which identified three categories supplier to work with us to resolve a questionnaire devised internally. that were initially assessed as of suppliers: identified issues. The results will be benchmarked and carrying more risk. we will work with the traders to devise –– traders (such as metal traders who Good assessment – scores above are responsible for some aspects 37 are considered satisfactory. improvement plans if necessary. In line with our objective to of our sourcing); embed sustainability throughout This policy will apply to all key Constellium, we are also engaging –– key suppliers (those with a high suppliers. The only exceptions Comprehensive with our purchasing teams on the turnover with Constellium of will be for those suppliers which assessment platform role of sustainability in purchasing strategic importance) primarily in the internal risk assessment We have launched a program to assess the decisions. The teams will receive the metal and energy sector but has identified as providing clear sustainability of our suppliers by working training on the different areas and the also key suppliers of equipment, sustainability policies as well as with EcoVadis, one of the world’s leading assessment partners. EcoVadis operates implementation of the Supply Chain refractories, and all indirect goods external stakeholder engagement a collaborative platform that provides Management Policy. and services; and in matters of sustainability. Supplier Sustainability Ratings for The results of all assessments will global supply chains. EcoVadis provides –– suppliers that were initially companies with a questionnaire tailored The Supplier Code assessed as carrying more risk be communicated to suppliers and to their size and industry, and requires areas of improvement discussed. supporting documentation to verify claims of Conduct (based on activities and location). made regarding sustainability policies and Neuf-Brisach site hosts industry body visit The Constellium Supplier Code As part of our Supply Chain performance. After a careful assessment During 2015, our team at Neuf-Brisach It draws on its proven environmental and of Conduct is a framework that Of our thousands of suppliers, 55 Management Policy, we will continue of the completed questionnaire, companies was proud to host a visit from European technical expertise, economic and statistical have been classified as in the key or receive scores which range between 0 outlines the standards of integrity to encourage and assist key suppliers and 100. The EcoVadis Corporate Social Aluminium, the voice of the aluminium analysis, and scientific research – and uses for which we strive throughout our high-risk categories, accounting for to join UNGC and all aluminium Responsibility (CSR) analysis system industry in Europe, as part of the education, the sharing of best practices, organization’s program of autumn meetings. public affairs and communication activities to business and supply chain. The Code more than half of the total amount we suppliers to join the ASI. is built on international CSR standards Over 80 members representing a wide promote aluminium to all stakeholders. spend with suppliers. The suppliers including the Global Reporting Initiative aims to drive the many different range of aluminium companies discovered (GRI), the UNGC, and the ISO 26000, “Many thanks to the Neuf-Brisach team for aspects of sustainability and to that were initially assessed as Riskier suppliers covering 21 criteria across four themes the role and key capabilities of our facility, including recycling. the hospitality, presentations and plant visit,” tackle several challenging but very carrying more risk in our view of environment, fair labor practices, said Gerd Götz, Director General, European Suppliers initially identified as important matters. present a higher level of compliance ethics/fair business practices, and Currently chaired by our CEO Pierre Vareille, Aluminium. “The feedback we have received carrying more risk will undergo onsupply chain. Before we began the European Aluminium represents 600 plants has been excellent. Our members enjoyed the risk because they are based in site audits carried out by an external EcoVadis process with our suppliers, and 1 million direct and indirect jobs across comprehensive tour! Kudos for the excellent The Code applies to all suppliers, or supply goods/services from a we tested it by undergoing our own the entire value chain of the aluminium preparations. It was a pleasure to have visited auditing company. subsidiaries, consultants, contractors high‑risk country. EcoVadis assessments in 2013 industry in Europe. The organization actively Constellium on this occasion.” and affiliates of Constellium, and all Audits will be carried out every and 2015. In 2015, we were engages with decision-makers and the wider suppliers are expected to agree to In order to achieve our target of awarded a gold rating. stakeholder community to promote the three years for those suppliers that outstanding properties of aluminium, secure its terms and uphold it in all of their assessing or auditing all of our key fall within the ‘satisfactory’ and growth and optimize the contribution that business operations. A supplier will suppliers (and suppliers that were ‘requires improvement’ categories aluminium can make to meeting Europe’s only be exempted from signing the initially assessed as carrying more sustainability challenges. and annually for suppliers that Code if it has been verified that the risk) according to UNGC principles New suppliers are classified as ‘requires major supplier’s own code of conduct is in by 2020, we have worked with improvement’. Suppliers that fall Suppliers that are new to our line with our Code. the EcoVadis platform to create within the ‘zero tolerance’ category, supply chain will be required to ASI certification different action plans for each of such as those associated with Sustainability in focus As signatories of the UNGC, we have these categories (see the case sign our Supplier Code of Conduct. One of our key objectives is for one of our large sites to be ASI certified by 2020. This will not only child labor, forced labor and critical New suppliers will also undergo an enable the further development of sustainability within Constellium, it will also demonstrate our the utmost respect for human and study on page 59 for details of commitment to engaging with our stakeholders. health and safety issues, will have internal risk assessment, following labor rights, and the code therefore the EcoVadis platform). their business with Constellium which they may proceed to an Through the ASI, we work hard to promote sustainability beyond our Company and our supply includes sections on EHS, business chain, influencing the entire value chain. We actively encourage our aluminium suppliers and all suspended until the problem external assessment or on-site ethics and sustainable procurement. Key suppliers of our customers to join ASI and we are pleased that several of them have become signatories. is resolved. audit depending on the category We will carry out external in which they are placed. The only  or more information on ASI and its progress in 2015 F Assessing the sustainability assessments on each key supplier exceptions are those detailed on see pages 36–37 Watch the video at: performance of our suppliers every three years. the previous page. www.constellium.com/media/multimedia-library As an extension of our commitment These assessments will return a to the UNGC we have set a target to rating of problematic, basic or good assess or audit all of our key suppliers Looking ahead Aluminium based on the EcoVadis scale from Stewardship and suppliers that were initially 0 to 100 (the criteria are explained Anti-corruption and –– Finalize the signing of the Initiative assessed as carrying more risk by in the case study on page 59). human rights Supplier Code of Conduct 2020, according to UNGC principles. Problematic assessment – scores –– Continue to roll out the below 30 will trigger an immediate performance assessments action plan with a new assessment –– Pilot on-site audits of suppliers within six months. If low results that we consider are associated persist, an on-site audit will with greater risk be performed. 60 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 61 Consolidated income statement In this section, we publish the detailed performance (in millions of euros) Year ended December 31, 2015 Year ended December 31, 2014 Year ended December 31, 2013 figures that underpin the narrative of Constellium’s year. Revenue 5,153 3,666 3,495 We include financial and share price information together Cost of sales (4,703) (3,183) (3,024) Gross profit 450 483 471 with sustainability data and facts about the composition Selling and administrative expenses (245) (200) (210) of our workforce and employee turnover. Finally, we list the Research and development expenses (35) (38) (36) organizations of which we are members and provide an Restructuring costs (8) (12) (8) Impairment (457) – – index of our GRI G4 disclosure. Other gains/(losses) – net (131) (83) (8) (Loss)/income from operations (426) 150 209 Performance Other expenses – – (27) Finance income 71 30 17 Finance costs (226) (88) (67) Finance costs – net (155) (58) (50) in focus Share of (loss)/profit of joint ventures (3) (1) 3 (Loss)/income before income tax (584) 91 135 Income tax benefit/(expense) 32 (37) (39) Net (loss)/income from continuing operations (552) 54 96 Net income from discontinued operations – – 4 Net (loss)/income for the period (552) 54 100 Net (loss)/income attributable to: Equity holders of Constellium (554) 51 98 Non-controlling interests 2 3 2 Net (loss)/income (552) 54 100 Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the Company Year ended Year ended Year ended (in euros per share) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Basic (5.27) 0.48 1.00 Diluted (5.27) 0.48 0.99 Note: More detailed information on our financial performance can be found in our Annual Report on Form 20-F at: www.constellium.com/aluminium-company/finance/regulatory-filings Performance in focus 62 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 63 Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated statement of cash flows At December 31, At December 31, Year ended Year ended Year ended (in millions of euros) 2015 2014 (in millions of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Assets Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities Non-current assets Net (loss)/income from continuing operations (552) 54 96 Goodwill 443 11 Adjustments for: Intangible assets 78 17 Income tax (benefit)/expense (32) 37 39 Property, plant and equipment 1,255 633 Finance costs – net 155 58 50 Investment accounted for under equity method 30 21 Depreciation and amortization 140 49 32 Deferred income tax assets 270 192 Restructuring costs and other provisions 2 6 (8) Trade receivables and other 53 48 Impairment 457 – – Defined benefit pension costs 48 29 29 Other financial assets 37 33 Unrealized losses/(gains) on derivatives net and from remeasurement 2,166 955 of monetary assets and liabilities – net 23 52 (14) Current assets Losses on disposal and assets classified as held for sale 5 5 6 Inventories 542 436 Share of loss/(profit) of joint ventures 3 – (3) Trade receivables and other 365 573 Other 5 5 2 Other financial assets 70 57 Changes in working capital: Cash and cash equivalents 472 991 Inventories 149 (95) 41 1,449 2,057 Trade receivables 343 (48) 9 Assets classified as held for sale 13 – Margin calls 1 11 4 Total assets 3,628 3,012 Trade payables (161) 170 (1) Other working capital 4 (33) (9) Changes in other operating assets and liabilities: Equity Provisions – pay out (20) (12) (17) Share capital 2 2 Income tax paid (9) (27) (29) Share premium 162 162 Pension liabilities and other post-employment benefit Retained deficit and other reserves (715) (207) obligations payment (50) (49) (43) Equity attributable to owners of the Company (551) (43) Net cash flows from operating activities 511 212 184 Non-controlling interests 11 6 Cash flows from/(used in) investing activities Total equity (540) (37) Purchases of property, plant and equipment (350) (199) (144) Liabilities Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired (348) – – Non-current liabilities Proceeds from disposals, including joint venture 4 (2) 7 Borrowings 2,064 1,205 Issuance of shares of joint ventures (9) (19) – Trade payables and other 54 31 Proceeds from finance leases 6 6 6 Deferred income tax liabilities 10 – Other investing activities (25) (2) (1) Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations 701 657 Net cash flows used in investing activities (722) (216) (132) Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities Other financial liabilities 14 40 Net proceeds received from issuance of shares – – 162 Provisions 119 61 Interim dividend paid – – (147) 2,962 1,994 Distribution of share premium to owners of the Company – – (103) Current liabilities Withholding tax reimbursed/(paid) – 20 (20) Borrowings 169 47 Interests paid (143) (39) (36) Trade payables and other 867 877 Proceeds received from Term Loan and Senior Notes – 1,153 351 Income taxes payable 6 11 Repayment of Term Loan – (331) (156) Other financial liabilities 107 71 Proceeds/(repayments) of US revolving Credit Facility and other loans (211) 13 2 Provisions 44 49 Payment of deferred financing costs (2) (27) (8) 1,193 1,055 Transactions with non-controlling interests 3 (2) (2) Liabilities classified as held for sale 13 – Other financing activities 45 (34) – Performance in focus Total liabilities 4,168 3,049 Net cash flows (used in)/from financing activities (308) 753 43 Total equity and liabilities 3,628 3,012 Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (519) 749 95 Cash and cash equivalents – beginning of period 991 236 142 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 4 6 (1) Cash and cash equivalents – end of period 476 991 236 Less: Cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale (4) – – Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the statement of financial position 472 991 236 64 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 65 Share information Sustainability performance Share price evolution in US$ (from May 15, 2015) In this section (pages 65–75), we provide our performance across the 16 four pillars of Constellium’s sustainability strategy: 14 12 Products 10 People 8 6 Operations 4 Responsible business 2 0 May 15 June 15 July 16 Aug 14 Sept 15 Oct 15 Nov 13 Dec 15 Jan 15 Feb 16 March 15 Apr 15 May 13 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Products For more on Products see pages 38–43 Shareholding structure Average number of daily shares traded in 2015: 1shares .2 million (as of December 31, 2015) Free float Aluminium beverage can recycling rates Bpifrance 80 75% target for 2015 71.3% 69.5% 68.3% 70 66.7% 64.0% 12.18% 63.1% 61.8% 58.0% 60 54.5% 52.0% 56.7% 49.2% 48.0% 48.0% 54.1% 54.2% 54.9% 54.5% 48.4% 50 50.9% 45.0% 49.7% 43.0% 48.5% 48.2% 46.0% 45.1% 45.0% 45.3% 44.3% 87.82% 40 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014 2015 Europe US * This is the most recent data available for Europe. Figures for this data take a long time to process and the 2013 data was only made available in 2015. The beverage can recycling rate has seen a tremendous improvement from 43% (in 2000) to 71.3% (in 2013) Sales from innovative products* 13.3% 14 13.0% 12 9.3% 10 8 6 Performance in focus 4.5% 4 2 2012 2013 2014 2015 * Innovative products are defined as new products launched in to the market less than five years ago 66 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 67 Sustainability performance (continued) People For more on People see pages 44-49 GRI G4–10: Total workforce Temporary Recordable Case Rate* (agency, Inactive Inactive excluding 25 26.00 Apprentice restructuring without pay Permanent Fixed-term contractors) 24.50 All Constellium 20 Number of employees with Male 279 3 32 – – – 19.00 18.50 18.50 specific employment type Female 50 1 21 – – – 17.50 15 13.30 16.00 Number of employees Male – – – 9,095 416 15.00 578 11.50 14.00 14.00 per employment contract 13.34 10.70 13.50 Female – – – 1,101 87 9.90 10 10.47 8.40 Number of employees Full-time 329 4 43 9,995 503 7.80 7.80 578 7.20 6.90 working full/part-time 8.39 6.20 6.30 Part-time 0 0 10 201 – 6.70 3.67 Total 11,085 5 4.89 2.86 3.81 3.48 3.18 Total permanent and fixed terms 10,699 2.56 2.74 2.84 2.74 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Legacy Constellium Constellium with Muscle Shoals, Bowling Green and Changchun Europe European Aluminium, Rolling and Extrusion w/o Contractors US Bureau of Labor Statistics, Aluminum sheet, plate and foil, w/o Contractors Number of employees with Male 279 3 20 – – – *The Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries and medical treatments per 1 million hours worked. specific employment type External statistics without external contractors. Statistics from 2004 to 2014 are legacy Constellium and include contractors. In 2014 and 2015 we show both legacy Constellium Female 50 1 20 – – – and Constellium with Muscle Shoals, Bowling Green and Changchun, and both include contractors Number of employees Male – – – 6,639 254 per employment contract 578 Female – – – 778 45 Number of employees Full-time 329 4 30 7,216 299 Number of serious injuries including fatalities* 578 working full/part-time 10 Part-time – – 10 201 – Total 8,089 8 8 7 7 7 6 6 North America Number of employees with Male – – 12 – – – specific employment type 4 Female – – 1 – – – 4 3 Number of employees Male – – – 2,442 – per employment contract – Female – – – 311 – 2 2 Number of employees Full-time – – 13 2,753 – – working full/part-time Part-time – – – – – – 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total 2,766 Serious injuries (Legacy Constellium) Serious injuries (including Muscle Shoals) * Project contractors and visitors have been systematically included in these statistics Asia Number of employees with Male – – – – – – specific employment type Female – – – – – – Number of employees Male – – – 14 162 Performance in focus per employment contract – Female – – – 12 42 Number of employees Full-time – – – 26 204 – working full/part-time Part-time – – – – – – Total 230 68 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 69 Sustainability performance (continued) People (continued) Operations For more on Operations GRI G4–LA1: Employee turnover see pages 50–55 Apprentices and temporary fixed-term contract employees have been excluded, for accuracy in turnover rate calculation Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions kt CO2e 1,400 Under Between Between Above 26 26 and 45 46 and 55 56 Total 1,200 1,000 1,185 Europe 800 Number of new employees hired in 2015 Male 247 259 63 2 571 600 743 753 752 694 686 701 705 Female 95 58 9 0 162 400 416 403 414 446 446 446 434 200 307 Number of employees who left the Male 48 90 20 112 270 278 283 287 297 258 Company in 2015 2015 Female 27 24 6 10 67 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Legacy Constellium* Number of employees on Male 333 3,069 2,360 1,000 6,762 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1+2 December 31, 2015 Female 47 434 241 99 821 *Compared to 2014, evolution is mostly due to the update of electricity emission factors, based on suppliers’ information, instead of national average emission factors for Turnover rate Male 14.4% 2.9% 0.8% 11.2% 4.0% previous years. Figures have been rounded to the nearest kt CO2e Female 57.4% 5.5% 2.5% 10.1% 8.2% Water consumption 106 m3 30 Under Between Between Above 26 26 and 45 46 and 55 56 Total 25 30.0 25.5 26.4 25.7 25.6 24.8 24.3 North America 20 22.5 23.4 22.7 22.2 21.7 21.4 21.4 15 Number of new employees hired in 2015 Male 50 188 57 23 318 10 Female 16 57 18 4 95 5 2.6 2.7 2.6 2.8 2.3 2.6 8.3 Number of employees who left the Male 29 169 63 53 314 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.6 0.8 0.4 0.4 Company in 2015 Female 7 28 9 6 50 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 Legacy Constellium Number of employees on Male 118 1,100 750 426 2,394 Total water Ground water Surface water Water from public net December 31, 2015 Female 13 133 74 58 278 Turnover rate Male 24.6% 15.4% 8.4% 12.4% 13.1% Female 53.8% 21.1% 12.2% 10.3% 18.0% Production waste Metric tons 120,000 112,910 100,000 95,350 100,914 95,926 80,000 90,474 91,992 86,410 Under Between Between Above 82,491 78,539 79,794 78,050 78,051 76,620 26 26 and 45 46 and 55 56 Total 60,000 71,938 40,000 25,919 11,214 Asia 8,224 8,840 9,683 10,840 9,628 8,940 5,014 3,950 4,716 4,876 6,662 2,329 20,000 Number of new employees hired in 2015 Male 37 49 6 2 94 Female 6 15 1 0 22 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 Legacy Constellium Number of employees who left the Male 42 36 3 1 82 Total Recycling Incineration Landfill Company in 2015 Female 6 11 0 0 17 Number of employees on Male 67 77 5 1 150 December 31, 2015 Air emissions Metric tons Female 11 30 0 0 41 1,200 Turnover rate Male 62.7% 46.8% 60.0% 100% 54.7% 1,118.0 1,000 Female 54.5% 36.7% 0% 0% 41.5% 800 979.6 Performance in focus 600 355.3 331.3 671.0 375.8 321.0 318.4 300.3 307.7 296.1 290.5 293.3 615.4 283.7 270.1 282.0 543.2 400 461.9 148.8 455.5 490.1 478.6 142.9 136.7 175.4 200 118.1 115.8 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 Legacy Constellium NO X Particulate materials SO2 VOC 70 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 71 Sustainability performance (continued) GRI content index Operations (continued) GRI G4 disclosure 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Legacy Constellium 2015 We have achieved full disclosure against the general standard Indirect energy consumption* (TJ) disclosures and specific standard disclosures listed below, Electricity 3,982 4,111 4,071 4,089 4,007 4,017 5,482 and reported against the mining and mineral sector guidelines Direct energy sources* Anthracite 459 395 439 519 492 500 500 (which are marked with a *). Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) 10 10 10 11 13 15 15 Natural gas 6,570 6,463 6,618 7,254 7,295 7,374 13,243 Diesel 115 112 109 114 113 113 119 General standard disclosures Heavy fuel 188 190 168 187 182 159 159 DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page Total 7,342 7,170 7,344 8,085 8,095 8,161 14,036 Strategy and analysis Total energy consumption (TJ) G4-1 Statement from the most senior Chief Executive Officer insights 2-3 In TJ/year 10,890 10,810 10,936 11,677 11,815 11,888 19,222 decision-maker of the organization * This includes, in some cases, our own energy generation Organizational profile From energy consumption to energy efficiency G4-3 Name of the organization Constellium N.V. (Constellium) Raw energy consumption per ton is not necessarily the most relevant indicator of energy efficiency, because we need to take into account the effect of different product mixes. For instance, the manufacture of automotive sheet requires G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Business operational performance 20-24 significantly more energy during rolling and finishing operations than beverage can body sheet. Therefore, increasing Our main brands are: AIRWARE®, SEALIUM®, ALUMOLD®, Surfalex®, the share of one product over another will affect the overall energy per ton, independently of any other change. Formalex®, Strongalex®, Ultralex®, Skybright®, Inoxal®, Solar Surface®, LONGLINEFINISH®, BUTLERFINISH®, STAYBRIGHT TM, KEIKORTM, AeralTM, For this reason, we correct our energy efficiency indicator to avoid any bias. DokimaTM, Kool X TM and GRIPSTERTM We have identified the relative energy consumption per ton of different product lines and use this to transpose G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Amsterdam, The Netherlands Back cover raw energy per ton data into an energy efficiency index. This index therefore reflects the intrinsic manufacturing G4-6 Countries where the organization operates Company organization, see also http://www.constellium.com/aluminium9 performance of our operations, regardless of any changes in our product mix. company/manufacturing-recycling-plants/aluminium-plants-location At the same time, we also rely on Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) to make sure that we manufacture environmentally G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with the highest ethical standards and best practices, to be responsive to our shareholders sound products. We are particularly keen to ensure that products requiring greater energy during manufacture deliver and other stakeholders, and operates under a worldwide Code of greater energy savings during their lifetime. Conduct. We are listed on NYSE and on Euronext under the ticker symbol ‘CSTM’. Shareholders as of December 31, 2015 – free float: 87.82%; Bpifrance: 12.18% Responsible business G4-8 Markets served How we are organized Business unit perspectives 8–9 20–24 Making our products more sustainable 38–43 For more on Operations G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Chief Executive Officer insights 2–3 see pages 56–59 How we are organized 8–9 Code of Conduct training Performance in focus 60–70 96.0% 99.8% 99.3% G4-10 Workforce characteristic Performance in focus 67–68 Achieved Achieved Achieved G4-11 Employees covered by collective A vast majority of non-US employees and approximately 49% of bargaining agreements US employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements 1,118 1,116 1,144 1,136 G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Value we create 6–7 974 935 G4-13 Changes in organization’s size, Acquisition of Wise Metals in the US (closing on January 5, 2015) and structure, ownership or its supply chain creation of Astrex JV in Canada (August 2015) G4-14 Precautionary principle Evaluating the environmental performance of our products 41 Risk management 45 Performance in focus Reducing environmental risk 46 Preventing pollution on-site 54 G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles or In Focus: Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 36–37 initiatives to which the organization subscribes Memberships 76 2013 2014 2015 G4-16 Membership of associations or organizations Engaging with stakeholders 35 Number of people targeted Number of people achieved In Focus: Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 36–37 Memberships 76 72 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 73 GRI content index (continued) General standard disclosures (continued) General standard disclosures (continued) DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page Organizational profile (continued) Governance G4-17 Entities included in the organization reports All entities owned by Constellium and all existing joint ventures during G4-34 Governance structure Governance 26-30 reporting year 2015. See www.constellium.com/aluminium-company/ manufacturing-recycling-plants/aluminium-plants-location for the detailed list of entities G4-18 Reporting principles for defining report content About this report IFC Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, Governance 29 standards and norms of behavior Doing business responsibly 56-59 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-19 Process for defining content Our materiality assessment 34 and aspect boundaries See our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report, available at www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/version/2/file/ Specific standard disclosures Business+%26+Sustainability+Report_June+3+2015.pdf Category: economic G4-20 Material aspects within the organization Our materiality assessment 34 Increase economic performance G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization Our materiality assessment 34 Material aspect: economic performance G4-22 Restatements of information provided None G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Strategy and markets in focus 10-17 in earlier reports G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Performance in focus 61-64 Data related to Constellium perimeter outside the acquisition of Muscle Shoals plants were provided under the ‘2015 Legacy Constellium’ legend. Increase economic performance Older data was displayed unchanged G4-EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities for Due to the uncertainty of the effects of climate change it is difficult to quantify its impact. G4-23 Significant changes from previous About this report IFC the organization’s activities due to climate change Possible scenarios that could create financial risks for our business include availability of reporting periods in scope and aspect boundaries water, additional regulation to mitigate climate change, serious weather events causing damage to operations and supply chain, and climate warming/cooling trends in different regions positively or negatively affecting the sales of finished products in particular beverage cans. As a participant since 2013 in the EU ETS (European Union Emission Trading Stakeholder engagement Scheme), changes to this system and a higher price of carbon could have an impact. G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged Engaging with stakeholders 35-37 There are, however, opportunities related to climate change and associated legislative by the organization changes. New technology and products which are lightweight and recyclable and are Building partnerships 42-43 being used to lower fuel emissions in vehicles present an opportunity for aluminium, Community involvement 48-49 including: increased sales and opening of new markets as well as increasing aluminium share in existing markets, promotion of aluminium for new markets, providing innovative G4-25 Identification and selection Our materiality assessment 34 solution for customer needs, R&D investment, and expansion of manufacturing facilities. of stakeholders to engage Opportunities from the EU ETS include being able to trade excess emissions certificates, See our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report, available at www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/ which would provide an additional income, and no costs except those to reduce emissions on pages 30 and 39–41 to the required level to have excess certificates. G4-26 Organization’s approach to Engaging with stakeholders 35 stakeholder engagement See our 2014 Business and sustainability performance report, available at www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/version/2/file/ Category: environmental Business+%26+Sustainability+Report_June+3+2015.pdf on page 30 Increase recycling activities Material aspect: materials* G4-27 Key topics collected through Our materiality assessment 34 stakeholder engagement G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Recycling 42-43 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that We do not consider recycled content as a relevant metrics for environmental 43 are recycled input materials performance. For more detail, see our recycling brochure, available online at the following address: Report profile http://www.constellium.com/content/download/7813/120379/version/3/ file/Constellium+-+recycling+brochure+-+october+2015.pdf G4-28 Reporting period About this report IFC G4-29 Date of the last report Issued in 2015. Available on the sustainability page at Improve energy efficiency of operations www.constellium.com/content/download/7248/116334/version/2/file/ Material aspect: energy Business+%26+Sustainability+Report_June+3+2015.pdf G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Improving our energy efficiency 50-52 G4-30 Reporting cycle About this report IFC Performance in focus G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Performance in focus 70 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report IFC organization G4-32 GRI Content Index GRI G4 disclosure index 71-75 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environmental benefits of products 41-42 G4-33 External assurance About this report IFC G4-EN5 Energy intensity Improving our energy efficiency 50-51 At Constellium, ‘energy efficiency’ is the way we define ‘energy intensity’ G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Improving our energy efficiency 51-52 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements Developing products with environmental benefits 41-42 of products and services 74 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 75 GRI content index (continued) Specific standard disclosures (continued) Specific standard disclosures (continued) Category: environmental (continued) DMA and Indicators Cross reference/Additional information Page Reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions Ensure safety at work Material aspect: emissions Reduce psycho-social risks G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Reducing greenhouse gas emissions 52-53 Reduce use of harmful substances G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Performance in focus 69 Material aspect: safety G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Performance in focus 69 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supporting our people 44-49 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Reducing greenhouse gas emissions 52-53 G4-LA5 Workforce represented in health and 100% of our sites have workforce representation in health and G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) None recorded in the reporting year safety committees safety committees G4-LA6* Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, In Focus: EHS 13 G4-EN21 NOX, SO2, and other significant air emissions Performance in focus 69 absenteeism and total number of workPerformance in focus 66 related fatalities Reduce waste from operations G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal In Focus: EHS 13 agreements with trade unions Supporting our people 44-49 Prevent pollution from operations Health and safety topics are covered not only in agreements with trade unions Material aspect: effluents and waste but also in our procedures and directives G4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Preventing pollution on-site 54 Develop training and empowerment Reducing waste sent to landfill 54-55 Material aspect: training and education G4-EN22 Water discharge Performance in focus 69 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Training and empowerment 46-48 G4-EN23 Waste disposal Performance in focus 69 G4-LA11 Employees receiving regular performance and Engaging with our employees 48 career development reviews G4-EN24 Significant spills No major spills recorded in the reporting year Our professional grade employees receive annual performance and career development through the new global HR platform, Success Factors. This has Develop products with environmental benefits been extended to some supervisory levels in France Material aspect: products and services All other employees receive an annual performance review but this is done on G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environmental benefits of products 41-42 a site-by-site basis and tracked centrally for all managers G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products Life Cycle Assessments 41-42 and services G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach In Focus: Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 36-37 Sub-category: human rights Doing business responsibly 56-59 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total None recorded in the reporting year Promote and enforce ethical business practices number of non-monetary sanctions for Material aspect: non-discrimination non-compliance with environmental laws G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Doing business responsibly 56-59 and regulations G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective No discrimination incidents or non-compliances in this respect have been Engage suppliers in sustainability performance actions taken reported to the Group level through the formal compliance process in Material aspect: supplier sustainability the course of the year. In case of incidents on site level or allegations of discrimination on grounds of race, age, color, sex, religion, political opinion, G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Assessing the sustainability performance of our suppliers 57-59 national extraction or social origin, they have been reviewed and dealt G4-EN32 Suppliers screened using environmental criteria No quantitative data available yet, screening in progress with in line with the applicable legal and management review processes. Where appropriate, the necessary corrective actions have been defined and Assessing the sustainability performance of our suppliers 57-59 put in place by the local management in charge. Material aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining Category: social G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Engaging with our employees 48 Sub-category: labor practices and decent work G4-HR4 Risks to the right to exercise freedom None identified of association and collective bargaining Improve employee satisfaction Material aspect: employment G4-DMA* Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supporting our people 45-48 G4-LA1 Number and rates of new employee hires and Performance in focus 68 Sub-category: product responsibility employee turnover Innovation G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Part-time workers have pro-rata benefits of full-time employees; temporary G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Innovation 39-40 not provided to temporary or part-time employees workers are not eligible for the same benefits. Some select benefits related to Performance in focus health insurance are granted depending on seniority Environmental benefits of products 41-42 Material aspect: labor/management relations Recycling 42-43 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Engaging with our stakeholders 35 Customer satisfaction Engaging with our employees 48 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Customer satisfaction 39 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding The minimum notice period changes depending on the country of operation and operational changes is based on local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question G4-MM4* Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one None recorded in the reporting year week’s duration 76 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 Business and sustainability performance report 2015 77 Memberships Forward-looking statements Participates in This report contains statements All statements that reflect These risks and uncertainties projects and that relate to future events Constellium’s expectations, include, but are not limited to, those Membership Has positions in governance committees and expectations and as such assumptions or projections set forth under the heading ‘Risk Aluminum Association (AA) Member Yes constitute forward-looking about the future other than Factors’ in our Annual Report on Member of Standards statements within the meaning statements of historical fact are Form 20-F, and described from Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Committee, Catherine Athènes Yes of the Private Securities Litigation forward‑looking statements. time to time in subsequent reports, ARPAL, Spain Member No Reform Act of 1995. filed with the US Securities and Association Française de l’Aluminium (AFA) President, Béatrice Charon Yes The forward-looking statements Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements contained in this report are subject Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) No No include those statements containing to a number of known and unknown Constellium disclaims any obligation Cercle de l’Industrie Member No such words as ‘expects’, ‘intends’, risks, uncertainties and other factors to update publicly any forwardEmballages et Bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM) Member No ‘plans’, ‘scheduled’, ‘should’, and are not guarantees looking statements, whether in European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) Member Yes ‘could’, ‘will’, or other words of of future performance. response to new information, future European Aluminium Chairman, Pierre Vareille Yes similar meaning. events or otherwise, except as France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) President, Raphaël Thevenin Yes required by applicable law. Gesamtverband der Aluminium Industrie (GDA) Member of the Board, Dieter Höll Yes Groupement des Industries Françaises Aéronautiques et Member No Spatiales (GIFAS) Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) No No International Aluminium Institute (IAI) No Yes La Boîte Boisson (BCME) Member Yes Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch) Member No Syndicat National des Fabricants de Boîtes, emballages Member Yes et bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM) United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Member of the Board, Dieter Höll Yes This report was released in June 2016 Coordination: Photography credits: Print: Corporate Communications Department and Airbus Printed by Pureprint Group on FSC® Sustainability Council. All Contents certified paper. Design and production: G. Brooks Pureprint Group is an EMAS certified company A. Doyen and its Environmental Management System is Radley Yeldar | www.ry.com European Aluminium Association certified to ISO 14001. Getty Images 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, J. Goldstein 95% of press chemicals are recycled for iStock further use and on average 99% of any waste T. Lang associated with this production will be recycled. Macgregor Associates Architects This document is printed on Cocoon Silk 100; Master Image Programmes process chlorine free (PCF) paper containing H. Raguet 100% recycled fibre approved by the FSC®. Rio Tinto G. Uféras C. Williams
