YOUR FAVOURITE DIGITAL PARTNER 2015 Sustainability Report Making it easy is one of the core values of the Telenor Way, and this is what we have attempted to in this sustainability report. It may look simplistic, but embedding sustainability at Digi is anything but that. We work to ensure that the principles found in the Telenor Way, the values of empowerment and engagement, the freedom to inspire others, and respecting rights of stakeholders is present in our operations. Visit www.digi.com.my/sustainability to view the online version of this report. CONTENT 4 14 CEO’S STATEMENT WINNING TEAM 5 17 OUR AMBITION CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINAIBILITY IN DIGI SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS ECOSYSTEM MATERIALIALITY MATRIX 20 EMPOWER SOCIETIES 10 OUR STAKEHOLDERS 24 GRI REPORT 12 ETHICAL & RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CEO’S STATEMENT Welcome to our report on sustainability. We hope the continue to discover inspiring digital innovators, empower information here provides insights and inspiration on what social purpose organisations, connect the unconnected, and it means for us to conduct business in a responsible manner. promote safe use of internet among children. In early 2016 we launched Wanita Era Digital to help women enhance Principles in sustainability are core to the way we operate. their digital ﬂuency and capitalize on the opportunities from We’ve over the years continued to maintain the highest bringing their businesses online. We’ve also made a ethical standards in our business conduct, transparent and commitment to the global GSMA Connected Women fair in our customer oﬀerings, and prioritise safety and lives initiative to increase our women internet subscribers by 5% of workers across our value chain. We’ve also continued to to 47% by 2020. invest in programmes that empower societies by enabling positive use of the internet to nurture digital communities’ In expanding our business to serve our growing customer that will help shape Malaysia’s transformation into a high base of 12.3 million, we’ve placed equal emphasis on income nation. balancing consumption to moderate our operational impact on the ecosystem and climate. During the year we One of our main focus areas during the year was to ensure accelerated rollout of our LTE network, doubling our adherence to international standards of safety across our footprint to serve growing demand for quality high-speed supply chain. We’ve increased unannounced inspections internet on our widest 4G LTE network. While this brought and taken stern actions on contractors who neglect our about higher energy intensity, the higher cost per kilowatt is safety policy. We’ve also initiated an industry wide temporary and we expect sequential improvements in our collaboration and look forward to implement a common energy intensity over the years as we gain better leverage safety standard for the industry in 2016. from having more Malaysians beneﬁting from being connected to our high speed LTE network on the go. Within our organisation, we continue to nurture a strong culture around inclusiveness, customer centricity, As our business evolves, so will our priorities in delivering on innovation 360, and performance. We are focused on a sustainable operation to ensure relevance. Moving creating a workplace that promotes equal opportunity for forward we will build on the foundation of our core all, and to have a workforce that is as diverse as our principles through continuous engagements with our customers. It is our passionate talent who are empowered people, customers, shareholders, analyst and regulators in to contribute ideas and opinions to inspire the next big enhancing our accountability and helping nurture a robust ‘anything’ every day that will diﬀerentiate us and drive our ecosystem towards delivering on our long-term ambition of digital transformation. empowering more Malaysians through use of the internet, to be our customer’s favourite partner in digital life. Our ambition to enable access to all Malaysians has encouraged us to expand our community outreach programmes to advance the unserved and underserved communities by empowering them with the power of the Albern Murty internet. Through our Empower Societies initiatives, we Chief Executive Officer OUR AMBITION Customers' Favourite Partner in Digital Life OUR 2020 With this pace of change expected to remain signiﬁcant, we are future-prooﬁng our business to transform beyond a traditional mobile connectivity in the daily, digital lives of our customers. AMBITION We are future-prooﬁng our business to Loved by Customers Engaging Digital Products Winning Team Most Efficient Operator transform beyond a Providing high quality, Delivering intergrated Building future ready Driving proﬁtable traditional mobile user friendly and personalised customer digital services and experiences through talents, and a culture that inspires every day growth by optimising the way we work, and connectivity propositions and experiences strong digital positions and ecosystem 360° innocation ensuring future-proof operating models Key to being a trusted, credible partner to our growing 12.1 million customers is the way we do business, and this is guided by the Telenor Way. The principles and values connect us with 13 other business units in the Telenor Group. This guides how we work as Digizens together with our partners, stakeholders, and shapes our decisions and actions. Keep Promises We take ownership for delivering on our goals and responsibilities, and pride ourselves on driving quality into everything we do. Make It Easy We aim for simplicity in the way we work, and in oﬀering products and services that are easy to understand and easy to use. Be Respectful We are open-minded and professional in our conduct, and appreciate diﬀerences in cultures, opinions, and outlook. Be Inspiring We bring passion, energy, and creativity into everything we do, and make every eﬀort to constantly drive change and continuous improvement. Our sustainability strategy is driven by Telenor Group’s twin pillars of responsible business practice and extending the SUSTAINABILITY beneﬁts of mobile. Aligned to the principles and values of Telenor Way, United Nations Global Compact, and the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, our sustainability strategy aims to bring shared values and IN DIGI create an empowered society through our day-to-day interaction with business partners and stakeholders. Sustainability is embedded in our way of work through high standards of governance across our entire operations. We promote responsible business practices across our supply chain, foster a highly engaged workforce to create a winning team, and manage environmental impacts. By engaging our stakeholders, we extend the beneﬁts of mobile internet to all. Through the seven initiatives of Empower Societies, we connect the unconnected communities across diﬀerent segments of society, empower them with knowledge, and enrich their lives through a world of opportunities. We have aligned our initiatives with selected United Nation Sustainable Development Goals especially where we are able to exert inﬂuence and obring about change through our business. Our sustainability initiatives are recognised by external and independent stakeholders. We remain a constituent company of the Bursa Malaysia FTSE4Good Index, which comprise of companies assessed to have high sustainability disclosure. DIGI’S SUSTAINABILITY Responsible Business + + + Extending Benefits Practice ETHICAL & RESPONSIBLE WINNING TEAM CLIMATE CHANGE & ENVIRONMENT EMPOWER SOCIETIES Of Mobile BUSINESS Telenor Group is one of the world’s fastest growing providers of mobile communications services. Operating in 13 markets SUSTAINABILITY across Europe and Asia, Telenor aims to maximise the impact of communication services by creating shared value for society and business. GOVERNANCE Our sustainability strategy is driven by Telenor Group’s twin pillars of responsible business practices and extending the beneﬁts of mobile connectivity. Aligned to the principles and values of Telenor Way, United Nations Global Compact, and the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, our sustainability strategy aims to create shared values and catalyse an empowered society through our day-to-day interaction with business partners and stakeholders. Our way of work At Digi, sustainability is under the responsibility of the CEO’s division, and managed by the Head of Communications & embeds high Sustainability. Guidance on the governance and management of sustainability across divisions is provided in a comprehensive set of policies which is part of the broader Digi Governance Programme. standards of An Ethics & Sustainability Forum meets monthly to monitor issues and the progress of initiatives, and reports to the governance across management team. Selected sustainability performance indicators are monitored and reported quarterly to Digi Board of Directors and Telenor Group Sustainability. our entire operations. Digi Board of Directors Digi Sustainability Team Oversee Digi’s Sustainability · Formulate sustainability strategy, Performance policies and goals · Monitor and facilitate adherence to the sustainability policy Telenor Group Sustainability · Facilitate and support divisions to meet sustainability goals · Setting KPIs and alignment · Conduct sustainability awareness · Quarterly reporting of supply and engagement activities chain KPIs · Sustainability performance · Annual non-ﬁnancial reporting reporting Digi Management Team Divisions · Oversee sustainability related · Day to day management of risks and progress of non-ﬁnancial sustainability risks and issues KPIs · Own and ensure compliance of · Responsible for sustainable relevant sustainability related business policies policies In Malaysia today, smartphone ownership stands at 71%, totaling 18 million mobile internet users*. As smartphones become OUR BUSINESS increasingly aﬀordable, wireless network more ubiquitous, and digital services intrinsic to our daily lives, mobile internet will ECOSYSTEM be at the heart of the new digital ecosystem. Internet For All Empower Societies Widest LTE Network Digital Services We design and oﬀer aﬀordable data We deliver seven programmes which A network of over 6,000 towers and We deliver integrated digital services services and devices to enable easy commits to enable the internet for all 6,400 km of ﬁbre allow our subscribers and experiences through strong digital entry points for everyone to enjoy the communities to inspire a better to enjoy the nation’s widest LTE products and ecosystem. We look to beneﬁts of the internet. We serve a Malaysia. The programmes help more network. We deliver quality, develop new verticals in ﬁnancials, diverse 12.1 million subscribers, with segments of society to beneﬁt from high-speed Internet on-the-go that content and IoT to complement our close to 62% on internet devices. More being connected to the internet. We reaches 71%* of population coverage. current portfolio of integrated digital than 59% of our subscribers are smart also manage over 100 internet centres services in communication, storage, phone users. which provide basic access and music, video, games. internet skills training to underserved rural and urban communities. Multiple Touch Points Valued Suppliers Efficient Operation Winning Team We provide over 15,000 touch points Over 1,000 suppliers are registered to We drive proﬁtable growth by More than 2,000 passionate and for subscribers to easily engage and deliver the infrastructure and services optimising the way we operate to allow engaged Digizens from 12 nationalities transact with our brand ambassadors. across our value chain. All suppliers sign us to invest time and energy in based in six regions to deliver services With the MyDigi self-serve app, we up to the Supplier Conduct Principle improving customer experience. We that is loved by customers. We drive a are empowering our customers to which commits them to uphold and look to transform our network and IT culture that allows them the freedom have more control over managing respect core labour, environmental, operating models by building an to inspire the next. their accounts. and anti-corruption standards. ecosystem that is open, agile and intelligent. * Digital, Social & Mobile in 2015 Our materiality assessment is conducted based on a methodology developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This MATERIALITY methodology is linked to the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008) developed by AccountAbility. MATRIX We align our material issues with Telenor Group’s matrix. Issues identiﬁed by Telenor is assessed and prioritised according to our operational context, corporate strategy and stakeholder expectation. Feedback from stakeholders is reviewed and addressed by relevant functional personnel. Issues that are strategically important to our business are subsequently integrated into our corporate strategy, and form the basis for our sustainability focus areas and related initiatives. In 2015, our materiality matrix was further reﬁned by raising our priority on ethics and anti-corruption. HIGH IMPORTANCE TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Digital Enabling Ethics & Corporate Service Reliability Sustainable Responsibility Services Anti-Corruption Governance & Quality Supply Chain MEDIUM EMF Waste Our Energy Data Security Management Employees Efficient & Privacy LOW Tax Licences LOW MEDIUM HIGH IMPORTANCE TO DIGI OUR STAKEHOLDERS We have embedded a range of platforms to keep a constant pulse on concerns and issues of stakeholders. By MEET THE understanding expectations and responding to concerns, we aim to deepen stakeholder’s trust in us. The following table provides a list of our key stakeholders, the engagement platforms, and some of the key issues addressed. STAKEHOLDERS A range of platforms to keep a constant pulse on concerns REGULATORS CUSTOMERS and issues of Engagement Platforms • • Industry meetings Regular reports and in formation sharing Engagement Platforms • Digi retail outlets • Customer Service channels (online customer • Participation in government programmes stakeholders service, 24-hour helpline) • Public-private partnership initiatives • Social media e.g. Facebook and Twitter Issues • Network rollout • Nett Promoter Score • Spectrum allocation • Consumer Forum Malaysia • Aﬀordability of internet Issues • Network coverage and service quality • Quality of calls • Waiting time at store • Quality of calls • Bill shocks from third party content providers • Supporting national digital innovation agenda • Barred accounts with Credit Reporting Agency CTOS How We We rolled out the nation’s widest LTE network, and Addressed partnered government agencies to drive digital How We We conduct a range of quarterly customer engagement innovation among social purpose organisations Addressed activities to stress test our service quality. We reviewed through Challenge for Change and terminated third party content providers due to their failure to meet our standards. As a responsible business, we invest our energy in understanding BUSINESS and responding to EMPLOYEES PARTNERS expectations of Engagement Platforms • • Best on People Council Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd Employee Union Engagement Platforms • Annual Self-Assessment Questionnaires • Site inspections and audits stakeholders. • • Annual Employee Engagement Survey Internal communications Issues • Training for suppliers • Health and safety in supply chain • Quarterly Employee Townhall meetings & leadership • Mitigating non-compliance in supply chain forums • Anti-corruption and business integrity • Individual development plans Issues • Career planning and development How We We conducted information sharing and training with • Fair and transparent rewards Addressed business partners and increased compliance audits • Active engagement process across the region by to ensure they meet our supplier standards. Digi management team Terminated six sub-contrators for failure to adhere How We Our ongoing robust employee engagement to safety standards. Addressed programme across the region have seen a 4% increase in engagement scores. INVESTORS COMMUNITY & ANALYSTS MEDIA & NGOS Engagement • Local and overseas non-deal roadshows Engagement • Media interviews & events Engagement • Engagement with business and industry forums Platforms • Corporate presentations Platforms • Formal and informal brieﬁngs Platforms • Engagement with NGOs • Analyst brieﬁngs • Media familiarisation visits • Connecting unconnecting communities Issues • Corporate strategy and ﬁnancial performance Issues • Corporate strategy Issues • Leveraging mobile technology on meeting local • Fair and transparent rewards • Financial performance social needs and issues • Corporate governance and compliance • Products and services • Concerns of safe internet use by young children • Customer related issues How We We conducted quarterly brieﬁngs to analysts and How We Consolidated seven key programmes under Addressed investors on business performance and strategy How We We conducted regular media engagements to provide Addressed Empower Societies Addressed updates on business performance and strategy, products and services, and address issues of customers' concerns ETHICAL & RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Our values of being responsible and ethical are deeply embedded in how we do business. We recognise that as a leading corporate citizen, we need to continuously set leadership benchmarks in demonstrating our convictions at upholding these values. CORPORATE Strong Integrity Culture A business ethics and integrity survey by a subsidiary of Transparency International on Digi’s found a high GOVERNANCE perception of strong ethical culture, good awareness of integrity guidelines, and high likelihood to report misconduct among employees and vendors. Action plans have been developed for our leadership team to We uphold high standards of corporate governance address ﬁve areas of concerns raised in the survey ﬁndings. in compliance with national laws, listing requirements of Bursa Malaysia, and as a licensed Extending Integrity Due Diligence operator. Our governance framework outlines our Suppliers within parametres deemed as high risk, were required to provide information on their integrity corporate values, codes of conduct, governing protocols and systems. Suppliers found to have integrity systems below our expectations were engaged, policies and procedures. and the Supplier Conduct Principles and contractual obligations reinforced. Excellence Award for Winner, Ethics and RECOGNITION ESG Practices MSWG-ASEAN Corporate Governance Sustainability Category Telenor Group Awards 2015 FOR STRONG Transparency Index, Findings and Recognition 2015 PERFORMANCE ON TRANSPARENCY Runner-Up, Best Sustainability Report Category Top 10 Constituents with recognised corporate ACCA Malaysia Sustainability Reporting responsibility practices Awards (MaSRA) 2015 FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index 2015 RESPONSIBLE Digitising Safety The ‘Digi Permit To Work’ mobile app enabled our teams to have an overview of sites under construction, and SUPPLY CHAIN empowered our main contractors to share the responsibility for health and safety. Sub-contractors used the app to verify that they have safety gears and permits before they begin work on a site. We extend our responsible and ethical values to suppliers and business partners through the Improving Safety Performance Supplier Conduct Principals and the Agreement of With safety oﬃcers deployed to our regions, we doubled the number of inspections. We conducted 887 site Business Conduct. Our focus is to ensure suppliers inspections, of which over 90% were unannounced. Major non-compliance was found in 1% of inspections, while minor non-compliance was found in 16%, a year on year reduction of 16% and 25% respectively. meet core International Labour Organisation standards in their work place, and safety of workers Zero Tolerance among critical suppliers working on our sites. We rolled out a safety handbook and equipment to our ﬁeld force teams, conducted 2,500 contractor training NO hours and organised our ﬁrst engagement forum with management of contractors. Six contractors were terminated due to non-compliance with our health and safety policy. We regret to report one fatality of a worker from a third tier supplier. Developing Common Standards We initiated a meeting with three other operators to explore adoption of common standards and sanctions for contractors in health, safety, security, and environmental requirement; and to conduct joint inspections. An agreement to develop a common platform for training and certiﬁcation as an initial partnership will be rolled out in 2016. Strengthen Information Security CONSUMER We completed Phase 3 implementation of ISO27000 Certiﬁcation for Information Security compliance, ensuring that our systems and processes are increasingly robust. Privacy is designed into the core of all our products and INTERESTS services. As we strive to be our customers’ favourite partner Code Of Conduct For Third Party Content in digital life, we must ensure their rights and privacy An audit against MCMC’s Mandatory Standard of Mobile Content Services resulted in the suspension of are not compromised. Through multiple channels of 29 short codes, four termination of our third party content providers. We improved our customer’s engagement, we have a deeper understanding of experience by enhancing their control in enrolment and termination of third party services and piloting an their expectation of Digi as a provider of choice. enhanced authentication process. Making It Easy Project Digi Easy was launched and we reviewed our customer’s physical, psychological and emotional experience at every service touch point, and implemented 17 ideas inspired and prioritised by customers, which includes introduction of the MyDigi app, and a reduction in store average waiting time among others. Instilling Culture Of Privacy We endeavored to instill a culture of respecting privacy from the ﬁrst day of employment for every Digizen. We also worked and communicated with our vendors and developers to ensure they adhere to high levels of data and personal integrity. This culture is enforced through legal obligations and regular audits. WINNING TEAM We are building future ready talents and a culture that inspires everyday innovation. Supported by more than 2,000 Digizens from 12 nationalities, we are cultivating an agile mindset that is devoted to learning new skills and gaining new exposure to successfully drive our continued business transformation. Freedom To Inspire The Next CULTURE OF Freedom to Inspire the Next encapsulates the experience and culture felt by employees working at Digi. We 360° enabled this value proposition by committing to an open, supportive and nurturing workplace. Every employee’s voice is heard, and individuals feel empowered to contribute ideas and opinions no matter their standing to INNOVATION inspire the next big ‘anything’ for Digi. Digitising The Workspace We enabled an easier and hassle free workspace by digitising processes and engagement channels, in line with our move to digitise our business. Digizens now provide feedback, stay updated on Telenor news, submit claims, induct new talent, and apply for leave through a slew of new Digi mobile applications on their devices. 93% Freedom To Grow DEVELOPING The Telenor Development Plan process allows every Digizens to map their professional development and learning needs to support business goals. Following a conversation with their manager three times a year, 93%* of TALENT Digizens completed their Telenor Development Plan. All internal job opportunities are oﬀered to Digizens to provide them the freedom to grow and gain new experiences. of Digizens completed We are building a sustainable leadership their Telenor pipeline that thrives in a fast evolving Leadership Pipeline Development market environment. Local talents are Plan Through a rigorous and transparent process, high performing Digizens are identiﬁed annually for future nurtured into global leaders through a leadership roles. Future leaders attend regional Telenor leadership programmes and interact with regional series of programmes with renowned business units to develop as local leaders with global outlook. global institutions to provide diﬀerentiated exposure. Enriching Mobility Assignments High performing Digizens are given the opportunity to take up mobility assignments within Telenor Group’s global network of businesses across 13 markets. Launch Of D’academy PROMOTE We launched an online learning platform oﬀering over 1,500 titles for self-learning 1,500 LEARNING based on development needs and interest. Modules on leadership, personal eﬀectiveness, technical and functional knowledge are available to Digizens anytime, Self-learning anywhere and at their own pace. Modules Digizens are given the freedom to leverage on a range of learning opportunities. Every division has a training programme and Review Training Providers core competencies roadmap. We place an emphasis on programmes that enhance 771 employees* We conducted an assessment of all classroom based training and conducted a refresh knowledge and capabilities through to ensure the quality of our training providers. On average, 21 hours of classroom based project assignments, networking and training were undertaken by employees. guided learning. 21 hours of training Workforce Diversity BEYOND DIVERSITY Diversity, coupled with inclusivity, creates 36% 45% 15% 4% an empowered workforce. We are an equal opportunity employer, committed to Malay Chinese Indian Others creating a culture that values, support and respects inclusivity of all Digizens. We Inclusive Leadership Team + believe the diversity of talent, culture, Gender Diversity In Leadership experience, thoughts, and values creates We adopted a Board Diversity Policy and launched the Women Inspirational Network an environment where innovation thrives. (WIN) in an ongoing eﬀort to support development, growth and retention of more women leaders. WIN will support professional development of leaders through exposure and engagement with inspirational women, and mentorship by management. 34% 66% Women Men Supporting Families + Leadership team includes women in senior management team, and all Heads of Departments, Units or Sub-Sections. We implemented a six month fully paid maternity policy as we strive to be the best employer for working mothers. The policy took eﬀect on 1 Jan 2016. *Ernst & Young LLP reviewed and verified this data. Regular Engagement STRONG Quarterly meetings were held between anagement with the Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd Employees Union (DGEU) and The Best on People Council. It provides a formal channel for consultation and collaboration on policies and strategies, to ensure a balance between safe ENGAGEMENT guarding employee welfare and driving productivity. Improved Engagement Score Time invested by management to meet, explain, and respond to concerns of employees has resulted in an Employee Engagement Score of 80%. 2015 80 2014 76 2013 72 Knowledge Of Rights We assisted the DGEU leadership team with organising workshops and trainings to understand the role and responsibility of union representatives. We also organised a workshop, facilitated by UNI Malaysia Labour Centre, to develop a smart partnership strategy between management and the union moving forward. Customer First Culture Over 40 engagement activities were organised to create more awareness, and trigger more conversations with customers and dealers. In addition to our annual ﬂagship Customer First Day, Digizens participated in network drive tests, went undercover as mystery shoppers, spent a day@contact centre, and actively reported network performance through the D’Network buddy app. CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT Network Electricity CLIMATE: We utilised 261.5 GWh* of electricity, a 5.8% year-on-year increase in overall use. Our largest consumption of electricity is in our network, which ENERGY accounts for over 90% of total energy used. As we rolled out more 4G sites, we saw a 6.6% increase in energy use for our networks. Portable generators used to run base stations have seen an increase of 15.8% in diesel use for our network. EFFICIENCY Continued Investments In Efficiency The use of energy is our largest impact on the Electricity consumption for building operations and transportation remained stable. We expect further energy savings upon completion of the environment. Having mapped and understood our refurbishment at D’House in 2016, which will meet Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certiﬁcation. energy use, we have progressively invested in energy savings in various aspects of our operations over the past three years to increase eﬃciency and reduce our Total Energy Used unit: GWh carbon footprint. 11 Network (indirect) 2015 155 87 8 Network (Diesel) 11 Transport 2014 152 75 9 Building 13 2013 150 70 9 2012 13 154 64 8 2011 13 147 50 9 *Ernst & Young LLP reviewed and verified this data. Higher Energy Intensity ENERGY Our energy intensity increased by 7.4% to 37.82 MW per RM revenue. This ﬁrst upsurge in two years did not meet our reduction MW per RM Revenue EFFICIENCY 2015 37.8 target. We expect to improve energy intensity as 4G LTE expansion stabilises and new data services are monetised. 2014 35.2 2013 35.8 2012 37.6 Carbon Footprint CO2 Emissions Our overall Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emission and carbon intensity unit: tonnes CO2 e remained stable with an increase of 1.5% at 136,217 +* tonnes CO2e, 2015 22,039 111, 586 2,592 and 19.7kg per RM value added. The lower percentage growth compared to overall GWh consumption is attributed to a 2.1% 2014 20,731 112,194 1,333 reduction in emission factor of Malaysia’s grid electricity. Our largest GHG emission is from Scope 2, purchased electricity from grid, which 2013 19,575 104,587 1.535 accounts for 83% of total emissions. 18,508 107,002 1.372 Carbon Efficiency 2012 unit: kg CO e per RM value added 2 Testing New Technology 2011 14,846 97,531 1.447 A proof of concept (POC), funded by a grant from the Green Technical Working 19.70 19.13 18.67 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Group under the Malaysia Technical Standard Forum Berhad, is underway 2015 2014 2013 using a modiﬁed hybrid hydrogen fuel cell system which extracts water from the atmosphere, and converts hydrogen 19.95 19.09 to power for the base station. A three years return of investment is expected 2012 2011 from reduction in cost from diesel use, ﬁeld logistics, site vandalism, and diesel pilferage. + Our boundary for GHG reporting only covers emissions from Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd. Emissions from our network, which accounts for our largest emissions, operate under this company. It does not include subsidiaries, outsourcing services or joint ventures. *Ernst & Young LLP reviewed and verified this data. Recycling E-waste ENVIRONMENTAL We collected 343 tonnes of decommissioned electronic equipment. In compliance with Telenor SUSTAINABILITY Group’s requirement on e-waste management, these were reused, recycled or disposed through licensed vendors. We achieved an e-waste recycling rate of 75.8%. 343 tonnes We support the environmental sustainability eﬀorts of our Recycling Handphones decommissioned electronic equipment stakeholders related to mobile devices and technology We participated in the “Old Phone, New Life” industry recycling programme to recycle one million 75.8 % equipment. As mobile services advance, we support our phones. Handphones were collected in recycling boxes deployed to our stores and NGO partners. stakeholders to leverage these innovations as an enabler of We will be introducing a phone trade-in programme to encourage customers to recycle their old environmental change. phones in the coming year. e-waste recycling rate Enabler Of Change We provided internet-enabled Lenovo Android tablets to 20 youths in Sabah to participate in the UNICEF Voices of Youth Climate Change Digital Mapping project. By documenting and reporting climate change and environmental challenges in their respective communities, Malaysian youths joined their peers from around the world and contributed to discussions at the Climate Change Conference (COP21) and 11th Conference of Youth. Raising Awareness In our seventh year of partnership with WWF Malaysia, we sponsored 200 customers to participate in the global ‘Earth Hour’ movement to raise greater environmental awareness. We also introduced a prototype solar powered charging station which is able to charge up to 16 mobile phones and four tablets after ﬁve hours of solar charging. Recognition For Transparency In Carbon Reporting Excellence Award, Top Performer for the National Corporate Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Reporting Programme for Malaysia (MYCarbon), MYCarbon Awards 2015 EMPOWER SOCIETIES Empower Societies is our commitment to enable more digital communities across Malaysia. Through seven ﬂagship initiatives, we reach out to diﬀerent communities to help more segments of society beneﬁt from being connected. Outcome: Digi CyberSAFE aims to nurturing a safer internet all by building digital resilience and fostering responsible digital citizenship among Malaysian children. In our fourth year, Digi CyberSAFE has reached out to over 100,000 students. Partnering with Cybersecurity Malaysia, the Ministry of Education, UNICEF and Childline, we discovered deeper insights into issues and challenges faced 338 teachers 18,000 students 30,000 by children and their parents through research. Through this initiative, we have also established 18,279 students 216 schools Parental Guidebook stronger relationships with partners to enhance digital resilience. Ultimately, we were enabled EMPOWERED SURVEYED DISTRIBUTED to develop tools for stakeholders to engage with children. • Empowered 338 teachers, and 18,279* students in 221 schools. • Published ‘CyberSAFE™ in Schools 2015 Survey’ from insights of more than 18,000 schoolchildren in 216 secondary schools nationwide over a period of seven months. • Findings provided deeper understanding of prevalence of school children to access sites that propagate hate, self-harm, weapons, drugs and suicide. Mitigation strategies to be developed to build stronger digital resiliency. • Published and distributed over 30,000 Parental Guidebook in partnership with Telenor Group and UNICEF, to support parents on conversations with children on safe, responsible online practices, and digital citizenship. • Conducted a one day workshop on “Child online safety training” in partnership with Protect & Save the Children , and supported by the Royal Malaysian Police. *Ernst & Young LLP reviewed and verified this data. Digi Challenge For Change partners with social change makers to enable innovative internet Digi WWWoW Internet For All Awards recognises Malaysians that use the internet for solutions that create sustainable, inclusive socio-economic impact for communities. The good to increase online creativity and entrepreneurism. In its ﬁfth year, the theme was organisation engages Malaysian social purpose organisations to innovate digital solutions 'Taking Ideas Further’, which attracted more than 750 entries across eight categories, with that addresses a social issue they champion. We develop scalable and sustainable solutions over 14,000 votes cast. using internet-enabled technology, thus creating positive social impact by piloting the project Outcome: in two communities. 2015 WINNERS Outcome: • Dialogue in the Dark & Genashtim’s proposal of a social enterprise virtual call centre operated by The Userguide Films Azalia Suhaimi One Online visually impaired individuals or persons with disability (PwD) was the winner of DigiCFC 2015. Video & Photography Social Influencer Independent Publisher • The platform will upskill individuals and provide accessibility for sustainable livelihood by participating in the economy. • The team won a matching grant of RM250,000 and mentorship by programme partners. Gigfairy The Rebellious Chicken Project Iqra’ Partners: Web E-Commerce Social Media E-Commerce Social Impact • National Blue Ocean Strategy (NBOS) Social Public-Private Partnership initiative led by Stick It To Me Lee Jing Rui Speedrent Agensi Inovasi Malaysia (AIM), Social Gathering People’s Choice Award Ultimate WWWOW Winner • Public Private Partnership Unit Mobile E-Commerce (UKAS) • The Ministry of Communications and Multimedia. Partners: • KFIT • Exponential • EcoKnights • Zalora • Sizmek • Doghouse 73 Pictures • Christy Ng • TMT • UNICEF • UBER • MobMe Asia Wanita Era Digital empowers women through greater internet adoption and education on Digi Kampung Internet For All, solely powered by Digi, aims to enable connectivity via basic internet skills. In Malaysia, an estimated 6 million* women remain unconnected to mobile internet and WiFi, and make it easy to own smart devices for the rural and the internet. In January 2016, we launch Digi Wanita Era Digital with a commitment to remote communities. reach out to 5,000 women in our ﬁrst year. Our Pledge: Outcome: 5,000 3,500 5,000 women empowered and inspired In December 2015, we launched our second Kg IFA at through greater internet adoption nationwide Kampung Chenderong Batu, Kelantan! The initiative through the year. connected another 3,500 villagers via mobile internet. women villagers Partners: • The Ministry of Communications and Multimedia (KKMM) • The Malaysian Communication and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) • The National Council of Women’s Organisations’ (NCWO) *TNS/Google (2014): Connected Consumer Study Digital Winners is a global platform for Malaysian technoprenuers to meet leaders and Telenor Youth Forum is a global platform, gathering youths for a global dialogue and sharing innovators in media, technology and communications to gain insights on digital forum on increasing the role of digital and mobile technology in transforming societies. Over innovations. We had a two day gathering of leaders and innovators in media, technology three years, six Malaysian youths have gone to Oslo, Norway to drive conversations on our and communication in Oslo, Norway. From the gathering, Cytron Technologies’ was chosen collective global digital future. to represent Malaysia in the 'Best App in Asia' competition. Cytron Technologies are developers of an educational robotics kit, aimed to assist students and enthusiasts in With the theme ‘Knowledge For All’, Heidy Quah and Adley Chan were selected to represent robotics education. Malaysia at TYF 2015. Heidy founded ‘Refuge for the Refugees’, an NGO looking to create a self-sustaining community-based education programme to empower underprivileged communities. Adley sought to create an inclusive peer learning community by connecting children from rural and urban areas to enable cross-border sharing of knowledge and learning. The information provided here is a summary of key material issues. For more detailed information on on our management approach and sustainability initiatives, please visit www.digi.com/sustainability. Ernst & Young LLP has provided a limited external assurance of select indicators presented in the sustainability section of the Annual Report. The limited external assurance can be found on Pg 149 of the 2015 Annual Report. GRI REPORT The Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines provide a comprehensive set of indicators covering the economic, environmental and ethical impacts of a company's performance. These reporting principles have informed our reporting for many years and we assess our performance against the GRI G4 (in accordance Core) guidelines. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES COMPLIANCE CROSS REFERENCE OR DIRECT ANSWER STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation Full Annual Report, Chairman and CEO Statements ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation Full About our disclosure G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Full Annual Report. Management Discussion & Analysis G4-5 Headquarters location Full Annual report: Notes to ﬁnancial statement G4-6 Countries of operation Full Digi only operates in Malaysia. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Full Annual report: Notes to ﬁnancial statement G4-8 Markets served Full Annual Report. Management Discussion & Analysis G4-9 Scale of the organisation Full Annual Report. Management Discussion & Analysis G4-10 Organisation’s workforce Full Winning team G4-11 Total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Full 31% of employees as at 31 Dec 2015 is G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain Full Ethical and Responsible Business G4-13 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership or its supply chain Full There was no signiﬁcant change G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principles is addressed by the organisation Full Climate Change & Environment G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives Full About our disclosure G4-16 Memberships of associations and national/ international advocacy organisations Full Digi as part of Telenor Group is an active participant in GSMA, the global association for mobile operators. Digi is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and a member of the Malaysia Compact. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents Full Annual Report 2015 G4-18 Process for deﬁning report content and the Aspect Boundaries Full Materiality G4-19 Material Aspects identiﬁed in the process for deﬁning report content Full Materiality G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation Full About our disclosure G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation Full About our disclosure G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports Full There is no restatement G4-23 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Full There is no change from previous report STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Full Stakeholder engagement G4-25 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Full Stakeholder engagement G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Full Stakeholder engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Full Stakeholder engagement organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through it reporting REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period Full About our disclosure G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Full About our disclosure G4-30 Reporting cycle Full About our disclosure G4-31 Contact point Full About our disclosure G4-32 GRI content index Full This page G4-33 External assurance Full Annual Report: Assurance statement GOVERNANCE G4-34 Organisation’s governance structure Full Annual Report: Governance ETHICS & INTEGRITY G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviours Full Annual report: Governance Responsible & Ethical SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES MATERIAL ASPECTS DMA AND INDICATORS COMPLIANCE COMMENTS Economic Management Approach Digi contributes directly through license, fees, taxes, contribution to the Universal Service Provision, job creation, and support to performance local business partners. Indirectly, our core oﬀering of mobile internet is an enabler of socio economic development of the country. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Full Annual report: Financial summary; statement of comprehensive income. G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s Full CEO’s message; Climate Change and Environment; Telenor Group’s Carbon Reporting. activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned beneﬁts plan obligations Full Annual report: Notes to ﬁnancial statements. Employee Beneﬁts, Proﬁt Before Tax, Deﬁned Beneﬁt Plans. G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Full Annual report: Statement of cash ﬂow. Market presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Digi’s standard entry level wage is more than the gazetted minimum wage. at signiﬁcant locations of operations G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at signiﬁcant Full We are an equal opportunity employer and all positions are open to local candidates. Selection is based on best locations of operation ﬁt to meet speciﬁc needs of the role. Indirect economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Full Annual report: Our present impacts Empower Societies G4-EC8 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Full Responsible & ethical Empower societies Procurement G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of operation Partial Annual report: Our present practices ENVIRONMENTAL Management approach Climate Change & Environment Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Full Climate Change & Environment G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation Full Climate Change & Environment G4-EN5 Energy intensity Full Climate Change & Environment G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Full Climate Change & Environment Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Full Climate Change & Environment Emissions Our water is from the local municipal. G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Full Climate Change & Environment G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Full Climate Change & Environment G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Full Climate Change & Environment ENVIRONMENTAL G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Full Climate Change & Environment Water Emissions G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Full Climate Change & Environment Eﬄuents and G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Full Climate Change & Environment waste Products and G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Full Climate Change & Environment Services Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Full There was no case of non-compliance in 2015 Environmental environmental laws and regulations Transport G4-EN30 Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the oganisation’s Full Transportation accounts for less than 3% of Digi’s total CO2 emissions, and does not operations, and transporting members of the workforce have signiﬁcant impact. Climate Change & Environment Suppliers G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Full Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of violation of environmental Supplier Conduct Principles, which includes clause on precautionary precaution. assessment G4-EN33 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Full None reported in 2015 Environmental Number of grievances about environmental impacts ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Full None reported in 2015 Grievance Mechanisms SOCIAL LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Management Approach Our approach to sustainability, Winning Team, Ethical & Responsible Business. Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Partial Winning team G4-LA2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by signiﬁcant Partial Digi hires temporary employees from third party agencies and theya re not entitle to any locations of operations beneﬁts given to Digi’s full time employees. G4-LA4 Minimum notice period regarding signiﬁcant operational changes, including whether it is speciﬁed in collective Full Digi gives one month notice to inform all employees of operational changes that result in agreements. loss of employment. Occupational health G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that Partial Winning team and safety help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related Full Ethical & Responsible Business fatalities, by region and gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Full Digi organises education, training, counselling, prevention and risk control programmes related to outbreaks. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Full Health and Safety covers all employees regardless of union membership. Training and G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee per gender, and by employee category Full Winning team education G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Full Winning team assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development review Full Winning team Diversity and equal G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age Partial Annual Report: Directors Proﬁles opportunity group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Winning team Equal remuneration G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by signiﬁcant locations of operation Full Digi practices equal opportunity for salaries and remuneration for women and men G4-LA15 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices in the supply chain and actions taken Full Ethical & Responsible Business. Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of violation of the SCP. Labour practices G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Full There were none ﬁled in 2015 grievance mechanisms HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECTS DMA AND INDICATORS COMPLIANCE COMMENTS Management Approach Ethical & Responsible Business Investment & G4-HR1 Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements that include Full All signiﬁcant investment agreements are subject to the terms of our Supplier Conduct Principles which has Procurement Practices human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening adopted UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. G4-HR2 Total hours of employees trained on policies and procedures concerning aspects Partial Ethical & Responsible Business of human rights that are relevant to operations, including percentage of Corporate governance employees trained Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Full Code of Conduct None in 2015. We are committed to promoting equal opportunity Freedom of association G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of Partial Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, and collective association and collective bargaining may be violated or at signiﬁcant risk, and which include clause on freedom of association bargaining measures taken to support these rights Child labour G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child Partial Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, labour, and measures taken to contribute to the eﬀective abolition of child labour which include clause on child labour Forced or compulsory G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced Partial Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, labour or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms which include clause on forced labour of forced or compulsory labour Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies or Partial All security personnel have been trained in basic health, safety, and security as part of the requirements of the procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Supply Chain Sustainability Assessment G4-HR9 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human Partial Digi assess its operations for risks for violations of our code of conduct and Supplier Conduct Principles, and the rights reviews and/or impact assessments UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Ethical & Responsible Business Supplier Conduct Principles Supplier Human Rights G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria Full Digi evaluate its operations for risks of violations to our code of conduct, Supplier Conduct Principles, and UN Assessment Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights. G4-HR11 Signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human Partial Ethical and Responsible Business actions taken Human Rights G4-HR12 Number of grievances related to human rights ﬁled, addressed and resolved Full There has been no grievance ﬁled in 2015 Grievance Mechanism through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIETY Management approach Our approach Empower Societies Ethical & Responsible Business Local communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, Partial Ethical & Responsible Business impact assessments, and development programmes Digi assesses its operational impact on communities, and carries out relevant engagement to address concerns of local authorities and communities. Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to Partial Ethical & Responsible Business corruption Code of Conduct G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Full Code of Conduct Ethical & Responsible Business Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions Full Digi was ﬁned in total RM235,000 by the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission for for non-compliance with laws and regulations breaching the Mandatory Standards for Quality of Service and Guidelines on Regulations of End Users of Prepaid Public Cellular Services. Supplier assessment G4-SO10 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain Full Ethical & Responsible Business for impacts on society and actions taken Grievance mechanisms G4-So11 Number of grievances about impact on society ﬁled, address, and resolve through Full There were no cases ﬁled in 2015. for impacts on society formal grievance mechanisms. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECTS DMA AND INDICATORS COMPLIANCE COMMENTS Management approach G4-PR1 Percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories for which health and Partial Ethical and Responsible Business safety impacts are assessed for improvements. Empower Societies G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Full There were no cases ﬁled in 2015. codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service G4-PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring Partial Ethical & Responsible Business labelling customer satisfaction YOU HAVE REACHED THE END OF OUR REPORT Digi.Com Berhad (425190-X) Lot 10, Jalan Delima 1/1 Subang Hi-Tech Industrial Park 40000 Shah Alam, Selangor T 03 5721 1800 W www.digi.com.my Printed on Environmental Friendly Paper. An ini a ve under Digi’s Deep Green Programme.
