ri Policv aea inst Disc,rimination & Discriminatorv Ha rassment assu ring Equal Emplovment Opportunitv :lntroduction:Master Components Pvt Ltd. Prohibits discrimination on the basis of age,color,disability,gender, identity, or expression, national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation or veteran status in any of its policies, procedures or practices. Master Components Pvt Ltd affirms its commitment to the elimination of discrimination and harassment and the provision of equal opportunity for all. An objective of MCPL is the creation and maintenance of a positive atmosphere of nondiscrimination in every phase and activity of iorpany Operations. Every member of the Company is responsible for creating, maintaining a climate free of discri minatory harassment. Policv prohibiting Discriminatorv Harassment :MCPL Policy prohibits behavior based on another status that has the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working , or educational envirohmental. Status refers age,color,disability,gender, identity, or expressibn, national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation or veteran status. The Policy is not indented to and will not be applied in a way that would violate rights to academic freedom. t ri Responding to Complaints Of Discriminatbrv Harassment :All members of the company may raise their complaints with the Directors Mr. M.C.Kulkarni ( 9823016315 ) & Mr.Shrikant Joshi (9823L54L15 ) & on land line numbers 0253-6604938 handles both informal & formal complaints of Discrimination & Discriminatory Harassment. To initiate complaint employees may make an appointment to meet with Dilectors & file their respective complaints verbally or in written. Additiona! Efforts To Address Discriminatorv Harassment :Discriminatory harassment is unacceptable at MCPL. ln Order to prevent arid respond to such conduct MCPL employees and representatives will: 1. Work to prevent discriminatory acts from occurring through policies statements, educational programme & courses, awareness raising efforts & training programs' 2. Actively work to promote it, work environment that is open to and welcomes all persons. 3. Promptly and clearly speak out against such actions when they occur. 4. Resolve disputes and misunderstandings in a respectful and open manner benefitting a company through the use of discourse, meditation and education where appropriate. 5. Routinely record and publize within the legal guidelines and with respect for privacy and confidentially all reported incidents of discrimination and harassment and harassment in the comPanY. {
