UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 EBCO (BITAR): THE COMPANY MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO We seek to build strategic, long-term relationships with suppliers that are committed to continuous improvement in quality and dedicated to competitively pricing their products and services to us. We carefully select our clients, just like they select us. With our reputation at stake in every project, we are very selective about the clients we serve and we serve them best. “ We care about the environment and the Writing this letter brings me back to 1971, community we live in. more precisely the day I graduated from We believe that our the American University of Beirut, and to company has a the ambition of every young engineer to plant a seed and watch it grow. We have responsibility to give been in business over four decades and we something good back started it based on honesty and integrity. from the fruits of our success.” Today, we are a construction company with over 100 employees and 1,000 daily labor force spread all over Lebanon. Our vision for the next ﬁve years is to expand our contracting services to other countries; we built a strong name back home and are As I always tell the people around me, trust equipped and ready to penetrate other is the most important element for a markets, as we did in Iraq. We are ISO successful company. Leaders nowadays certiﬁed since 2007 and a member of can no longer trust in power; instead, they the United Nations Global Compact should rely on the power of trust. initiative. By building trust, I know that we can move We are a family business and every closer to realizing our vision. employee is part of this family. We value our human capital and recognize that our company’s success is based on our team’s Thank you, ability to provide consistent quality Eng. Jalal Bitar performance. CEO at EBCO (BITAR) OUR VISION, MISSION & VALUES OUR VISION OUR MISSION EBCO (BITAR) will EBCO (BITAR) is expand its efforts to committed in building grow proﬁtably in lasting relationships meeting customer N M based on integrity, needs today and in the performance, value and VISI ION future by continuing to customer satisfaction. O ISS build strong Our pledge is to meet partnerships with our the changing needs of suppliers and foster our clients with our employees’ engagement quality services towards a sustainable delivered by the most VA LU E S future. qualiﬁed people. OUR VALUES SAFETY Safety comes ﬁrst; the safety of our employees, subcontractors, owners, and the general public is our primary concern. Safety coincides with quality and is an integral part of our business. We are conscientious in our actions and provide a safe workplace. TEAM WORK We recognize our primary asset is people. To be successful, EBCO (BITAR) must be a rewarding place to work. We provide opportunity and encouragement to help our people reach their potential. We work with our clients and our suppliers as a team. Mutual respect provides the foundation for our success. INTEGRITY We remain true to our founding values of quality, honesty and hard work. We are committed to aligning our strategies with the United Nations Global Compact principles in the areas of human rights, labour environment and anti-corruption. EXCELLENCE We are keen to offer the highest standards of service, quality, and personal attention to clients. We constantly challenge ourselves to be the best. OUR SERVICES PRE-CONSTRUCTION SERVICES Overall project success relies heavily upon the decisions made at the initial stages. We ensure a good foundation for the project to deliver client’s objectives from the earliest point in the development process. Our pre-construction services include feasibility studies, site analysis, design studies and landscaping, value engineering, cost control and scheduling, procurement, constructability reviews and permit application. GENERAL CONTRACTING General contracting has been the essence of EBCO (BITAR)’s business since 1975. With our private and public sector projects, our pledge to our clients is to provide general construction services at the highest levels of integrity, safety and quality. Our areas of expertise comprise: Cultural & Educational Archeological Residential & Commercial Telecommunication Health Care Infrastructure CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT Construction projects involve subcontractors and suppliers, daily workers, materials, equipment, and services. Managing such operations from start to ﬁnish require an expertise in construction management, from handling the big process and negotiating contracts, materials management and warehousing, to ﬁeld administration and maintenance of operations. EBCO (BITAR) & THE UNGC PROUD FOUNDERS OF UNGC NETWORK LEBANON EBCO (BITAR) has been recognized as an active member of the United Nations Global Compact initiative since 2011, making it the ﬁrst company and among the 20 ﬁrst participants in Lebanon to be committed to the UNGC 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are proud founders of UNGC Lebanon Network and member of its Steering Committee. The network brings together leading business and non-business participants to raise awareness on UNGC as a global corporate sustainability platform and to advance responsible business in Lebanon. The Lebanon Network creates opportunities for engagement, facilitating dialogue and learning in advancing issues of mutual interest and concern pertaining to sustainability. Our Managing Partner has been personally dedicated to this cause and always present in the regular meetings and events held by the local network. Our ﬁnancial contributions and volunteering conﬁrms our strong commitment to its values and strategies. WE SUPPORT ADHERENCE TO UNGC’s 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ADDRESSING HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES EBCO (BITAR) values its employees since the moment they apply to a vacancy all the way to their retirement. Human Rights has always been an essential element of our success and joining the UNGC network has helped us conﬁrm such value. IMPLEMENTATION EQUAL EMPLOYMENT At EBCO (BITAR) potential candidates have equal employment chances upon their application disregarding their gender or nationality. We stress on the importance of this policy through including it in our job vacancy form as well as through mentioning it on our website. DIVERSITY / NONDISCRIMINATION Without any efforts diversity led the way to its highlight, today we have among our employees three nationalities divided between men and women occupying positions up to senior level. Nevertheless, we do not discriminate against any employee based on political afﬁliation and in our Political Neutrality Policy we urge employees not to engage in political discussions during working hours. An employee should always make it clear that his or her actions and opinion are his or her own and not necessarily those of EBCO (BITAR). EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK The ﬁrst thing an employee gets on his ﬁrst day is an Employee Handbook that has been prepared with the information and guidance needed for staff to maintain a working climate that will lead to an overall success. It includes all policies related to employment, wages and salaries, time away from work, conduct & disciplinary actions and Health & Safety. NEW EMPLOYEE ORIENTATION Orientation is a formal welcoming process that is designed to make the new employee feel comfortable, informed about the company and prepared for his or her position. New employee orientation is conducted by the Administration Department; it includes an overview of the company history, an explanation of the company core values, vision, and mission; and company goals and objectives. In addition, the new employee will be given an overview of his or her beneﬁts and complete any necessary paperwork. The new employee’s supervisor then introduces the new recruit to staff, reviews their job description and scope of position, explains the company’s evaluation procedures and helps the new employee get started. SMOKING POLICY One of our strictly applied policies is the one regarding smoking in closed areas. A non-smoking sign is present in every ofﬁce whether in the head ofﬁce or sites where smokers are asked to use designated areas instead. INTERNSHIP PROGRAM EBCO (BITAR) takes its Internship Program very seriously for trainees are treated like employees with respect to their personnel ﬁles, attendance and evaluations. Our aim is to provide them with the ultimate experience they can get and engaging them in all the real life responsibilities of an employee. This is one of the many reasons our trainees request to extend their internship programs and most of them, if not all, end up applying for a full time position. We make sure that the certiﬁcate we grant our trainees at the end of their internship period is customized for each one of them according to their attendance, evaluation, attitude and efforts. Our Internship Program is open year long, not only during summer. Not only do we rely on the CVs we get to pick our trainees, for we are in a collaboration with LOYAC, a local organization that works with the youth to increase their civic engagement. We help the students by granting them a training opportunity at our sites to enhance their working skills. LABOR 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ADDRESSING LABOR PRINCIPLES According to the four principles listed under the Labor section, the abolition of child labor is a strict rule at EBCO (BITAR). Our control department is responsible for workers documentation and legal background checks to ensure all our site workers are above legal working age and are physically capable of performing the job. IMPLEMENTATION A SAFE ENVIRONMENT Every employee, on his or her orientation day, gets a copy of our Occupational Health & Safety Manual (OHSM) that covers all the safety procedures related to the construction ﬁeld and the actions that should be taken. Its objectives lay under protecting human capital from casualties, preserving physical assets and providing occupational health and safety conditions. Regular safety trainings are held on sites as well as audits are conducted to make sure the standard is well maintained. * The 4 ads to the right and below were part of our Safety Awareness Campain. EMPLOYEE EVALUATIONS As part of valuing our employees, evaluations are done by supervisors and heads of departments on yearly basis to ensure the proper ascending of qualiﬁed candidates. We directly link wage increases and compensation with performance appraisals, as well as past performance improvement, attitude, cooperation, and adherence to employment policies. PERSONAL ENHANCEMENT (TRAINING) We are always on the search for new skills for our employee to learn to ensure their personal enhancement. Our training program this year was full, and our ﬁnal training for 2016 will take place this November and it will be divided into three seminars targeted for Senior Level (including head of departments and project managers), Middle level for engineers and not to forget the administration department. OUTSIDE WORK We encourage employees to come together outside working hours to strengthen the team building spirit. For example, we put together a football team¬ for the guys to meet outside work almost 3 times per week for some sports. AWARENESS CAMPAIGN The administration department takes the responsibility upon itself to spread awareness that might help our employees and enlighten them on different topics. We decided to send a monthly email tackling topics that are socially, as well as personally, important. Last month was our ﬁrst awareness message, we talked about Breast Cancer which tends to be a crucial topic that we fail in recognizing its importance. ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ADDRESSING ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATION WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN In Partnership with Arcenciel, a Lebanese NGO, EBCO (BITAR) is setting its Waste Management Plan for 2017. The materials used on site shall be managed efﬁciently and disposed of legally during the construction of the works. An estimation of how much each type of waste that is likely to be produced will be set and the proportion of this that will be re-used, recycled or disposed. Some materials, such as steel, shall be sold to the market. PAPER RECYCLING EBCO (BITAR) continues its effort in recycling all papers, cartons and bags in all its ofﬁces and sites in partnership with Terre Liban, a Lebanese NGO. In parallel, we work on reducing the use of papers, cartons and bags and reusing them whenever possible. We continue our awareness campaign in this matter by reminding our teams of the importance of recycling. From November 2015 to November 2016, EBCO (BITAR) recycled over 1.5 tons of papers, saving over 30 trees. GREEN PROCUREMENT Before initiating transactions with a new supplier, EBCO (BITAR) assesses whether it satisﬁes the company’s criteria with respect to such areas as ﬁnancial position, management systems and global environment protection. We encourage the purchase of products and materials that minimize the harmful effects to the environment from their production, transportation, use and disposition whenever practicable; they are given priority during our procurement assessment. BIG BROTHER THEORY Our “Big Brother Theory” lies behind our success in the communities we work in. Our projects are spread all over Lebanon and we promise to be part of every community. Part of our social responsibility efforts are decentralized across projects whereby a certain percentage of proﬁt is dedicated to the Project Manager with the objective to improve the quality of life surrounding the site. ENVIRONMATE Global Compact Network Lebanon launched Environmate, an environmental accelerator which objective is to create a proper framework for home-grown solutions that address today’s most urgent energy and environmental challenges in Lebanon. For more info, please visit the website http://www.environmate-gcnl.com. We helped as well in promoting this initiative with our network. TOWARDS A ZERO WASTE SOCIETY Our team attended an awareness workshop organized by the Global Compact Network Lebanon held at the American University of Beirut “Towards a Zero Waste Society” presented by Mr. Ziad Abi Shaker, an activist in the environment ﬁeld, discussing different ways of composting for households and businesses. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms,including extortion and bribery. ADDRESSING ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES EBCO (BITAR) adheres to the highest standards of ethical conduct and is committed to an anti-corruption culture. Our policy is to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. “ We focus a great deal of our time and attention on anti-corruption efforts. The reality is that our society as a whole will not be able to address the critical social issues facing us today—poverty, health, education, economic opportunity—unless we are able to continuously decrease levels of corruption in both the public and private sectors.” Eng. Jalal Bitar CEO at Ebco (Bitar) IMPLEMENTATION ISO 9001-2008 International Organization for Standardization ISO 9001-2008 certiﬁed since March 2008 with the Company’s management system being in accordance with the requirements of the standard. CODE OF CONDUCT Our employees, suppliers and subcontractors are expected to adhere to the highest standards of moral and ethical conduct, to respect local laws and not engage in any form of corrupt practices, including but not limited to extortion, fraud, or bribery. Subjects such as conflict of interest, gifts and hospitality are tackled and reminded of regularly. ANTI-CORRUPTION GUIDE Endorsement of the Anti-Corruption Guide prepared by the United Nations Global Compact Network Lebanon with the support of the Lebanese Transparency International and shared it with all stakeholders to raise awareness about corruption and how to ﬁght it. The guide includes facts and ﬁgures about corruption in the Middle East, North Africa and around the globe. It comprises as well general tips that can help companies limit corruption. MEMOS Regular memos to all staff on our commitment to ethics, integrity and social responsibility www.ebcobitar.com BEIRUT (HEADQUARTERS) SAIDA TYR Ahmad Assaad Str. Taj Bldg. Main Str. Zantout Bldg. Main Str. Fardoun Bldg. T. +961 1 857 847 / 840 681 T. +961 7 725901 T. +961 7 343390 F. +961 1 840679 F. +961 7 725901 F. +961 7 741185
