The report is printed on recycling paper Creating Shared Value HNA's Contribution to the United Nation's Sustainable Development Goals HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 2015 HNA Group Co.,Ltd. TEL: 0898-66739906 FAX: 0898-66798976 E-MAIL: hnacsr@hnagroup.com Report download HNA Group HNA Group microblog WeChat Contents As clarified by the UN, SDGs call on all countries to take effective actions on five key areas: people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership. In order to systematically disclose HNA’s contribution and vision for SDGs, this report is structured to follow the five key areas. TOPIC PAGE TOPIC SDGs SUBJECT PAGE People 1.1 Support People in Poverty 10 Message from Chairman 02 For Eradication of Poverty 1.2 Disaster Relief 12 Our Values 04 Goal 1,2,3,6 1.3 Ensuring the Supply of Food, 13 Water and Necessities of Life Group Profile 05 Prosperity 2.1 Local Economic Development 16 The Future 48 For Economic Prosperity 2.2 Innovative Initiatives 17 HNA’s Internationalization 50 Goal 2,8,9,11 2.3 Supplying Accessible Services 18 About This Report 53 People and 3.1 Inclusiveness, Development and 22 For Social peace Engagement of Employees Equality 3.2 Promoting Social Equality and 24 Inclusiveness Goal 4,5,10,16 3.3 Inclusive Services 28 Planet 4.1 Green Operation and 32 For Ecological Consumption Sustainability 4.2 Combating Climate Change 36 Goal 12,13,14,15 4.3 Environment Protection 39 Partnership 3.1 Global Citizenship of HNA 42 For Partnership 3.2 Innovative Philanthropy 43 Collaboration Platform Goal 17 3.3 Promoting Cultural and CSR 45 Communications with Social Partners Message from Chairman At the turn of the century, the United Nations agreed on The year of 2015 was a milestone for HNA. After In the context of growing complexity in the external Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which were a continuously endeavoring for the last 23 years, HNA Group environment, the HNA Group will continue to make vigorous pledge to uphold the principles of human dignity, equality has landed on the 2015 Fortune Global 500 for the first time, efforts to adapt itself to China’s and global social and and equity, and free the world from extreme poverty. The ranking No. 464. In 2015, HNA’s annual revenue was over environmental policies. HNA is doing this through business MDGs established a blueprint for tackling the most pressing USD 25.6 billions, a 14% growth compare to the previous adjustments, and performing HNA’s social responsibilities development challenges of that time. By the planned year. Transforming HNA from a local aviation company into a conscientiously in line with our mission – to be a practitioner deadline (the year of 2015), the MDGs were partly global conglomerate within the space of 20 years was a of the principles of compassion, altruism and wisdom, and a accomplished and upgraded by a new agenda for global remarkable achievement. In the new century and specifically creator and disseminator of the New Commercial Civilization. action – 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which in the last six years, HNA has developed a sustainable gives a universal, integrated and transformative vision for the development plan that has led to a continuous reduction of By attaching great efforts on sustainability, we strive to build next 15 years. its liability to asset ratio, steady growth of benefits, increase HNA as a world class enterprise with an excellent corporate in employees and corporate incomes. During the structure, management model, business culture and The Chinese government attaches great importance to the development process, HNA is committed to create a new corporate citizenship. SDGs and has embedded them into the National Thirteenth business culture and a modern corporate system. By Five year Plan. These world-changing objectives brought adhering to the traditional Chinese business culture, HNA will together governments, the international community, civil try always to contribute to all mankind welfare and world society and the private sector to achieve concrete goals for peace. sustainable development and poverty eradication, and require private sector players to create a broader vision and In the coming years, the global economy will experience a sense of mission than business focus. HNA Group identifies tortuous recovery, the traditional economic growth model will its common ideals as “Contributing toward the well-being of be constrained by a host of problems. HNA will face the risks mankind and a peaceful world”, which leads HNA to spare of geopolitical instability, continuous depressed commodity no efforts to support and contribute to the SDGs. prices, global deflation, tight global financial environment, and the financial fragility of emerging markets. The pain of In addition, HNA has signed up the UN Global Compact surmounting these challenges will be aggravated by the (”UNGC”) initiative. As a member of UNGC China network, it deterioration of the global economies while the increasing is HNA’s accountability to maximize our contribution to demand for infrastructure and manufacture in the One Belt, SDGs. HNA has formed a corporate social responsibility One Road region will create new opportunities. practicing scheme that consists of Hainan Province Cihang Chen Feng Foundation (the largest single shareholder of the HNA Group) and HNA’s CSR Department. This practicing scheme Chairman of HNA Group supplies organizational support for HNA’s contribution for SDGs. By the end of 2015, HNA Group has invested an aggregate of over USD 154 million on diversified common weal projects. Chairman of HNA Group 02 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 03 Our Values Group Profile HNA Group formulated the value system of ‘HNA spirit’ where the core values of the HNA Group is a conglomerate grew and prospered against the backdrop of China’s reform and opening up. Debut flight on 2 ‘HNA spirit’ are defined in terms of a common ideal, beliefs, pursuit and philosophy May 1993 signifies the beginning of its undertakings. Developed from a local aviation transportation operator to a global (the “four commons”). This is the driving force and ultimate aspiration of what we do conglomerate that includes a new industrial structure featured with aviation, real estate, hotels, commodity retailing, tourism, at the HNA Group. finance, logistics, shipbuilding and ecological technology etc., HNA’s business outreach has expanded from Hainan Island, holds assets valued at over USD 92.4 billion. In 2015, HNA Group reaped revenues of over USD 25.6 billion and has nearly 180,000 employees worldwide. After 20 years of endeavor, HNA was listed in the 2015 Fortune Global 500 for the first time, Common ideal: ‘Contributing toward the well-being of mankind and a peaceful ranking No. 464. world’. The objective of our internationally-oriented business and development vision is that the whole of humankind can share the fruits of globalization. Debut flight on 1993 2 May 1993 Common beliefs: ‘Heaven keeps the good out of harm's way, we make our own decisions and are the master of our own fate’; spreading the boundless kindness in our quest for ‘truth, goodness and beauty’. Our beliefs are of an inclusive nature. We respect different faiths, lifestyles and Transit from aviation others’ right to choose. enterprise to modern 2003 service industry group Common pursuit: ‘Recognized by the public, participated by the public, achieved by the public, shared by the public. We believe in ‘doing good for society, Landed on the 2015 and doing good for others’, striving for maximum economic benefits as well as Fortune Global 500 social achievements. 2015 for the first time, ranking No. 464. Common philosophy: ‘Integrity, performance and innovation’. ‘IntegrityDonated about 22% of based quality’ is our commitment to staff, society and the world; performance is the equity to Hainan Province 2013 driving force behind sustainable development; and through innovation we maintain Cihang Foundation. This our vitality made the Foundation became the largest The purpose of SDGs is to end poverty, to truly build a life of dignity for we the single shareholder of the peoples, and ensure that no one is left behind. By defining itself as a group of HNA Group. people that agree on the value of the “four commons”, HNA shares same common values and strategic objectives with SDGs. Therefore our business culture will support our contribution to SDGs. -Annual volume of passenger traffic: 77.42 million -In possession of 1150 airplanes -Approximately 200 international and domestic destinations -Approximately 700 international and domestic air routes Key figures -13 airports of HNA in -330 retail stores -In possession and management of approximately 450 domestic and overseas 2015 hotels -Operating approximately 50 ships of different types -Providing approximately 180,000 jobs including approximately 80,000 overseas -More than 200 tourist shops 04 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 05 HNA Capital Governance HNA Aviation HNA Capital acts as the financial function of HNA Group. Using the strong financial background of HNA takes reliable governance as the basis of business operation. HNA’s HNA Group, HNA Capital strives to become a governance structure is as below: HNA Aviation expands its global reach through its versatile one-stop financial service enterprise, participation in the aviation transport industry, strengthening and establishing itself as a providing a one-stop service by integrating other world-class finance brand. ancillary services such as maintenance repair and Business operation categories: Leasing, Insurance, overhaul (MRO), general aviation (aviation Security, Futures, Investment Bank, Fund, Factoring, Board of Directors academy), business travel services (sales), ground Equity Investment, Guarantee. support, and air logistics. Through the use of financial investments and modern trends, HNA Aviation strives to become China, or world-renowned, top global aviation groups both in HNA Logistics terms of size and quality of service. Business operation categories: Aviation Passenger Strategic Strategic Strategic Compensation CSR and Freight Services, Aeronautical Maintenance, Development Safety Budget Committee Committee HNA Logistics now developed four major business Committee Committee Committee General Aviation, etc. systems including specialized logistics, HNA smart manufacture, investment & finance, and logistics technology, striving to be a resource integrator and solution provider of the global logestics industry. HNA Holding Business operation categories: Modern Marine CEO Transportation, Cold Chain Logistics, Project Logistics, Equipment Manufacture, Smart HNA Holding devotes to forging an industrial Manufacture, Logistics Industry And Finance Investment, Aviation Interaction, Air And Sea HNA has established a governance system covering key sustainability related topics such as anti-corruption, compliance and financial investment stake-holding group with HNA Transportation Transaction, Internet Finance, fair trading. Infrastructure and CCOOP as core business format, HNA Financial Group as investment and financing Payment Technology, Cross-Border E-Commerce, In order to embed CSR principles into HNA’s governance and operation, HNA has established a CSR department with reporting platform. etc. relationship as shown below. The CSR department is responsible for ensuring compliance of CSR. Business operation categories: Basic Industry, Supply Chain Operations, Financial Investment, Technology Innovation Business. HNA EcoTech Decision making level CSR Committee Positioned as the high-tech industry holding group, HNA Tourism HNA EcoTech Group undertakes the historical CSR Department responsibility of HNA’ s strategic transition in information age. We will integrate resources, link information, overturn conventional business and Management and CSR Divsions of HNA Volunteer Departments of HNA Tourism is the only tourism group in China monitoring level Labor Union build a sharing and collaborative technological Industrial Groups Association the Headquarters integrating aviation, tourism, hospitality, finance as eco-system and boost HNA Group’ s evolvement to well as online services. It strives to realize a giant in modern service industry+ technology customers’ dreams to discover the world by offering Implementation CSR Divsions of industry. level Partime Liaison Dedicated Liaison Partime Liaison Member Companies seamless travel services. Business operation categories: Cloud and Big Data, Business operation categories: Operating Aviation, Social E-Commerce, Technological Finance, Tourism, Hospitality, Finance and Online Services. Intelligence Life, Innovation Laboratory, Incubation accelerator, etc. 06 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 07 01 For Eradication of Poverty HNA deeply cares for the survival and development of needy social groups, especially vulnerable groups. HNA has been fulfilling its social responsibilities and supporting poverty eradication, disaster rescue and relief, ensuring the availability of necessity of life, especially to the vulnerable groups and underdeveloped regions. HNA has carried out a number of charity and sustainable development projects including “Brightness Action”, “Send Love Home”, “Wells for Acid Areas”, “Nutrition Meal for Ghana Schools”, “Saving Children in Haiti”. In September of 2014, HNA was honored by the China Charity Federation as the winner of the 2nd Outstanding Contribution to Charity Award. In October of 2015, HNA was honored by the organizing committee of “China Poverty Eradication Award” as the winner of “’China Poverty Eradication Award’ Nominated Donator Award”. HNA’s contribution Brightness Action Nutrition Meal for Ghana Schools Send Love Home Wells for Acid Areas Disaster Relief Saving Children in Haiti NO POVERTY ZERO HUNGER Brightness Action Wells for Acid Areas GOOD HEALTH CLEAN WATER AND WELL-BEING AND SANITATION Neutritious Meals for Ghana Schools Social Responsibility Report 09 Support People in Poverty HNA Brightness Action: Extra-curricular Activities Subsidy Scheme for Visually Impaired Students in Hong Kong HNA has initiated a number of poverty alleviation programs in many parts of the world: HNA International has supported the “HNA Brightness Action: Extra-curricular Activities Subsidy Scheme for Visually Impaired Students in Hong Kong of China” since 2015. Through this partnership with the Hong Kong Society for the Blind, the HNA Brightness Action participation in extra-curricular activities of visually impaired students from disadvantaged families at primary to tertiary education levels is to be subsidized. The beneficiaries are provided with a greater opportunity to participate in wholesome extra-curricular activities on a more equitable basis and develop into well-rounded personalities. Chronic diseases can trap people in poverty. Poor people are unlikely to get suitable treatment and/or rehabilitation. Among all the chronic diseases, curable cataract is a very typical disease that put many people in poverty. HNA responded to the World Health Organization’s appeal to eliminate the preventable blindness. Starting in 2004, HNA through its 10-Year HNA Brightness Action program in Banma County (Qinghai Province, China) has provided cataract surgery for people with low-incomes. By the CASE Send Love Home CASE HNA Global Charity Run end of 2015, 5,914 cataract surgeries have taken place in China, Zimbabwe, Malawi and Mozambique. HNA and the Hainan Province Cihang On 27 December 2015, “2016 HNA Global Charity Run” Haikou kicked off at HNA Foundation launched Send Love Home Culture Plaza Haikou, China. Over 5000 people participated in this activity. The in 2013 to offer free flight tickets for Location (the province Number of distance participants ran was converted to “Caring Mileage” at the ratio of 1:1 Time people to travel home and celebrate indicated in bracket) beneficiaries which combined with the caring mileage donated by HNA, could be redeemed for Chinese New Year with their families. flight tickets for students with financial difficulties to go back home on the Spring This Program has helped 557 university Festival under the rubric of charity project of “Send Love Home”. All donated funds July 2005 Lhasa, Nyingchi, Xigaze (Tibet), China 200 students from low-income families, through this activity after costs were used for charity causes. This activity was first overseas students on the work-study October 2005 Litang (Sichuan), China 200 launched in 2013 in Haikou and was carried out in places where HNA’s business basis, volunteers serving in were located. The charity run has been done in 15 cities in China and 13 cities in July 2006 Nangqian (Qinghai), China 60 undeveloped west regions, migrant Asia, Oceania, Africa and North America. workers from rural areas and their Xing’an League, Bayannaoer League, Alxa League, etc (Inner August 2006 Mongolia), China 300 children and family members. December Hainan, China 500 2006-May 2007 September 2007 Korla, Ili (Xinjiang), China 1000 December 2007 Lintao County (Gansu), China 500 September 2010 Xiahe County (Gansu), China 66 Saving Children CASE in Haiti November 2010 Malawi, Zimbabwe 612 March 2011 Zimbabwe 514 Since 2010, HNA has made an annual donation of around USD 307,996 to September 2011 Mozambique 300 UNICEF, to be used for UNICEF’s Save HNA Global Charity Run in Amsterdam October 2012 Yichang (Hubei), China 247 the Children in Haiti program. August 2013 Nangqian (Qinghai), China 240 CASE Social Project of SEACO in Vietnam Since 2010 August 2014 Nanqian, Banma (Qinghai) & Ganzi(Sichuan), China 538 has made an annual donation of around SEACO of HNA has been carrying out a project of building school facilities and a June-July 2015 104 307,996 Xilingol League (Inner Mongolia), China community center in North and South Vietnam since 2014. The major SEACO project launched with the Australian Foundation for the Peoples of Asia and the September 2015 Nangqian (Qinghai), China 533 USD to UNICEF Pacific (AFAP) in South Vietnam was implemented at a village in the Nga Nam district called Vinh Quoi. The goal of the project is to fight poverty by providing Total 5914 infrastructure support, as well as environmental and educational projects. 10 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 11 Disaster Relief Ensuring the Supply of Food, Water and Necessities of life Natural disasters like earthquakes, rainstorms and mudslides disturb everyday life and production in affected regions, and are among the main causes of short-term or chronic poverty. Rescue and assistance to disaster victims and affected regions are The provision of food, water and necessities of life is critical for lifting people out of poverty. HNA has been helping through important for alleviating and eradicating poverty. Whenever a severe natural disaster happens, HNA always lends its helping HNA’s charity activities and professional services specific people and social groups in most need to acquire necessary hand. resources. From the 2008 Wenchuan Earthquake, 2010 Yushu Earthquake, Zhouqu mudslide, Hainan torrential rainstorm, to 2013 Ya’an Earthquake and 2014 Hainan Typhoon Rammasun, HNA has been actively devoted to disaster rescue and relief by using its own resources. HNA arranged special flights to transport emergency relief supplies and rescue team. In addition, HNA Group and CASE Wells for Acid Areas its subsidiaries offered donations of money and materials to disaster victims.In 2015, HNA made a donation of USD 1 million to earthquake affected regions in Nepal, earmarked for the reconstruction of historic sites. Water shortage is a serious problem on Hainan of China because of its topography. Water storage practices are often unhygienic. In 2003, upon HNA’s 10th Donations and Actions in Disaster Relief anniversary, the “Wells for Acid Areas” program was inaugurated to address the issues of livelihoods and irrigation under vulnerable water supply conditions. As of 2015, HNA has drilled 91 wells in 18 cities and countries including Haikou, Qionghai 2013 and Lingao, benefiting over 200,000 local residents. 2008 2014 Made a one-time In 2015, HNA and Hainan Province Cihang Foundation inspected 91 completed Made a total expenditure of Gave orphans of Yushu Earthquake the donation of around wells, and 9 planned well drilling sites. In 2016, HNA will fulfill its promise and will around USD 28.29 million third donation of around USD 44,936, USD 523,592 to have completed drilling of 100 wells for acid areas. including a donation of around made a donation of around USD Wells for Acid Areas Hainan Charity USD 153,998 from the Group, 769,989 for Yunnan Ludian Federation for the around USD 676,050 from the Earthquake and a donation of around reconstruction of Delivering Staff, 254 relief flights for the USD 4.62 million for Typhoon freshwater for Ya’an Earthquake CASE transportation of over 1100 tons Rammasun in Hainan, China people in Male CASE Nutritious Meals for Ghana Schools affected regions of supplies and 4200 trips of rescue workers in Wenchuan 2012 2015 IIn 2013, HNA via the Hainan Province Cihang Foundation signed a 5-year Earthquake in China In December 2014, generator units at cooperation agreement with the World Food Programme (WFP) to donate around the desalination plant of Male, capital Gave orphans of Made a donation of USD 1.54 million to for the “Nutritious Meals” program for Ghana schools. The of Maldives, were damaged in a fire. Yushu (China) USD 1 million to programme provides food for local schoolgirls that can be brought home. Since its The incident led to a severe freshwater Earthquake two UNICEF, earmarked launch in 2013, the program has helped provide 3,900 Ghanaian girls with a free emergency in the country, affecting August donations with total for the lunch every school day. On a monthly basis, each student receives 8 kg cereals, 33 April-May approximately 150,000 local residents. 2010 value of around USD g salt and 2 kg of cooking oil. The efforts have been well received by people across 2010 reconstruction of Ten tons of bottled mineral water was 126,278 to support historic sites in the local communities. Made a donated by China and delivered by Made a total their development Nepal donation of Hainan Airlines flight HU7951 from expenditure of around USD Beijing to Male. around USD 1.08 167,858 for October 2011 million with 60 relief Zhouqu 2010 flights and 223 tons Mudslide in Gave a donation of around supplies Made a donation of China USD 46,199 to Wangmo transported In around USD 2.31 County of Guizhou Yushu Earthquake million for Hainan Province, China for the Relief in China Torrential Rainstorm Rainstorm and Mountain in China Torrent Ghana Pupils Enjoying Neutrition Meal 12 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 13 02 For Economic Prosperity HNA has significant direct and indirect impacts on local economies. By focusing on investment that generate long-term interest rather than short-term income, HNA is committed to creating sustainable economic growth through its own investments and operations. Industrial investment is a direct way to motivate a local economy. HNA has globally invested in a number of infrastructure and industrial projects, such as the Dayingshan Road network project, CCOOP and HNA China D. J. These projects not only improve local infrastructure/industry development, but also motivate economic growth through job creation and supply chain prosperity. In addition to investments, HNA’s operations can contribute to economic development indirectly. HNA’s distinctive innovation initiative promotes both internal and external innovation culture which is the core engine of economic development. Besides, because of its operation in financial and aviation industry, HNA is able to positively influence small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) and people from less developed regions by supplying inclusive and accessible service such as financial services for SMEs. Aviation products are supplied to less developed regions and people with less income. HNA’s contribution Innovative business Jobs creation; model for agriculture, Motivating economic rural areas and farmers growth through issues long-term investments ZERO HUNGER DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Infrastructure investments Innovative community solutions Development of regional/low cost airlines in less-developed regions Investments on innovation initiatives INDUSTRY, SUSTAINABLE CITIES INNOVATION AND AND COMMUNIT INFRASTRUCTURE Dayingshan CBD in Haikou, China Social Responsibility Report 15 Local Economic Development Innovative Initiatives HNA’s contribution for urban construction and economic development is expressed Innovation is the core competitiveness of enterprises, as well the driving force of economic performance improvement. HNA Planned investment by its emphasis on investing in infrastructures: and in modern industry (high added Group is devoted to internally and externally promote innovation culture through its innovation motivation schemes: amount value and labor-intensive industries). 94.2million USD CASE Dayingshan CBD road network Social innovation and venture investment contest “HaiChuang” incubator is an integrated internal and (hereafter “the contest”) is a social innovation external innovation motivation scheme that supplies communication platform that aims to explore and technical, capital, management, resource and planning HNA invested around USD 6.11 million in 2015 in the Dayingshan CBD road network cultivate new modes of social innovation. As an annual supports and investment consulting services over the After completion that covers 14 roadsin the Dayingshan CBD and Haikou, China. After completion in event in the field of domestic social innovation, the whole generation process of an innovative project. As in 2017 2017, the investment amount will reach around USD 94.2 million. Dayingshan CBD contest is one of the highest level Chinese social the end of 2015, the scheme has successfully incubated road network will smooth the traffic circulation and will also greatly ease the traffic innovation contests. Nationwide college groups, civil 10 projects while 24 projects are under incubating. pressure on the surrounding area. society organizations, social enterprises, NPO/NGO and social individuals are invited to provide solutions for the sustainable development of economy and society. CASE CCOOP and HNA China D. J. CASE XIAO’ER Car Rental HNA and China Federation of Supply and Marketing Cooperative co-founded CCOOP. CCOOP is a national O2O goods circulation platform that provides integrated services for rural area and farmers. Not only does it have an online mall (www.ccoop.com.cn), but a physical network in the 33 provinces of China, covering food industry O2O, finance, and logistics. “XIAO’ER Car Rental” is an innovative B2B2C car rental platform established in China in December 2014. By integrating middle Through the integration of the urban and rural shops, online shops and the logistics and financial services, it promotes urban and small car rental companies with concerted marketing and advanced dispatch techniques, its innovative business model and rural trade flows and provides innovative solutions to a series of rural problems. In 2015, CCOOP invested around USD bridges middle and small car rental companies and the self-driving travelers. Besides, it firstly started to practice the new 201.74 million resulting in service to 0.23 billion people. By the end of April 2016, the online platform of CCOOP has generated energy vehicles in a car rental company. Since 14 November 2015, the first batch of 200 electric vehicles has been put into use 6.68 million orders with a total order amount of around USD 368.05 million. In 2018, overall annual turnover volume is expected in Haikou and Sanya (China), with 100 charging piles. to exceed USD 154 billion. It is a successful case inspired and incubated internally in HNA’s innovative initiatives. HNA China D. J. is HNA group's practice of integrated sustainable urbanization service platform that provides residents with fully developed public amenities, business facilities and an enjoyable environment in keeping with the design concepts focusing on “centralized urban-rural development and integration, industry city interaction, intensive development and energy conservation, eco-friendliness and harmonious development” . HNA China D. J. is an integration of modern urban function and services, commodity distribution centers and an urban employment project incubator. HNA China D.J. is a core product of the CCOOP and serves as an important component of CCOOP’ s industry eco-system. HNA China D. J.’s first project was Tianjin China located in Tianjin’s urban-rural interface. HNA China D. J.’s expected total investment is around USD 2.31 billion. Tianjin China D.J. supplies accommodation/job and entrepreneurship support for about 35,000 people. Tianjin China D.J. cooperates with the government to build secondary schools, primary schools, kindergartens, hospitals, parks and other public facilities. Tianjin China D.J. 16 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 17 Supplying Accessible Services HK Express Gained Recognition as Asia’s Safest Low-Fare Airline: Announced on 6 January 2016, the independent authority AirlineRatings.com shortlisted 20 full service airlines and 10 low-fare airlines around the world. With a Efforts of supplying inclusive and accessible service in HNA context are identified as: increasing service accessibility for small proven track record of best safety practices, HK Express was named one of the 10 and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) and people from less-developed regions. safest low-fare airlines in the world, followed by the recognition of a top 7-star safety ranking from the renowned website. The only low-fare airline in Asia to receive the As of the end of accolade, HK Express solidified its position as one of the region’s most trustworthy Airline service for less developed-regions 2015 and reliable airlines. HNA attaches great efforts in developing regional airlines that provide accessibility to and within less developed regions. So far, HNA has established/invested the following regional airlines: Tianjin Airlines, Urumuqi Air, Fuzhou Airlines and Guangxi Beibu the total amount of Financial services for SMEs Gulf Airlines. Supporting the West Development Strategy of Chinese National Economy, HNA operates Yunnan Lucky Air in guarantee is around 96.63 Yunnan, and the West Air in Chongqing. These two low cost airlines companies are expected to improve the investment environment in Yunnan and the Chonngqing/Sichuan areas and help lowering the travel cost. In addition, HNA invested in Ghana Bohai Guarantee Corporation of the HNA group has developed guarantee and loan to establish Africa World Airlines (AWA). AWA’s route network is structured to create a hub-and-spoke model centered upon services for SMEs. These services are designed to solve the financing difficulties of Accra, Ghana. This route network structure will allow a seamless one-change connection between multiple city pairs and helps millionUSD SMEs. As of the end of 2015, it has supplied guarantee services for a total of 27 in motivating local economies and improving local air service accessibility. SMEs, the total amount of guarantee is around USD 96.63 million. Meanwhile, Bohai Guarantee Corporation has signed guarantee business cooperation agreements with 16 banks, with a credit balance of around USD 254.1 million. Low Cost Carriers (LCCs) Alliance: “Zhuye Baojie” is a performance bonds product developed by Sinosafe Insurance On 18th January 2016, HNA’s West Air, HK Express, Lucky Air and Urumuqi Airlines launched the world’s first Low Cost Carriers The total loan of HNA. Zhuye Baojie was designed for increasing loan accessibility of small and (LCCs) Alliance – U-fly Alliance. The newly established U-fly Alliance offers an expanded network for low-fare travel across Asia. amount reached micro enterprises without assets for mortgage or a sound financial system. In this Providing greater choice for low-fare travel by combining the networks of independent LCC’s, U-fly Alliance facilitates the 110.54 innovative business model, Sinosafe Insurance is in charge of client development travelling to less developed/difficult to reach destinations. So far, 168 routes between 85 cities across Asia are offered by a total and takes 100% of the loan risk. Banks and P2P investment platforms provide loans fleet of 67. By the year of 2020, the fleet number is expected to total 218. million USD less than USD 154,000 to loan clients and charge a fixed interest rate. As of the end of 2015,“Zhuye Baojie” has supplied insurance for 1989 loans of 1776 small/micro enterprises and individuals. The total loan amount reached USD 110.54 million. Launching Ceremory of U-fly Alliance 18 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 19 03 For Social Equality HNA’s people-centered philosophy combines ideas in traditional Chinese culture and thoughts in modern management. HNA’s philosophy highlights a harmonious and common development of employees and company, and the harmonious and common development of company and society. HNA puts forward “make achievements together and share results together” as a spirit, calling for company sharing the results of prosperity and development with employees and society. HNA’s contribution Educational assistance Education protection for women in Africa and Education protection for Asia women in Africa and Asia Change for good project QUALITY GENDER EQUALITY EDUCATION Service for customers Communication and in vulnerable and engagement special needs mechanism for employees REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNIT Beneficiary Student from “Wings of Kindness” Social Responsibility Report 21 Inclusiveness, Development and Engagement HNA helped employees balance work and family, making switching between roles at work and at home. HNA organized several lectures on women’s health and health of Employees checks for frontline workers to draw attention to the health of our female staff members. “Women as Advocates of the Rule of Law” lectures were conducted to raise women’s awareness of the importance of their rights under law. In addition, HNA implements an equality-based employment policy, creates an equal working environment, ensures equal opportunity for female fitness courses were provided together with ballet classes, to offer fun, everybody, eradicates all forms of discrimination, and fully realizes an equal and inclusive employee development policy. HNA leisure activities for women employees. ensures employees’ voices are heard by providing systematic and diversified employees engagement mechanisms and channels for communication. Diversified development platforms for employees Inclusiveness and equal opportunity in different levels HNA abides by international labor standards, and fully respects the principles of Perceived as a stage for staff members to fulfill their personal values, HNA has created various development platforms for equal opportunity, staff diversity, gender equality (female employees currently employees with different needs. account for 45% of HNA’s total headcount, and 25% in the management level), no discrimination on any ground, and equal pay for equal work. In addition, HNA Group’s open, fair and impartial employment environment helps avoiding any discrimination on the ground of race, color, religion, gender, nationality, ethnicity or age, and ensures that all employees are enabled to fulfill their full potential. A complete set of A complete talent facilities for personal A high-tech human development system selection and resources system succession planning Drawing on its expertise and HNA developed the HNA Group At HNA, an HRM system is in experience, HNA introduced a success orprogram for core place to realize data talent appraisal, training, management positions at the management for basic training selection and appointment, and Group level and for core resources, training process staff incentives system. This operations positions in HNA management and performance system offers a platform for the industry groups and affiliates. appraisal. In particular, the development of potential HNA also implemented the introduction of the 3-learning management candidates based HNA Group international talent platform gives every employee on HNA’s managerial team-building Three-Year plan, full access to an extensive competency model. and the Group’s High Potential range of training resources; By the end of 2015, the number of HNA employees working overseas increased Talent (HPT) by which ensuring equal opportunities for approximately to half of total staff of the HNA Group; and foreign managers candidates are trained through personal development. accounted for 57% in the overseas management. In the case of myCARGO temporary on-the-job training, (Turkey), in particular, local residents represent 98.8% of the entire work forces. training tours, internal experience sharing, and For instance, myCARGO is committed to becoming a trustworthy company that will teamwork collaboration not sacrifice value, respect, quality, or security given to the employees and assignments and provided with partners. MyCARGO ensure equal employment policies and practices throughout more development the employment process starting from an open and fair recruitment process. To opportunities. ensure a fair corporate culture, local culture is incorporated in many company policies including the CSR policies. 22 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 23 Building a participatory enterprise CASE Education Protection for Women in Africa and Asia Labor unions at various levels take staff representative conferences seriously as an important system for safeguarding employees’ collective rights and economic interests. These conferences provide systematic and diversified employees In February 2014, the HNA Group began cooperation with UNESCO, pledging to engagement mechanisms and channels for communication. donate a total of USD 5 million during the next five years to support UNESCO’s women education protection efforts in Africa and Asia. Furthermore, HNA has put in place a staff complaint and feedback platform with the introduction of new Apps and channels to allow direct, online contact with the Group Chairman, as well as HNA forum and Correspondence communication channels developed by using latest internet-based information technologies. Since the introduction of the HNA Chairman Mailbox in August 2007, 2,048 emails have been received and replied to. The mailbox has proven to be an effective tool for communication between the staff and the leadership. Promoting Social Equality and Inclusiveness HNA promotes equal rights for all social groups, especially vulnerable groups like women, children, disabled persons, indigenous people and migrant workers in poverty-stricken areas through providing support in poverty alleviation, education, job creation etc. to realize equal development. Educational assistance in China Launcheing Ceremory of “Education Protection for Women in Africa and Asia” Since its inception, HNA has supported 47 educational assistance projects with an aggregate investment of over USD 9.86 CASE HNA “Wings of Kindness” Project million, involving prestigious higher education institutions in Hainan, central and western regions and other parts in China. In addition, HNA has also carried out project through the Hainan Province Cihang Foundation to support education such as donations for constructing a graduate building in Civil Flight University, scholarship donations to institutes of learning such as HNA started the“Wings of Kindness” project in 2013. “Wings of Kindness” has Confucius Institute Scholarship project, and the Tianjin University of Commerce Scholarship Project. “Wings of Kindness” helped over 200 people such as patients with leukemia, children with AIDS, has helped over students in poverty, “left-behind” children, migrant workers, disabled persons and 200 disaster rescue workersto travel with free flight tickets etc. For example, in order to help some candidates with difficult family financial conditions to sit college entrance exams in July and August of 2015, HNA carried out “ Wings of Kindnesspeople Charity Program Year Number of Investment(USD) realizing my college dream” project in 7 cities across China, helping over 60 Beneficiaries excellent candidates to get free flights ticket to travel to their college. 2011 70 Around 92,399 “TANGLA Hotel – Hope Project 1 YUAN Action” CASE Project HNA Treasure Island 2012 70 Around 92,399 Scholarship and Grants (to support exceptionally In October of 2015, HNA and China Youth Development Foundation jointly kicked talented students and 2013 97 Around 138,598 off “Giving warmth through giving books, creating hope through inspiring reading -local students in Hainan TANGLA Hotel Hope Project 1 YUAN Action” project in Beijing TANGLA Hotel. from low-income 2014 200 Around 230,997 This project built upon “Hope Project Happy Reading” activities, providing a charity families) platform by using HNA hotel group’ s advantage in resources, mobilizing donation 2015 200 Around 384,994 of outstanding children’ s books to poverty-stricken rural areas in middle and west part of china, providing reading guidance trainings to rural teachers, helping children in these areas to read more books and read good books, formreading interest and habit. 24 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 25 CASE HNA Self-independent Laundry Project CASE SEACO Singapore Celebrated MINDS Children’s Day HNA Self-Independent Laundry helps disabled persons to get employment, support On 8 October 2015, the SEACO Singapore office celebrated MINDS Children’s Day them to go outdoor, get integrated in society, realize self-independence, so as to live with 250 students (age from 7 to 18) from MINDS Lee Kong Chian Gardens School a life with dignity. On January 8 2015, the first project was initiated by the Hainan (one of MIND’s special education schools). With history dating back to 1970s, LGS Province Cihang Foundation and established a laundry in Haikou. nowadays is a full-facility school committed to teaching, equipping and training intellectually disabled pupils, enabling them to have a more fulfilling and purposeful As the project grows mature, there will be more and more such laundries created in life. facilities housing HNA”s core business activities, such as Haikou Meilan International Airport, Sanya Phoenix Airport, Beijing HNA Building, and even many It’s SEACO’s fourth year supporting and celebrating MINDS Children’s day. The HNA hotels. HNA expects that the Self-Independent Laundry will become an students enjoyed themselves with a bouncy castle, magic show, dancing and independently-operating, continuously-developing service provider not only for delicious meals served by our volunteers. Each student was presented with a lovely HNA but also other clients and customers in society, providing more jobs and goodie bag filled with sweets and stationery arranged by SEACO’s employees. This career development opportunities for disabled persons. event gave volunteers an opportunity to gather for a meaningful cause and make a difference – for the students at MINDS Lee Kong Chian Gardens School. All the participating volunteers found it a truly rewarding and uplifting experience. SEACO Singapore Celebrated MINDS Children’s Day TIP’s ”Fat Bottom Boys” Ride Off into Europe CASE Again for Charity In May of 2016 Disabled Workers in HNA Self-Independent Laundry After two successful charity bike rides, TIP’s ”Fat Bottom Boys” are once again hitting the road. In May of 2016. The inaugural trip went from TIP headquarters in More than Manchester to Amsterdam, following the year 2015 by an epic trip from the £60,000 CASE Change for Good headquarters to Galway on the West coast of Ireland. Donations this year will be divided between the Donna Louise Trust in Stoke on Trent, that cares for terminally Hainan Airlines became the first airline in China to participate in UNICEF’s “Change was donated from ill children, and the Douglas MacMillan Hospice that provides essential care for for Good” on 1 September, 2013, “HNA Change for Good”was launched on the the rides cancer patients. More than £60,000 was donated from the rides and more rides are Beijing-Haikou flights, appealing for passengers to donate their spare change to the expected this year. There has been a fantastic initial response from TIP’s staff, UNICEF program and help poverty-stricken children to fulfill their full potential.Since customers and suppliers to support the charity activity. July, 2015, this project has been extended to additional 29 domestic and international airlines. 26 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 27 CASE Plaque of Gratitude to myTECHNIC CASE Air rescue system safeguarding citizen’s life Anatolian University has given a plaque of gratitude to the HNA Group’s myTECHNIC for the support given to the University. On11October, 2011, the HNA Capital Helicopter and the Recently the Faculty of Aviation and Space Technologies received an old aircraft donated by Fedex from the USA. myTECHNIC Beijing Red-Cross Emergency Rescue Center (999) jointly has supported the organization and coordination of delivering the aircraft safely to the Aviation Faculty which is stationed in carried out a “Ground-Air Joint Medical Rescue Exercise” Eskisehir, very close to Ankara, the capital of Turkey. The students of the Aviation Faculty enjoyed practicing their theoretical and agreed on a long-term Emergency Rescue Transport knowledge with a real aircraft. Cooperation Agreement. On 28 October, 2014, the first professional medical rescue helicopter in China was formally put in service. Inclusive Services On 19 March, 2014, Deer Jet, a subsidiary of HNA, signed a strategic cooperation agreement for Chinese aeromedical jet services with Golden Meditech (Hong Kong) and CSOS HNA attaches great importance to providing diversified and inclusive services to (Shenzhen), inauguratingDeer Jet medical Co, Ltd -the consumers but with special care given to pregnant women, children, senior citizen, largest and most professional aeromedical jet service disabled persons, patients and other groups of customers with special needs. provider in China. The company serves as a lifeline for patients in danger, wherever they are in the world, through seamless integration of ground-to-air rescue operations. Rescure Helicopter of HNA Capital Helicopter “Little Travellers” services——HNA cares for CASE unaccompanied children CASE Hong Thai Travel Services promotes accessible travel In 2012, HNA introduced “Little Travelers” services, in order to provide better services to passengers with special needs, and allowing parents of children from 5 Hong Thai Travel Services under HNA Tourism organized the “Accessible Travel to create fun for the Physically Handicapped to 12 years old to apply for unaccompanied children services 60 minutes before and Able-Bodied (PHAB)” campaign with Hong Kong PHAB Association to promote the accessible traveling. The campaign was takeoff. With this service, children can fly under the care of HNA staff throughout the supported by School of Hotel and Tourism Management, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong Institute of Vocational journey. HNA staff will pick the children up from the departure hall, help them go Education and Hong Kong Tourist Guide Association with participations from 200 teachers, students, outbound and inland through security check, board the plane and ensure the flight attendant smoothly tourist guides. Apart from attending basic trainings, the 200 volunteers applied their learning on the spot by leading 100 PHABs takes over. HNA even provides each unaccompanied child with an “Handover Bag” and their families to the Hong Kong Disneyland for a fantastic one-day trip. Through collaboration and integration, the group carrying information about the child such as the child’s name, home address, flight successfully completed a number of missions assigned inside the park and enjoyed a valuable experience of PHAB integration. number, and relevant information about whom to contact. “10m2 of Kindness” for breast-feeding mothers CASE and babies With passengers’ needs as the top priority, Meilan airport provides personalized services for customers. In 2014, it was approved as a certified airport for the “10m2 of kindness” initiative sponsored by UNICEF and National Center for Women and Children’s Health (China CDC). Five well signposted, private spaces for breast feeding have been set up in the departure, secure and arrival areas of the domestic and international terminals. The initiative aims to encourage and show respect for breast-feeding in public areas. Hong Thai Travel Services at PHAB Campaign Site 28 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 29 04 For Ecological Sustainability HNA group strategically positions itself as a promoter of a green lifestyle, a provider of green services, a green industry leader, and a pioneer of green development. In order to minimize adverse impacts on the environment and to combat the climate change, HNA Group strives to practice green operations to achieve sustainable growth. HNA’s contribution Motivating green operations Promoting sustainable and consumptions management of the forest Operating sustainable Consideration and models, such as management of the impacts eco-airportsand green hotels on biodiversity in raw materials procurement RESPONSIBLE CLIMATE ACTIN Forest Protection CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Protecting marine resources Taking measures for and controllingsea and Energy Saving to oceans’ pollution reduce the GHGs emissions Coastline cleaning Green Tour LIFE BELOW LIFE ON LAND WATER Haikou Meilan International Airport Social Responsibility Report 31 Waste Quatity of myTECHNIC 2015 Waste Quantities paint wastes 2440 kg printer cartridges 49 kg hydraulic oil waste 2400 kg contaminated packages 5120 kg contaminated wastes 14600 kg oil fılters 300 kg hazardous organic wastes 6240 kg HNA Building in Haikou, China batteries 143 kg Green Operation and Consumption fluorescent lamp wastes 49 kg electronic wastes 40 kg In 2008, HNA established an energy conservation working group and developed an energy consumption reduction plan, calling on the whole group to implement energy saving, promote green, low-carbon lifestyle. waste metal 15550 kg myTECHNIC’s Establishment of Comprehensive CASE Waste Management System CASE Green Operation of Haikou Meilan International Airport Waste management has been established in myTECHNIC and operated by all the staff. All the wastes occurred were managed The Haikou Meilan International Airport in China has completed an energy saving retrofitting and disposed according to the local “Environmental Permits and Licenses Regulation”. The hazardous wastes and project that saved 1,500 GWh electricity by the end of December 31, 2015. nonhazardous wastes were transferred to licensed waste companies and properly disposed. 40 electric shuttle buses ,10 47 31.4 15.6 hand-push aircraft passenger 1,500 300,000 Stairs and 7 electric buses to replace higher-fuel consuming vehicles 247,080 tons of waste tons of Hazardous tons of Nonhazardous GWh of electricity were tons waste water were reclaimed occurred in 2015 wastes waste wastes waste saved in 2015 in 2015 liter fuel were saved in 2015 32 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 33 Key Environment Performance at Meilan Airport CASE Beijing Tangla Hotel Practiced Green Meeting Tangla Hotel – Beijing has established a sustainable management system based on “Event Sustainability Management Systems” Item Measures Key performance 2015 （ISO20121）to practice the idea of green meetings. The concept of green and sustainability is practically integrated into the whole process of meetings management and implementation, for the aspects of meeting sites, catering, accommodation, and waste management. BKS expert system for saving 1 million kWh central air conditioning electricity power per year management Electricity-saving lighting Saving 0.4 million kWh appliance electricity power per year Meeting Sites Energy-saving lamps in Saving 0.1 million kWh the terminal buildings electricity power per year Lighting: Installation of LED lamps can reduce the electric power consumption by 985,500 kWh per year (equivalent to Energy saving 946 tons of CO2 emission reduction) Replacing the gasoline powered airports vehicles Saving 247,080 liter fuel Air conditioning system: The setting temperature of the air conditioning system was maintained at 26℃ in the meeting with electric ones per year site with an area of 693 m2，which reduced the electric power consumption by the range of 12 to 15kWh per day. Replacing aircraft APU Saving 410 tons of fuel with bridge loading per year equipment Using solar energy for the road and landscape lights Catering Accommodation Sustainable use Waste water reclamation 300,000 tons of waste of water project water reused per year Reduce the frequency of the bed linen and towels’ Avoid providing disposable tableware replacement for the guest living more than one night. Using locally grown and produced food and drink Put the Water-saving and power-saving tips in the CASE Green Operation of Sanya Phoenix Airport Try to use self-service dining guest room encouraging the guest to join the Selected ingredients meet quality standards practice of energy saving. Sanya Phoenix Airport in China has taken several actions to implement the energy saving and waste management. Cards connected to the supply of power, the power Reducing providing bottled water but provides cups and drinking water installations will automatically turn off as soon as the guest Central air conditioning system retrofitting project: The retrofitting project was completed and put into trial operation in unplugs the card. December 2015. It is monitored that the new system can save roughly 10~15% energy use. Wastewater treatment project: the WWTPs of airport treated 240,375 tons of wastewater in 2015, and reclaimed 230,375 tons water resource. The oil-gas recovery project of gas station: the airport invested approximately USD 11.33 thousand to implement the Waste Management oil-gas recovery project. This project mainly used to control the evaporation process of oil gas and reduced the pollution as well as improves the safety level of gas station. Air conditioning system Retrofitting project: 10~15% energy consumption The trash bins were labeled with Recyclable and NON-Recyclable. The dry and wet trash was classified and treated separately. Wastewater treatment project: 240,375 tons of wastewater treated in 2015 230,375 tons of water reclaimed after treatment 34 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 35 On 6 November 2015, the 1st HNA Social Responsibility Forum was held Measures of CO2 emission reduction at Tangla Hotel – Beijing, which was implemented in the concept of a Replacing the low-fuel-efficiency old planes with Boeing’s B787 Dreamliner “Green Meeting”. On that day, more which can reduce the CO2 emission reduction up to18%. with approximately than 15kWh electricity were saved and an annual emission Upgrading the water-cleaning equipment of engines can increase 0.5% of reduction more than 300 pieces of paper were 3,700 fuel efficiency with approximately an annual emission reduction 3,700tons reused. Compared to ordinary of CO2. meetings, the “Green Meeting” also reduced by two-thirds condiment Upgrading the engine performance can approximately increase the fuel tons of CO2 consumption by not providing efficiency by 2.6%. packaged condiment. Retrofitting the 737NG aircraft with Sharklets. This upgrading can reduce CO2 emission by 3~5% and reduce the noise of takeoff and landing stage by 6.5%. Reducing the weights Reducing the weights of the aircrafts to achieve an annual emission of the aircrafts to reduction of 4,000 tons of CO2.by measures such as Carbon brake achieve an annual Green Meeting at Beijing Tangla Hotel emission reduction of renovation of 787 aircraft, Lighter aircraft kitchen renovation of 737-800, Lighter aircraft unit equipment and new type aircraft painting. 4,000 tons of CO2 Combating Climate Change Climate change is a significant issue for aviation. Hainan Airlines has always been concerned about climate change and take active actions to reduce the GHG emissions. Hainan Airlines——Green Tour In 2015, Hainan Airlines try their best to implement the “Green Tour project, committed to practice the concept of green aviation. 51,000 157,000 251,000 790,000 tons of fuel were saved tons of CO2e reduced in tons of fuel were tons of CO2e were in 2015 2015 accumulatively saved accumulatively reduced since 2008 since 2008 Hannan Airlines Aircraft 36 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 37 Biofuel Flight Environment Protection HNA encourages environmental protection activities, and to take concrete actions to practice the concept of green development. Hainan Airlines records the first commercial flight in HNA actively engages in environmental protection. In April HNA Infrastructure’s volunteer team joined in the tree application of 2002, Hainan Airlines plant 15 acres of trees in Haikou planting. On 12 March 2015, HNA Infrastructure organized The use of Biofuels can biofuels in China. Evergreen Park. In May 2007, HNA donated almost USD almost 100 people to take participate in the tree planting reduce the CO2 0.77 million, to help construction of Hainan coastal protection activity in Haikou and plant 50 trees in total. emission by 50% -80% forest, called HNA Coastal forest . In August 2011, HNA compared to the donated the Hainan environmental protection project called DEER JET tree planting: On 12 March 2015, DEER JET conventional fuel. green footprint to improve the ecological environment of organized a tree planting activity in Qiaozi town, Huairou Hainan province. In March 2013, HNA Capital and HNA district. 30 people including the workers from DEER JET and Tourism organized volunteers to carry out the public welfare the students and teachers from Jiawei deaf Children School forest subscription in Beijing. joined in this activity and planted more than 270 trees in total. “Earth Hour” was held for the fifth consecutive year. Always being keen to exploring new ideas, The SEACO Between 20:30 and 21:30, lights in HNA offices, decorative Singapore CSR Committee carried out a Beach cleaning lighting in HNA hotels, reading lights and the entertainment event on 24th July to gather 30 people at East Coast in Biofuel Flight system on HNA flights and lighting in staff working areas of Singapore and collected 60kgs of rubbish. HNA cruises were all switched off during the “Earth Hour”. Cleaning Coastline in 2015, HNA Holding organized volunteers to carry out a coast zone cleaning activity in Hainan Province; theycleared a total of nearly 20 km of coast lines and collected more than 50 bags of rubbish. On 21 March, 2015, Hainan Airlines operated the flight HU7604 from It is shown that Shanghai to Beijing flying on biofuel can powered by blended be done both safely biofuels (50% biofuels with and sustainably. the conventional fuel). It was the milestones in the history of domestic commercial flights. 38 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 39 05 For Partnership To contribute to people’s welfare and world peace, HNA has partnered with governments, international organizations, NGOs, research institutes and other stakeholder to advance sustainable development in China and in the world. HNA became signatory to UN Global Compact in 2010, respecting and implementing GC Ten Principles. HNA has continuous or newly established cooperation ties with 95 Chinese and international non-profit organizations. HNA’s partnership with local partners in Ghana and Kenya in advancing its aviation industry has strongly boosted sustainable development in Africa. HNA has promoted cultural and CSR communications with social partners and has been honored by the Global Compact Network China for several times. HNA’s contribution Creating innovative philanthropy collaboration platform Joining the UN Global Compact Establishing AWA PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Auction Session of HNA Charity Night 2015 Social Responsibility Report 41 Global Citizenship of HNA Contribution to the development of Africa with partners Quantities In HNA’s view, it is its important mission as a transnational company to actively participate in global sustainable development In 2012, HNA established Africa World Airlines (AWA) in In 2014, HNA signed a Memorandum of Understanding with agenda, take initiatives to undertake the social responsibility of a global corporate citizen and contribute to the sustainable Ghana jointly with the China-Africa Development Fund, the the China-Africa Development Fund, Astral Aviation, and the development of the world through partnering with UN agencies and other international partners. SAS Finance Group and SSNIT.AWA. This Airline greatly Consolidated Bank of Kenya to explore the aviation market in boosted Ghana’s endeavor to become an aviation hub in the Africa.This cooperation agreement is supposed to greatly West Africa region, made the travel of local people improve aviation and transportation in Kenya and to HNA and United Nations significantly more convenient, and gave great impetus to helpboosting local economic and social development in the Global Compact local economic and social development. future. In 2010, HNA formally submitted its application to join the UN Global Compact, committing to respect the Global Compact Ten Principles, On 10 February 2015 On 22 July 2015 Innovative Philanthropy Collaboration fulfill corporate social responsibilities in an all-round way and make its own contribution to Platform sustainable development in China and in the HNA attended the Global HNA attended the 2015 annual world. From 10 to 11 June，2014， HNA Since 2010，the HNA Group has developed an effective model for undertaking philanthropy with social partners to solve social Compact Network China China Summit on Caring for attended the UN Global Compact online forum issues through innovative technologies, including integrating online and offline activities, corporate and social resources, Annual Conference and won Climate hosted by the Global in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, and organizations and the general public. the “Social Responsibility Compact China Network, and shared its experience on sustainable Management and Reporting won the “Top 10 Green Action development and challenges in routine Via innovative platforms such as the Hainan Province Cihang Foundation, HNA Volunteer Platform and HNA Philanthropy Best Practice in China” award. of China Enterprises” award. operations during the special forum on Platform, HNA has continued or newly established cooperation ties with 95 Chinese and international non-profit organizations sustainable development in Africa. including UNICEF, UNESCO, WFP, China Youth Development Foundation, China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation,Confucius Institutes. HNA’s Partnership with International Organizations HNA’s international Social needs HNA,HNA partners Representative Co-Programs partners,NGO,individual contributors,people in need United Nations International Children's Launch of appeal Projectimplementation, Change for Good, Saving Children in Haiti Emergency Fund demand fulfilled (UNICEF) United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Education protection for women in Africa and Asia Charity for Offline resources Hainan Organization (UNESCO) Online information platform everyone Charity Foundation, Haichuang Volunteer platform, HNA Baichuan Private Venture charity channel, HNA WeChat Foundation, HNA Volunteer The World Food and microblog Association,industry groups Nutrition meal for Ghana schools and HNA affiliates Programme (WFP) World Wide Fund Earth Hour Membership credit donation, crowd funding, （WWF） and public interest innovative venture funding 42 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 43 Hainan Province Cihang Foundation Promoting Cultural and CSR Communications Hainan Province Cihang Foundation is a private foundation established by HNA Group in 2010. In October 2013, HNA took the with Social Partners bold decision to donate 22% of its total equity to the Hainan Province Cihang Foundation, making the foundation become the largest single shareholder of HNA Group. Now, the foundation has become an important charity platform for HNA to implement Promoting exchanges and deepening mutual understanding is an important means CSR and gratitude to the society. As a non-profit public welfare organization, this foundation widely keeps implementing public to consolidate and strengthen partnerships. To this end, HNA has been actively welfare projects in education aid, poverty alleviation, disaster relief, cultural advocates, medical aid, environmental protection, building cross-culture CSR platforms for making exchanges and forging scientific innovation and other fields. cooperation with stakeholders, international and domestic social partners. HNA Volunteer Platform The Third HNA Group Case Selected by The HNA volunteer platform is a In the future, the HNA volunteer Harvard Business School nationwide volunteer service platform platform will tap into the resources sponsored by the HNA Group to available within the HNA Group which manage basic information of volunteers will be introduced to business partners, A case study of HNA Group (the “Group”), “HNA Group: Global Excellence with and their service hours via IT. In prestigious higher education Chinese Characteristics”, has recently been selected by Harvard University for its addition, by developing volunteer institutions, local volunteer service promised to undergraduate courses, as well as Harvard Business School’s MBA courses. The service mapping, clock cards and local organizations and the media in order to donate around case study outlines HNA Group’s development history — in particular its 153,998 event functionality, the platform serves attract more volunteers to take part in international experience — and highlights the Group’s corporate culture, which is to facilitate participation in volunteer philanthropic activities. the key to its success. It also details how the Group has achieved its strategic goal activities, and attract more participants. USD to the China-Africa of “establishing the business culture for a new era”. This is the third time in which a cultural exchange case study involving HNA Group has been selected by Harvard Business School. project Person-times of year volunteer activities hours of volunteer Promoting cultural exchanges between service organized by HNA So far, three batches of scholarships have China and Africa been granted 2013 7,000 15,000 HNA Group promised to donate around USD 153,998 to the China-Africa cultural exchange project of Hainan Province Cihang Foundation. The funds have been 2014 24,000 136,000 with used to set up an HNA scholarship program at the three African Confucius Institutes 2015 5,500 22,000 36 students receiving – at Cairo University in Egypt; the University of Khartoum in Sudan and at Rhodes University in South Africa. Over the four years, the Confucius Institutes have selected 24 candidates from the scholarship applicants for financial assistance. So scholarships far, three batches of scholarships have been granted – with 36 students receiving scholarships. The HNA scholarship program has been developed to promote cultural exchanges between China and African countries. HNA Philanthropy Platform The HNA Philanthropy Platform is designed to attract more members of the Chinese public to participate in public interest activities and projects. Specially, the “membership credit donation” element is an important section of the platform, calling for HNA members to show their support for HNA philanthropic undertakings by donating their member points or mileage. The donations are transferred into a credit pool, converted to flight tickets on a regular basis, and then donated to children from remote rural areas or low-income university students to help them make home journeys. 44 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 45 CASE Sino-Western Culture Convergence Forum CASE “Meet HNA” Open Day On 29 July, 2015, HNA, Confucius From 12 to 13 November 2015, the “Meet HNA” Open Day activity was carried out in Haikou. Over 30 people from business Institute Headquarter jointly organized partners, CSR research institutes, and media participated. The open day activities included inviting business partners and “Sino-Western Culture Convergence stakeholders to visit the working sites or the place where a charity event was held to strengthen mutual understanding and Forum” in Zurich Switzerland. Over 200 exchanges. They visited several places including the MeiLan Base, Meilan Airport and the HNA building in Haikou. Visitors participants including renowned joined HNA volunteers in offering help and caring in Haikou Welfare Center. Chinese cultural scholars, western sinologists, faculty and students of a Confucius Institute in Switzerland and Chinese overseas students attended the Forum. The Forum made positive contribution to strengthening the mutual understanding between the Chinese and western cultural and academic circles and enhanced the awareness of Chinese culture among western academia and the general Sino-Western Culture Convergence Forum public. CASE The 1st HNA CSR Forum On 6 November 2015, HNA, in cooperation with the China Academy of Social Sciences Industrial and Economic Institute, Public Welfare Institute of Beijing Normal University China and Hainan Province Cihang Foundation, hosted the 1st HNA Forum in Beijing. Over 200 participants from UNICEF, UNESCO, Global Compact Network China, China Youth Development Foundation, China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation and other public welfare institutions as well as media, clients and business partners, “Meet HNA” Open Day attended the meeting. This forum was the first to be initiated in the name of HNA. The forum aims to build a platform for cooperation andsharing experience, exploring the direction of development of the“new era of commercial civilization” and promote the development of CSR in China. CASE HNA Charity Night 2015 Since 2009,HNA Charity Night “With Love, With You” has been held to raise money for charitable purposes.The 2015 HNA Charity Night was launched successfully on 24 June, 2015 at the Conrad Hotel Hong Kong with over 60 participants, including senior management from the HNA Group and volunteer representatives, representatives from the Hainan Province Cihang Foundation, as well as friends and partners of HNA Group. The fundraising was a success exceeding the target of HK$2.16 million, and the donation of 64 sunglasses for patients recovering from cataract surgeries provided under the Brightness Action program. HNA Group believes that the Charity Night will serve as a new starting point to draw society’s attention to charity development and social awareness. The 1st HNA CSR Forum 46 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 47 The Future Various histories of HNA’ s subsidiaries result in the varying CSR management levels of HNA’ s subsidiaries. The leader companies of HNA have integrated CSR principles into daily operations while some others remains on the lower levels. In the future, HNA will attach more efforts on CSR management system building, especially on CSR management system of overseas companies. In addition, HNA will continue contributing to SDGs in the following five key areas: For eradication For economic For ecological For partnership of poverty For social equality prosperity sustainability & engagement Continue to support people in Continue to invest overseas Gradually improve the Continuously promote green operation and Continuously improve the partnership with local poverty. In the coming 10 and increase infrastructure centralization of human facilitate the formation of a green consumption communities and NGOs to develop more years, approximately USD 154 investment; resource system that facilitate model; effective practices for local development; million will be invested for Pay attention on responsible the planning, implementation, Gradually establish the environmental Actively join industry associations to promote ecological efforts and poverty investment, strengthen social monitoring and improvement accounting statistics system and continuously global knowledge sharing; alleviation; and environmental impact process of inclusiveness and take actions in reducing greenhouse gas Keep close relationship with the UN Help to build resilience of the assessment and exercisedue equality related policies; emissions, meanwhile minimizing the organizations such as UNDP, Global Compact poor and those in vulnerable diligence when conducting Externally promote social environmental impacts to finally achieve a green and UNICEF. situations through diversified investment practices; equality through innovative and and low-carbon development model; supporting activities. Continue to encourage inclusive services. Focus on environment protection activities and innovation. environmental welfare. 48 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 49 HNA’s Internationalization 2015 Internationalization is one of HNA’s most important strategies. HNA has experienced an exciting internationalization history: Bohai Financial Holding completed acquisition of Avolon and became the 4th largest aircraft leasing company in the world Acquired the largest trailer rental company in Purchased 23.7% share of Brazil 3 rd largest Europe TIP Trailer Rental with an investment of airliners BLUE Airline and became its biggest 480 million Euros single shareholder Purchased 20% share of the 3 rd largest hotel Acquired 100% of Swissport which is the chain group in Europe NH Hotel Group biggest air, ground cargo transport service HNA invested USD 150 million in Purchased 80% share of Australia Arena provider the acquisition of Australian ALLCO Aviation School and renamed it Australia HNA embarking on its journey of Leasing Company, expanded International Aviation College international development by aircraft leasing business, starting its first international purchased share of Turkey airline---a regular airline between myTECHINC maintenance Beijing and Budapest jointly company. 2013 operated by HNA and Air Austria. 2010 2004 2012 2014 Invested in the establishment of Bohai Financial Holding completed 2011 AWA airlines in Ghana acquisition of Cronos and became Purchased 48% share of the the biggest container leasing second largest airliners in France service provider in the world Purchased shares of Hong Kong Hong Thai Aigle Azur Increased its stake in NH Hotel 2005 Travel Services, promoting outbound tourism in Group to 29.5% and became its Hong Kong and inbound tourism in South largest shareholder China Region. Soros Fund became a shareholder Made strategic investment in the ACT Cargo of Xinhua Aviation Holding Airlines Company Made an investment of USD 1.5 billion in acquisition of SEACO, one of tbe world top 5 container leasing companies 50 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 51 Taking First Step Through Aviation and Travel Other Industrial Groups About This Report Aviation Industry, “Testing Services Business Going Global the Water” in Hong Kong Going Global This is the seventh annual sustainability report published by HNA. The report Expand strategic Make investment and informs stakeholders and interested public about HNA’s approaches and deployment in Hong Aviation business acquisition encompassing performance of contributing to SDGs. You may find further details on the HNA Kong core business Group website: www.hnagroup.com. Meilan Airport got listed established Ghana AWA acquired Hong Kong in Hong Kong in 2002 airlines and acquired Hong Thai Travel Reporting period: 1 January – 31 December 2015 (certain information France AigleAzur Services, contained herein falls outside this time range) Hong Kong Airlines was restructured in 2006 acquired myCARGO acquired Australia Reporting frequency: Annually (previously Turkey ACT ALLCO aircraft leasing Reporting scope: HNA Group Co., Ltd.and all its subsidiaries Hong Kong Express Cargo Airline) and business was restructured in Turkey myTECHINC Sources of information: The information in this report has been extracted 2007 maintenance company Acquired the largest from: HNA’s internal statistics, documents and reports, and third-party sources. trailer rental company in HNA International Hong Europe TIP purchased 23.7% share Reporting references: Kong Headquarter was of Brazil 3rd largest References used in drafting the report include: established in 2010 aviation company acquired GE SeaCo and Cronos, the two 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (2015); leaders of container The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact (1995); acquired 100% of Swissport, which is the leasing companies ISO26000: Social Responsibility Guidelines (2010); global largest air, ground cargo transport acquired 100% share G4 Edition of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); service provider equity of aircraft leasing ‘The HNA Group Corporate Social Responsibility Development Plan’ (2015-2017). company Avolon Travel services business Data consolidation and comparability: The monetary amounts acquired New York disclosed in this report are calculated at the exchange rates of 31 December 2015. Manhattan 1180 Office acquired US Aberdeen Reconciliation of the reports with previous years is limited because of changes in Building, Sydney One Travel Services and portfolios. York Street Office Caissa Travel Services Building and London Thomson Reuter’s acquired Belgium Office Building SODE Hotel, New York Cassa Hotel, Red Lion Hotel and Carlson Hotel agreed on equity investment for The Kuoni Travel Group 52 HNA Group Social Responsibility Report 53
