Communication on Progress 15 Reporting on Bording’s CSR initiatives related to Global Compact F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015 Table of contents Brief description of nature of business 3 Statement of support 4 Bording’s view on Corporate Social Responsibility 5 The ethical guidelines of Bording 6 Global Compact 7 Principle One 7 Principle Two 8 Principle Three 8 Principle Four 9 Principle Five 9 Principle Six 10 Principle Seven 10 Principle Eight 11 Principle Nine 12 Principle Ten 12 Future Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives in the Bording Group 13 Bording’s next Communication on Progress 13 Page 2 of 14 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015 Brief description of nature of business F.E. Bording A/S The F.E. Bording Group was established in 1792 as a Danish printing company, but has evolved into a Scandinavian business committed to marketing communication services. The transformation from historically being a printing house, to becoming a diverse company is the result of a clear strategy in order to adapt to technological developments and constantly changing customer needs, but also to stay innovative on a fast developing global market. Today we offer our customers a broad range of services within marketing communication. COMPANY DETAILS F.E. Bording A/S CVR.Nr.: 16229415 Turbinevej 4-6 Established: April 12, 1918 2860 Søborg Domicile: Gladsaxe Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.febording.dk September 9, 2009 fe@bording.dk Page 3 of 14 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015 Statement of support Different focus increases the relevance As a Scandinavian Group with one division in Bangladesh, Bording Vista, the attention on human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption are very present in our daily operations. In the Scandinavian countries Denmark, Sweden and Norway it is first and foremost the environment, where we can make a difference, given the fact that working conditions and human rights are stable. For Bording Vista it is important to send clear signals on humanand labour rights as well as anti-corruption. In the year to come we will continue to follow the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and commit ourselves to making a difference in human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption whenever we have the opportunity. The Bording Group supports less wealthy families with children The Bording Group believes in the importance of helping poor families with children. In our work with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in 2015 we have therefore continued to help children in need, and their families by donating funds to Julehjælpen. Julehjælpen is a Danish association that acts as an intermediary between less wealthy people that need money to have a traditional Christmas with their kids, and people who have the ability to help them through donations. By making a donation to Julehjælpen, we helped Danish families to be able to have a traditional Christmas with traditional Christmas food and presents for the children. To read more about Julehjælpen’s work please visit: http://www.julehjaelpen.dk/ Bording helps people globally In 2015 Bording A/S participated in the Danish campaign “Smid tøjet”, which was arranged by The Danish Red Cross, TV2 and COOP. The campaign consisted of donations of clothes to containers belonging to COOP and The Danish Red Cross, who then sold them through Red Cross thrift stores in order to raise money to help people fleeing from war, natural disasters and poverty, or sell them to companies that could use the clothing fibres to produce new clothes, thus recycling and reusing them. Bording A/S has by donating clothes to the “Smid tøjet” campaign shown commitment to help less fortunate people globally. To read more about the “Smid tøjet” campaign please visit: https://www.rodekors.dk/nyheder/smidtoejet-danmark. In the year 2016 we plan to to support at least the same amount of activities. Yours faithfully Hans Therp & Raimo Issal Managing/Executive Director Chairman Page 4 of 14 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015 Bording’s view on Corporate Social Responsibility Bording believes that responsibility means taking on responsibility for making a difference locally and globally, when we have the opportunity to do so. Responsibility also means that we and our suppliers are responsible for each other, for our customers, people around us and the environment. Bording and the principles With a history as primarily a printing house, Bording has thought environmental concerns and opportunities into our natural working procedures for a long time. Our longtime focus on environmental issues has created a unique base for suggesting, and to some extent demanding, improvements to our suppliers. The Bording Group understands that we cannot change the whole world, but by utilizing the Global Compact as a strategic tool for our work with social, ethical and environmental responsibility and values, we believe that we have taken an important step in the right direction. In Bording we continue to see CSR and sustainability as an important opportunity to work constructively with the challenges that we come across in our business operations. This adds value to our employees, the society, the environment and our business. The strength of the UN’s Global Compact is that the 10 principles are built upon internationally recognized conventions. The principles help us match expectations of good behavior and ethics, when we do business across national and cultural borders. Furthermore, it gives us a strategic tool when it comes to sending our customers a clear signal on corporate responsibility and human rights. To a division such as Bording Vista, which is based in Dhaka, Bangladesh, where many employees work under less fortunate conditions, we believe it is important to send this clear signal, in order to encourage companies to treat the local employees with dignity and respect. For further information about UN’s work with Global Compact please visit: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Page 5 of 14 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015 The ethical guidelines of Bording As a Scandinavian Group we see globalisation as an opportunity to expand our market and to participate in international projects. But associated with these opportunities are the risks and challenges of doing business across different legal and cultural traditions. Bording has acknowledged the risks and challenges, which together with the ever increasing worldwide demand for guidelines have led to a process of making our own set of ethical guidelines. We have combined the UN’s 10 principles about human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption with respect, setting a good example, honesty and trustworthiness and have come up with a set of ethical guidelines, which have become an integrated part of our daily operations. Bording’s Code of Conduct (ethical guidelines) is meant as a guide to our management team, employees, customers, suppliers and other cooperative partners about behavior and values in the Bording Group. Please visit our webpage, www.febording.dk, to read our Code of Conduct. In Bording we strive to achieve the goal of always following the highest ethical standards and reducing potential environmental issues our business may have on its surroundings as much as possible. At the same time we value responsibility, trustworthiness and honesty more than short-term earnings. Page 6 of 14 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015 Global Compact Human Rights Principle One: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Focus:  We recognize the Rights of the Child and the child’s right to life, survival and development, and respect for the views of the child.  We respect the rights of our employees and support all of the international conventions.  We believe that all of our employees have the right to a safe and healthy workplace. Systems:  Bording provides teaching material with Hans Christian Andersen fairytales directly from our website to children in poverty all over the world.  Bording has made a set of ethical guidelines.  Bording provides all of its employees with contracts in order to ensure their rights.  Bording Vista has a specific personnel policy in Bangladesh.  Bording A/S and KLS have joined Grafisk CSR Kodeks, which is a Danish version of the 10 principles found in The UN Global Compact adapted to the graphical production industry. Activities & Results:  At Bording Vista in Bangladesh all of the employees have well defined contracts of employment, job description, job specifications, salary contracts and an employee policy manual.  Furthermore, we have provided teaching materials that can be downloaded and used in schools, on our webpage https://www.febording.dk/om-koncernen/csr/#csrid.  We have APV meetings and a plan of action. We carry out continuous reviews of conditions at offices in Denmark, Sweden and Norway in order to ensure the rights and wellbeing of our employees. Page 7 of 14 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015 Principle Two: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Focus:  We do our outmost to ensure that we do not enter into business with partners, who breach the human rights. Systems:  Bording has made a set of ethical guidelines. Activities:  We try to make sure that our clients and distributors respect the human rights, by continuously assessing our partnerships.  We strive to set a good example for our partners by acting as responsibly. Results:  There have been no issues in this area during 2015. Global Compact Labour Rights Principle Three: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Focus:  We believe in the right to voluntary unionism and collective negotiations and do not enter into business with cooperative partners who do not accept these rights. Systems:  Bording has made a set of ethical guidelines.  Bording has a specific personnel policy in Bangladesh. Activities:  Bording employees have the freedom to choose to be members of the union they want.  The political views and associations of our employees are diverse, and we do not try to influence their choice of affiliation. Results:  There have been no issues in this area during 2015. Page 8 of 14 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015 Principle Four: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Focus:  We do not tolerate oppression of minorities or any other human being inside or outside the company. Systems:  Bording has made a set of ethical guidelines.  Bording has a specific personnel policy in Bangladesh.  Bording plans to create a hotline, where employees can report oppression. Activities:  This year there has not been the need for activities. Results:  There have been no issues in this area during 2015. Principle Five: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Focus:  We respect the UN’s Right of the child.  We do not tolerate or accept child labour.  We do not cooperate with organizations that use child labour. Systems:  Bording has made a set of ethical guidelines.  Bording has a specific personnel policy in Bangladesh. Activities:  This year there has not been the need for activities. Results:  There have been no issues in this area during 2015. Page 9 of 14 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015 Principle Six: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Focus:  We see diversity as a resource and do not accept oppression of minorities. Systems:  We always encourage everybody to apply for our advertised vacant positions, no matter their sex, religion, disabilities, political views or ethnicity. We do not differentiate wages based on the before mentioned things. Activities:  At Bording Vista in Bangladesh the personnel handbook and the daily management place emphasis on the soft values such as diversity and recognition. At Bording Vista we actively encourage female workers to apply for positions.  In all divisions each employee is respected regardless of position, sex, disabilities, political views and religion.  Our management team is very focused on the well-being of all our employees through respecting and giving equal possibilities for developing talents. Results:  In the summer of 2015 Bording Vista hired 6 new trainees: 3 male and 3 female. This shows that we live our values of being an equal opportunity employer. This is important in Bangladesh, where women’s rights are not always respected.  Student employees get the opportunity to take extra courses in order to improve their skills and capabilities. Global Compact Environment Principle Seven: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Focus:  The transformation and change of our core business have resulted in an environmental policy where our focus still lies on the impact we have on the environment. Systems:  We ensure the implementation of Bording’s environmental policy through structured work with recognized environmental standards, management systems and certifications. This means that whenever it is relevant the Bording companies are certified with ISO 14001, environmental management system, has a Nordic Eco Label, Svanemærket license, and/or FSC license.  We encourage that our suppliers work methodically with environmental issues. Activities:  The Group focuses on reviewing our own companies’ and sub suppliers’ environmental policies and plans. Page 10 of 14 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015  We make sure to comply with the standards of the relevant licenses in order to take responsibility for the environment through transparency for our clients and other stakeholders. Results:  Through focused efforts we have achieved to deliver and certify printed matter, by showing transparency and responsible consideration for the environment. Principle Eight: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Focus:  F.E. Bording places an immense focus on how to reduce the overall energy consumption in the different companies.  The Group’s strategy is to participate in the consolidation of the graphic industry.  Bording has a focus on energy savings in connection to structural changes related to overcapacity in the graphic industry.  Bording strives to reduce pollution and act in an environmentally responsible way. Systems:  The environmental initiatives in the Bording Group are taken individually by each of our companies or by F.E. Bording. Activities:  Bording Cognito is a member of the non-profit organization Groent Punkt, which handles returns and recycling of the member-companies’ packing material.  Bording Vista has started a process to use dual monitor in order to use less printed paper.  F.E. Bording has hired an employee to take care of CSR issues.  The Bording Group’s headquarter in Søborg has an organic canteen.  We participate in the Danish initiative “Vi cykler til arbejde”.  KLS Grafisk Hus is Denmark’s most environmental-friendly graphic company and have through their production methods of Pureprint® taken a huge responsibility as first-movers in the business, when it comes to promote sustainable production.  In April 2015 KLS produced a video that promoted their sustainable cradle-to-cradle production PurePrint® and showed how companies in the printing industry can avoid polluting and how resources can be recycled, thus acting in a more environmental-friendly way. The video can be found on: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AsuwOoNwgaI Results:  By being a member of Groent Punkt Bording Cognito ensures that its waste gets recycled, thus benefitting the environment.  Bording Vista has cut down on their use of paper.  By hiring a CSR responsible at F.E. Bording, we strive to increase and improve our focus on environmental initiatives for the future.  Our organic canteen ensures that our food has been produced without pesticides and GMOs, thus not affecting the environment in a negative way.  By bicycling instead of taking the car, our employees contribute to the environment by not polluting with CO2 gasses. Page 11 of 14 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015  KLS Grafisk Hus A/S has implemented PurePrint®, which is a cradle-to-cradle print production that ensures that resources are recycled and used in a sustainable way by having promoted the concept KLS Grafisk Hus. Principle Nine: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Focus:  We are committed to develop products within our product portfolio, which are environmental friendly/ eco-friendly. Systems:  Here the focus is especially on the fact that the necessary knowledge is present, leaving the Bording Group to emphasize on where to contribute the most and best.  In this context we have formed an environment network across the group companies making sure that we provide knowledge about environmental considerations and make these available to each other. Activities:  A-Mail Kuverter and Mayer Kuvert Network have developed envirelope, which is a 100% CO2 neutral envelope.  Our associated company KLS Grafisk Hus has implemented a cradle-to-cradle production service through PurePrint®, which ensures that the production is sustainable and resources aren’t wasted.  Bording InStore has invested in a special pump system. Results:  Envirelope is developed to reduce our emissions of CO2 and contributes to reducing global warming. For more information about envirelope please visit: http://www.envirelope.dk/Envirelope.aspx  On the product side KLS Grafisk Hus has introduced an environmentally friendly print production, which results in less emissions of CO2 gas, recycling and reuse of production waste. For further information please visit: http://www.kls.dk/saa-er-kls-i-gang-med-cradle2cradleproduktion/  Bording InStore’s pump system saves the environment from waste of 3.200 paint buckets every year. Global Compact Anti-corruption Principle Ten: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Focus:  Our mission in Bording has the clear goal that we must follow the highest ethical standards. Therefore, we put integrity and honesty above short-term profits.  In Bording we strive to comply with good ethical behavior and avoid corruption at all costs. Page 12 of 14 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015  As an honest company we strive to be transparent for our employees and stakeholders in order to avoid corruption. Systems:  Our ethical guidelines about our behavior and values within the Bording Group serve as a behavioral guideline to our management team, employees, customers, suppliers and other business partners. The ethical guideline can be found on https://www.febording.dk/om-koncernen/vaerdier/  Bording creates a financial report every quarter and an annual report once a year, which is shared with our employees and stakeholders. This is done in order to be transparent and help them identify potential suspicious behavior. The reports can be found on https://www.febording.dk/investor/ Activities:  If anyone inor outside the group hears, sees or meets corruption in any form, we encourage him/her to get in contact with us by sending an anonymous email to fe@bording.dk with the topic “Whistleblower”.  We strive to be transparent through sharing information with our employees, shareholders and stakeholders every quarter. Results:  None of our business activities have put us in a dilemma in relation to corruption.  Through our new whistleblower scheme we have made it possible for employees and stakeholders to report bribery and extortion anonymously, without any risks.  Through our quarterly sharing of information with employees and stakeholders we ensure transparency and that employees understand our corporate values. Future Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives in the Bording Group The Bording Group believes in the necessity of corporations acting responsibly, in order to add value to the local and global societies. This is done by taking care of the earth and its inhabitants, while implementing CSR as an internal value enhancer within the company that can help creating a sustainable culture, where employees feel proud of being a part of a company that respects human rights, labour rights, the environment, and doesn’t tolerate corruption. We therefore see CSR and sustainability as an integrated part of our daily operations and we continuously evaluate on our initiatives and performance in contributing value to the society, in order to improve. Therefore, we expect the amount of CSR related activities for 2016 to be at least, at the same level as in 2015. Bording’s next Communication on Progress Our next Communication on Progress will be uploaded on the UN’s digital platform latest by May, 2017. Feel free to contact us If you have any questions to our work with CSR, this progress report or anything relating, please do not hesitate to contact Leonard de Freitas Nielsen, e-mail: lfn@bording.dk Page 13 of 14 F.E. Bording A/S Communication On Progress 2015 Page 14 of 14
