2015 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Cooperation adds value Content The year gone by 3 Our focus areas 4 People 6 Executive Programme established 7 More diversity in the partner group 8 Society 10 Eight years working with Save the Children 11 Eight years’ work 12 Bech-Bruun Intelligence 14 Valuable pro bono advice 16 Environment 18 Server virtualisation 19 Ethics & Compliance 22 New practice group for Corporate Compliance & Investigations 23 3 The year gone by In 2015 we accelerated the implestrengthen cooperation between our These elements are openness, social mentation process of our new employees. We offered our experresponsibility, handling of ethical business strategy, Strategy 2020. tise through a range of professional dilemmas, focus on clients and The year saw a variety of new exciting education programmes, courses and employees, and diversity. initiatives in Bech-Bruun. The deveevents to our clients, business partlopment of an entirely new manageners and other stakeholders, and in In addition to our continued working ment model, the establishment of collaboration with the most qualified relationship with Save the Children new practice groups, and the launchexperts we developed entirely new Denmark, we have entered numeing of new professional education education programmes, carefully rous pro bono partnerships as well programmes for partners as well as adapted to market requirements and as developed an Executive Programclients were but a few of these initiaexpectations. In 2015 Bech-Bruun me for our partners, focusing on how tives. A common feature in these also established an Advisory Board, to add more value for employees initiatives was an increased focus on the role of which is to constantly and clients. cooperation – and not least how we make sure that we are at the foremay accommodate the requirements front and aware of the latest trends, For the seventh year running, Bechof our employees and our clients challenges and opportunities across Bruun confirms its commitment to through improved cooperation. the various markets. the UN Global Compact and its ten principles based on our four focus Cooperation is essential for adding Responsible business conduct is areas: People, Society, Environment, value, internally as well as externally. a crucial element in our Strategy and Ethics & Compliance. Cooperation across practice groups 2020 and in the way we do business. is the only way to achieve unique and Consequently, adopting advokatWe wish you a happy reading! valuable results for the benefit of our KODEKS, the new code of conduct of firm and the world around us. the Association of Danish Law Firms (Danske Advokater), was a natural In 2015 Bech-Bruun continued its step for us. Adopting this code of cooperation with Save the Children conduct means that we will maintain Denmark on a YIELD project in our commitment to the five elements Uganda, helping children to a better that comprise the code of conduct of education. We launched and planned the Association of Danish Law Firms. Simon Evers Kalsmose-Hjelmborg a range of new initiatives intended to Managing partner 4 Our focus areas People Our objectives • We want to ensure that our employees achieve the best possible skills and expertise under optimal conditions, and we want to support the right career paths. • We want to ensure diversity across our organisation as well as good management that focuses on the requirements of our clients and the development of our employees. Society Our objectives • We want to take corporate responsibility throughout training and knowledge sharing activities. • We want to use our core competencies to making a difference. 5 Environment Our objectives • We want to minimise our resource consumption and optimise sustainable business procedures. • We want to use green suppliers. Ethics & Compliance Our objectives • We want to guarantee high ethical standards among ourselves and our clients. • We want to ensure openness within the framework of the duty of confidentiality that is the foundation of our client relationships. • We want to be the law firm in Denmark with the highest IT security standards. 6 People The reason we are able to offer the best legal consulting is that we have the best employees – and that their working conditions are the best possible. Consequently, it is of high priority to Bech-Bruun that our employees have optimal opportunities for development and training so that we are able to provide specialised and market-oriented advice to our clients. Investment in education, development and working environment are top priorities, and every year we offer our employees more than 170 expertise-building courses. Similarly, we are concerned with creating diversity at Bech-Bruun, thus improving the allocation of skills and increasing their variety. Our objectives • We want to ensure that our employees achieve the best possible skills and expertise under optimal conditions, and we want to support the right career paths. • We want to ensure diversity across our organisation as well as good management that focuses on the requirements of our clients and the development of our employees. Our 2016-2017 targets • Focusing on cooperation, management and business development in our in-house training programme. • Completing an Executive Programme for all Bech-Bruun partners. • Completing an analysis of how to achieve further diversity in the partner group. 172 8% 25% 67% in-house courses in of the courses covered of the courses covered the of the courses covered continuing professional the development of development of personal the development of development in 2015 IT skills skills professional skills 7 Executive Programme established Today, business understanding and a strategic insight is essential when accommodating market requirements. Consequently, through our in-house Academy, we increasingly offer our employees coaching and training programmes that help support our business understanding at any level. The first major step in 2016 is a unique Executive Programme for all Bech-Bruun partners. As a market-oriented and specialised solid foundation for performing to To ensure that our skills match the law firm it is essential that we coman even higher extent as businessrequirements and demands of our bine our legal expertise with a keen strategic partners to Bech-Bruun’s clients, Bech-Bruun also has its own business understanding. The marclients – thus accommodating the Academy, arranging courses and kets and requirements of our clients demand for extended skills currently developing training programmes. are constantly evolving, and as their seen in the market. In this way, all employees have the trusted advisers our job is to be at opportunity to grow in accordance the forefront and identify challenges In 2016 all partners will among other with their professional profiles and as well as opportunities. things complete a unique Bech-Bruun areas of responsibility. Strategy Partner Programme at WharIn 2015, as part of our Strategy ton School of the University of PennIn addition to the new Executive 2020, we began the planning of an sylvania. The programme is designed Programme, Bech-Bruun has among extensive Executive Programme for to broaden the partners’ insight into other things a mandatory in-house all Bech-Bruun partners. The object the best possible methods of adding programme for all its junior associaof the programme is to equip our value to our clients’ activities. tes as well as a talent development partners with various tools and a programme for senior associates. ”The market for advisory services in Denmark is progressing, and going forward our clients’ demands and expectations will increase. In response, we are fully focussed on cultivating our skills and services in order to maintain the role of trusted advisor to our clients.” Christian Ejvin Andersen COO, Bech-Bruun 8 More diversity in the partner group As a modern law firm, we aim for women and men being represented equally among our employees. Consequently, we will conduct an extensive analysis in 2016 of how we may ensure a balanced representation – with particular focus on the partners. Bech-Bruun believes that diversity For many years now we have made a results will be processed in-house contributes to creating the best considerable effort to recruit equally with a view to developing specific possible results for our clients and qualified male and female lawyers. suggestions for improving the ratio for our business. We believe that This will continue. In 2016 one of going forward. diversity creates a more flexible our goals is, in collaboration with an and accommodating work place, external consultancy agency, to comwhich will not only maintain qualified plete an in-depth analysis of how we employees but also attract the right may achieve further diversity within new graduates. the partner group. Subsequently, the ”We know that diversity generates the best results. And we know that a diverse mix adds more value to a range of significant areas. At Bech-Bruun we are convinced that management with a higher degree of diversity is the best possible starting point for long-term and short-term success. As a result, this is the area where we will concentrate our efforts, for one thing by recruiting more women to our partner group.” Simon Evers Kalsmose-Hjelmborg Managing partner, Bech-Bruun 9 Number of employees Equity partners: 62 Associate partners: 17 Associates: 103 Junior associates: 61 Other fee-earners: 54 505 Other employees: 208 Total: 505 Diversity at Bech-Bruun Partners Associates Junior associates 13% 45% 41% women women women 87% 55% 59% men men men 10 Society Knowledge sharing and education are essential for the development – and growth. Consequently, they are some of the key elements in our activities. Every year at Bech-Bruun Academy we share our knowledge with clients, business partners and other stakeholders through a wide variety of events and seminars. We also prioritise sharing our knowledge in contexts where it may make a difference, and we support a number of projects that focus on education and development. Our objectives • We want to take corporate responsibility throughout training and knowledge sharing activities. • We want to apply our core competencies to making a difference. Our 2016-2017 targets • Continuing to support initiatives and projects that make a difference in society. • Focusing on the well-being of students and implement activities that will help students to a healthier academic life. • Developing and completing professional education programmes focusing on the requirements of our clients and the market. 66 free courses, late-after3,322 40 106 persons have registered for new youth groups with young people have noon seminars and fullBech-Bruun Academy’s free 1,008 members were completed a traineeday events were offered courses in 2015 established in Uganda ship in Uganda in 2015 at Bech-Bruun Academy in 2015 in 2015 11 Eight years working with Save the Children Improvement of the facilities at 11 selected schools in Ethiopia, significant improvements to a school in Angola benefiting 270 children, and the establishment of 40 new youth groups are just some of the results we have achieved in cooperation with Save the Children over the past eight years. Over the past eight years we have provided access to clean water. We to support education where it really launched a number of initiatives in have equipped class rooms with makes a difference. Through our Africa in cooperation with Save the school desks, chairs, boards and sponsorship of Save the Children, Children. Since 2008 we have worked teaching materials. And we have built we contribute to offering more young together to ensure that several thouplaygrounds. people the possibility of exploiting sand children and young people in their potentials, thereby creating a Angola, Ethiopia and Uganda have Education and knowledge are the foundation for development. access to education. Together we cornerstones of Bech-Bruun’s actihave built and renovated schools. vities and the basis for our developWe have constructed lavatories and ment. Consequently, we have a wish ”Since 2008 Bech-Bruun has supported Save the Children in our efforts to ensure education for several thousand children and young people in countries such as Angola, Ethiopia and Uganda. When a partner like Bech-Bruun chooses to invest in education in some of the poorest countries in the world, it makes a vast difference. We know that education is the way to escape poverty. Education creates jobs and ensures an income for poor families, an income that allows them to break the poverty circle they were born into. They can support themselves and help create a better basis for living and hope for the future for coming generations.” Jonas Keiding Lindholm Secretary general, Save the Children 12 Eight years’ work 2010 Ethiopia Constructing and Furnishing of Mite Primary School in Ensaro Woreda of North Shoa Zone in Amhara Regional State 2009 At the end of 2010 in collaboration with Save the Children we commenced the improvement of a school, Mite Primary Angola School, in Ethiopia. The improvements included a class room, an earth closet Rewrite the Future, Education and a library. for Children affected by armed conflicts 2008 On 15 May 2009 construction of the Angola school was completed and it was handed over to the villages in June Rewrite the Future, Education 2009. The school is located near the for Children affected by villages Mussenga and Kimuchione in armed conflicts the Mucaba municipality and can take in 270 children. As part of Save the Children’s global education campaign ”Rewrite the Future”, we launched the construction of a school in Angola. Construction began on 15 July 2008. 2015 Uganda Youth Initiative for Employment and sustainable Liveli­hoods Development (YIELD) 2015 saw the establishment of 40 new youth groups with a total of 1,008 members who received training in how to organise themselves and make their groups function. 136 received training from vocational schools, 106 young people completed a traineeship, and all youths in the new groups received agriculturally related training. The project reaches approximately 3,600 young people between the ages of 15 and 24. 13 2011 Ethiopia Constructing and Furnishing of Mite Primary School in Ensaro Woreda of North Shoa Zone in Amhara Regional 2012 State Ethiopia A separate contract for the establishment of a water source in Ethiopia was Constructing and Furnishing concluded while the school was under of Mite Primary School in construction. 271 pupils were registered Ensaro Woreda of North Shoa at Mite Primary School and benefited Zone in Amhara Regional directly from the improved school. State The project has provided Mite Primary School with the following facilities: Four constructed and furnished class rooms, a large library building, an earth closet and one more to come, establishment of a water source, quality furniture manufactured and installed as well as a large selection of reading material. Furthermore, the school was able to admit 50 percent more children. 2013 Ethiopia Construction and Furnishing of Schools in Ensaro Woreda Commenced collaboration on supplementary training of teachers, establish2014 ment of support groups for children with focus on keeping them in school, and improvement of facilities at 11 Ethiopia schools in the Ensaro district north of Addis Ababa. The project reached 5,500 Construction and Furnishing school children. of Schools in Ensaro Woreda We continued collaboration on the improvement of facilities at the 11 selected schools, including training of teachers, renovation works, furnishing of class rooms, establishing lavatories, drinking water, school books and materials as well as improvement of play grounds. In 2014, 500 children were supported directly, and 30 teachers, school masters and counsellors received training. 14 Bech-Bruun Intelligence Under the title ”Bech-Bruun Intelligence” we launched a new format in 2015. Going forward, various analyses will provide us with a closer look at the conditions and trends that characterise our clients’ markets, thereby bringing new information to the market, strengthening our clients’ activities. We want to be at the forefront of the their current way of managing conwe developed our General Counsel development. And we want our tracts. We also completed an extenProgramme, the purpose of which is clients to have the same opportunisive survey among 110 general to provide general counsel with tools ties. In 2015 we thus launched Bechcounsel, examining the challenges for adding visible value in a business Bruun Intelligence, which based on and skills requirements facing Danish context, thus performing as trusted quantitative analyses examine the general counsel today. advisor to senior management. trends and challenges that influence society and our clients’ markets. One fact revealed by the survey As a knowledge-based law firm it is among general counsel was that important to keep updated on the Over the year 2015 we performed a general counsel are facing new latest information, and we will thus number of extensive analyses, each and growing demands and are continue the ongoing analyses of our examining relevant challenges and increasingly involved in corporate clients’ markets in 2016. trends of immediate interest. Among strategic planning. And although the other things, we investigated the general counsel feel confident and extent of the focus of Danish busiconsider themselves equipped for nesses and public organisations on this responsibility, they still seek procontract management, and whether fessional development to match their there are any risks associated with new role. In the light of these results ”The analyses provide us with a significantly better understanding of our clients’ needs and markets. They provide us with the latest information and allow us to expand our services to the benefit of our clients and the market in general. One thing we discovered in 2015 was that many Danish businesses needed to know more about the Personal Data Processing Act. Based on this, we developed a training programme specifically adapted to our clients’ and business partners’ requirements.” Christian Ejvin Andersen COO, Bech-Bruun 15 General Counsel Programme Our quantitative and qualitative anacounsel with information and tools The modules of the programme lyses of general counsel’s new role that allow them to use their legal comprise: in Danish businesses has allowed expertise for strategic advice and us to develop our General Counsel succeed in the more complex role as • Strategic value creation Programme. In cooperation with general counsel. • Management and innovation lecturers from Harvard University, • Communication and issue University of Cambridge and Copenmanagement hagen Business School, to mention • Individual coaching a few, we have developed a unique programme, providing general The programme runs from March to June 2016. Re-thinking Academy Client Danish in-house associates are often programmes exclusively to our We will of course continue our free met with new expectations and skills clients. From 2016 we are launching courses, inviting clients as well as requirements that exceed their legal a catalogue designed to strengthen other interested parties to hear our expertise. the new competences required by own experts share their knowledge. the market. Lecturers will be experts As a consequence, in 2015 we refrom the business sector, covering thought our Academy Client, a semithe areas of management, communiannual course catalogue offering cation and finance, to mention a few. 16 Valuable pro bono advice Every year, we offer pro bono advice to a vast range of organisations. In 2015 we advised no less than 40 different individuals, businesses and NGOs. We know that our time and legal employment law, inheritance and – HRH Crown Princess Mary’s Founexpertise is highly valuable to many wills, etc. dation. The Mary Foundation was set businesses, organisations and indiviup with the mission to combat social duals. We also know that not all have ”During our long-standing working isolation – based on the belief that the resources to pay for the required relationship with Save the Children, everyone has a right to belong. The legal assistance. Bech-Bruun has also assisted the objective of the Mary Foundation organisation on the handling of is to improve the lives of children, Pro bono work is a natural part of probate cases. This has cut costs and adults and families who – as a result Bech-Bruun’s business. Our pro allows even more means to reach of their environment, heredity, illness bono work helps us make a crucial the children. We truly appreciate or other circumstances – find themdifference in cooperation with a the collaboration, not least the selves socially isolated or excluded number of charitable organisations. staff’s commitment and support for from society. the best cause in the world – the Most of our pro bono work consists children’s”, says Jonas Keiding LindIn addition to our work with Save the of offering legal advice within a holm, secretary general of Save the Children and the Mary Foundation, number of areas from work for the Children. in 2015 we also performed pro bono Disciplinary Board and directorships work for the Red Cross, the Maternity to advice in the areas of lease law, We also make our legal expertise Foundation, Reach for Change, and environmental law, copyright law, available to the Mary Foundation many others. 17 18 Environment As a modern law firm, it is important that we keep abreast of the latest developments in new energy and environmentally sound solutions that benefit the environment as well as our own business and our clients. We continuously strive to reduce and re-think our consumption and thus improve our resource efficiency. We attach importance to sustainable procurement and to choosing environmentally sound alternatives. Our objectives • We want to minimise our resource consumption and optimise sustainable business procedures. • We want to use green suppliers. Our 2016-2017 targets • Ongoing replacement of electronic equipment, light-bulbs, etc., with energy-saving alternatives. • Focus on procuring the most sustainable solutions. • Optimisation of our waste sorting. • Continued our focus on minimising food waste and on our organic kitchen. 4% 4% 14,366 km decrease in electridecrease in water conwere covered by bike as part of the annual national campaign city consumption sumption compared “We cycle to work” compared with 2014 with 2014 19 Server virtualisation In 2016 we will continue our work on virtualisation of our server environment. The server virtualisation will allow us to optimise our server operation as well as ensure a considerable reduction of operating costs, hardware, electricity, etc. Server virtualisation sounds technione physical server can be made to would usually employ. At the same cally complicated. And it is. Noneperform as several virtual servers, time, we will achieve a far more theless, the method will allow us to thus combining multiple IT resources stable IT operation and increased utilise hardware and server operasuch as operating systems, applicaflexibility and security, which is crucial tion far more efficiently, thus reductions, storage, etc., on the single for a business like Bech-Bruun, which ing the firm’s server consumption in physical server. handles large amounts of data”, says a number of areas. Stefan Winquist, CIO at Bech-Bruun. ”Server virtualisation offers a number Basically, virtualisation allows us to of significant advantages. Not only In 2016 Bech-Bruun will continue disengage software such as operawill we optimise our server operaworking on a number of activities ting systems from the hardware tion, we will also considerably reduce that will ensure the efficient virtuaby means of special software. By the amount of electricity consumed lisation of our server environment. separating software and hardware, by the many physical servers we 20 Changed printing practice In October 2015 our printers were set to automatically print on both sides of the paper (duplex) whenever we print in-house documents. This initiative is part of our CSR optimisation. In our assessment, our new printing practice will annually reduce our impact on the environment with up to two million standard pages. Annual consumption of electricity, water, etc. For 2015 we see a continued decline in our consumption of electricity and water. 2012 2013 2014 2015 Electricity (kWh) 1,023,777 1,000,635 942,759 907,464 Heating (mWh) 903 1,042 881 1,068 Water (m3) 3,912 4,677 3,998 3,846 Combustible waste (t) 86.54 79.56 79.18 76.60 Recyclable material (t) 24.05 19.31 31.98 56.511 1 Increase due to our closing down of an archive in 2015 containing 17.8 tonnes of paper for recycling. 21 ”We pay great attention to our food purchases in order to minimise our food waste. Also, we utilise all our food in various ways, for instance for snacks for the staff, when they work late. In doing this, we can prevent food from going to waste.” Giovanni Fico Head chef, Bech-Bruun 22 Ethics & Compliance As a law firm we play an important part in society, particularly in relation to due process protection. This places a large ethical responsibility on our shoulders. Consequently, our work and business methods are based on good conduct and respect for our clients, our employees and our surroundings. Responsible business conduct is a basic element in the way we do business and forms the basis of what our clients and business partners can expect from us. We pursue a zero-tolerance policy against bribery and corruption and run our business in an honest and ethical manner. On the basis of the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society and our own Code of Conduct, we have established a sound corporate governance system. Our objectives • We want to guarantee high ethical standards among ourselves and our clients. • We want to ensure openness within the framework of the duty of confidentiality that is the foundation of our client relationships. • We want to be the law firm in Denmark with the highest IT security standards. Our 2016-2017 targets • Rerunning our annual e-learning programme on legal ethics and anti-money laundering. • Continuous improvement of our IT security. advokatKODEKS In 2015 we were one of the first law conduct means that we will continue firms to adopt the new code of conto work with: duct introduced by the Association of Danish Law Firms. Responsible 1. Openness business conduct is a crucial ele2. Social responsibility ment in the way we do business. 3. Handling of ethical dilemmas Consequently, adopting the new 4. Focus on clients and employees code of conduct was a natural step 5. Diversity. for us. Our adoption of the code of 23 New practice group for Corporate Compliance & Investigations Many undertakings lack an overview of existing business procedures and level of compliance and request assistance with risk analyses, the preparation and implementation of compliance programmes as well as assistance once the damage is done. In 2015 we established a new practice group, Corporate Compliance & Investigations, which will assist businesses in minimising the risk of non-compliance. Bech-Bruun’s new practice group million-kroner fines. Often this The practice group offers one-stopCorporate Compliance & Investigaalso causes serious damage to a shop solutions within compliance, tions is a new strategic move and a company’s image, and the loss of internal investigations and criminal response to the development over customers, business partners and law cases and offers a wide range the past years where intensified investors. In other words, non-comof compliance tools, including risk financial regulation, increased focus pliance has a considerable adverse analyses, preparation and implemenon fighting corruption and new digital impact on companies’ bottom lines. tation of compliance programmes threats have resulted in increased as well as training of employees and demand for compliance services. Corporate Compliance & Investigaexecutive officers. tions wants to help undertakings In recent years, we have seen numewith risk analyses, the preparing rous examples of Danish undertakand implementation of compliance ings encountering difficulties owing programmes and assistance in case to non-compliance, resulting in of emergencies. ”Many undertakings lack an overview of existing business procedures and levels of compliance. Our Corporate Compliance & Investigations group will assist undertakings in creating an overview, identifying significant high-risk areas, and prioritise efforts going forward.” Simon Evers Kalsmose-Hjelmborg Managing partner, Bech-Bruun Copenhagen Aarhus Shanghai T +45 72 27 00 00 Denmark Denmark China www.bechbruun.com
