Introduction •Landmark* is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This Communication on Progress provides an overview of activities during 2015-2016 in support of the Global Compact's objectives. * Trademark owned by Jordan Holiday Hotels Company Statement of Continued Support August 31, 2016 Dear Sir / Madam. I am pleased to confirm that Landmark Hotels Company reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In our annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Company and its principles into our business. Inspired by the Principles, the changes we are making have an impact on our Landmark team, our suppliers, and our clients. We have also made significant progress on environmental issues. We are striving to improve on all areas for the sale of our people and our planet. Yours sincerely, Mary Nazzal Chairman, Landmark Hotels Company Statement of Continued Support • • • Structure for Reporting on the Principles System Policies, programs, management systems etc Action Practical actions taken to implement this principle Performance Indicators Impact of systems and outcomes of actions Some companies perform extraordinary feats with ordinary people Principles 1 & 2: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Landmark has integrated policies and strategies committed to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Such policies are available within the Human Resources Department and Health and Safety Units. Rigid monitoring of such policies and their actual effective implementation is undertaken by senior and middle management on a regular basis. Reviews of policies, strategies and monitoring mechanisms are undertaken on an annual basis. Principles 1 & 2: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Landmark provides safe and Landmark organized healthy working conditions Landmark actively promotes, awareness workshops for its and reviews such conditions supports and advocates the employees on their labor and regularly to meet the protection of internationally social security rights as well demands of the business and proclaimed human rights. as their right to association. changing environment. Principles 1 & 2: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Internal Indicator GRI Indicators As an active agent of change, Landmark has effectively Are employees trained on human rights? If yes how pursued positive discrimination to create change in the many hours and how many employees? workforce demographics in favor of women, persons The awareness trainings included all hotel employees with disabilities, etc. with each workshop lasting 2 hours. Indicator The monitoring system to ensure the respect (GRI HR4) of internationally proclaimed human rights has shown There have been no incidents of discrimination no violations reported.* Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Landmark is an active supporter of freedom of association has unionneutral policies and procedures in such areas as applications for employment, decisions on advancement or termination of employment. Where trade unions are limited in their outreach on a corporate level or national level, Landmark has supported collective bargaining. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Landmark provides a safe Landmark uses collective bargaining environment ensuring that all as a constructive forum for workers are able to join a trade addressing working conditions and union without fear of intimidation or terms of employment and relations reprisal. between employers and employees. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Internal Indicator GRI Indicators (GRI LA5) Employees are provided adequate notice on all operational changes through official documentation –usually by email A close working relationship has been and on bulletin boards. This is followed up by communication with Heads of Departments who developed with the relevant unions. communicate the message again orally to their department in their meetings. Minimum notice on operational changes is 5 working days with the exceptions of matters requiring immediate compliance such as security. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Landmark is committed to prohibiting all forms of forced labor that it is aware of whether that is within its organization or suppliers Landmark has strict policies and procedures prohibiting any activity or practice such as lodging financial deposits, withholding travel documentation or otherwise. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Landmark communicates to all employees their employment rights as per the Jordanian Labor Law, Landmark reviews all overtime policies and terms and conditions including the voluntary procedures with employees to ensure employees nature of employment and the freedom to leave satisfaction and that all overtime related (including appropriate procedures) and any procedures are considered and implemented. penalties associated with such departure. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Internal Indicator Based on reports and audits undertaken regularly throughout Landmark, it has been confirmed and affirmed that there is no forced labor at Landmark. ISO 22000 Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. Landmark requires strict adherence to minimum age provisions above the requirement of national labor laws taking account of international standards. Landmark provides adequate and verifiable mechanism for age verification in recruitment procedures. Where possible, Landmark ensures that its employees are given secure employment and decent wages and working conditions so that they don’t need to send their children to work. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. Actions Landmark invests in raising Landmark has a minimum age Landmark offers and provides the awareness of its suppliers bar of 18 years old. training, learning to prohibit child labor by Verification is required opportunities and sponsorship using preferential through official for both its employees and relationships to encourage documentation submitted to their children to eliminate such change in behavior. personnel files. child labor. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. Internal Indicator GRI Indicators An annual report is submitted regarding the (GRI HR6) youngest employee within the organization. To Strict recruitment policy prohibiting employment date that has been 18 of children Based on reports and audits undertaken regularly throughout Landmark, it has been confirmed and affirmed that there is no forced labor at the organization. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Landmark has a clear company wide policy and procedures to guide equal employment opportunity practices. Landmark’s company policies and procedures ensure that qualifications, skills and experience are the sole basis for the recruitment, placement, training and advancement of staff at all levels. Landmark is committed to take positive action to overcome and override social discrimination as they relate to gender and other form of discrimination. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Actions Landmark has continued to demonstrate its commitment to development and Landmark supports diversity in the transformation of its employees. To date workplace and this is an integrated value it has invested 70 thousand Jordanian throughout the organization. Dinars in training and capacity building of its junior and mid level employees Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Internal Indicator GRI Indicators There is a large number of employees for population groups (GRI LA2) that have been traditionally discriminated against (including 3% persons with disabilities). Average overall turnover rate is 3.5% of that 16% is women. (GRI LA 13) 13% of employees are female. Additional 8% from other minority groups. (GRI LA 14) Women remain a minority in the organization, however, in each level of employment the ratio of salary for men and women is 1:1. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Landmark’s direction is to minimize its carbon footprint and offset such footprint through the purchase of sufficient carbon credits. Landmark engages its employees through an environmental committee to highlight areas of improvements and recommendations Landmark undertakes regular environmental risk assessment and impact assessments to ascertain the potential for unintended environmental damage alongside other risks and be aware of the environmental impacts of projects. Landmark undertakes strategic environmental assessments to ensure that impacts of polices and plans are taken into account and mitigated. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Landmark undertakes regular Landmark has advocated and review of new technologies Landmark has invested in lobbied for regulatory changes that may be integrated in the training and building capacity to acknowledge potential operations of the business on the potential environmental environmental risks and and increase the impact of the business. opportunities environmental efficiency of it. The Aquaponics dome at the initiative of the Landmark owners, the hotel is currently piloting a project for agriculture, using fertilizers and water to grow vegetables. The project does not use any soil, which may be useful for Jordan in view of its desert terrain. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Internal Indicator GRI Indicators Landmark has fast reporting and (GRI EN 5) communication lines in place to report on potential environmental risks Maintenance Department is immediately responsible to conduct maintenance checks to avoid environmental risks Regular audits of environmental and ensure equipment is operating impacts facilitate effective monitoring efficiently and effectively. of environmental status, challenges and opportunities Maintenance Department monitors Close monitoring of carbon footprint fuel and gas consumption on daily to ensure precautionary approach to basis to immediately address environmental issues inefficiency in consumption. Introduction of environmentally friendly practices including Green Meetings and smoke-free public areas and rooms Principles 8 & 9: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Landmark has encouraged the integration of voluntary charters, codes of conduct and codes of practice in all its initiatives internally and externally Landmark has expanded recycling activities throughout its operations to encourage recycling by its guests and employees. Landmark has put into place strategies and policies to include the triple bottom line of sustainable development economic prosperity, environmental quality, and social equity. Landmark is committed to its corporate policy on the use of environmentally sound technologies (ESTs). Principles 8 & 9: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Landmark has worked actively since 2005 to reduce power Landmark has consumption in its Landmark Introducing, developed training Landmark has Landmark has an building. The cooperates with certifying, and activities and developed capacity investment policy focus has been on industry partners continually initiatives to to increase the to ensure that its enhancing the to ensure that the improving advance recycling investments expertise of its 'best available environmental environmental capabilities of its promote property staff (top technology' is management awareness in operations ad environmental to bottom), available to other systems (e.g. ISO company reduce waste. responsibility. making more organizations. 22000). locations. efficient use of energy lighting and heating, and water Principles 8 & 9: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Internal Indicator GRI Indicators Results of independent (GRI EN5) environmental audits have 20% energy saved due to shown an increase in conservation and efficiency efficiency. These audits are improvements available upon request. (GRI EN 22) Although waste has not been reduced substantially, waste Total weight of waste by type has been recycled to create and disposal method are alternative products. attached in the next slide. Energy reduction programs Initiatives to reduce have resulted in innovation greenhouse gas emissions from the employees to and reductions achieved. identify alternative means and approaches to operation to Total environmental reduce energy further. protection expenditures were around 125 thousand JD to reduce electricity consumption and pollution. Principles 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Landmark has a zero tolerance policy for corruption Landmark provides the resources and management guidance to support the ethical behavior of employees. Landmark has a rigid corporate governance structure with a whistleblowing scheme acknowledged by employees. Based on Landmark’s governance structure, there is a visible reporting cycle with increased accountability and transparency resulting in regular and continuous improvements Principles 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Landmark has comprehensive Landmark has strict policies Landmark has not had to date internal and external in dealing with agents and any corruption related Landmark has invested in communication guidelines business partners taking into incidents but in the event any training key employees on addressing anti-corruption consideration the operating such incident is to occur, the countering bribery. and other governance related environment but with zero matter will be dealt with matters. tolerance for corruption. immediately. Principles 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Internal Indicator GRI Indicators As a result of the internal (GRI SO 2) communication structure, employees can 100% of business units internally checked regularly raise concerns over such issues as to prevent any corruption and externally checked every 6 months unethical business conduct, including fraud and conflict of interest; bribery and facilitation payments. This has (GRI SO 6) enabled regular monitoring and has 0% financial and in-kind contribution to political been a successful tool to review levels of parties, politicians and related institutions. awareness and employees needs. The purchasing and cost controller (GRI SO 3) functions have been separated to reduce 0% of corruption incidents in the past 4 years chances of corruption or bribery
