2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE OUR COMPANY CONTENTS 6 ADVANCING OUR CUSTOMERS ADVANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT 11 14 ADVANCING OUR PEOPLE ADVANCING OUR COMMUNITIES 23 30 CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 2 A message from the CEO I am excited to present the latest update on Cabot Corporation’s Our vision challenges and inspires us to continually perform at a sustainability journey. As the new CEO of Cabot, I am honored to lead a higher level and reinforces our commitment to sustainability. company with such a rich heritage and a deep commitment to Clearly we are entering a period where sustainability is not a “nicecontinuous improvement in everything we do. Throughout our 135 to-have,” but an essential criterion of success for our customers and year history, we have been guided by a commitment to our stakeour business. The sustainability imperative spans all industries and holders and this is best expressed in our values of integrity, respect, touches our entire set of markets and customers. As we showcase excellence and responsibility. These values were developed by our in this report, our leadership in performance materials is enabling employees and form the foundation for how we engage with each breakthroughs across a broad range of global markets. Through other, our customers, suppliers and the local communities in which technology leadership, we are enabling our tire customers to develop we live and operate. more fuel efficient tires. More broadly, the automotive industry is As we move into the next phase of our journey as a company, we undergoing a design revolution with breakthrough efforts to “light have challenged ourselves to reflect on the expectations of our weight” vehicles for greater fuel efficiency. Our materials are essenstakeholders. These expectations are changing, driven by the chaltial components of the solutions to support the replacement of lenges and opportunities of an ever evolving world. As a central metals to plastics and enable the effective bonding of such new element of this reflection, I am excited to share with you our new materials. Our innovative performance additives are also enabling vision. This vision serves as our roadmap to the future and is intended advancements in lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles and to Sean Keohane to clearly establish direction so that our employees and external stretch the performance of traditional lead-acid batteries to capture President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) stakeholders understand what we are trying to achieve. Our new waste energy. We also continue to develop new forms of activated vision is to: “Be the most innovative, respected and responsible leader carbon to purify the air we breathe, the water we drink and the in our markets – delivering performance that makes a difference.” essential pharmaceuticals that we need in modern life. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 3 Our team of passionate, driven and entrepreneurial While our innovation efforts are having a substantial impact for our customers and consumers, we constantly strive to deliver these innovations on an ever more efficient footprint. Increasingly, customers people is our most distinguishing asset, and our and stakeholders challenge us to think holistically about our footprint and find ways to balance the tradeoffs between the clear benefits of our new materials and the long-term lifecycle costs of our production success is built on a culture that realizes the full processes. As such, we remain committed to improving our energy efficiency and reducing our greenpower of our people. house gas intensity. Furthermore, we are implementing technologies to meet the increasingly stringent environmental regulations globally and enhance the quality and transparency of information to allow our customers to safely use our products. Our vision drives us to do more than what is legally required in the areas of process safety management and occupational safety, and we are proud of our long track record of industry-leading performance in these areas. Each of our employees worldwide is committed to the cultural beliefs that every incident is avoidable and continuous improvement is a way of life. Our team of passionate, driven and entrepreneurial people is our most distinguishing asset, and our success is built on a culture that realizes the full power of our people. We have the best team in the industry and we constantly work to develop and access the best talent on a global basis, knowing that this foundation will drive our performance. Our employees are dedicated to Cabot, our customers and the communities that we operate within. I hope through this report you get a feel for the many and diverse ways that our employees share their time and talents to serve our communities. We know these pursuits have a positive impact on our employees and communities and hope that our leadership may inspire others to follow. I am proud of the progress we have made in the past year on our sustainability journey. Increasingly, customers, employees and communities want a company like Cabot to operate with a sense of responsibility and to act based on a clear set of principles. Our response to this expectation is exemplified through our participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As a signatory of the UNGC, we remain committed to the UNGC’s Ten Principles and continuing to make progress in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. I trust this report will provide a clear view of our commitment. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 4 About this report This report provides an update to our comprehensive Global Reporting We have developed and used a variety of systems across our Initiative (GRI) report published in 2015, consistent with our normal sites to ensure the data provided in this report is consistent and reporting practices. This also serves as our Communication on accurate. These systems include our environmental database, Progress (COP) in accordance with our commitment to the United finance and human resources databases, safety and environNations Global Compact (UNGC). Highlights of our key accomplishmental incident tracking database, and greenhouse gas emissions ments and challenges as they relate to the Ten Principles of the data collection systems. All environmental data are determined by UNGC and our overall sustainability objectives during calendar year direct measurement or estimated based either on production and 2015 are featured throughout the report. historical data or by mass balance calculations. Internal processes This report includes information from Cabot Corporation’s manuand standards were used to evaluate the quality and accuracy facturing locations, major administrative and regional headquarter of the collected data. Our annual greenhouse gas data is verified offices and affiliated manufacturing locations in which we have biannually by an independent third-party organization with the operational control and a majority ownership interest. Information next verification planned for the spring of 2017. is not included for minor sales/technical service offices, or leased warehouse space managed by a third party. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 5 OUR COMPANY CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 6 OUR COMPANY As a leading global specialty chemicals and performance materials company, we have been serving many of the world’s key industries for 135 years. We combine our knowledge and technical expertise to drive innovation that meets our customers’ needs. Our longevity has depended upon our ability to adapt to dynamic market changes and continue to generate consistent growth over time. In 2015, we faced intense competitive pressures in our businesses as well as macroeconomic challenges, including a significant decline in oil prices and weakening foreign currencies. This resulted in making difficult, yet necessary, decisions including a reduction in our workforce and ceasing production at our Merak, Indonesia carbon black facility. These actions were intended to make us more efficient and effective as an organization, while also improving our competitiveness and enhancing the long-term performance of the Company. In early 2016, our former Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Patrick M. Prevost, decided to resign from this position for personal reasons. Sean D. Keohane was appointed as our new President, CEO and member of the Board of Directors. In this role, Sean revisited the Company’s direction and launched a new vision and corporate strategy. At its core, our new vision focuses on remaining innovative and serving as a responsible partner worthy of our stakeholders’ respect. We will achieve this through our strategy to extend our leadership in performance materials by investing for growth in our core businesses, driving application innovation with our customers and generating strong cash flows through efficiency and optimization. Equally important to the vision and strategy is our strong commitment to uphold our values of integrity, respect, excellence and responsibility. These values, along with our renewed vision and strategy, will enable us to drive the Company into a more successful future. Moreover, it is our responsibility as a leader in the industry and corporate citizen to execute the best practices possible, optimize our operations and further integrate sustainability in all we do. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 7 OUR COMPANY OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS Reinforcement Materials Purification Solutions Rubber Blacks; Elastomer Composites Activated Carbon Carbon black for reinforcement of rubber products Activated carbon for purification in various applications including: tires, hoses, belts, molded goods including: air and water, food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, catalysts LOCATIONS Performance Chemicals Specialty Fluids / North America / Europe, Middle East / Asia Pacific Specialty Carbons and Formulations; Metal Oxides Cesium Formate Brines; Fine Cesium Chemicals & Africa (EMEA) Canada China Specialty additives that enable performance in: plastics, Advanced cesium products for use in: oil and gas well Belgium wire and cable, toners, coatings, adhesives and sealants, drilling and completion fluids, catalysts, titanium Mexico India electronics, batteries, inks, inkjet printing, composites, dioxide, glass, automotive brazing fluids Czech Republic United States Indonesia silicones, building construction materials, industrial insulation France / South America Japan Germany Argentina Korea Italy Brazil Malaysia Latvia Colombia Singapore Norway Venezuela Russia Switzerland the Netherlands United Arab Emirates United Kingdom CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 8 Highlighting our progress I’d like to take this opportunity to thank you for we are focusing on are nitrogen oxides While we are making progress against our your interest in Cabot and our sustainability (NOX) and sulfur dioxide (SO2). Compared goals, we know there is still more to be done. progress. We are proud to present our first to our 2012 baseline, we have reduced our We will continue to invest in areas that will United Nations Global Compact Communicaemission intensity for NOX by 10.4% and SO2 have the greatest potential for a positive tion on Progress report, which demonstrates by 14.7%. Both of these reductions are the impact on the environment and the communihow we are advancing in many different result of planned investments in state-ofties in which we operate. aspects of our sustainability journey. Thank the-art emission controls. Safety also remains a major focus. Our facilyou for taking the time to review this report, ities are among the safest places to work in ◆ Waste: We have met our stated reducand I hope you will agree that our efforts are the chemical industry. In 2015, we once again tion goal earlier than expected; however, producing positive results. achieved world-class performance in safety in 2015 we experienced an increase We have advanced many of our long-term of generation rates for hazardous and and continue to see reduced injury rates. This objectives and continue to monitor our impacts non-hazardous solid waste of 3.3% and is hard work and it takes every employee, on other key metrics. I’d like to highlight a few 0.8%, respectively, on an intensity basis. partner, contractor and visitor to help one of the notable accomplishments and mileThis is partly attributed to changing market another in completing their work safely. stones on our journey: conditions causing a shift in our product Nothing is more important than knowing we portfolio. Although we expect to see have done everything we can to keep each ◆ Energy: We have achieved 43% of our goal increased rates of non-hazardous waste and every person who comes to our facilito reduce energy intensity since our baseresulting from the installation of air polluties safe and injury-free. Similarly, our focus line year of 2005. In 2015, we increased our on process safety systems underpins our tion control technologies, we are looking overall energy intensity by 3.0% over 2014 commitment to the communities in which we to offset this through several technical results, which is reflective of the utilization operate. That commitment takes the form of and market options that will reduce waste rates of our manufacturing operations. investing in equipment, implementing best generation. ◆ Greenhouse gases (GHG): We have practices and employing highly skilled people ◆ Water: Our overall volume of water used achieved a 3.0% decrease in GHG intensity to ensure we conduct operations responsibly. in our processes decreased 0.9% over the since 2014, which represents 41% of our We are looking forward to sharing our last year, but our intensity increased by long-term GHG intensity reduction goal. progress in this and future reports, and we 2.3%. Similarly, our wastewater discharge Martin O’Neill This is due in part to a more efficient mix of encourage your feedback on our goals, perforrates decreased by 2.9% while the intenSenior Vice President feedstock in our manufacturing operations, mance and opportunities for the future. sity increased by 0.2%. To address this, we Safety, Health and Environment which has increased more effective yield. will be exploring technical solutions that ◆ Air emissions: In 2014, we announced could improve our water use balance while new goals to reduce our most significant monitoring potential risks and constraints air emissions. Specifically, the pollutants in the regions where we operate. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 9 Anti-Corruption Environment We are committed to conducting business ethically both as a whole corporation as well HONORING OUR Managing and working as at the individual employee level. Bribes, kickbacks, payoffs and all other forms of to mitigate the impact improper payments are explicitly prohibited. In support of this effort, all employees our operations have on the are required to complete training on our Code of Business Ethics that includes COMMITMENT environment is a core element of the topic of anti-corruption and we conduct additional focused trainings on our business. With the introduction this subject. Our International Anti-Corruption Compliance Manual provides of our updated environmental further guidance on how to avoid corruption risks and comply with our high TO THE UNGC performance goals in 2014, we refreshed ethical standards. The Manual also sets forth certain due diligence and our focus on addressing our energy certification processes that we require prior to engaging third parties who consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, will act on Cabot’s behalf. We also have an Office of Compliance that air pollutants and waste. Across all of our reviews potential risks of corruption so we may implement preventive facilities, we continue to identify opportunities measures as necessary. In the event that an incident does occur, to reduce our impacts, improve efficiency and we take swift action to resolve the matter, which could include avoid environmental non-conformances. conducting additional training, procedure modification and/or Taking the next step on our sustainability journey, we termination of employment for the individuals involved. proudly became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in July 2015. We have long fostered the spirit and intent of the 10 universally accepted UNGC principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. These principles are a Human Rights Labor natural extension of our values and business model. We One of our first courses of action following this Ensuring our employees are treated fairly and given the support continue to have strong programs that positively impact commitment was to reevaluate our approach to they need for achieving personal success in their professions protecting human rights. Addressing this topic is one of our key objectives. We look to foster diversity in our employees, customers, suppliers and the communities in has long been part of our normal business workforce along with a culture that is fully accepting of our differwhich we operate. Our most recent performance in these ences. Throughout all our practices, we observe the civil rights of our practices. We introduced a standalone areas is discussed throughout this report. Human Rights Policy in the spring of 2016 employees. We also expect our suppliers to uphold our Supplier Code to ensure that our expectations are clear of Conduct, which is based on our Code of Business Ethics and explicitly to employees and suppliers. This policy prohibits practices involving forced or child labor. Further, we introduced a covers fundamental aspects of human safety performance goal in 2014 as a way to reinforce our position on the safety rights consistent with leading global of our employees and contractors. That goal is to achieve and maintain our safety guidelines such as the Universal performance in the top 10% of our peer group companies. Declaration of Human Rights. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 10 ADVANCING OUR CUSTOMERS CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 11 ADVANCING OUR CUSTOMERS Responding to dynamic markets 22,000 documents as part of the rewriting effort. Our employees and customers now have easier access to the critical safety, handling with low PAH options and disposal information they need in a clear and effective format. We are diligent in responding to evolving end-user requirements and government regulations. One recent example of how we were able to Working safely with meet our customers’ changing needs came at a time when the European Union Commission tightened regulations limiting the content graphenes of eight polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) in certain plastic We are committed to ensuring and rubber products. We instituted a rigorous testing and certificathe safety of our employees and tion program to measure the PAH concentrations on certain carbon end users of our products. This black products and we innovated to develop a series of low content includes graphene-based matePAH products. As a result, we introduced the Cabot LP carbon rials that we have been developing black series, which are low PAH carbon blacks for rubber product over the last five years. This applications. The new series is designed to provide customers with multifunctional class of carbons has the potential to deliver breakalternative reinforcing and semi-reinforcing carbon blacks for use in through performance in many valuable applications and essentially applications that require lower PAH content. In addition to Cabot’s LP “do more with less.” When we first started working with graphenes, carbon black series, we currently offer over 15 specialty carbon black there was very little toxicology and safety data available. Through products that allow our customers to comply with the new stringent contacts at the U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and PAH regulations in Europe for a variety of other applications. Health (NIOSH), we understood that academic and government researchers were also interested in studying the health effects We are constantly working with our customers to find innovative solutions that will help them advance their own products. In many Communicating important material information of these new materials with great commercial potential. This eventually led to collaborations between Cabot and NIOSH and with cases, this allows us to work with customers who have their own As product stewardship is a hallmark of Cabot, we are committed to leading Korean researchers to conduct toxicology studies. The ambitions for sustainability by developing products with superior assisting our distributors and customers in fulfilling their compliance results of this research have since been used to update our safety efficiency, durability or cutting edge applications like those for obligations and also ensuring regulators receive comprehensive, data sheets (SDSs) and have been communicated to our workers renewable energy. For example, our conductive carbon blacks and accurate information on our products. Recently, we completed and downstream users. treated silicas used in wire cabling and bonding pastes, respeca major rewriting of our product safety data sheets (SDSs). With tively, are important materials used in the products for wind energy nearly 800 different products sold to customers all over the world, a As we advance in our commercial development, we envision production. Additionally, we have recently focused on supporting significant SDS authoring system was required to efficiently manage graphene-based materials being used to push performance boundthe automotive industry’s evolution toward improved efficiency. the updating process. This system allows us to maintain excellence aries and enable breakthroughs in a variety of applications. Being We are doing this through the use of specialty carbon blacks that in hazard communication now and into the future. Our SDSs are responsible members of the chemical community, we will continue enable both light-weighting and improved performance of batteries available in over 30 languages in nearly a dozen country and regional to work with leading institutions to learn about the health and envifor electric vehicles. formats. This level of complexity resulted in the management of over ronmental impacts of working with and using these new materials. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 12 ADVANCING OUR CUSTOMERS Aerogel for high-performance insulation customers have been able to reduce their waste to landfills by participating in a take-back program where used FIBCs are picked HASIT Trockenmörtel GmbH’s Fixit 222 Aerogel product, a Cabot aeroup at their facilities, restored and reused. This has diverted over gel-containing insulating plaster material, was recognized as one 140,000 FIBCs from landfills since the beginning of the program. In of the most innovative products exhibited at BAU 2015, one of the 2015, over 28,000 FIBCs were saved, which kept nearly 100 tons world´s leading trade fairs for architecture, construction materials of polypropylene from entering landfills. Similarly, at our Tuscola, and systems. The product, which features our aerogel technology, Illinois, USA site, we have been partnering with a major customer was recognized for the important role the material can play in to reuse FIBCs for our fumed silica product. This has allowed our reducing the energy consumption and carbon footprint of buildings. customer to reduce the FIBCs sent to landfill by 75% last year. The HASIT Fixit 222 Aerogel product combines our highly insulating aerogel with hydraulic lime plaster to produce an insulating plaster Recognition for our efforts that helps address the increased focus on environmental issues, energy efficiency and safety requirements. With a focus on energy Our product stewardship efforts aimed at meeting customer needs savings, this innovative aerogel-containing plaster has a low thermal have also received numerous recognitions. In many of the locaconductivity that provides insulation three to four times more effections where we operate, we have been recognized as a supplier of choice. For example, we received top supplier ratings in both tive than conventional insulating plaster. Argentina and Brazil and have also been acknowledged by some of our customers including Michelin, Bridgestone, Giti Tire and Kingfa Partnering with customers to reduce air pollution Scientific Technological Co., Ltd. Mercury emissions from coal-fired utilities are a serious environmental concern due to the toxicity and persistence of mercury Helping customers reduce waste that creates air pollution and accumulates in our waterways. We are working closely with customers to reduce the environIn response to this concern, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency enacted the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) mental impact associated with the delivery of our products to regulation with an aim to reduce power-plant pollution by requiring their facilities. One of the typical packaging solutions we use to utilities to install and operate equipment that removes mercury and transport our carbon black and fumed silica products to customers fine particulate matter. As the world leader in mercury emission is called flexible intermediate bulk containers (FIBC). These high control, our DARCO® Hg family of activated carbon products for capacity bags are made of woven plastic fabric, and traditionally mercury control has been selected for use in over 115 coal-fired have a single use which entails filling the bag with product, shipunits throughout the United States and Canada. We continue to ping the bag and its contents to the customer, and then disposal see our volumes increase in this area and are prepared to continue of the bag by the customer after it is emptied. We have been able to supply our customers with Cabot Norit activated carbon for to partner with some customers to reuse the bags before they are Our colleagues in Argentina named 2015 Top Supplier of the Year by mercury controls. sent to a landfill. For instance, in China, dozens of carbon black Bridgestone Firestone CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 13 ADVANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 14 ADVANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT Environmental management Dust mitigation at Klazienaveen, the Netherlands Our safety, health and environment (SH&E) program is the cornerstone of our management practices at all of our facilities. As part of this program, we closely We strive to make improvements to our facilities that will monitor the environmental impacts of our operations. This involves tracking help us mitigate local environmental impacts. This past our performance against our environmental goals, engaging with our neighbors year, we completed a project at our Klazienaveen, the and being diligent to address issues when they occur. We continue to explore Netherlands activated carbon facility to reduce the airborne opportunities to improve our efficiency at plants and implement innovative spread of raw material dust. The solution came in the form solutions that can reduce our environmental impacts across the Company. To of a protective mesh screen that encloses the raw material this end, we invested $17 million in fiscal year storage area. This project has been successful in reducing 2015 for improvements at our plants that have our impact to the surrounding environment. ENVIRONMENTAL led to a continued reduction of environmental NON-CONFORMANCES non-conformances (ENCs). Fines and penalties In 2015, we paid a total of $133,772 for two fines 243 Environmental non-conformances associated with our operations in Marshall, Texas, USA Part of our environmental management approach and Klazienaveen, the Netherlands. In Marshall, we paid includes carefully monitoring ENCs, which we $66,006 for alleged violations of our air permit from 2010 159 consider any event resulting in a reportable through 2012, prior to Cabot’s purchase of the facility. spill or release, a notice of violation, a public In addition to paying this fine, we have taken corrective 117 complaint or permit deviations. As these actions to mitigate the potential for future violations. occurrences arise, we carefully examine the In Klazienaveen, we paid €60,210 ($67,766) for alleged root cause, and share lessons learned with our under-reporting of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from the other facilities. Our ultimate goal is to achieve facility. Again, corrective actions were implemented in this zero ENCs across all of our operations. In 2015, case to properly account for the carbon-containing raw we continued to make progress toward this goal materials used at the plant. 2013 2014 2015 with a decrease in ENCs by 26% since 2014. Dust mitigation in Klazienaveen, the Netherlands CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 15 ADVANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS ENERGY INTENSITY: GHG INTENSITY: WASTE DISPOSAL INTENSITY: (GJ /MT OF PRODUCTION) (MT OF CO 2E/MT OF PRODUCTION) (MT OF WASTE/MT OF PRODUCTION) BASELINE YEAR TARGET YEAR BASELINE YEAR TARGET YEAR BASELINE YEAR TARGET YEAR 2005 2025 2005 2025 2012 2025 REDUCTION (PER MT PRODUCTION) REDUCTION (PER MT PRODUCTION) REDUCTION (PER MT PRODUCTION) 10% 20% 15% Performance toward our environmental goals In 2014, we introduced updated environmental goals NITROGEN OXIDES INTENSITY: SULFUR DIOXIDE INTENSITY: that included new targets for cutting our nitrogen oxides (MT NO X /MT OF PRODUCTION) (MT SO 2 /MT OF PRODUCTION) BASELINE YEAR TARGET YEAR BASELINE YEAR TARGET YEAR (NOX ) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions and waste disposal 2012 2025 2012 2025 goals in addition to revised energy and greenhouse gas goals. We continue to monitor our progress toward these targets and REDUCTION (PER MT PRODUCTION) REDUCTION (PER MT PRODUCTION) 20% 40% other environmental metrics. This is complemented by the projects underway at individual facilities to optimize our processes for efficiency and reduce our environmental impacts. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 16 ADVANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT Energy In 2015, our overall energy consumption was nearly constant with the previous ENERGY USE & INTENSITY GHG EMISSIONS year. However, our energy intensity per metric ton of production increased by 3%, which can be attributed to changes in market demand at our carbon black 123.9 124.2 0.4 operations. This caused less consistent operating conditions in these plants. In 113.1 4.6 0.3 0.3 4.4 turn, reduced utilization impacted the efficiency of these plants. The overall trend 4.1 for our energy intensity has decreased and we are now 43% of the way toward meeting our goal of reducing energy intensity by 10% from our 2005 baseline. 62.3 62.4 60.5 We believe there are opportunities at each of our facilities to improve efficiency. At our Botlek, the Netherlands facility, a project was carried out in 2015 that involved reducing our use of natural gas. We realized that the amount of natural Scope 1 Energy (MM GJ) (MM MT CO2e) gas burned during times when production was paused for events such as Energy Intensity Scope 2 maintenance and equipment updates was greater than required. We reassessed (GJ/MT Production) (MM MT CO2e) what was actually required to maintain our boilers and dryers and by doing so we 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 uncovered significant energy savings. Through this effort alone, the site was able to save 528,685 cubic meters (19,600 gigajoule) of natural gas and over 1,000 metric tons of CO2 in 2015. GHG INTENSITY Partnering for renewable power generation Emissions 0.18 0.19 0.17 2.21 2.25 2.20 At our Franklin, Louisiana, USA facility, we have identified a partner to capture our Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions continue to be a highly important topic and waste heat. In November of 2015, we entered into agreement with Cleco Power we saw a 3% decrease in GHG intensity per metric ton of production in 2015 LLC for the development of a waste heat recovery facility that will generate over compared to 2014. This decrease is primarily due to the use of more efficient 40 megawatts of power. The project, developed as part of our implementation feedstock at some of our carbon black facilities as well as ongoing operational of the pollution control systems associated with a Consent Decree signed with projects to improve yield. Through this and other efforts, we have reduced Scope 1 the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Louisiana Department of emissions by 8.2% since 2005, which represents 41% of our goal. (MT CO2e / MT Environmental Quality, will be the first energy project at one of our U.S. carbon Production) black facilities. It is expected that this unit will begin to provide power to the grid Scope 2 (MT CO2e / MT in 2018. Production) 2013 2014 2015 CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 17 WORKFORCE BY REGION ADVANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT As of 12/31/2015 NOX EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE 8.8 8.9 Two of our newest environmental goals are to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOX) by 20% and sulfur dioxide (SO2) by 40% by 2025 compared to our 2012 baseline. We have 5.0 begun implementing measures to achieve this goal. While 4.5 we have seen a slight uptick in absolute NOX emissions, our absolute SO2 emissions have decreased since 2012. We have also reduced the intensity of both air emissions per metric ton of production by 10% and 15%, respectively. NOX Emissions (KMT) NOX Emissions Intensity Reducing air pollutants with 2012 Baseline 2015 (MT/MT Production) emission controls To address air pollution challenges, we have implemented several emission control projects. In China, the Shanghai SO2 EMISSIONS Environmental Protection Bureau set a new NOX emissions PERFORMANCE standard of 150 milligrams/cubic meter at the end of 2014. 30.2 Our Shanghai facility responded promptly with a project to 28.9 implement selective catalytic reduction technology that was completed in September 2015, a month in advance of required compliance. Professional third-party emissions testing confirmed that the concentration of total flue gas NOX 17.0 emission was below the new limit, demonstrating a removal 14.5 efficiency of up to 95%. This project has achieved the highest NOX removal efficiency rates of any project at Cabot to date. In the United States, we have obtained permits for major emission control projects at our Pampa, Texas and Franklin, Louisiana facilities. We expect to make considerable progress SO2 Emissions (KMT) toward both our NOX and SO2 goals once these controls are SO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/MT Production) fully implemented by the end of 2018. 2012 Baseline 2015 NOX controls in Shanghai, China CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 18 ADVANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT Waste Our goal to reduce waste that is disposed by 15% by 2025 as compared to 2012 Diverting waste in Tuscola, Illinois, USA is an aggressive target requiring innovative solutions. While we have seen Since 2009, our fumed metal oxides facility in Tuscola has been working to reductions in total waste over the past several years, we expect significant reduce the intensity of its waste generation. In addition to making facility increases associated with the future implementation of pollution control projects improvements that have allowed some waste to be reused on-site, there in the United States. In order to meet our intensity target, it will be essential to has also been a recent effort to partner with external vendors. In 2015, divert waste from disposal by finding alternative beneficial uses. We have begun the facility found a partner who could use off-quality silica product as a this effort by identifying alternative uses for off-quality product at some of our binding material in asphalt. Not only does this application keep a portion carbon black and fumed silica plants and are exploring options for handling of our off-quality product out of landfills, but it also extends the lifetime of waste generated from these pollution control projects. In 2015, there was a slight roadway construction joints. decrease in non-hazardous waste disposed, although the intensity per metric ton of production increased slightly, as did hazardous waste disposal in both absolute weight and intensity. NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATION & INTENSITY GENERATION & INTENSITY Reducing waste sent to landfill in Barry, Wales 105.6 370.2 374.5 374.8 Our facility in Barry had a strong focus on waste diversion in 2015 that 34.8 successfully resulted in an overall reduction of waste sent to landfills by nearly 30% compared to 2014. This effort involved a complete overhaul of waste management at the facility. To encourage the adoption of new food composting and recycling, all office waste bins were removed. As an alternative, employees 56.9 199.5 182.0 188.0 are encouraged to dispose of their waste in recycling, compost and general waste containers available in designated common areas. In addition, the baler 35.6 34.8 Non-Hazardous Hazardous Waste traditionally used for packaging materials was decommissioned and replaced 17.3 17.5 Waste Generation (KMT) Generation (KMT) with a compactor. This machine enables efficient handling of the new recycled Non-Hazardous Hazardous Waste waste stream. Not only did these updates keep approximately 55 metric tons of Waste Intensity Intensity (MT/KMT (MT/KMT Production) Production) waste from entering a landfill, but it also led to cost savings and satisfied local 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 regulations requiring waste types to be segregated. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 19 ADVANCING OUR ENVIRONMENT Water In 2015, our overall water consumption decreased slightly by 1%. However, the intensity of our water usage per metric ton of production increased by 2%, which includes decreased production at some of our facilities while water usage remained nearly constant for routine operations and maintenance. Similarly, we saw close to a 3% decrease in wastewater Carbon black manufacturing in Ville Platte, Louisiana, USA discharge, with a slight increase in intensity. Addressing water scarcity We continue to monitor water scarcity issues regionally. This has specifically WATER USAGE & INTENSITY WATER DISCHARGE & INTENSITY been a concern in certain areas where we operate. For instance, in 2015, 57.3 56.8 43.7 employees at our Maua, Brazil site identified solutions for reusing gray water 42.4 50.3 39.0 in the midst of a severe drought in the São Paulo area. Through these efforts, 34.8 34.8 the site reduced its reliance on potable water for process operations. While we anticipate continued water constraints in some regions, we will continue exploring ways in which we may be able to reduce water use and 27.1 27.9 28.5 21.0 21.2 21.3 discharge by sharing best practices within and outside of the Company. For example, we are voluntarily coordinating a working group under the Association of Chemical Industries of Brazil. This group has been working Water Discharge diligently to develop a contingency plan intended to help companies in the Water Usage (MM m3) (MM m3) area minimize their risks regarding water scarcity that will be complimented Water Discharge Water Usage Intensity Intensity (m3/MT by a manual for our industry to adopt best practices for rational use of water (m3/MT Production) Production) in the area. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 20 RESPONSIBLE CARE ® Responsible Care® embodies the chemical industry’s Within this program, we have chosen to implement RC 14001, which incorporates commitment to the safe, responsible and sustainable the requirements of both the Responsible Care code and the International Orgamanagement of chemicals through their entire life cycle. nization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Environmental Management Systems, for We have been an active leader in Responsible Care since our manufacturing facilities and corporate offices in the United States and our joining the American Chemistry Council (ACC) in 2010. Our carbon black facility in Canada. Each year following certification, several of our participation signifies our deep belief in the value of external U.S. manufacturing sites have demonstrated facility-level safety leadership by engagement and third-party certification of our safety, receiving ACC awards in the Achievement, Honor and Excellence categories. health, environmental and security management systems. Beyond North America, our international locations also abide by the principles of Through Responsible Care, Cabot, along with others in the Responsible Care and have applied them across our global network. For example, chemical industry, is committed to: we are at the forefront of Responsible Care in China. As a member of the Association of International Chemical Manufacturers (AICM) that promotes Respon◆ Continuously improving the safety, health and sible Care in China, we are actively engaged in environmental performance of our technologies, leadership positions in the AICM’s environment, processes and products safety, emergency planning, production and ◆ Using resources wisely and minimizing waste process safety subcommittees. With the goal of ◆ Promoting responsible management of chemicals becoming one of the first companies in China to achieve independent third-party Responsible Care ◆ Upholding open communications with stakeholders certification by 2018, we are currently performing self-assessments at all of our China facilities. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 21 Cabot signs Responsible Care® Global Charter In May 2015, we signed the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) Responsible Care Global Charter that represents the chemical industry’s global commitment to the principles of Responsible Care. The Responsible Care Global Charter is a global commitment by leading chemical companies and federations that form the ICCA to create a common global vision for Responsible Care. As an active member of the ACC, we share this vision. Therefore, we will promote the continuous SH&E improvement of our operations by ensuring that SH&E Cabot China Ltd. honored program development and implementation are aligned with the with Responsible Care Responsible Care principles established by each country and Merit Award region in which we have significant operations. Responsible Care Merit Award Carbon black manufacturing in Tianjin, China In June 2015, Cabot China Ltd. was honored with the Responsible Care Merit Award from the Association of International Chemical Manufacturers (AICM) in recognition of its continuous and distinctive Responsible Care activities in China. Since the AICM established the Responsible Care awards in 2013, we have won the award two successive times. This award is a testament to our commitment and leadership in building sustainable practices and further strengthens the concept of sustainability across the chemical industry in China. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 22 ADVANCING OUR PEOPLE CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 23 ADVANCING OUR PEOPLE To help us meet this ambitious goal, we carefully assess our operations at all KEY STATISTICS manufacturing, R&D facilities and offices. In the event that an SH&E incident occurs, a description is logged into our global SH&E incident reporting system for As previously mentioned, due to challenging business conditions that led to restructuring certain business subsequent analysis and corrective action closure tracking. This comprehensive segments, we experienced a slightly higher turnover rate in 2015 than the recent past. Of the 14% turnover, process allows us to manage our progress against our goals and effectively 31% of employee departures were the result of restructuring efforts. However, this did not significantly impact share lessons learned across the Company. In 2015, we experienced a higher total the proportion of headcount across regions, employment type, contract type, ages or gender. recordable incident rate (TRIR) compared to our results from the previous two years; however, the severity of incidents continued to decrease during this same period and our overall performance remains among the best in the chemical industry. TOTAL WORKFORCE BY AGE GROUP WORKFORCE BY REGION As of 12/31/2015 54% TOTAL RECORDABLE 24% INCIDENT RATE* SEVERITY RATE 33% 45% Industry Average 2.3** 7.63 13% 6.39 31% 4.67 Under 30 30–50 Over 50 ■ Americas ■ EMEA ■ Asia Pacific .44 .51 .41 Keeping our employees safe 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 The safety of our employees is the highest priority. Driving this core aspect of our culture is a strong safety, health and environmental (SH&E) management program. We strive daily to actively engage all of our employees in SH&E both personally and professionally. Of our workforce, 12% of our employees are represented in joint health and safety committees. Together, all * Includes both employees and contractors; TRIR is the number of injuries per 100 employees. employees participate in our Drive to Zero – an initiative to achieve zero injuries across all our facilities. **Industry average is based on the U.S. Bureau of Labor and Statistics, 2014 Chemical Industry Average. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 24 ADVANCING OUR PEOPLE Safety initiative in Ravenna, Italy Process safety measures One of our greatest strengths is our global network of collaborators. In Keeping our employees safe is fundamentally linked to operating our facilities partnership with their carbon black colleagues in Ravenna, Italy, our Ravenna safely. For this reason, we closely monitor the condition and functionality Purification Solutions team worked diligently to improve its safety program over of our processes, equipment and infrastructure through our process safety the last three years. Implementation of the Cabot Life Critical Safety Standards management program. Using the same incident tracking system, we also track was a key focus area and in particular the safe work permit (SWP) system. our process safety performance by logging process safety events (PSE). Such The joint team developed a plan to help resolve communication challenges by events are categorized as a more severe (Tier 1 event1) or a less severe (Tier implementing a site-specific SWP system. The SWP procedure helps ensure all 2 event2) as defined by the Center for Chemical Process Safety. In 2015, we affected workers review the job steps in advance and collaborate on the most experienced an increase of both Tier 1 and Tier 2 events. We continually look for effective risk reduction measures to ensure it is done safely before beginning ways to mitigate such events before they occur, but when they do happen, we work. This process allows the team to better track work progress, maintain exchange lessons learned from these events among our facilities. effective communication and ensure safer operations. PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS Tier 1 Tier 2 2013 0 1 2014 1 1 2015 2 2 Tier 1 event: A loss of containment from a process resulting in: injuries of workers requiring lost work 1 days; fatality; hospital admission of a third party; an officially declared community evacuation or shelter in-place; a fire or explosion resulting in a direct monetary losses of more than $25,000; or an acute release (1 hour) of specific chemicals above a specified amount. 2 A Tier 2 event: A loss of containment from a process resulting in: a recordable injury; a fire or explosion with direct cost greater than or equal to $2,500; or an acute release (1 hour) of specific chemicals above Carbon black manufacturing in Ravenna, Italy a lower specified amount. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 25 ADVANCING OUR PEOPLE AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING Contributing to our employees’ growth PER EMPLOYEE In addition to our commitment to keeping employees safe, we are dedicated to We take steps to ensure all employees are committed to providing employees what they need to succeed in their careers. We recognize the living our values of integrity, respect, responsibility and We currently track most job-specific value each employee brings to our business and how the diversity in background excellence as well as our commitment to human rights. All trainings on a site-by-site basis. and skill sets benefits the Company. Our employees represent 24 citizenships and employees are required to attend training to understand we strive to continue developing and fostering a diverse workplace. This means the importance of our values in addition to completing Depending on an individual employee’s treating all employees openly, fairly and equitably, which is reflected in our values our Code of Conduct training. Some employees are also role, they received the following and Code of Business Ethics. required to take other training courses, depending on their average hours of training in 2015: One of our core benefits for employees is our support for professional development. level and job function, including but not limited to: This allows employees to address individual career goals and focus on the skills ◆ Global competition and competencies that we require for excellent organizational performance. One of our major goals is to ensure our employees continue to grow and expand their skills ◆ Insider trading Clerical, technical 35 hours and competencies in support of our business objectives. At the same time, we must ◆ Responsible Care® and operators support and attract new employees by allowing them to progress within the organization. In each case, training and development is key to meeting these goals. We believe that employee development is a shared responsibility. Our managers Professionals and 32 hours are committed to coaching, assessing employees’ competencies and providing supervisors objective feedback. Employees are encouraged to actively seek feedback, own their development actions and openly share their future aspirations and mobility. Employee development starts in the current role. It is a continuous process with Management 23 hours ongoing dialogue, assessment and documentation. Employee development and experienced requires experiential learning, and breadth and depth of experience is necessary for career advancement. professionals Our team in Schaffhausen, Switzerland CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 26 ADVANCING OUR PEOPLE LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS FROM ACROSS THE GLOBE NORTH AMERICA SOUTH AMERICA included over 20 employees participating in over 230 hours of training First line leaders from all three In order to prepare a future generation in areas such as environmental and Massachusetts sites participated of leaders, our team in Brazil created a formal mentoring program to identify safety systems, root cause analysis, in a Management Skills for New and develop employees. In 2015, nearly energy management and other techManagers course at our Business 20 employees joined this program nical courses. and Technology Center in Billerica, Massachusetts, USA. During this giving them a new perspective of ASIA PACIFIC three-day program, leaders from development and growth. Managers the Haverhill inkjet plant, Billerica were trained to be mentors and In April 2015, our Asia Pacific locations Developing Leaders Business and Technology Center and committed to mentoring each potential designed and implemented a formal In 2015, we continued our commitment to our leaders’ professional growth. Boston Corporate Office learned and leader in formal meetings every two mentoring program for new employees. practiced management skills and months. Individual development plans A close partnership between human Our Developing Leaders program provides a leadership development expanded their networks within the were prepared for all employees particresources and department managers framework that recognizes the need for both a global core set of skills and Company. Additionally, in Billerica, ipating in the program. resulted in an improved process that region-specific needs along with ways of fulfilling them. This corporate-reover 75 employees at various levels of is highly effective in developing new gional partnership fosters local innovations that may be replicated across EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA the organization participated in classemployees. As part of this effort, the Company. To reduce training delivery time to new leaders and make the room-based Meeting Effectiveness As a result of ongoing collaboration over 30 employees participated in a content available on-demand, in 2015, the Developing Leaders courses were First Line Multi-Skill Training program training in 2015. Employees developed with the local works council and in an converted into an e-learning format. Two-thirds of the courses have been a better understanding of running a resulting in nearly 20 employees who effort to advance employee developconverted with the remainder expected to be completed by the end of 2016. successful meeting, selecting and ment, our Ravenna, Italy, team signed were qualified for a new position or skill The e-learning platform makes professional development training easily availusing a decision-making model, an agreement with the local works by the end of the year. Comprehensive able online to all Cabot employees in topics as diverse as root cause analysis strategies for managing challenging council for the implementation of a Management Skills training was also and interviewing skills. Specifically, our team in Brazil developed 10 e-learning behaviors and best practices for training program financed entirely provided to first line leaders as part of courses applicable to employees at various levels throughout the region. virtual and multi-cultural meetings. through public funding. The program Developing Leaders. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 27 ADVANCING OUR PEOPLE Plant engineer development program Effective leadership training initiatives are critical for organizational performance. Developing necessary skill sets and delivering vital information to our people is important as we continuously invest in our talent. Being mindful of costs, we have turned to technology to lead effective trainings that are interactive and engaging, without the additional travel costs. In 2015, we started the Plant Engineer Development Program. Nineteen engineers from eight North American manufacturing plants participated in the six-month leadership development course. The program took advantage of our technical resources and was a blend of self-paced e-learning modules, WebEx sessions facilitated by senior leaders and action-learning projects supported by plant and regional staff. This type of training program integrated virtual locations, webcasts and web-based collaboration tools to create engaging learning experiences that can be utilized for a wide range of training programs. Preparing future employees for materials research We are constantly looking to create opportunities for the future. We enjoy collaborating with our local academic community and value this exchange of ideas. Our annual Student Materials Research Forum is a great way for tomorrow’s scientists and engineers to connect with industry practitioners while showcasing their own research. We look for applicants who are working on novel solutions to some of today’s most challenging problems in the fields of chemistry, physics, material science, chemical engineering and mechanical engineering. In May 2015, we invited a select group of graduate student and postdoc applicants from 11 local colleges and universities to spend the day visiting our Business and Technology Center in Billerica, Massachusetts, USA. Throughout the day, these students had the opportunity to network with our scientists and engineers and learn about our technologies, present a poster on their research, tour our labs and meet our chief technology officer and other technology leaders over lunch. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 28 Hana volunteers in the local As President of the Rotary Club Cartagena Caribbean FounHospic Citadela, which is a dation, Guillermo has led the Health Day Back to Smile Project. PEOPLE PROFILES hospital for patients in critical This involved collecting grants, importing special supplies and condition. In particular, she medicines and arranging logistics for donating to the Children’s regularly helps patients who are Hospital Napoleón Franco Pareja. Through the contributions physically and mentally disabled Guillermo has helped make possible over the last 20 years, and cheers them up by reading more than 800 children have been treated for conditions such books or taking them out to the as cleft lip, palate cleft, burns and congenital malformations. garden. She occasionally collabHana Hynková orates on projects organized by Hospic Citadela (benefit concerts IT Specialist; Guillermo Profiling charitable work Valmez, Czech and charity collections). She has also undergone special training to Del Castillo Republic assist with psychological support As a company, we have a long tradition of giving back to our communities. Our during emergency situations. Facility General Manager; Cartagena, Colombia people play an important role in this commitment, not only during their workday at Cabot, but also in their activities outside of work. We have seen many instances in which our people volunteer their time, skills, energy and passion to continue to support and give back to communities around the world. Our employees In 2013, Vanessa participated in a Gladimar “GG” know that even the smallest act can have a significant and lasting impact. We volunteering trip to Uganda, Africa. Guadalupe support our employees in their efforts to give back, and here we have highlighted Through this experience, she visited Administrative Assistant a handful of those who engage in important and satisfying volunteer activities. several orphanages where she helped to Global Manufacturing; Work like this inspires all of us – at our company and in our communities. with the daily needs of the children Alpharetta, Georgia, USA and facilities. In doing so, she came to know one child in particular who Marco Olguín lost her parents to AIDS. Since then, GG has been an active volunteer Domestic & Export Vanessa has been supporting this with the Make-A-Wish® Foundation Traffic Supervisor; child through contributions of food in Atlanta, Georgia, USA for several Altamira, Mexico Roger Zheng and educational expenses in addition to making a generous donation of years. Through her volunteering with Make-A-Wish, she helps terminally Strategic Business Development Manager; clothes to the orphanage. ill children realize their greatest Shanghai, China Since 2014, Marco and his sister wishes. Most recently, she helped Perla have been volunteering and these children and their families by donating resources for the care of a arranging trips to Disney World and Since 1998, Roger has been volunteering in various community activities, especially young boy who has been diagnosed Vanessa Hawaii, organizing shopping trips during his tenure as president of ChenXi Volunteer Society at Shanghai Jiaotong University. with cancer. Because his family is Pérez and getting a specialized wheelchair. Following his graduation from the university, Roger remained active through the alumni in financial need, their generous As a result of her efforts, GG was Compensation/ chapter and organized many volunteering activities that support the community such as contributions in the form of clothes, nominated for an Atlanta area award Development tutoring students, helping at a nursing home and raising funds for a charity supporting the toys, medicines and other needs for volunteers who make a difference Coordinator; education of underprivileged students. have been a huge help to the family. in the community. Mauá, Brazil CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 29 ADVANCING OUR COMMUNITIES CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 30 ADVANCING OUR COMMUNITIES Charitable giving through the Cabot Corporation Foundation In calendar year 2015, the Foundation donated or pledged approximately $800,000 in direct and indirect support of a wide range of programs aimed to contribute to community success, improve science and technology literacy and support human services programs. In addition, at the facility level, we collectively made approximately $400,000 of in-kind donations and we actively contribute our time and talent to support the communities where we work and live. In the areas of health and the environment, we are engaged in a variety of projects. Reflecting the priorities identified by We strive to be a responsible corporate citizen and a good neighbor our employees globally, we have: while making a positive and lasting difference in places where we ◆ Assisted local hospitals with the purchase operate. Our global philanthropic efforts are centered on science and of critical equipment technology education, safety, health and environmental improve◆ Partnered with neighboring schools to build and ments and programs that improve our communities. Our donations improve the playgrounds at daycare centers are made through the Cabot Corporation Foundation as well as local ◆ Contributed matching funds to local United Cabot business funding. We typically support programs that are Way campaigns identified by our employees and reflect the priorities of our sites. ◆ Raised funds for medical research by participating in charity races Charity cycling event in Botlek, the Netherlands CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 31 ADVANCING OUR COMMUNITIES Youth leadership and conservation noise. We are delighted Hospital equipment donation that the new incubator on Boston Harbor will give these infants We helped modernize the San Jose Campana Municipal Hospital in a fighting chance to Campana, Argentina, by donating new blood analysis equipment. In the summer of 2015, grow up to lead happy The hospital provides services to 70% of the population of the city. we funded a youth and healthy lives. As The BacT/ALERT® device is a state-of-the-art, automated microbial conservation and many of our employees detection system that is used to perform bacteriological studies leadership project in and their families have with greater accuracy and speed. Its use will reduce waiting times the Boston Harbor on their own stories about for both the patients and the professionals who request the tests. Peddocks Island through the Boston Harbor Island time spent in the hospital, it is rewarding to be involved with organiAlliance. A crew of eight zations that are so close to our hearts. Contributing to children’s rehabilitation high school students Since 2007, and two crew leaders Cycling to end homelessness we have been spent three weeks involved with camping on the 200-acre island and working on specific conserIn an effort to raise awareness and the Children’s vation projects. The students participated in a labor-intensive Rehabilitation field experience, where they learned to incorporate environmental financial support for HomeStart Inc., a Center in education and a sustainable leave-no-trace ethic into their work. Bo’ai, China. In They also attended a half day educational presentation and tour non-profit organization committed 2015, our local of our Business and Technology Center in Billerica, Massachuemployees setts, USA. Through the experience, the students also developed to preventing homelessness in the continued a new mindset, connecting broader environmental issues with their engagetheir own lives. Boston area, a group of employees braved ment by volunteering their time at the Center and in October, snowy conditions Jeff Zhu, senior vice president, and president of the Asia Pacific Children’s hospital support and freezing temperatures to participate in an hour-long, outdoor region, presented a donation of 100,000 Yuan. Our hope is that spin cycle event in downtown Boston, Massachusetts, USA. The with this donation and additional contributions of hospital equipOur EMEA Business Service Center in Riga, Latvia, donated a statefunds raised from the event were used to place seven families into ment and training for teachers, the Center may create a better of-the art incubator to the Children’s Clinical University Hospital, permanent housing. We have been an active sponsor of various environment for the young disabled patients, so they may grow the leading pediatric health care provider in Latvia. Given that HomeStart events over the years and have participated in the healthy and thrive. approximately 350 Latvian children are born prematurely each year, there was a pressing need for equipment that can regulate the annual ICycle event which draws support from a number of Bostonbabies’ body temperature as well as protect them from germs and based businesses and local news and sports celebrities. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 32 AWARDS & RECOGNITION As we strive to be a responsible corporate citizen and maintain our leadership in the industry, we take great pride in our accomplishments. We are also honored to be recognized by some of the most important and influential publications and organizations around the world. Below is a selection of such awards we received in 2015. ◆◆ 2015 Michelin Supplier Award for Innovation – Cabot ◆◆ PROPER Blue Recognition – Cilegon, Indonesia, given by Corporation, given by the Michelin Group. the Ministry of Environment. ◆◆ 2015 Best Quality Supplier – Cabot China Ltd., given by ◆◆ 2015 Best Customer Safety Award – Cilegon, Indonesia, Kingfa Scientific Technological Co., Ltd. given by the Indonesia National Gas Company. ◆◆ 2015 5A-Class Supplier – Hefei, China, given by Giti Tire. ◆◆ 2015 Ecological Design Award of Shanghai Green Supply Chain Program Outstanding Projects – Shanghai, China, ◆◆ 2015 Supplier of the Year – Campana, Argentina, given by given by the China-ASEAN Environmental Cooperation Bridgestone Firestone. Center, Shanghai Municipal Environmental Protection ◆◆ 2015 Top Rubber Award as The Best Carbon Black Supplier Bureau and Shanghai Municipal Commission of Commerce. – São Paolo, Brazil, given by Revista Borracha Atual. ◆◆ 2015 Advanced Enterprise of Safety Production – Tianjin, ◆◆ The Best 2015 Carbon Black Supplier – São Paolo, Brazil, China, given by the Tianjin Economic-Technological given by Paint & Pintura. Development Area (TEDA). 2015 Leaders in Philanthropy Award in ◆◆ 2015 Leaders in Philanthropy Award – Ville Platte, ◆◆ 2015 Best Practice Award – Boston, Massachusetts, USA, Ville Platte, Louisiana, USA Louisiana, USA, given by the Community Foundation of given by the New England Employee Benefits Council. Acadiana. ◆◆ 2015 Responsible Care Leader – Cartagena, Colombia, ◆◆ Responsible Care Merit Award – Cabot China Ltd., given by Responsabilidad Integral. given by the Association of International Chemical ◆◆ 2015 Leader Award – Boston, Massachusetts, USA, given For questions or comments about this report, please Manufacturers (AICM). by the Massachusetts Excellence in Commuter Options contact us at sustainability@cabotcorp.com. ◆◆ 2015 Best Model of Social Responsibility – Cabot China (ECO) Awards Ltd. awarded at the 2nd International Rubber Industry To learn more about Cabot Corporation, Expo in China. please visit our website at cabotcorp.com. CABOT CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UPDATE // 2015 33
