Results built on sound strategy ANNUAL REVIEW 30 June 2016 About this report Welcome to Stockland’s 2016 Annual Review – reporting on our CONTENTS financial, social and environmental performance for the financial year, 1 July 2015 – 30 June 2016. Letter from the Chairman 03 Letter from the Managing Director and CEO 05 This is our fifth integrated report. We continue to evolve our approach to Integrated Reporting across our corporate reporting Our performance in FY16 07 suite: integrating our sustainability strategy with our Group strategy, Our business 11 further streamlining our Financial Report, and providing more accessible content online. Our reporting approach and materiality Our strategy 17 is discussed in detail on pages 68–71. Governance and remuneration 20 For Stockland, integrated reporting is a journey toward more Grow asset returns and our customer base 29 meaningful corporate reporting and is a process of continuous improvement, one that we believe will provide great benefit A better way to shape thriving communities 35 to both our organisation and our stakeholders. Capital strength 44 Our full reporting suite for 2016 is: A better way to enrich our value chain 47 Operational excellence 54 Annual Review Focusing on strategy, corporate governance, (online only) and our integrated financial, social and A better way to optimise and innovate 57 environmental performance. Our reporting approach 68 Financial Report A detailed account of our FY16 financial performance. Assurance73 Property Portfolio Details on each of the assets within our portfolio, updated every six months. Sustainability Our in-depth sustainability performance, Reporting case studies and disclosure on management (online only) approaches (DMA) in accordance with GRI G4 “comprehensive”. Shareholder Review A concise version of the Annual Review sent to all of our securityholders. Stockland is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and supports the Ten Principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and the Sustainable Development Goal of the UNGC. Stockland’s Sustainability Reporting also serves as its UNGC Communication on Progress. Copies of all reports are available online at www.stockland.com.au/corporate-reporting. FEEDBACK We welcome your questions and value your feedback about our reporting approach. Please contact us at reporting@stockland.com.au. Follow us at @stockland Find us at linkedin.com/company/Stockland Stockland Annual Review 2016 | About this report | 02 Letter from the Chairman All three of our core businesses are realising the benefits of our strategy, underpinned by our strong balance sheet and our focus on operational excellence. GRAHAM BRADLEY Am CHAIRMAN Dear Securityholders, We also achieved international recognition STOCKLAND CARE FOUNDATION for our sustainability leadership, being I am delighted to report that the Stockland I am very pleased to report that Stockland named the 2015–2016 Global Real Estate CARE Foundation has made a real impact has continued to deliver good value for Industry Leader in the Dow Jones in its first full year of operation, contributing securityholders with another strong profit Sustainability Index, and we retained our much needed funds in the areas of health, performance in FY16. Employer of Choice for Gender Equality wellbeing and education and also boosting citation from Australia’s Workplace Gender volunteering and giving among our STRONG PERFORMANCE Equality Agency. employees, business partners and the Funds from operations grew by 12.5% broader community. to $740 million and underlying profit rose DISTRIBUTION 8.5% on FY15, to $660 million. Funds from In addition to the $200,000 donated by the As forecast, our full year distribution was operations per security grew 11.1% on the CARE Foundation Trust in FY16, Stockland 24.5 cents per security, representing a prior year, exceeding the target growth and its employees, customers and residents payout ratio of 88% of underlying profit. range of 9–10%. Underlying earnings per donated over $100,000 and more than security rose by 7.3%, at the top end of the Looking ahead, from FY17 funds from 2,200 hours of support to chosen charity target range of 6.5–7.5%. Statutory profit operations will replace underlying profit partners, Redkite and Touched by Olivia was $889 million. as our primary reporting measure, Foundation (TBO). Through these efforts 72 recognising the importance of this families who have children or young people These excellent results show the progress with cancer gained access to Redkite’s suite measure in enabling comparison across we have made over the last three years in our of programs in FY16, and four inclusive the Australian property industry.1 disciplined pursuit of sustainable growth. playspaces and four social enterprise cafés Accordingly, our distribution policy from based in our communities were added All three of our core businesses are realising FY17 will be the higher of 100% of Trust to TBO’s expanding national network. the benefits of our strategy, underpinned taxable income or 75–85% of funds from As Chair of the Foundation, I congratulate by our strong balance sheet and our focus operations. This is equivalent to our current all involved. on operational excellence. Progress includes distribution policy to pay the higher of 100% more than $681 million of retail property of Trust taxable income or 80–90% of developments underway, seven medium underlying profit. density residential projects launched across four states, the launch of our unique In recognition of our consistent profit Retire Your Way selling proposition, and growth over the last three years, we are several new greenfield developments targeting to increase distributions to 25.5 that demonstrate our ability to create cents per security in FY17, assuming there outstanding masterplanned communities. is no material change in market conditions. 1 Funds from operations (FFO) has been determined with reference to the Property Council of Australia’s voluntary disclosure guidelines to help investors and analysts compare Australian real estate organisations. FFO is calculated by adding back tenant incentive amortisation and non-cash tax benefit/expense to underlying profit and deducting straight line rent from underlying profit. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Letter from the Chairman | 03 GOVERNANCE Stephen will offer himself for election Following more than 10 years of service, by securityholders at the 2016 Annual director Peter Scott retired from the General Meeting (AGM). Stockland Board in August 2016. With his As announced in August 2016, I will conclude engineering and construction background my current term as a director at the AGM on and his broad business management 26 October 2016 after 11 years as Chairman. experience, Peter has brought many I am delighted that my Board colleague insights to us and contributed enormously Tom Pockett has been elected to succeed throughout his time on the Board. me. Tom joined the Board in September 2014 I thank Peter sincerely for his long and and has served with distinction as a director dedicated service. and as Chair of our Audit Committee and as As part of the Board renewal process, a member of our Risk and Sustainability we were delighted to welcome Stephen Committees. Newton to the Board in June 2016. Stephen is a highly experienced director with an CONCLUSION extensive career history in the property and I would like to thank my Board colleagues investment sectors. His deep experience and Stockland’s talented employees for across real estate development, property their continued dedication in supporting our management and infrastructure investment many achievements over the past year. The makes him an excellent addition to our team strong fundamentals we have established and we look forward to his contribution. over the last three years will allow Stockland to sustain solid growth in the year ahead. I am confident that the strong In closing, I thank all securityholders for their support during my term on the Board. fundamentals we have established It has been my great privilege to serve as your Chairman over the past 11 years. over the last three years will allow I am proud of our many accomplishments, our team, and our corporate values. Stockland to sustain solid growth I am confident that my successor will continue to build upon these foundations. in the year ahead. GRAHAM BRADLEY AM GRAHAM BRADLEY AM CHAIRMAN CHAIRMAN Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Letter from the Chairman | 04 Letter from the Managing Director and CEO We have achieved strong results across all of our key metrics in FY16 and we are confident that our strategy set in 2013 is working. MARK STEINERT MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO Dear Securityholders, GROW ASSET RETURNS AND We executed leases on more than 25% of CUSTOMER BASE our portfolio in FY16 and also acquired three This has been a year of strong and sustained new sites in Sydney and Melbourne. performance for Stockland as we continue Commercial Property accounts for around our disciplined approach to growing asset 70% of our assets and remains a key profit In Office we continue to focus on optimising returns and our customer base, improving driver, delivering comparable growth in funds returns from the portfolio while managing our capital strength, and delivering from operations of 4.5% across the portfolio, our exposure tactically. The bulk of our operational excellence. with 3.7% in Retail, 3.7% in Logistics and assets are located in the improving Sydney Business Parks, and 9.9% in Office. market where our assets are fully occupied. We have achieved strong results across all of our key metrics in FY16 and I am very Our Retail portfolio performed well, with Our Residential business settled a record pleased that our Commercial Property, high occupancy and positive leasing spreads 6,135 lots in FY16 and achieved significant Residential and Retirement Living on operating lease deals, and continued operating profit growth of 38.8% as well businesses have each made significant sales growth, with total Moving Annual as a lift in return on assets to 19.6% on the contributions to the performance of the Turnover up 4.6%, driven by 6.0% growth core portfolio. Group. This demonstrates that our strategy in specialty retail. This strong result reflected our repositioning set in 2013 is working and we are succeeding We have also made good progress on major of this business over the last three years in positioning our business to capitalise redevelopments, completing Harrisdale in to enhance our community creation on good market conditions. Perth and the remodelling of our Pitt Street capabilities and capitalise on supportive Our focus remains squarely on implementing Mall asset in the Sydney CBD. Wetherill Park in market conditions. We have activated our strategy to deliver sustainable growth Sydney has achieved practical completion a high proportion of our Residential portfolio and creating inspiring places where people over the majority of stages and is trading well. in key growth corridors and more than 90% want to live, work, shop, and invest. Our aim We have also commenced our $372 million of our net funds employed are in projects is to continue to improve our customer Green Hills redevelopment in New South that are actively selling, up from 60% experience and take advantage of new Wales and progressed a number of small but in FY13. We also broadened our market opportunities so that our business is more important projects, including casual dining reach with the introduction of medium stable and resilient for the long term. precincts at Rockhampton in Queensland and density homes and completed homes within Shellharbour in New South Wales. All of these a number of our communities, and we are projects have been very well received by now exploring mixed use apartment customers. Stockland has a future retail opportunities at Merrylands in Sydney. development pipeline of $1.0 billion and is targeting stabilised funds from operations yields of 7–8% from this activity. The good performance in our Logistics and Business Parks portfolio reflected our active asset management, disciplined acquisition strategy and good progress on our $467 million development pipeline. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Letter from the Managing Director and CEO | 05 Our Retirement Living business operating OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE OUTLOOK profit was up 19.7% on FY15 reflecting strong Our people remain highly engaged, delivering The low interest rate, moderate population sales and active management. Cash return great outcomes and contributing to a range growth environment in Australia is supportive on assets also increased by 50 basis points of initiatives that improve the way we work. of economic growth and we have set our to 5.8%, reflecting our continuing focus on Our new Stockland Support Centre, business on a course that provides us with operational efficiencies and growing our established in June 2015 to outsource some a positive outlook for FY17, despite a level development pipeline. finance and IT functions, is progressing well of uncertainty in macroeconomic conditions. In FY16 we sold more than 1,000 retirement and providing more flexible and scalable Our commercial properties are expected living homes and apartments, which is support for our in-house teams. We have to maintain moderate growth in returns and a record number of settlements, including also made significant progress improving our retail centres remain highly productive. the first apartments at Cardinal Freeman our Group system capabilities, including Expected residential lot settlements and in Sydney. We also launched a new village the commitment to implement SAP and retirement living net reservations also remain within our Willowdale community in Sydney Salesforce as core systems, with deployment buoyant for the year ahead. and we continued to reshape our portfolio, to take place during the next two years. embedding eight South Australian villages I am confident in the strategy we are Stockland has also maintained its leadership acquired in FY15 and selling five relatively executing and that Stockland is well placed in sustainable operations. We have continued small, low return on asset villages in to generate profitable business growth our commitment to engage effectively and Western Australia in July 2016. in FY17 and beyond. We have forecast improve the liveability, convenience and growth in funds from operations per efficiency of our communities and commercial CAPITAL STRENGTH security of 5–7% and distribution growth operations, and to continue to reduce our of 4.1% in FY17, assuming no material change We have maintained our strong balance impact on the environment, particularly in market conditions. sheet and A-/stable credit rating, energy and water efficiency. Recognising supporting investment in the future these efforts, we were proud to be named growth of our business. the 2015–16 Global Real Estate Industry Leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Our disciplined capital management has Index, the third time we have received this seen us improve our weighted average outstanding acknowledgement. MARK STEINERT cost of debt and increase our average debt MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO maturity. Gearing at the end of FY16 was Stockland has been a signatory to the 23.8%, at the lower end of our 20–30% United Nations Global Compact since target range, due to disciplined capital 2015, and we remain committed to its management, the strong and increasing principles and to promoting the Global velocity of operating cash flows and growth Compact where we operate. I am pleased in the value of our investment portfolio. to confirm our continued support of this important initiative. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Letter from the Managing Director and CEO | 06 Our performance in FY16 Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our performance in FY16 | 07 Key financial metrics UNDERLYING PROFIT ($M) STATUTORY PROFIT ($M) FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS ($M) $660m FY16 660 $889m FY16 889 $740m FY16 740 FY15 608 FY15 903 FY15 657 FY14 555 FY14 527 FY14 573 FY13 495 FY13 105 FY13 472 FY12 676 FY12 487 Underlying profit was $660 million, Statutory profit was marginally down on Funds from operations was $740 million, up 8.5% on FY15. the prior year, primarily due to a number of up 12.5% on FY15. FFO will replace underlying unrealised fair value items, including the mark profit as Stockland’s primary performance to market movement of Stockland’s debt and measure from FY17, in line with our peers in the derivatives as well as the realised gain of Australian Real Estate Investment Trust sector. $73 million in the prior year from the sale FFO is considered to be the most meaningful of Stockland’s investment in Australand. measure of underlying and recurring earnings, as referenced in the Property Council of Australia voluntary disclosure guidelines. UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER SECURITY (¢) DISTRIBUTION PER SECURITY (¢) FFO PER SECURITY (¢) 27.8¢ FY16 27.8 24.5¢ FY16 24.5 31.1¢ FY16 31.1 FY15 25.9 FY15 24.0 FY15 28.0 FY14 24.0 FY14 24.0 FY14 24.8 FY13 22.4 FY13 24.0 FY13 21.3 FY12 29.3 FY12 24.0 Underlying earnings per security (EPS) was The distribution payable for the year ended FFO per security was 31.1 cents, up 11.1%. 27.8 cents, up 7.3% on FY15. 30 June 2016 is 24.5 cents per stapled security, up 0.5 cents on FY15 and reflecting a payout ratio of 88% of underlying EPS and 79% of FFO. From FY17 our distribution policy will be based on FFO and will reflect a payout ratio of 75–85%. RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE) NET TANGIBLE ASSETS PER SECURITY ($) 11.0% FY16 11.0 $3.82 FY16 3.82 FY15 9.9 FY15 3.68 FY14 8.8 FY14 3.53 FY13 7.7 FY13 3.50 FY12 8.2 FY12 3.68 Return on equity (excluding Residential Our net tangible assets per security has workout projects) was 11.0%, up 1.1% on FY15. increased to $3.82, representing our total assets minus liabilities and intangible assets. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our performance in FY16 | 08 Key performance outcomes Grow asset returns and our customer base COMMERCIAL PROPERTY Retail Logistics and Business Parks Office FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO) FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO) FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO) $402m 6.1% Comparable FFO ↑ 3.7% $132m 0.5% Comparable FFO ↑ 3.7% $68m 13.0% Comparable FFO ↑ 9.9% NET OPERATING INCOME (NOI) NET OPERATING INCOME (NOI) NET OPERATING INCOME (NOI) $371m 5.8% Comparable NOI ↑ 3.2% $119m 1.3% Comparable NOI ↑ 1.0% $53m 17.0% Comparable NOI ↑ 5.9% DEVELOPMENT UNDERWAY DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE OCCUPANCY $681m with a $1.0bn pipeline $467m 95.4% OCCUPANCY OCCUPANCY LEASING ACTIVITY 99.3% 94.7% 17,900sqm RETAILER SATISFACTION LEASING ACTIVITY 76% 306,500sqm Residential Retirement Living OPERATING PROFIT OPERATING PROFIT $230m 38.8% $57m 19.7% PROPORTION OF NET FUNDS EMPLOYED SETTLEMENTS IN ACTIVELY SELLING PROJECTS 90% 1,013 LOTS SETTLED HOMES UNDER DEVELOPMENT 6,135 400 OWNER OCCUPIER DEPOSITS OCCUPANCY 75% 94.9% BROADENING CUSTOMER REACH VILLAGE RESIDENT SATISFACTION 74 medium density home settlements 110 completed settlements home 90% Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our performance in FY16 | 09 Key performance outcomes Capital strength Operational excellence S&P RATING RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE) A-/stable 11.0%, up 1.1% GEARING WORLD DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX 2015–16 Global Real Estate Industry Leader; 23.8% 9th consecutive year of listing WEIGHTED AVERAGE DEBT MATURITY (PRO FORMA) CITATION BY WGEA (WORKPLACE GENDER EQUALITY AGENCY) 5.9 years Employer of Choice for Women WEIGHTED AVERAGE COST OF DEBT CORE SYSTEMS PROGRAM PROGRESS SAP and Salesforce deployment 5.8% over next 2 years OPERATING CASH FLOWS MORE FLEXIBLE AND SCALABLE SUPPORT Embedded Stockland Support Centre $787m, up from $401m outsourced team Shape thriving Optimise Enrich our communities and innovate value chain RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITIES LIVEABILITY GREEN STAR – PERFORMANCE EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SCORE National Liveability Score of 84%, Australia's first retail 83%, equal to Global High consistent with FY15 portfolio rating for 22 Performing Norm of our shopping centres RETIREMENT LIVING RESIDENT SATISFACTION EMPLOYEE FLEXIBLE WORK OPTIONS WASTE DIVERSION FROM LANDFILL 90% of Retirement Living residents 61% of employees now work flexibly are happy with their village 96% of Residential and Retirement Living, 39% PROCUREMENT AND NEW SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE of Retail waste diverted SUPPLY CHAIN EXCELLENCE 4 inclusive playspaces, 2015 Chartered Institute of 4 social enterprise cafés ELECTRICITY INTENSITY REDUCTIONS IN RETAIL Procurement and Supply (CIPS) developed with Touched by Olivia 30% reduction since FY06, Australasian awards winner resulting in $30m savings STOCKLAND COMMUNITY GRANTS PROGRAM ENABLING ENDURING EMPLOYMENT 300+ local community organisations, SOLAR AIR CONDITIONING TRIALS Launch of Stockland Connectivity awarded $325,000 in total Pioneering solar thermal Centre at Green Hills redevelopment technology at Stockland COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION Wendouree with CSIRO $4.05m invested in community BIODIVERSITY SAVINGS development initiatives Around 1,750 hectares of land reserved for protection in perpetuity Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our performance in FY16 | 10 Our business Our vision is to be a great Australian real estate company that makes a valuable contribution to our communities and our country. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our business | 11 Our business Stockland is one of the largest diversified WE ARE WELL POSITIONED property groups in Australia with more WITH A DIVERSE PORTFOLIO than $15.8 billion of real estate assets. We own, manage and develop shopping centres, logistics centres and business parks, office assets, residential communities, and retirement living villages. Founded in 1952, today Stockland leverages its diversified model to help create thriving communities where people live, shop and work. Our vision is to be a great Australian real estate company that makes a valuable contribution to our communities and our country. This vision is underpinned by our purpose – “we believe there is a better way to live” – and is brought to life by our 1,500 employees who are guided by Stockland’s values of Community, Accountability, Respect, and Excellence (CARE). Our primary objective is to deliver earnings per security growth and total risk-adjusted securityholder returns above the Australian Real Estate Investment Trust index average, by creating quality communities and property assets and delivering great customer experiences. Retail Logistics and Business Parks To optimise value to securityholders we Office are structured as a stapled security: a Residential combination of a unit in Stockland Trust and Retirement Living a share in Stockland Corporation that are together traded as one security on the Australian Securities Exchange. This stapled structure allows Stockland to efficiently undertake property investment, property management and property development activities to create sustainable risk/ reward outcomes. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our business | 12 Our portfolio COMMERCIAL PROPERTY RESIDENTIAL RETIREMENT LIVING We are the largest residential land We are a top three retirement living operator Retail developer in Australia. Our portfolio in Australia, with over 9,600 established We are one of the largest retail property includes 56 communities across New South units across five states and the Australian owners, developers and managers in Australia. Wales, Queensland, Victoria and Western Capital Territory. The portfolio includes Our 42 retail centres accommodate more than Australia. We are focused on delivering a development pipeline of 3,100 units. 3,500 tenants and generate in excess a range of masterplanned communities of $6.6 billion of retail sales per annum. and medium density housing in growth areas across the country with over 76,800 Logistics and Business Parks lots remaining in our portfolio, with a total Our Logistics and Business Parks portfolio end value of approximately $18.8 billion.1 comprises 27 properties encompassing 1.3 million square metres of building area. These properties are strategically positioned in key locations for logistics, infrastructure and employment. Office Our Office portfolio comprises 9 assets, mostly in Sydney. Retail Logistics & Business Parks Office 42 properties 27 properties 9 properties 1,046,629sqm GLA* 1,299,308sqm GLA* 153,895sqm NLA* $6.8bn asset value† $2.0bn asset value † $0.8bn asset value† Residential Retirement living 56 communities 70 villages 76,800 lots remaining 9,600 established units $18.8bn approx end value 1 $1.3bn book value ▫ * Reflects 100% interest. (GLA) Gross Lettable Area. (NLA) Net Lettable Area. † Value of Stockland’s ownership interest. ▫ Includes established and development units. 1 Excluding value on projects identified for disposal and assuming no material change in market conditions. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our business | 13 Our value chain This diagram demonstrates what we control  urrently undertaken by Stockland C and influence across the value chain.  urrently undertaken by Stockland C In FY14 we launched our medium density and or coordinated using external parties completed homes program. This is allowing Not currently undertaken by Stockland us to broaden our customer reach. 1. Upstream 2. Funding 3. Acquisition 4. Design 5. Procurement, 6. Leasing 7. Asset and 8. Refurbish/ 9. Downstream products contracting & and sales property re-development products construction management • Building Downstream CAPITAL PARTNERING BALANCE SHEET DETAILED DESIGN MASTERPLANNING LEASING SALES ASSET MANAGEMENT PROPERTY materials services are • Building associated with MANAGEMENT the ongoing AND APPROVALS technologies operation of our properties and are not undertaken by Stockland. RETIREMENT LIVING They include: • Child care • Equipment leasing • Warehouse management RESIDENTIAL • Cleaning and security • Catering • Utilities provision RETAIL • Payments processing LOGISTICS & BUSINESS PARKS OFFICE Detailed Design Building and Sales By design Construction By commercial consultants By contractors agents Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our business | 14 Stakeholder engagement We have a commitment to developing and maintaining strong relationships with a broad range of stakeholders across our diverse business and understanding and responding to their unique perceptions, needs and concerns. We practice open, honest, two-way communication and recognise the mutual benefits that result from genuine engagement for both our business and our stakeholders. At Stockland, we recognise the importance of engaging regularly and directly with all our stakeholder groups so that we understand their expectations, issues and concerns. Employees We have 1,498 employees in Australia. We engage with our employees through various internal communications and feedback mechanisms throughout the year including our annual Our Voice employee survey. Further information on our employee engagement is provided on pages 47–53. Government Federal, state and local governments set the We engage regularly with all levels of government in New South and regulators regulatory environment in which we operate. Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia and the Australian Capital Territory, both directly and through industry associations. We also engage with the Federal Government. More information on our government and industry relations is provided overleaf. Securityholders We have over 51,000 securityholders We provide investor briefings on our strategy and financial results. and the investment in Australia and overseas. At our Annual General Meeting (AGM), retail securityholders community can engage with our Board of Directors and are updated on our strategy and performance. Our management also meets regularly with institutional investors. More information on our investor relations is provided overleaf. Customers We have daily contact with a diverse range We regularly seek feedback from customers through surveys of customers, including commercial, retail and research, and we incorporate feedback into our product and industrial tenants, shoppers in our retail design and service offerings. Customer Relations Management centres, our residential community customers, Systems are in place across all of our businesses to support regular, and residents in our retirement villages. effective and responsive engagement with our customers. More information on our customer engagement is provided on pages 41–43. Suppliers We procure services and products from We actively monitor and engage with our suppliers. over 3,500 active suppliers, with the top 100 More information on our engagement with suppliers suppliers representing approximately 75% is provided on pages 47–49. of our spend. Communities The people that reside, work or engage Our engagement with communities includes community and in the areas where we operate. consultation forums, one-on-one meetings with community groups and local leaders, as well as surveys and research. More information on our community engagement is provided on pages 35–43. Media We interact with journalists across a wide We regularly engage with the media to provide information about spectrum of local, regional, metropolitan and our business that supports clearer and more accurate reporting. national print and electronic media outlets. We aim to respond promptly to requests for information about our business activities. More information on our media relations is provided overleaf. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our business | 15 Stakeholder engagement STAKEHOLDER to securityholders is available on our This engagement is guided by a Board ENGAGEMENT FRAMEWORK website at www.stockland.com.au/ endorsed government relations policy. We have a well-established stakeholder about-stockland/corporate-governance. The policy is updated annually and engagement framework which informs communicated through a range of channels, We provide securityholders with information including face-to-face briefings, the intranet our Group strategy together with the through our annual and half year financial strategies of our operating businesses and our website. reports, our AGM and announcements and their assets and development projects. of market sensitive and other information, Our policy is to make no donations Our Board and Executive Committee including results and Q1 and Q3 updates. to politicians or political parties at any receive monthly reports with updates These documents are lodged with the level of government. This policy has been on our engagement approach and Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) in place since 1 July 2008. We expect that emerging stakeholder issues or concerns. and are publicly available on our website all of our projects are judged solely on their at www.stockland.com.au. merits and it is important to us that our In addition to a Group-wide stakeholder community stakeholders share this view. engagement policy and strategy, Stockland To support our retail securityholders having has state-wide stakeholder engagement timely access to information, we promote We actively monitor legislative and strategies and asset and project specific the use of electronic communication, regulatory change directly through our stakeholder engagement plans, which are providing alerts on major announcements businesses and our Government Relations adapted to specific operating contexts for those with registered emails. We also team, as well as via key industry bodies. and focus on local issues. participate in online interviews with brokers We are an active member of the Property (e.g. CommSec) and our major Council of Australia (PCA), Urban At the start of every project, teams are announcements are published on our Development Institute of Australia, required to identify key government and corporate Twitter account, @Stockland. the Green Building Council of Australia community stakeholders, the objectives We also provide a printed half year and full (GBCA), the Shopping Centre Council of their engagement approach and any year Shareholder Review with our half year of Australia and the National Association issues which might impact on the project distribution statement and annual Notice of Women in Construction, and they in the future. Based on this, project-level of Meeting. continue to be our primary representative stakeholder engagement plans are bodies at both federal and state levels. developed. Over the last four years we have sought to We also engage with the Investor Group streamline our Financial Accounts and on Climate Change and participate as an This is guided by our philosophy of proactive provide more integrated reporting to ensure engagement and five fundamental principles Organisational Stakeholder in the Global our reports are accessible to all stakeholders. Reporting Initiative. including: All securityholders are encouraged • a proactive, harmonised approach across to engage with senior management MEDIA RELATIONS the business; and our Board of Directors at our AGM. Stockland regularly engages with • early prioritised engagement with Copies of addresses made by the Chairman journalists at national, state, regional and stakeholders to help build a clear project and Managing Director and the minutes local media outlets to communicate the vision and identify key milestones; of the AGM are also lodged with the ASX strategic objectives of its business. We • clear understanding of our stakeholders and are publicly available on our website. proactively engage with the media to and their key drivers to build trust beyond We also communicate with the investment communicate and respond to the issues the project; community via regular group and one-onthat are important to our stakeholders, • regular communications, recording and one management meetings, presentations including our customers. reporting; and by senior management, and by participating We distribute all major ASX announcements • capturing stakeholder trends across the in domestic and offshore investor relating to major capital transactions, business to inform our future strategy. conferences and roadshows. Our market strategic partnerships and quarterly briefings are webcast over the internet. financial updates directly to media, and we The development, implementation and monitoring of all plans is overseen by our In addition, the Chairman undertakes have a dedicated in-house team available Stakeholder Relations team, which is also regular engagement with our major 24/7 to respond to all media inquiries. We responsible for ensuring lessons, trends investors and proxy advisors, including also host detailed briefings with business and successful initiatives are shared across the Australian Shareholders’ Association. and property journalists as an integral part the business. This provides a useful forum for both the of our half and full year reporting cycles. Board and our investors to stay abreast We frequently host and participate in media INVESTOR RELATIONS of current market views, commercial events, industry speaking engagements developments and industry trends. and interviews to broker important news Our aim is to keep all securityholders and updates about our business. well-informed of all major developments and business events that are likely GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY RELATIONS As part of our approach to community to materially affect our operations and Stockland prides itself on a high level of consultation, we also ensure that the key financial standing and the market price professional engagement with all levels facts relating to proposed or active of our securities. In accordance with of government. We actively engage with developments are supplied to the Principle 6 of the ASX Corporate Governance governments, public servants, regulators appropriate media outlets for dissemination Principles and Recommendations, a copy and our industry bodies in relation to policy and consideration by the respective local of our policy on our communication and specific projects. communities in which we operate. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our business | 16 Our strategy The primary objective of our Group business strategy is to deliver earnings per security growth and total risk-adjusted securityholder returns above the Australian Real Estate Investment Trust index average, by creating quality communities and property assets and delivering great customer experiences. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our strategy | 17 Delivering value to all stakeholders OUR GROUP BUSINESS STRATEGY HAS THREE STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: Grow asset returns and our customer base • driving returns in our core businesses Capital strength • actively managing our balance sheet to maintain diverse funding sources and an efficient cost of capital Operational excellence • improving the way we operate across the Group to drive efficiencies and effectiveness OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Community Health & Connection Our sustainability strategy integrates Wellbeing Education with our business strategy and priorities, providing a better way to deliver shared value for all stakeholders. We have three core sustainability priorities: Shape Thriving E THRIVING SHAP UN Communities, Optimise and Innovate, COMM ITIES and Enrich Our Value Chain. C Str apita t Each sustainability priority is pursued en l Asse gt ow s & h Gr eturn r Base through action in several focus areas. R ome We explore our sustainability priorities st Cu and focus areas throughout this review. Stakeholder Biodiversity OU I Engagement & OPT IC H HA IN I M Governance EN R UE C N O IS E Water Management & Risk VAL N R VAT E & Quality Supply Carbon Chain O p e r ati o n a l & Energy E x c elle n c e Waste & Employees DE LIV E UE Materials RIN G S H AR E D V AL Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our strategy | 18 Responding to our challenges and opportunities Stockland adopts a rigorous approach to understanding and proactively managing the risks faced in its business. We recognise that making business decisions that involve calculated risks, and managing these risks within sensible tolerances, is fundamental to creating long-term value for securityholders and meeting commitments to our employees, tenants, customers, business partners, consultants and the communities in which we do business. Various risks could impact our business, and the nature and potential impact of these risks change over time. These include, but are not limited to: SHORT TERM – STRATEGY EXECUTION LONGER TERM – CHANGING MARKETPLACE Risk Response and opportunities Risk Response and opportunities Increased Continue to: Community Continue to: competition and • maintain a diversified business model resilience to evolving • train our employees and increase their changing market at scale in each sector security and safety risk awareness conditions impact • focus on retaining a strong balance sheet risks • undertake regular scenario testing our opportunities with appropriate gearing • engage with peers and across industry for growth • use diverse funding sources • invest in asset upgrades • concentrate on efficiency and cost management Capital market Stockland’s long-term growth is dependent • maintain a prudent approach to provisioning • replenish our land and asset pipeline volatility impacts on our ability to access capital at the • maintain discipline and agility in our our ability to access appropriate time and cost even as capital investment decision making suitable capital markets fluctuate in response to domestic • use a rigorous whole of business approach and global economic shifts. So that we are informed by detailed research to drive our able to continue to access sufficient capital capital allocation process to fund growth, we will continue to: • focus on retaining a strong balance sheet Delays or changes Continue to: at appropriate levels of gearing to the delivery • use our proprietary Liveability Index research • maintain diverse funding sources of infrastructure to understand priorities of residents in • maintain our prudent capital and amenities our communities and drive property management policies affect customer management and development decisions satisfaction • focus on stakeholder engagement plans Ability to develop Continue to: for all projects that minimise obstacles to products that meet • foster a culture of innovation where we remain infrastructure and amenity delivery and anticipated future flexible, and identify and take advantage of provide appropriate communication with customer and opportunities to leverage movements all stakeholders about these matters societal demands in stakeholder preferences • improve our project delivery through • evolve our market leading product supply chain management innovation and deepen our customer insights using our proprietary Liveability Housing affordability Stockland’s Residential business is influenced Index research and platforms such as is increasingly by the dynamics of the Australian residential Stockland Exchange (our online research challenging market. Housing affordability remains of key community) and Quantium (which provides in Australia concern for Australians as the price of housing de-identified customer transactional and rental properties continues to increase. data to inform how we view markets and We will continue to: opportunities) • seek opportunities to provide market leading • focus on creating sustainable and liveable sustainable communities and a broader mix communities and assets of value for money housing options including • enhance our design excellence, providing house and land packages, completed greater functionality and value for money housing, medium density and apartments • balance the demand from home owners and investors so that our residential communities Digital disruption Continue to: remain attractive to future buyers affects customer • identify, develop and integrate technical • engage with government to seek effective behaviour and enhancements across our business, solutions on land supply issues transforms the including online residential and retirement market living engagement opportunities Systems As part of our continued investment in • support Stockland retail centres as thriving enhancements the efficiency of our operations, we have community hubs by delivering quality affect business made significant progress on improving the services and community spaces that process efficiency Group’s systems capabilities including the are e-enabled commitment to implement SAP and Salesforce • promote employee innovation and as core systems. With deployment to take collaboration through Ideas@Stockland place during the next two years, we will to further enable us to take advantage continue to maintain two-way engagement of new opportunities with employees across the business to enable a smooth transition More information on Stockland’s risk management policy is available Regulatory changes Continue to: at stockland.com.au/about-stockland/corporate-governance. impact our business • engage with industry and government on policy and customers areas including taxation and planning reform • develop in areas where governments support growth • focus on good practice to remain well positioned in the market Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our strategy | 19 Governance and remuneration The Stockland Board takes its governance responsibilities very seriously and believes it has the necessary mix of experience and skills to oversee the high standard of corporate governance, integrity and accountability required of a professional and ethical organisation. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Governance and remuneration | 20 Corporate governance The Board believes that Stockland’s The Board has delegated responsibility COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY governance accords fully with the principles to the Managing Director to manage OF THE BOARD and recommendations of the ASX Corporate Stockland’s business and to its various Stockland is committed to having a Board Governance Council as summarised in our Board Committees to oversee specific areas whose members have the capacity corporate governance statement at of governance. Delegated responsibilities to act independently of management, www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/ are regularly reviewed and the Managing and have the collective skills and diversity corporate-governance. Director regularly consults with the Board of experience necessary to optimise on Stockland’s performance. Matters which the long-term financial performance ROLE OF THE BOARD are not specifically delegated to the of Stockland so as to sustain superior The Board has overall responsibility for the Managing Director require Board approval, returns to securityholders. good governance of Stockland. The Board: including capital expenditure decisions above delegated levels, expenditure outside The Board recognises the advantage • oversees the development and the ordinary course of business, major of having a mix of relevant business, implementation of Stockland’s corporate acquisitions and sales, changes to corporate executive and professional experience strategy, operational performance strategy, the issue of equity or debt on the Board, the importance of cultural objectives and management policies by Stockland and key risk management and and ethical values, and the benefits with a view to creating sustainable accounting policies. The Company Secretary of diversity, including gender diversity. long-term value for security holders; is directly accountable to the Board through The Board has identified a range of core • establishes Stockland’s overall framework the Chairman on all matters to do with the skills and experience that will assist the of governance, risk management, internal proper functioning of the Board. Board collectively to fulfil its oversight role control and compliance which underpins effectively. These include experience with The Board aims to ensure that its property investment and management, the integrity of management information securityholders are kept well-informed systems and fosters high ethical property and community development, of all major developments and business construction and project management, standards throughout the organisation; events that are likely to materially affect retailing and consumer marketing, industrial • appoints the Managing Director, approves Stockland’s operations and financial supply chain logistics, funds management, the appointment of the Company standing and the market price of its banking and finance, government and Secretary and Senior Executives reporting securities. Further information in relation regulatory relations and environmental, to the Managing Director and determines to communication with Stockland’s social and governance matters. It is also the level of authority delegated to the securityholders is located on the Stockland advantageous for some Board members Managing Director; website at www.stockland.com.au/ to have experience in the audit and risk • sets Executive remuneration policy, about-stockland/corporate-governance. management field, people management monitors Senior Executive performance Stockland’s Directors, management and and executive remuneration. The Board and approves the performance objectives employees are required to maintain high believes that the core skills of importance and remuneration of the Managing ethical standards of conduct. Stockland’s to Stockland are well represented among Director and his direct reports; Code of Conduct and Ethical Behaviour the current Directors. In addition, most • approves the annual budget and monitors (the Code) is periodically reviewed and Directors have occupied senior executive financial and operating performance; endorsed by the Board and covers dealings management positions in large corporations • reviews and approves financial and other with both external parties and internal both in Australia and globally, including reports to securityholders and approves operations. Further information in relation CEO and CFO positions, covering a wide dividends from Stockland Corporation to the Code is located on the Stockland range of industry sectors or have held and distributions from the Trust; website at www.stockland.com.au/ senior positions in relevant finance about-stockland/corporate-governance. and accounting disciplines. • approves major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestitures; • reviews Executive and Board succession planning and Board performance; • monitors compliance with laws and regulations which apply to Stockland and its business; and • appoints and monitors the independence of Stockland’s external auditors. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Governance and remuneration | 21 Corporate governance The Board also believes that it is important announced in June 2016 that Mr Peter Scott to maintain a range of director tenures to would retire from the Board in August 2016. facilitate orderly Board renewal while These changes reflect the ongoing maintaining valuable continuity and succession planning and renewal program corporate knowledge among Directors. for the Board. As at 30 June 2016, the Board comprised one Where a Board vacancy occurs or whenever Executive Director and eight Non-Executive Graham Bradley Mark Steinert it is considered that the Board would benefit Directors. Of the nine Directors, including Chairman Managing Director from the services of an additional director, the Managing Director, five had tenure of less (non-executive) and CEO the Board identifies the skills and experience than six years, two had tenure of between it seeks to complement the competencies six and nine years and two had served for of continuing Directors. In defining the more than nine years. The Board also values Board’s requirements for a new director, the importance of diversity; currently three consideration is given to the skills, of the eight Non-Executive Directors are professional experience and educational women and three of the last six Director backgrounds of continuing members of the appointments have been women. Board, including any identified skills gaps. Mr Stephen Newton joined the Board Criteria used also include consideration of Carol Schwartz Peter Scott on 20 June 2016. Mr Newton has deep the value of gender diversity on the Board. Non-executive Non-executive experience across real estate development, property management and infrastructure investment gained during almost 23 years with Lend Lease Corporation and more than 13 years as a Principal of investment management and capital advisory business, Arcadia Funds Management. It was also Carolyn Hewson Barry Neil Non-executive Non-executive LS AND EXPERIENCE D SKIL IN 2 AR 016 BO Environment, Property social and management governance & investment People Property management & community & executive development remuneration Tom Pockett Nora Scheinkestel Non-executive Non-executive Construction Accounting, & project audit & risk management Government Retailing & regulatory & customer marketing Industrial Banking supply chain Stephen Newton & finance logistics Non-executive Funds management Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Governance and remuneration | 22 Corporate governance DIRECTOR REMUNERATION AND Human Resources The Human Resources Committee incorporates the functions SECURITIES OWNERSHIP Committee of two Board Committees recommended by the ASX Guidelines: To underpin the alignment of Directors and a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee. securityholder interests, the Board believes The Human Resources Committee seeks to ensure that there that Directors should hold a meaningful is a strong link between employee reward, Stockland’s performance number of Stockland securities. In August and ultimately securityholder returns. The Human Resources Committee also seeks to ensure that remuneration for Non-Executive 2015 the Board revised its existing policy to Directors is designed to attract and retain talented and experienced increase the minimum number of securities individuals. Refer to the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 49 each Non-Executive Director is required to of our FY16 Financial Report for further information. acquire from 10,000 to 40,000 securities Audit Committee The Board has delegated oversight for the preparation of Stockland’s within a reasonable time of becoming a financial reports and the maintenance of a sound financial reporting Director. The increased minimum roughly control environment to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee equates to one year’s base Board fees. All works in conjunction with the Sustainability Committee, Human new Directors will have a period of three Resources Committee and Risk Committee to assist the Board years to comply with this policy and any in fulfilling its responsibilities for ensuring Stockland has adopted existing Directors who hold less than 40,000 and maintains appropriate corporate governance procedures. From February 2016 the responsibilities of the Financial Services securities will have until 30 June 2018 to Compliance Committee were incorporated into the Audit Committee. comply. Stockland also has a policy regarding the minimum securityholdings Risk Committee The Board as a whole is ultimately responsible for the sound for Senior Executives as set out in the management of risk and compliance across the organisation. Remuneration Report. Both these policies The purpose of the Risk Committee is to assist the Board to fulfil its risk governance responsibilities. The Risk Committee provides are intended to align the personal financial a board-level forum to oversee Stockland’s risk culture and review interests of Directors and Senior Executives the effectiveness of risk identification and management including with those of securityholders. the structures, processes and management systems within Stockland’s overall risk management framework. BOARD COMMITTEES Sustainability Stockland recognises that a sustainable future for its business depends Four permanent Board Committees have Committee upon the sustainability of the communities, economy and society been established to assist in the execution in which it operates. The purpose of the Sustainability Committee of the Board’s responsibilities (see right). is to consider the social, environmental and ethical impact of Stockland’s business activities; major corporate responsibility and sustainability The membership and the procedures for the initiatives and changes in policy; and stakeholder communication Committee meetings are set out in the about Stockland’s corporate and sustainability policies. Board Committee Charter located, together Financial Services (Incorporated into the Audit Committee from February 2016). The with the charters for each Board Committee Compliance Financial Services Compliance Committee was responsible for monitoring (except the Financial Services Compliance Committee and reviewing the effectiveness of the Compliance Plan in respect of Committee) on the Stockland website at Stockland Trust and its controlled entities and in ensuring adherence www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/ to applicable laws and regulations. The Compliance Plan is designed to protect the interests of securityholders. The Compliance Plan for corporate-governance. Stockland Trust and its controlled entities has been approved by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC). The Financial Services Compliance Committee met regularly and was required to report breaches of the law and Constitution to the Board, which is required to report any material breach of the Compliance Plan to ASIC. TAX CONTROL AND GOVERNANCE We undertake a periodic review of the • A balanced tax risk appetite that POLICY FRAMEWORK Tax Control and Governance Framework is consistent with the Board approved risk Stockland maintains a Tax Control to test the robustness of its design appetite, to ensure Stockland remains and Governance Framework, reviewed against ATO benchmarks and to a sustainable business and a reputable and approved by the Audit Committee, demonstrate the operating effectiveness and attractive investment proposition; which outlines the principles governing of internal controls to stakeholders. • A commitment to engage and maintain Stockland’s tax strategy and risk The key principles of the Stockland relationships with tax authorities that management policy. Tax Control and Governance Framework are open, transparent and cooperative, are summarised as follows: consistent with Stockland’s Code of Stockland’s Tax Control and Governance Conduct and Ethical Behaviour policy; and Framework is consistent with the guidelines • A tax strategy that ensures all tax affairs published by the Australian Taxation are conducted in a transparent, • An operating and trading business Office (ATO) regarding tax risk management equitable and commercially responsible based in Australia, with no strategic and governance processes for large manner, whilst having full regard to all intentions of engaging in any tax business taxpayers. relevant tax laws, regulations and tax planning involving the use of offshore governance processes, to demonstrate entities or low tax jurisdictions. good corporate citizenship; Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Governance and remuneration | 23 Remuneration Stockland is committed to an executive REMUNERATION OUTCOMES remuneration framework that supports In FY16 there was no change to the Stockland’s objectives. These are to deliver remuneration arrangements for the growth in EPS and total risk-adjusted Managing Director nor the remuneration securityholder returns above the average framework for the other senior executives Australian Real Estate Investment Trust who are Stockland’s Key Management index, to create quality property assets Personnel (Senior Executives). During the and to deliver value for our customers. year, three of our nine Senior Executives were awarded modest increases in their OUR REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK Fixed Pay to reflect increased scope of Stockland’s remuneration policies responsibilities and market relativities. are framed around several key Following the strong financial and principles, including: operational performance delivered by the • Fixed Pay should be fair, competitive executive team in FY16, as reflected in the and regularly benchmarked against Corporate Balanced Scorecard in our market practice; Financial Report, the aggregate short-term • A significant portion of executive incentives paid to our Senior Executives was remuneration should be ‘at risk': marginally higher than in the previous year. that is, awarded only if clear performance Under our remuneration policies, the greater criteria set in advance are achieved; part of the increased STI awards was made • ‘At risk’ or variable pay should be aligned in the form of Stockland securities with to securityholder interests; deferred vesting. The approved STI pool for all employees in FY16 was $37.0 million, • Variable pay as a portion of total of which $8.9 million (or 24% of the pool) remuneration should be higher was awarded in Stockland securities with for more senior executives; deferred vesting and is subject to the risk • Short term incentives (STI) must of forfeiture until vesting dates at the end be affordable and funded from of FY17 and FY18. For the first time in five annual earnings; years, a portion of the LTI awards available • STI awards should be based on a mix to our Senior Executives vested as relevant of individual and company performance hurdles were achieved in the three years measures that reflect progress against to 30 June 2016. a Balanced Scorecard (see page 26); In FY16, the Board decided to increase • A portion of performance-based pay the annual base fees for Non-Executive for Executives should be awarded as Directors by $5,000 to $175,000 (an increase Stockland securities with deferred vesting; of 2.9%). This is the first increase in base • Vesting of LTI should be dependent fees since July 2011. Board Committee fees on achievement of long-term goals; remained unchanged in FY16 except for • LTI should not only help motivate a reduction in the fees paid to the independent and retain key Executives but also Director on the Stockland Capital Partners build a sense of ownership of business Limited (SCPL) Board (reduced to $30,000 performance that benefits from $45,000), reflecting the reduced all stakeholders; number of managed funds and workload. In FY17, in line with our prudent approach • Remuneration policies and decisions to remuneration, there will be no changes must reflect prudent risk and capital in the base fees for the Chairman and management considerations; and Non-Executive Directors or for Board • Unvested equity awards should be Committee fees. forfeited if employees resign during the applicable vesting period and should be subject to a broadly framed clawback policy which gives the Board discretion to adjust or forfeit these awards in certain circumstances. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Governance and remuneration | 24 Remuneration OUR REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK The table below provides a summary of Stockland’s framework and how each component is determined. PRINCIPLES REMUNERATION COMPONENT MEASURE AT RISK WEIGHTING Fixed Pay should be fair, Fixed Pay External benchmarking competitive and regularly based on surveys sourced Salary and other benefits benchmarked to relevant from a number of (including statutory market levels organisations including superannuation) EY and AON Hewitt A significant portion of STI Based on company and Target remuneration should be ‘at individual performance 100% of Fixed Pay 50% awarded as cash for risk’ and reward executives reflecting progress against (Managing Director) performance up to Target if pre-set objectives are a Balanced Scorecard of for MD (two-thirds as cash 80-90% of Fixed Pay achieved or exceeded Key Performance Indicators for other Senior Executives) (Other Senior Executives) that measure: and 50% awarded in deferred Maximum • Business/Financial Build a sense of business securities for performance 125% of Target outcomes ownership and alignment up to Target for MD (one-third In FY17 the maximum which benefits all for Senior Executives) and • Customer/Stakeholder will be 150% of Target securityholders interests and Sustainability 100% awarded as with Senior Executives performance deferred securities for any having “skin in the game” performance above target • Leadership and People Management Any deferred securities vest equally after 1 and 2 years • Operational Excellence subject to continued service and Risk Management LTI • Underlying EPS 100% of Fixed Pay Compound average (Managing Director) Delivered as Performance growth rate in Underlying Rights measured against 60% of Fixed Pay Profit (50% weighting) hurdles over a three year (Other Senior Executives) performance period based and In FY17, LTI grants will on a ‘fair value’ methodology • TSR above AREIT 200 be based on face value Applicable rights convert index excluding Stockland methodology to deferred securities if (50% weighting) performance hurdles are In FY17 EPS will be based on exceeded and vest equally Funds From Operations after 3 and 4 years subject (FFO) and TSR will be to continued service measured against a composite index reflecting AREIT 200 competitors Minimum securityholding The Managing Director is required to retain a minimum requirement holding of Stockland securities equivalent to at least two-times Fixed Pay (one times for other Senior Executives) Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Governance and remuneration | 25 Remuneration CORPORATE BALANCED SCORECARD At Stockland, STI awards are dependent on Group, business unit and individual performance measures based on a Balanced Scorecard approach, which the Board uses to set financial and non-financial KPIs that are aligned to overall business strategy and priorities. The Corporate Balanced Scorecard is used by the Board to determine the size of the overall STI pool. The Board’s assessment of performance against the Corporate Balanced Scorecard in FY16 is provided in the following table. Performance Measure Commentary Overall Rating Business and Financial Performance (75%) Underlying Profit Performance • EPS growth target of 5% to 6% (27.4-27.6cps) • Actual underlying EPS growth was 7.3% to 27.8 cps Above Target • ROE of 9.5%-9.8% • ROE was 11.0% 1 Above Target Business Performance • Operating business performance in line with plan Profitability of all business units was at or above plan: Above Target • Commercial Property profit of $524m was up on FY15 and in line with plan • Residential profit of $230m was well up on FY15 and significantly above plan • Retirement Living profit of $57m was up on FY15 and above plan • Maintain conservative debt profile and remain within policy • Average Debt Maturity was over 5 years and ACredit Rating On or Above limits for gearing, interest cover, asset mix, credit rating and was maintained, liquidity buffer increased, and gearing and Target debt profile: interest cover were all within guidelines • Credit Rating Maintain Arating • Debt Maturity profile >5 Years • Liquidity Buffer 10% above committed and undrawn facilities • Gearing within range 20-30% • Deliver against Key Business Priorities • Good progress On or Above Target Customer, Stakeholder and Sustainability Performance • Achieve independent customer satisfaction goals for each • The customer satisfaction scores were above or at target for On Target business unit Commercial and Retirement Living but below target for Residential • Embed sustainable business practices across Stockland and • The Leading Global Real Estate firm in DJSI Sustainability On or Above make good progress towards environment improvement Survey. Continued progress across our GHG measures and Target goals other sustainability targets Organisational Performance (25%) People Management • Maintain employee-initiated turnover • Turnover was 11.8% On Target (employees rated good and above) to 12.0% or less • Achieve Employee Engagement target of 80% • Employee engagement score was 83% Above Target • Maintain women as percentage of total management • Women in management was 45% On Target at 45% or better • Women in senior management was 35% • Increase women as percentage of total senior management to 34.5% or better • Progress longer term diversity and inclusiveness objectives • Good progress made including again being recognised as a On Target WGEA Employer of Choice for Gender Equality Operational Excellence & Risk Management • Continued process improvement and enhanced innovation • Good progress with introduction of Stockland Support Centre On Target and commencement of Core Systems upgrade program • Embed strong risk compliance and safety • Excellent safety record with no major preventable injuries, On Target management practices and with continued embedding of the risk and compliance framework 1 Excluding Residential workout projects. ROE was 9.8% including these projects. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Governance and remuneration | 26 Remuneration GENDER PAY EQUITY RATIO The limitation of measuring pay equity based solely on average Fixed Pay by job band is that it ignores different market values placed on different jobs. Stockland aims to achieve gender pay equity within roles by considering an individual’s positioning against the relevant market benchmark and comparing gender outcomes. This analysis is shown in the gender pay equity ratio table below. Our target is for a gender pay equity ratio of 100% plus or minus 3.0% across the company. This means that males and females would be paid the same for performing similar roles, with a small variance to allow for different levels of experience and other factors. FY16 FY15 FY14 Stockland 1 97.4% 97.2% 96.9% 1 A gender pay equity ratio that is less than 100% suggests that males are better positioned against market in comparison to females, whereas a gender pay equity ratio that is 100% or higher suggests that females are equally or better positioned against market in comparison to males. AVERAGE FIXED REMUNERATION RATIO BY JOB BAND The average fixed remuneration ratio looks at the ratio of the average female fixed pay to the average male fixed pay by job band. This does not necessarily measure whether Stockland pays males and females similar rates for the same role, as job bands cover a broad range of diverse roles. The ratios below in part reflect the under participation rates for females in management and certain job families where market benchmarks are higher. Job Band FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 FY10 Executive 0.59 0.60 N/A N/A 0.51 0.51 0.43 Senior Management 1 0.85 0.93 0.89 0.88 0.85 0.83 0.78 Management 0.83 0.85 0.83 0.84 0.84 0.86 0.81 Employee / 0.86 0.86 0.86 0.86 0.83 0.84 0.77 Professional Technical Stockland2 0.64 0.66 0.65 0.64 0.64 0.63 0.57 1 Senior Management includes Senior Manager and General Manager job bands. 2 The ratio is a function of total pay and employee number by gender. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Governance and remuneration | 27 Remuneration EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION The table below outlines the cash remuneration that was received in relation to FY16 which includes Fixed Pay and the non-deferred portion of any FY16 short term incentives (STI). The table also includes the value of Deferred STI awards from FY14 and FY15, which vested during FY16 and long term incentives (LTI) awards from FY14 which vested during FY16. Executive remuneration (non-statutory presentation) Total cash Previous years’ STI awarded payments in Deferred STI Previous years’ Awards which and received relation to which were LTI which were lapsed or were Fixed Pay 1 as cash financial year realised2 realised forfeited3 $1 $ $ $3 $ $4 Executive Director Mark Steinert 2016 1,500,000 750,0004 2,250,000 1,177,557 1,077,413 2,154,825 Managing Director and CEO 2015 1,500,000 750,000 4 2,250,000 590,486 – 2,164,800 Senior Executives Stephen Bull 2016 700,000 420,000 1,020,000 273,481 280,245 560,490 Group Executive and CEO, Retirement Living 2015 650,000 390,000 1,040,000 132,267 – 358,570 Katherine Grace 5 2016 500,000 266,667 766,667 93,743 – – General Counsel and Company Secretary 2015 430,138 229,407 659,545 – – – Tiernan O’Rourke 2016 850,000 453,333 1,303,333 295,845 367,380 734,760 Chief Financial Officer 2015 850,000 453,333 1,303,333 96,552 – – Darren Rehn 6 2016 750,000 450,000 1,200,000 560,777 268,470 536,940 Group Executive and Chief Investment Officer 2015 700, 000 420,000 1,120,000 306,802 – – Michael Rosmarin 2016 600,000 320,000 920,000 226,673 259,050 518,100 Chief Operating Officer 2015 600,000 320,000 920,000 139,913 – 953,250 John Schroder 2016 1,050,000 630,000 1,680,000 440,988 453,338 906,675 Group Executive and CEO, Commercial Property 2015 1,050,000 630,000 1,680,000 278,574 – 1,783,500 Simon Shakesheff 2016 600,000 320,000 920,000 303,795 237,855 475,710 Group Executive, Strategy and Stakeholder Relations 2015 600,000 300,000 920,000 301,294 – – Andrew Whitson 2016 750,000 450,000 1,200,000 400,571 302,618 605,235 Group Executive and CEO, Residential 2015 700,000 420,000 1,120,000 190,446 – 351,329 1 Fixed Pay includes salary, superannuation and salary sacrificed items. 2 This represents the value of all prior years’ deferred STI which vested during FY16 using the 30 June 2016 closing security price of $4.71. No LTI vested during FY15 or in FY14. 3 The value shown represents the value of any previous years’ equity awards which lapsed or were forfeited during the financial year. The FY15 values are based on the closing 30 June 2016 security price of $4.71 (FY15: $4.10). 4 For Mark Steinert this is 50% (two-thirds for Senior Executives) of his STI awards. The remaining 50% of his STI (one-third for Senior Executives) was deferred in Stockland securities which vest over two years following the performance year, 50% after year 1 and 50% after year 2 subject to continued employment. 5 Katherine Grace commenced employment on 21 August 2014. 6 Darren Rehn was appointed to the Executive Committee on 13 August 2014 with his remuneration arrangements effective from 1 July 2014. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Governance and remuneration | 28 Grow asset returns and our customer base Driving returns in our core businesses. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Grow asset returns and our customer base | 29 Our business unit results FY16 PROGRESS COMMERCIAL PROPERTY PERFORMANCE Commercial Property Funds from operations Underlying profit Commercial Property 4.5% growth in comparable FFO in ($m, unless Comparable Comparable our Commercial Property portfolio otherwise stated) FY16 FY15 Change growth FY16 FY15 Change growth $681 million Retail development Net operating income under construction and a pipeline • Retail 402 379 ↑ 6.1% ↑ 3.7% 371 351 ↑ 5.8% ↑ 3.2% of $1.0 billion • Logistics and 132 131 ↑ 0.5% ↑ 3.7% 119 120 ↓ 1.3% ↑ 1.0% $400 million Logistics and Business Business Parks Parks future development pipeline • Office 68 78 ↓ 13.0% ↑ 9.9% 53 64 ↓17.0% ↑ 5.9% Residential Net overheads (18) (18) (18) (18) Total Commercial Property 584 570 ↑ 2.4% ↑ 4.5% 525 517 ↑ 1.4% ↑ 3.0% A record 6,135 settlements and 4,567 contracts on hand in our Return on assets (ROA) 8.3% 8.4% Residential business Improvement in return on assets RESIDENTIAL PERFORMANCE on our core Residential portfolio to Residential Communities 19.6%, excluding impaired projects ($m, unless otherwise stated) FY16 FY15 Change Over 90% of Residential capital Lots settled (no. of lots) 6,135 5,876 ↑ 4.4% employed in projects actively selling Revenue – Retail 1,373 1,194 ↑ 15.0% Broadening our customer reach – Superlots1 109 51 ↑ 111.1% in Residential, with seven medium EBIT (before interest in COGS) 354 290 ↑ 21.9% density projects launched across four states EBIT margin 23.9% 23.3% ↑ Operating profit 230 166 ↑ 38.8% Retirement Living Operating profit margin 15.5% 13.3% ↑ A record 1,013 Retirement ROA – core projects 2 19.6% 17.0% ↑ Living settlements ROA – total portfolio 13.8% 12.7% ↑ 19.7% increase in Retirement Living operating profit 1 33 superlot settlements in FY16; 30 superlot settlements in FY15. FY16 includes the part disposal of impaired projects Bahrs Scrub (Queensland) and the disposal of The Islands Apartments at Southbeach (Western Australia). Launched our unique selling 2 Core excludes impaired projects. proposition, Retire Your Way RETIREMENT LIVING PERFORMANCE Retirement Living ($m, unless otherwise stated) FY16 FY15 Change EBIT 64 54 ↑ 20.5% Operating profit (funds from operations) 57 48 ↑ 19.7% Transaction value3 393 333 ↑ 18.0% Occupancy 94.9% 94.4% ↑ ROA 5.8% 5.3% ↑ Established Established settlements (units) 716 663 ↑ 8.0% Average re-sale price $329k $329k – Turnover cash per unit $81k $84k ↓ 3.1% Turnover cash margin 24.7% 25.4% ↓ Reservations on hand (units) 155 132 ↑ 17.4% Development Average price per unit $509k $413k ↑ 23.3% Average margin – excludes DMF 16.8% 15.9% ↑ Development settlements (units) 297 282 ↑ 5.3% Reservations on hand (units) 67 119 ↓ 43.7% 3 Reflects gross sales value of established villages and new developments settlements. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Grow asset returns and our customer base | 30 Retail While the number of retailer closures in the last six months has been slightly RETAIL STRATEGIC PRIORITIES elevated and retail trade at some centres The Retail business maintains its focus has moderated, we have continued to on creating market leading centres, produce sales growth and our centres are redeveloping its most productive highly productive. Comparable specialty assets to create community and sales per square metre is 9.8% above the entertainment hubs and maximise Urbis average. trade area share. We have $681 million We have made good progress on major of retail development under construction redevelopment projects. We opened and a future pipeline of $1.0 billion, Stage 3 of the $228 million Wetherill Park targeting incremental internal rates redevelopment in Sydney, which is trading of return (IRR) of 11–14%1 and stabilised Stockland’s Retail portfolio performed well. We completed construction of the FFO yields of 7–8% from this activity. well in FY16, with high occupancy and $51 million Harrisdale neighbourhood positive leasing spreads. Stockland’s retail mix continues to centre, which is a key part of our Newhaven evolve, underpinned by supermarkets, The Retail portfolio recorded 3.7% growth community development in Perth, and mini majors, food catering and fast in comparable FFO and continued sales opened the remodelled Pitt Street Mall casual dining and speciality food and growth, with total Moving Annual Turnover asset in the Sydney CBD, incorporating retail services. The business will up 4.6%, driven by 6.0% growth in specialty flagship H&M and Zara Home stores. continue to focus on tailoring its retail. The best performing categories We also commenced the $372 million offering to each specific trade area, continued to be communication and redevelopment of Green Hills in New cultivating retailer relationships and technology, retail services, food catering South Wales, which will be anchored by long-term sustainable rent, and and fast casual dining. David Jones, JB Hi-Fi Home and a new investing in industry research and Some areas of specialty retail, such as Harris Scarfe department store, and technology to adapt to an evolving apparel, slowed in the June quarter due to is targeting an accretive FFO yield retail landscape. unseasonably warm weather. Comparable of 7.0% and IRR of 12.6%. growth in supermarket sales has been During FY16, we also commenced and impacted by strong competition in pricing. completed a number of relatively small but important projects, creating new casual dining precincts at Rockhampton in Queensland and Shellharbour in New South Wales, and undertaking anchor retailer redevelopment and remixing activities at Point Cook in Melbourne and Cairns in Queensland. $681m RETAIL DEVELOPMENT UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND $1.0 BILLION PIPELINE Total spend Stabilised yield1 Incremental IRR2 Under construction ($m) (%)2 (%)1 Wetherill Park 228 7.3 15.0 Harrisdale 51 7.8 11.2 Green Hills 372 7.0 12.6 Kensington 30 7.0 7.8 Total 681 1 Forecast unlevered 10 year IRR on incremental development from completion. 2 FFO incremental yield. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Grow asset returns and our customer base | 31 Logistics and Business Parks Our Logistics and Business Parks portfolio delivered good profit growth, with LOGISTICS AND BUSINESS PARKS comparable FFO up 3.7%, reflecting STRATEGIC PRIORITIES positive leasing momentum. Our focus is on growing a quality We have been very active in our asset portfolio of logistics centres and management, executing leases on more business parks. We will leverage than 300,000 square metres in FY16, our existing assets and land, representing more than 25% of our strong tenant relationships and Logistics and Business Parks portfolio. asset management skills to become a scale player in this market. We have been disciplined in our acquisition strategy, buying three new assets including Wonderland Drive in Sydney on an 8.0% of accretive projects underway and a further initial FFO yield, Mulgrave in Melbourne on a development pipeline of $400 million, also 7.1% initial FFO yield and a development site targeting IRRs of 11–14%1 and stabilised FFO at Erskine Park in Sydney. We are also yields of 7–8%. Our Logistics and Business making good progress on our development Parks business is well positioned to achieve pipeline, with more than $67 million worth solid growth and deliver consistent returns. LOGISTICS AND BUSINESS PARKS $67M UNDERWAY AND $400M DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE Completed Active development Planning underway Future wave NSW Erskine Park Ingleburn (Stage 1) Ingleburn (Stage 2) Ingleburn (Stage 3) Waterside Yennora Yennora (Land subdivision) (Build 3 and 8A) (Build 1 and 2) Warwick Farm VIC Oakleigh (Stage 1) Oakleigh (Stage 2) Brooklyn (A and C) Altona DC QLD Yatala Willawong (previously Pallara)2 SA Port Adelaide DC WA Balcatta (Land subdivision) Development type: 1 Unlevered 10 year IRR on incremental development from completion. Greenfield Brownfield 2 Asset developed on acquired land as part of Residential Community activity. Office Comparable Office FFO increased 9.9%, reflecting the strength of the Sydney OFFICE STRATEGIC PRIORITIES market where the bulk of our assets are In Office we continue to focus on located. We also completed the sale of optimising returns from the portfolio Waterfront Place and Eagle Street Pier while managing our exposure in Brisbane in October 2015, reducing net tactically. We intend to retain the income from our Office portfolio. majority of our residual Office portfolio Our exposure to the office sector remains whilst we maximise returns and tactical, reflecting our view on the state of highest and best use over time. the market. The majority of our portfolio is Joint-ventures (or part sales) will located in the improving Sydney market, also be considered as appropriate. with our assets in this market currently fully occupied. The Perth and Australian Capital Territory markets remain very challenging. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Grow asset returns and our customer base | 32 Residential This strong performance is a direct result of our strategy to activate the highest RESIDENTIAL STRATEGIC PRIORITIES possible proportion of our Residential Our Residential business is making portfolio. More than 90% of our net funds good progress on its plans to make the employed are in projects that are actively portfolio more resilient and profitable selling, up from 60% in FY13. in the future by continuing to focus on: The results also reflect our repositioning 1 Reshaping the portfolio – actively of the business over the last three years manage the portfolio to improve to enhance our community creation returns and achieve and maintain an capabilities and capitalise on supportive optimal pipeline with a preference Our Residential business settled a record market conditions in key growth corridors to acquire land on capital efficient 6,135 lots in FY16, achieved significant as well as the positive impact of new terms. We continue to make good operating profit growth of 38.8% and projects, efficiency improvements and progress in activating our land lifted return on assets (ROA) to 19.6% our broader product range. through the launch of new projects on the core portfolio. and working through low margin We launched five major projects in FY16 including Aura, Pallara and Newport in and impaired stock. Queensland, Altrove in Sydney, and 2 Improving efficiency – continue to Cloverton in Melbourne. manage costs. Project management We have also broadened our market reach has been embedded into the with the introduction of medium density business and is driving significant homes and completed homes within a cost savings. number of our communities. We settled 110 3 Delivering revenue growth – completed homes and 74 medium density increase revenue by creating a homes in FY16. We are now exploring mixed better community value proposition use apartment opportunities within our that drives high customer referrals, portfolio, including at our Sydney asset and broaden market reach through at Merrylands, adjacent to our regional a medium density/built form offering. shopping centre. We continue to focus on affordability and community creation within our Residential business; over 75% of our buyers were owner occupiers in FY16. We commenced FY17 with 4,567 residential contracts on hand, a record for the Group. STRONG RESIDENTIAL NET DEPOSITS Owner occupiers 100% make up 75% of our customer base 75% 50% 25% 0 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 Investors Upgraders First Home Buyers Total Owner Occupiers Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Grow asset returns and our customer base | 33 Retirement Living and growing our development pipeline. Our development margin was 16.8% in FY16, RETIREMENT LIVING which is at the top end of our target range. STRATEGIC PRIORITIES We completed and sold the first 57 apartments The business remains focused on being in two buildings at Cardinal Freeman The a preferred operator and developer of Residences in Sydney, with the next building retirement living villages. The business of 40 apartments due for completion in the has a clear strategy to continue to second half of FY17. We also launched a new improve its return on assets by: village within our Willowdale community 1 Actively managing the portfolio; in Sydney in the second half of FY16. Operating profit in the Retirement Living 2 Growing development volumes; and business was up 19.7% on FY15, reflecting We have continued to reshape our business, embedding the eight new South Australian 3 Differentiating the customer strong sales, active management and experience through access to improved efficiency. villages acquired in FY15 into our portfolio, and selling five relatively small, low ROA a range of resident care and Retirement Living sold more than 1,000 villages in Western Australia in July 2016. other services. homes and apartments in FY16, which is We will continue to recycle capital, drive a record number of settlements. We also our development pipeline, which currently lifted our cash ROA by 50 basis points comprises 400 homes under development, in the last 12 months to 5.8%, reflecting our and grow profits and returns. continued focus on operational efficiencies STRONG RETIREMENT LIVING DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE Construction Future timeframe settlements FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21+ Completed (FY16) Arilla, Vic ● Somerton Park, SA ● Golden Ponds, NSW ● Sub-total 10 Current development projects Selandra Rise, Vic ● Highlands, Vic ● ● Lightsview, SA ● ● ● ● Mernda, Vic ● ● ● ● Cardinal Freeman The Residences, NSW ● ● ● Affinity, WA ● ● ● ● ● Willowdale, NSW ● ● ● ● ● Sub-total 910 To start within 18 months Elara, NSW ● ● Somerton Park, SA ● ● Oceanside, Qld ● ● ● Calleya, WA ● ● ● ● Altrove, NSW ● ● ● Newport, Qld ● ● ● Sub-total 715 Masterplanning/future projects The Grove, Vic ● ● Aura, Qld ● Cloverton, Vic ● Sub-total 750 Redevelopments Proposed brownfield redevelopments ● ● ● ● ● Sub-total 780 Total units yet to be released Total 3,165 Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Grow asset returns and our customer base | 34 A better way to shape thriving communities As part of our sustainability strategy our goal is to create and shape communities that thrive now and into the future. Our research indicates that health and wellbeing, community connection and education contribute most to liveable communities. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to shape thriving communities | 35 Our progress STRATEGIC PRIORITIES By using our skills and experience to facilitate In FY16 we invested over $5.7 million in our Our three community focus areas are: healthier living, promote community local communities and selected charities connection and provide lifelong learning through our community investment giving Health and wellbeing opportunities, we believe we will help shape and volunteering programs. We also achieved places where our customers want to live, a key target in this area, substantially • Activities and places that encourage shop and work. increasing our employee volunteering to 48% positive physical and mental health of all employees. Our success followed and wellbeing We coordinate our efforts in the community a review of our volunteering strategy, through a combination of mechanisms which led to a range of initiatives including • Smart design that optimises including: the addition of two new volunteering accessibility, safety and mobility • Community development – projects and organisations to our suite of volunteering Community connection initiatives that enhance the communities options, a new toolkit for employees • Activities that foster engagement, at Stockland’s assets; looking to volunteer, introduction of skilled pride and a sense of belonging • Community investment – our employee volunteering activities with our CARE volunteering and giving programs; and Foundation partner, Touched by Olivia • Design that encourages sense Foundation (TBO), and alignment of our of place and supports recreation • Stockland CARE Foundation – our charitable trust, which delivers state team-building initiatives with our and participation CARE Foundation partners in Queensland. infrastructure, programs and initiatives Education to Australian communities. STOCKLAND CARE FOUNDATION • Design that facilitates learning and During the year our focus on community The Stockland CARE Foundation also education opportunities for all ages development increased considerably, completed its first full year of operation as our national partnerships and in FY16, contributing much needed funds • Programs that support economic community grants investments continued employment within our communities in the areas of health, wellbeing and to build consistent and replicable education and also boosting volunteering activities and programs across our assets, and giving among our employees, business complementing our asset based programs partners and the broader community. and initiatives which are tailored to meet FY16 PROGRESS local needs and preferences. In addition to the $200,000 donated by the CARE Foundation Trust, Stockland Residential Communities National We expanded our suite of community and its employees, customers and residents Liveability Score of 84%, consistent partners and now have 15 community donated over $100,000 and more than with FY15 result organisations that we regularly work 2,200 hours of support to chosen charity with across Australia. We also increased partners, Redkite and TBO. New CARE 90% of Retirement Living residents our community development activities, Foundation employee committees in each are happy with their village implementing a total of 561 initiatives state have been critical in this success, across our business units and investing helping to raise awareness about the 4 new inclusive playspaces and more than $4.05 million in financial support. 4 social enterprise cafés developed Foundation and mobilise activities in our The total value of Stockland’s community offices, communities and shopping centres. with Touched by Olivia investment was more than $10.42 million, Through these efforts 72 families who have 300+ local community organisations, including the $4.0 million transfer by children or young people with cancer gained awarded $325,000 in total Stockland to the Stockland CARE access to Redkite’s suite of programs in through the Stockland Community Foundation, as shown on page 40. FY16, and four inclusive playspaces and Grants program We also launched our national community four social enterprise cafés based in our $4.05m invested in community grants program across our shopping communities were added to TBO’s development initiatives centres, residential communities and expanding national network. retirement living villages to streamline the financial contribution we make to local communities, based on merit and need, in accordance with Stockland’s community Our community metrics are provided on page 40. focus areas. More than $325,000 in total was granted to over 300 local community organisations in FY16 including community preschools, Men’s Sheds, sporting clubs, respite for carers, youth wellbeing programs, suicide prevention groups, toy libraries, choirs, over 55s recreation and computing clubs, disability groups and children’s reading groups. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to shape thriving communities | 36 Our progress GREATER IMPACT THROUGH At Stockland, we encourage our retirement 561 COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS living residents to get involved, keep We have close working relationships fit, stay connected and be a part with a variety of community organisations of something they can enjoy in a group. that help deliver social infrastructure and Regular social and competitive lawn programs in and around our properties bowls, coaching clinics, and free health Community development initiatives and wellbeing seminars are just some implemented in FY16 with our and communities. Our project and asset of the ways that the Bowls Australia 15 community partners nationally teams and state office employees can 11,000 draw on a suite of partnerships for partnership will continue to support our advice, resourcing and implementation residents. A framework to benchmark support. These partners all align to resident participation has also been Stockland’s community focus areas of established with Bowls Australia and health and wellbeing, education and this will be used to create a meaningful Retirement Living residents with community connection. participation and engagement target access to Bowls Australia activities in FY17. through our three year partnership Amongst these, we announced our $4.05m new three year partnership with Bowls Our new partnership with The National Australia in March 2016, designed Theatre for Children, launched in FY16, to boost the health, wellbeing and is also expanding education opportunities connectedness of more than 11,000 within our residential communities. residents living in our retirement As part of our strategy to provide access Value of Stockland’s investment in FY16 living villages across the country. to educational resources of excellence in community development initiatives within our residential communities, the to boost health and wellbeing, Regular physical activity for retirees has program is open to all schools located education and connectedness been shown to be the key to maintaining in and around our existing communities. good health and vitality, and one of the Some 29 schools are already participating most effective ways to improve emotional in the program, which focuses on wellbeing. Recent research from the educating children and young people Australian Bureau of Statistics, however, about preserving and protecting the shows people aged 65 and over have the environment within our communities. lowest participation rate in physical activity nationally, at 47%, as well as the lowest rate of involvement in organised sport, at 17%. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to shape thriving communities | 37 Our progress LIVVI’S PLACE AT WHITEMAN EDGE Located in the fast growing City of Swan in The Whiteman Edge playground Through our partnership with the Western Australia, where around 3,800 aims to include children with physical Touched by Olivia Foundation (TBO), children and adults require daily disabilities, vision, hearing and mobility we are expanding the opportunities assistance as a result of disability, the impairments, and autism spectrum for community connection within our Whiteman Edge playspace opened in disorders in playtime. It includes residential communities and retail November 2015. a tree-top climbing structure, a 3m centres across Australia. high slide, a double flying-fox with a seat When designing the playground, and harness to cater for people with In FY16, Whiteman Edge became Stockland and TBO worked with the a physical disability, a wheel spin and our first residential community in City of Swan to conduct face to face and a bespoke cubby house with wheelchair Western Australia to include a ‘Livvi’s online community consultation and also access and musical chimes. There are Place’ playspace, which welcomes visited local primary schools to explore also tactile stimulants, water play and people of all ages and abilities with what makes the ‘ultimate playground’ facilities such as a public restroom, accessible structures and sensory and for children, parents and carers. a BBQ and picnic seating. inclusive equipment. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to shape thriving communities | 38 Our progress Our targets HEALTHY EATING WITH JAMIE’S and more connected communities. MINISTRY OF FOOD Stockland expects more than 2000 To ensure we create and shape our In March 2016, Stockland expanded people to directly benefit each year from communities that thrive now and its partnership with Jamie’s Ministry attending the cooking classes, with the into the future, our aim is that: of Food (JMOF) and The Good Foundation, ripple effect of better food choices and entering into a three year local partnership good nutrition felt by families and friends. All of our residential and with the JMOF Mobile Kitchen to create Extensive research by Deakin and retirement living communities healthier Queensland communities. Melbourne universities in 2014 and 2015 score above the Australian The JMOF Mobile Kitchen will travel concluded that the JMOF program not average National Wellbeing Index throughout Queensland, visiting various only increased participants’ cooking by FY17. communities, including a select number confidence, knowledge, attitudes and We achieve consistent Stockland of Stockland shopping centres and beliefs towards cooking and healthy eating, National Liveability Index scores residential communities. In FY16, but also shifted behaviour towards of 80% across our residential cooking courses for local residents healthier cooking and eating in the home. communities. were delivered at Stockland Townsville, In FY17, the JMOF partnership will expand as well as for communities at Logan We make a meaningful into our Retirement Living business, with contribution to community in Brisbane and Mossman Gorge in Far programs being developed to provide North Queensland. health and wellbeing, residents, families and friends with the community connection and Our partnership is intended to give skills and knowledge to make smarter and education in partnership with Queensland participants greater insights healthier food choices, while providing community groups supported into healthier eating habits, with a a fun and engaging environment that directly and by the Stockland particular focus on growing healthier promotes community connection. CARE Foundation. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to shape thriving communities | 39 Our community metrics COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION We coordinate our efforts through a combination of community investment, community development, and Stockland CARE Foundation initiatives. Stockland continues to use the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) to measure and benchmark our community activities. LBG captures all data relating to our community investments and allows us to put a figure on our time, monetary support and in-kind donations to charities and community groups. The table below provides an overview of the substantial contribution we made during FY16. Community Contribution Definition Investment Community Development FY16 FY15 FY14 National Partnerships Financial contributions made to not-for-profit organisations $290,638 $206,750 $297,835 that are national community development partners of Stockland. Stockland Community Financial contributions made to not-for-profit organisations $325,750 $218,500 $95,880 Grants that were successful in receiving a Stockland Community Grant. Asset-based Contributions Financial and in-kind support provided to local community $3,435,802 $2,136,776 $1,317,342 organisations from a Stockland residential, commercial property or retirement living asset or project. Total community development $4,052,189 $2,562,026 $1,711,057 Community Investment Workplace Giving Total matched donations made by Stockland through Stockland’s $87,584 $84,988 $64,378 Workplace Giving Program. In-kind Donations Total donations of non-financial goods to not-for-profit $708,926 $1,043,493 Not reported organisations including land, property and casual mall leasing space. Corporate Donations Ad-hoc community donations made on behalf of Stockland $289,277 $124,762 $82,683 Development and/or Stockland Trust. National Community Financial support given to not-for-profit organisations that $104,500 $71,500 * Reported in National Community Investment Partnerships support the delivery of volunteering opportunities for Stockland Development employees. Partnership for FY14 Volunteering Total number of hours logged from personal volunteering, team $238,284 $122,725 $263,210 volunteering and student mentoring. Stockland CARE The transfer of $4 million by Stockland to the Stockland CARE $4,200,000 $4,000,000 N/A Foundation Foundation Trust made on 1 July 2016 and $200,000 in grants distributed to Stockland CARE Foundation beneficiaries, Redkite and Touched by Olivia (TBO). The total donations made to CARE Foundation partners Redkite $80,095 N/A N/A and TBO as a result of sponsorships, fundraising and additional grants. Total community investment $5,708,666 $5,447,468 $474,649 Management Costs 1 Includes costs associated with the management and delivery $659,973 $421,614 $188,677 of Stockland’s community programs including average salaries, costs associated with the development, design and assistance of the Stockland sustainability report and training for community resources. Total community contribution $10,420,828 $8,009,494 $2,185,706 Total value of community contribution as verified by LBG $10,420,828 $6,300,383 $1,185,144 1 Prior to FY16 we reported community development and community investment contributions separately and did not include management costs. Management costs have therefore not been included in the total community contribution for FY15 and FY14. Management costs are included in the FY16 total community contribution and will be included going forward. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to shape thriving communities | 40 Our community metrics COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT To measure our success, we monitor the perception that we are creating spaces where communities thrive, and how well we create a sense of belonging to the place where our customers and residents live, work and shop. Retirement Living – Residents Voice The Residents Voice survey is a comprehensive survey used to measure resident satisfaction whilst living in a Stockland retirement village. The survey is typically completed annually by over 6,000 residents. Our retirement living satisfaction target of 8.25/10, as measured by asking how happy our residents are with the village where they live, was met in FY16. RETIREMENT LIVING RESIDENTS VOICE SATISFACTION FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 Average overall happiness with their village (out of 10) 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 Proportion of residents rating satisfaction as seven or more 90% 90% 90% 90% Number of residents completing the survey 6,614 5,897 6,668 6,143 Response rate (% of residents responding) 57% 59% 68% 66% Additional metrics that provide insights about the experiences of our retirement living residents include: • 93% of residents are satisfied with their homes; • 89% of residents are extremely happy with their social life at the village; • Home and social life in the village remain the biggest drivers of overall satisfaction amongst residents; and • 81% of residents would recommend their village to friends and family and 41% have done so in the last year. The table below outlines the satisfaction of our retirement living residents with the community elements of the village and their personal well-being for FY16. The FY16 results remained stable compared to FY15, except for key elements that relate to health and the opportunity to learn new things. RETIREMENT LIVING RESIDENTS VOICE COMMUNITY AND WELLBEING Response (% satisfaction score) Focus Area Element FY16 FY15 FY14 Health and Physical health 76% 78% 69% Wellbeing Emotional wellbeing (health) 82% 91% 84% Personal relationships/ social life of the village 92% 92% 85% Feeling safe 92% 93% 93% Number of social activities to participate in 83% 84% 80% Satisfaction with accessibility features 87% 88% 87% Education Satisfaction with the opportunity to try new things and learn 75% 77% 73% Community Satisfied with sense of community 86% 87% 86% Connection Satisfied with opportunity to connect with others 88% 88% 85% Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to shape thriving communities | 41 Our community metrics Residential We continue to conduct our proprietary Liveability Index survey with residents and in FY16 we received over 1,500 survey responses from residents across 29 communities.1 This research tells us how satisfied our residents are once they have moved into our communities, what we are doing well, what we can improve and learnings that we can take forward for future developments. We have set targets for the key drivers of resident satisfaction and we are on track to meet these in FY17. We included additional questions in our FY16 Liveability survey which provide important insights as to how our residents are using the local amenity and how connected they feel with their community, which we use to inform our community strategy. Some key insights at a national level include: • 83% of residents agree that since moving in they have seen a net positive impact; • 74% of residents agree that their standard of living has improved since moving into a Stockland community; • 66% agree that they have made new friends since moving in; • 63% claim they do more physical exercise since moving in; and • 61% feel part of a community more since moving in. RESIDENTIAL LIVEABILITY INDEX PERFORMANCE FY17 TARGET FY16 FY15 FY12/13 Average Liveability Index score 2 80% 84% 84% 75% across our communities Average resident Personal Wellbeing Above national 80% 80% 79% score as measured using Deakin range of 72–76% University’s methodology Resident satisfaction with 80% 82% 88% 81% Community Design elements that influence health and wellbeing Resident satisfaction with 80% 79% 78% 71% Community Perceptions 1 We received sufficient responses from 24 communities to look at these results in depth. 2 Liveability score is a single number which measures resident satisfaction on a range of attributes calculated using regression analysis. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to shape thriving communities | 42 Our community metrics Commercial Property Our FY16 retail tenant satisfaction score was 76%, only one percentage point below our 77% target (as per the weighted customer satisfaction score in the table below). The weighted customer satisfaction score, developed by Stockland with data sourced from two different surveys conducted by Monash University, measures performance against four key metrics: • Proportion of highly satisfied customers; • Proportion of dissatisfied customers; • Satisfaction ranking relative to competitors; and • Proportion of retailers likely to renew with us (included for the first time). As outlined above, a key metric in the Monash University surveys is ‘satisfaction ranking relative to competitors’. This is asked only of retailers that are responsible for leasing and work with more than one landlord. It includes ten key landlords across Australia. RETAIL TENANT CUSTOMER SATISFACTION FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 Weighted customer satisfaction score 1 76% 79% 80% 71% 69% Relative customer position amongst Head Office based retailers (Monash University’s TenSAT survey) 1st 1st 1st 1st N/A Relative customer position amongst all retailers Joint Joint Joint responsible for leasing 2nd 1st 1st 2nd 3rd 1 Weighted based on performance against four key metrics: the proportion of highly satisfied customers, the proportion of dissatisfied customers, satisfaction ranking relative to competitors, and incidence of intending to renew. Sample is all those retailers responsible for leasing. We continued Mystery Shopping research across 33 of our retail centres in FY16. The program rates the customer experience including customer service and satisfaction with amenities compared to other shopping centres. Stockland scored 90% this year compared to our target of 80%. In FY16 we also undertook customer satisfaction research with our logistics and business park tenants. Some 87% of our tenants rated their satisfaction with Stockland as high. The research also showed that satisfaction is higher amongst tenants that are located in assets that Stockland manages directly (as opposed to those assets where property management is outsourced), providing further support for Stockland’s decision to continue in-sourcing across the portfolio. RETAIL CENTRE MYSTERY SHOPPING FY16 FY15 Mystery Shopping score 90% 88% Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to shape thriving communities | 43 Capital strength Actively managing our balance sheet. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Capital strength | 44 Our progress STRATEGIC PRIORITIES BALANCE SHEET • Maintain a strong balance sheet $ million June 2016 June 2015 Change to support future growth Cash 208 170 ↑ 22.4% • Maintain diverse funding sources Real estate assets 1 • Maintain disciplined capital allocation • Commercial Property 9,706 8,942 ↑ 8.5% • Residential 2,517 2,552 ↓ 1.4% FY16 PROGRESS • Retirement Living 3,589 3,335 ↑ 7.6% • Other – 7 Maintained A-/stable credit rating for over ten years and gearing Other assets 922 723 ↑ 26.6% remains within our target range Total assets 16,942 15,729 Extended pro forma weighted average debt maturity from Interest bearing loans and borrowings 3,800 3,283 ↑ 15.7% 5.3 to 5.9 years Resident loan obligations 2,427 2,211 ↑ 9.8% Reduced average FY16 cost of debt Other liabilities 1,461 1,448 ↑ 0.9% by 40bp to 5.8% Total liabilities 7,688 6,942 Significant improvement in operating cash flows, from $401 million to Net assets/total equity 9,254 8,787 $787 million 1 Includes non-current assets held for sale, inventory, investment properties, equity-accounted investments and certain other assets. Stockland maintained a strong balance sheet and A-/stable credit rating, supporting investment in the future growth of the business. Gearing at the end of FY16 was 23.8%, at the lower end of our 20–30% target range, due to disciplined capital management, strong operating cash flows and growth in the value of our investment portfolio. Our active debt management program has seen us improve our weighted average cost of debt and, partly as a result of our post year-end US Private Placement, increase our average weighted debt maturity to 5.9 years on a pro forma basis. Our fixed/hedged ratio has increased to 96% at 30 June 2016 (2015: 72%) as we continue to take advantage of low fixed interest rates. The weighted average cost of debt for the year ended 30 June 2016 has decreased to 5.8% (2015: 6.2%) following the termination of three swaps during the first half, funded from gains on asset sales. Interest cover has increased to 4.5:1 (2015: 4.0:1) due to stronger earnings across the business. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Capital strength | 45 Our progress The Commercial Property investment CASH FLOWS EQUITY portfolio has increased by $764 million Operating cash flows are up significantly on Dividend/Distribution Reinvestment Plan to $9,706 million primarily due to valuation the prior year, primarily as a result of uplift across all three asset classes (up $432 On 20 June 2016, Stockland announced improved trading revenues across the that the DRP would operate for the final million including equity accounted joint business combined with a disciplined venture investments). The overall increase distribution to 30 June 2016 and that approach to residential development spend investors participating in the DRP will also reflects continued capital and and lower land acquisitions in Residential development expenditure predominantly be entitled to receive a full distribution. during the year. on the Retail development pipeline, The DRP security price was determined and acquisitions across Retail, and Logistics Net cash outflows from investing activities to be $4.85, being the average for 15 daily and Business Parks. The valuation gains were reflect lower proceeds from the sale of volume weighted average prices of largely in Retail assets in New South Wales, investment properties and investments in Stockland securities for the 15 trading days namely Green Hills ($35 million), Merrylands the current year. FY16 includes investment from 5 July 2016 to 25 July 2016 inclusive, ($32 million), Balgowlah ($21 million), proceeds from the disposal of Waterfront with a discount of 1.0% on the securities Glendale ($21 million) and Wetherill Park Place while the prior year includes disposal acquired under the DRP. ($87 million), all benefitting from income proceeds from the 50% disposal of growth and capitalisation rate compression. Townsville ($223 million), the remaining DISTRIBUTIONS The Group’s Office portfolio recorded a net assets in the UK ($44 million), aged care valuation gain of $21 million, while Logistics ($20 million) and our investment in The dividend and distribution payable for and Business Parks similarly delivered strong Australand ($506 million). Overall net cash the full year ended 30 June 2016 is 24.5 valuation gains of $77 million during the payments in relation to Commercial cents per security. Our distribution policy period. Valuation gains across the portfolio Property and Retirement Living capital in FY16 is to pay the higher of 100% of Trust saw the Group’s weighted average expenditure are in line with the prior year. taxable income or 80–90% of underlying capitalisation rate reduce from 6.9% to 6.4%. profit. For FY17, we are targeting distribution Net financing cash outflows reflect the net per security of 25.5 cents, which reflects the Residential assets (mainly land under proceeds from borrowings to fund higher of 100% of Trust taxable income or development) decreased slightly to $2,517 acquisitions and development expenditure, 75-85% of FFO, within our distribution policy. million at 30 June 2016. Strong settlement as well as payments for the termination of volumes in FY16 led to a reduction in inventory, derivatives. The prior year included the net The distribution for the full year comprises: while a disciplined approach to development repayment of borrowings from the proceeds expenditure throughout the year ensured on the sale of our investment in Australand. Stockland FY16 FY15 that production did not exceed sales. Consolidated Group Cents Cents Land acquisitions reflect our focus $ million FY16 FY15 Change Trust distribution 24.5 24.0 on acquiring land on capital efficient terms. Finished goods' levels remain appropriate. Operating 787 401 ↑ 96.3% Corporation dividend, – – cash flows fully franked The value of the Retirement Living assets, net of resident loan obligations, was $1,162 Investing (508) 184 nm Total dividend 24.5 24.0 cash flows and distribution million, an increase of $38 million from June 2015. This primarily reflects capital Financing (241) (646) ↓ 62.7% expenditure on the development pipeline, cash flows partly offset by an increase in resident Net change in loan obligations created on first sales cash and cash 38 (61) ↑ 37.7% of development units. equivalents Total debt increased by $517 million Cash at the end 208 170 ↑ 22.4% to $3,800 million at 30 June 2016 as a result of the period of increased operating activity satisfied by the issuance of Domestic Medium term notes and US Private Placement notes, partly offset by the repayment of bank facilities and Asian Private Placement notes. Unfavourable foreign exchange and fair value movements on debt were largely offset by net favourable movements in derivative financial instruments. Movements in other assets and liabilities mainly reflect the changes in value of the Group’s financial instruments and intangibles. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Capital strength | 46 A better way to enrich our value chain We aim to enhance the value we create by collaboration and forming positive relationships. Enriching our value chain is about how we manage our risks while working with our employees, our suppliers and other key partners. When we create value through collaboration, our outcomes are strong and relationships prosperous. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to enrich our value chain | 47 Our progress STRATEGIC PRIORITIES SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Our initial priorities for the supply chain Effective management of our supply framework are: Our four value chain focus areas are: chain enhances our long-term business • Materials – we are seeking greater performance as it enables us to identify understanding of the source of goods Supply chain management and address key environmental, social and services utilised in our developments • Identify and address key environmental, and governance risks and opportunities to enable us to source and specify more social and governance risks which fall associated with our developments that sustainable products. During the year beyond our direct control are beyond our operational control. we developed minimum requirements for • Develop and encourage sustainable Stockland continues to develop and the quality and sustainability of materials procurement practices with encourage sustainable procurement to be used in our developments. our partners practices across our supply chain. • Earthworks and spoil management – We expect all of our key supply chain reducing our reliance on virgin materials Employee engagement partners (contractors on our development and reducing spoil to landfill and carbon • Attract and retain high performing sites, suppliers of corporate goods dioxide emissions in the development employees and services, and service providers of our projects. at our operating assets) to demonstrate • Develop leaders who are authentic, their commitment to environmental • Local employment and procurement – accessible and performance focused and social responsibility. working with our strategic suppliers to identify opportunities for local Stakeholder engagement Among our key initiatives, this year employment and encourage local (see pages 15–16) we developed our supply chain framework procurement opportunities in the delivery • Develop and maintain strong to provide clear guidance on what of our assets, particularly in regional relationships through regular and we expect from our suppliers and their communities. By committing to source genuine stakeholder engagement supply chain in meeting commitments labour and goods and services from the in regards to governance and management, local communities in which we operate, Governance and risk management environmental impact, health and safety, Stockland seeks to provide a positive and (see pages 44–46, 54–56) social value, human rights and capability lasting impact on these communities. and capacity. This is supported by our • Integrate sustainability management • Capability and capacity – partnering guideline What Stockland Expects and performance into our culture, with industry to help the development of our Suppliers, which is provided processes and business relationships and construction sector to improve as part of our annual supplier update. • Maintain a prudent risk profile to its knowledge of sustainability practices ensure we remain a sustainable and provide training and skills development business and attractive proposition opportunities that increase sustainability for our investors in both the short and awareness, education and industry skills longer term and capability. In recognition of efforts to implement leading procurement and supply chain FY16 PROGRESS processes in asset delivery, in 2016 Stockland was awarded Best Process Strong employee engagement Improvement at the coveted Chartered of 83%, equal to Global High Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS) Performing Norm and eight points Australasian awards. above Australian National Norm 61% of employees now have flexible work arrangements through Flexibility@Stockland Launch of Stockland Connectivity Centre at Stockland Green Hills redevelopment, enabling enduring local employment and economic development Best Process Improvement winner at 2015 CIPS Australasian awards for procurement and supply chain excellence Our people metrics are provided on page 52. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to enrich our value chain | 48 Our progress SUPPORTING ENDURING EMPLOYMENT The resulting Stockland Green Hills 200 AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Connectivity Centre is a whole-ofAs one of Australia’s leading sustainable community response. For the first time property companies, we aim to enhance in the Hunter region, jobactive providers, the value we create through positive led by youth not-for-profit yourtown, relationships with our employees, along with Maitland City Council, local Expressions of interest from people employers and community groups, seeking jobs in the Connectivity suppliers and other key partners have come together to support and Centre’s first month of operation in the community. By working together, 1,350+ we are able to address key environmental, assist those most disadvantaged social and governance risks and by unemployment, linking them to job opportunities and achieve more opportunities generated by the Green sustainable outcomes for all. Hills redevelopment. Importantly, the Connectivity Centre Jobs during construction The Stockland Green Hills Connectivity is focused on finding jobs today as well at Stockland Green Hills Centre, launched in June 2016, is one 1,250+ example of how we are working with our as creating pathways and training so business and community stakeholders that people will be job ready for years in this way. to come. The centre provides a space for candidate screening, training and The $372 million redevelopment of Stockland job-matching to support employment Permanent, full time jobs in retail Green Hills in the New South Wales in construction and retail jobs. It also and hospitality once completed Hunter Valley is expected to be complete hosts programs designed to instil by April 2018. The centre will more than vocational skills, build confidence and double in size to around 70,000 square provide exposure to business culture metres and will feature the first new and mentoring. format David Jones department store in the Hunter, and around 225 specialty The Connectivity Centre is located next shops with a vibrant new dining and to the Stockland Green Hills construction entertainment precinct. The redevelopment site at 4 Molly Morgan Drive and is staffed will generate more than 1,350 direct jobs by yourtown, five days a week. The centre during construction and over 1,250 has been built by Stockland and Brookfield permanent, full time jobs in retail Multiplex with site sub-contractors and hospitality once completed. donating the fit out. Additional funding has been secured from the NSW Recognising that unemployment Department of Industry for resourcing is a major issue for local youth, Stockland the centre. As at 30 June 2016, more than joined with construction partner, 200 expressions of interest had been Brookfield Multiplex and undertook received from people seeking employment extensive discussions with community across a range of fields and 34 referrals had stakeholders about what kind been made to contractors with vacancies. of assistance would be of most enduring value. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to enrich our value chain | 49 Our progress EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT • Corporate responsibility and The Our Voice survey also identified the AND DEVELOPMENT sustainability (87%), reflecting our following areas for improvement: We have a multi-faceted approach employees’ pride in the contribution • Work processes and systems (68%); to enhancing employee engagement, we make to the community and society whilst remaining higher than the ANN, including career development, and reward (92%) and the perception that we are this is an area that requires ongoing focus and recognition programs, health and a socially (95%) and environmentally to improve employees’ perceptions wellbeing initiatives, giving and volunteering responsible organisation (94%). of computerised management systems activities, an inclusive workplace and • Diversity and inclusion (87%), continues providing information to do their jobs flexible work arrangements. to be a key driver of employee (58%). We have subsequently launched Monitoring and promoting employee engagement for our employees. As we the Core Systems Program to improve engagement remains a priority. As such, continue to create a more diverse and our processes and systems (see page X we have various mechanisms in place inclusive workplace, it is encouraging to for further information). to help create a desirable and productive note the large proportion of employees • Work-life quality (67%) saw a two point workforce, the most prominent of which who perceive the working environment to decline from FY15, but remains two points are our annual ‘Our Voice’ employee survey, be accepting of differences with regard to above both the GHPN and the ANN. our internal communications strategy gender and age (92%), cultural This result reinforces the importance and our programs to develop leaders who background and/or lifestyle and ethnic of continuing to build on several key are authentic, accessible, performance differences (95%), people with disabilities projects that were launched in FY16, focused and a beacon for talent. or psychological/physical impairment which aim to improve workload, increase (85%), and working style (84%). We are also committed to building an operational efficiency and enhance the aligned and accountable workforce, and • Health and safety (92%), with employees flexibility options provided to employees. a scalable and agile workforce. To deliver indicating they are aware of their The establishment of the Wellbeing and improvements in these areas, we undertake responsibilities to ensure that all areas Inclusion Employee Advocacy Group (EAG) targeted learning and development under their control are safe (97%), that is also designed to help address this issue. initiatives and a rigorous performance and Stockland does a good job of ensuring workers’ health and safety wherever Employee turnover development review process. we operate (95%), and prompt and We recognise that employee engagement In 2016 we undertook our 12th annual effective action is taken when unsafe has a direct relationship with both Our Voice survey, achieving an engagement conditions are brought to management’s productivity levels and talent attraction score of 83%. We remain above the attention (90%). and retention. As such, we use key metrics Australian National Norm (ANN) and equal to determine the success of our employee to Willis Towers Watson’s Global High • Leadership, with a clear sense of direction engagement activities, including employee Performing Norm (GHPN), with 95% from the Executive (83%) and a clear initiated turnover, turnover in the first year of employees indicating they fully support understanding of Stockland’s goals and and key talent retention. the values for which Stockland stands for, objectives (94%), we performed 17 points 93% of respondents saying that they believe and 15 points, respectively, above the In early FY14, analysis of our employee strongly in the goals and objectives ANN. These results reflect our ongoing turnover data revealed that a disproportionate of Stockland and 94% of respondents focus on employee communication and amount of our employee-initiated turnover indicating they are willing to work beyond leadership team visibility in reinforcing was occurring in the first 12 months of what is required to help Stockland succeed. priorities and strategic objectives. service, as 31% of employees left within Stockland achieved strong performance their first year of service in calendar year across the following areas: 2013 (29% employee initiated). A number of initiatives were undertaken to address this and ensure a consistent recruitment and on-boarding experience for new employees. As a result, there was a significant reduction in employee turnover in FY15 and a more uniform distribution of turnover by tenure group. In FY16, we exceeded our target of 12% for employee initiated turnover for employees with good performance or above, with a rate of 11.8%. However, overall employee initiated turnover in the first 12 months increased in FY16 due in part to concerns regarding the establishment of the Stockland Support Centre (page 55). Employee initiated turnover is expected to stabilise as the Centre is further embedded into business as usual activities and its benefits are realised. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to enrich our value chain | 50 Our progress DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION During the year we also implemented This year we were successful in securing At Stockland, we aim to leverage the a company-wide flexibility campaign, Employer of Choice for Gender Equality maximum potential of our people, Flexibility@Stockland to give all of our status from Workplace Gender Equality irrespective of individual differences, employees the opportunity to openly Agency (WGEA), as one of only two such as gender, ethnicity, age, physical discuss and access flexible work options. property firms and one of 100 Australian abilities, sexual identity, family status, The program centred around managers corporates and organisations to achieve beliefs, and perspectives. working with individual team members to this challenging citation. We are currently identify One Simple Thing that would applying for FY17 accreditation. Our Diversity and Inclusion Steering support greater flexibility. A guide to Committee is chaired by our Managing flexibility is built into our onboarding Director and CEO, Mark Steinert. Mark is process for all new employees. Since the Our targets also is a founding member of Property Male launch of this campaign, we have seen Champions of Change. The three priorities a further 36% of employees introduce for our Steering Committee in FY16 included: So that we create and maintain a flexibility arrangement into their working these positive relationships and • Increasing the focus on women week on top of the existing 25% of collaboration we aim to: in management positions; employees with existing flexible working arrangements. Maintain 100% of active • Mainstreaming flexibility and development projects with demonstrating more examples of senior Together with our focus on embracing flexible working and inclusive leadership, Stakeholder Engagement Plans. managers working flexibly; and our leading edge parental transitions Outperform the Australian High • Increasing employee awareness and program provides support to employees Performing Norm employee participation in diversity and inclusion. preparing to commence or return from engagement score of 80%. In FY16, women represented 44.6% of parental leave. This program has been Stockland’s management team and our target instrumental in maintaining our parental Increase women in management is to achieve 50% by 2020. To support this leave return rate well above our target of to 50% by 2020. goal in FY16, seven male Executive 80% again this year. Implement our Sustainable Committee members sponsored high During the year we strengthened our Supply Chain Charter to provide potential females from the senior manager diversity and inclusion governance with guidance on setting and job band. The program had the dual focus of the introduction of four Employee Advocacy delivering specific supply chain supporting the career development of high Groups (EAGs) aligned to our four initiatives. potential females through greater exposure focus areas for diversity and inclusion. to the Executive Committee and enhancing The employee-led EAGs are responsible our male leaders’ understanding of for setting diversity and inclusion objectives corporate life from a female perspective. and guiding resourcing and implementation. Our diversity and inclusion focus areas WELLBEING GENDER PARENTS DISABILITY & CULTURAL EQUITY & CARERS & FLEXIBILITY INCLUSION • The equitable attraction, • Initiatives that support • Strategies to increase • Progressing, executing retention and development of working parents-to-be, and employee wellbeing and and embedding our men and women at Stockland employees with elder care cultural diversity accessibility strategy • Increasing the representation and other family and carer • Include representatives from • Monitoring and embedding of women with profit and loss responsibilities the Reconciliation Action Plan the mainstreaming of flexibility responsibilities and supporting • Events and forums such Steering Committee to ensure and One Simple Thing our gender targets as Kids@Work day and synergies • Networking event and the ‘keeping in touch’ gender forums Yammer group Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to enrich our value chain | 51 Our people metrics WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT STATUS Status FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 Full Time 1,135 1,121 1,120 1,067 1,211 1,257 Permanent1 1,073 1,058 1,072 1,019 1,141 1,208 Fixed Term2 62 63 48 48 70 49 Part Time 308 295 282 255 234 219 Permanent 298 282 269 247 224 217 Fixed Term 10 13 13 8 10 2 Casual 3 55 46 38 45 79 93 Total Headcount 4 1,498 1,462 1,440 1,367 1,524 1,569 FTE 5 1,386 1,345 1,286 1,262 1,407 1,439 1 Permanent employees are employed by Stockland on a full time (38 hours per week) or part time basis (less than 38 hours per week). 2 Fixed term employees are employed by Stockland for a fixed term (their employment has an agreed end date). 3 Casual employees are paid on an hourly basis. 4 Total headcount includes permanent employees, fixed term employees and casual employees. It excludes Board members, temps, special contractors, vendors and employees on extended leave. 5 FTE (Full Time Equivalent) adjusts headcount for hours worked. It is calculated by dividing an employee’s working hours by the standard full time working hours (38). The FTE measure excludes casual employees. TURNOVER6 FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 Employee initiated 14.9% 13.8% 15.0% 15.8% 13.6% 14.8% turnover7 (216) (193) Employee initiated 11.8%9 12.2% 10 12.6%11 N/A N/A N/A turnover, (for those (143) (150) with good performance or above)8 Stockland initiated 5.6%13 3.0% 5.2% 12.3% 8.9% 4.2% turnover12 (81) (42) Total 20.5% 16.8% 20.2% 28.1% 22.5% 19.0% (297) (235) 6 Turnover presents the proportion of the Stockland workforce that has exited in the last 12 months. It is calculated by dividing [Total Number Of Exits In The Last 12 Months] by [12-Month Average Headcount]. All turnover data (including headcount) excludes those employed on a casual or fixed term basis. The first number represents this turnover. From FY15 onwards, Stockland now reports on the number of exits (the second number in parentheses). 7 Employee initiated turnover includes resignations and retirements. 8 Stockland uses a four-point rating scale for performance. This metric assesses turnover for the two highest performance ratings. Employee Initiated Turnover For Good Performance or Above is calculated by dividing [Total Number Of Exits In The Last 12 Months With A Good Performance Or Above Rating] by [Employees With A Good Performance Or Above Rating]. 9 FY16 Employee Initiated Turnover For Good Performance or Above is calculated by dividing [Total Number Of Exits In The Last 12 Months With A Good Performance Or Above Rating] by [Employees With A Good Performance Or Above Rating As At 30 June 2016]. 10 FY15 Employee Initiated Turnover For Good Performance or Above is calculated by dividing [Total Number Of Exits In The Last 12 Months With A Good Performance Or Above Rating] by [Employees With A Good Performance Or Above Rating As At 30 June 2015]. 11 FY14 Employee Initiated Turnover For Good Performance or Above is calculated by dividing [Total Number Of Exits In The Last 12 Months With A Good Performance Or Above Rating] by [Employees With A Good Performance Or Above Rating As At 30 June 2014]. 12 Stockland initiated turnover includes redundancy or termination by Stockland (e.g. terminated during probation or for cause). 13 Stockland initiated turnover increased in the second half of FY16 as a result of redundancies that were a part of Project Support. Project Support was an initiative to create an outsourced team (Stockland Support Centre) to undertake activities to allow Stockland to better focus on the needs of our customers. The Project Support redundancies make up 3.0% of Stockland initiated turnover. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to enrich our value chain | 52 Our people metrics WORKFORCE BY GENDER1 FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 Total % Total % Total % Total % Job band employees Women employees Women employees Women employees Women Management 536 44.6% 515 44.7% 464 45.4% 454 43.0% Executive 2 9 11.0% 9 11.0% 7 0.0% 5 0.0% Senior Management 3 151 36.0% 138 36.0% 132 35.0% 125 33.0% Manager 376 49.0% 368 49.0% 325 50.0% 324 47.0% Employee 1,010 67.0% 1,012 66.0% 938 66.0% 913 66.0% Stockland 1,546 60.0% 1,527 59.0% 1,697 59.0% 1,711 64.0% 1 Workforce by gender includes permanent employees, fixed term employees, casual employees and employees on extended leave. It excludes Board members, special contractors, temps and vendors. 2 Executive is Stockland’s Executive Committee. 3 Includes General Manager and Senior Manager job bands. WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT BY BUSINESS (%)4 Business FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 FY10 Stockland 44.6% 44.7% 45.4% 43.0% 43.0% 38.0% 35.0% Commercial Property 33.7% 32.4% 32.1% 38.0% 44.0% 41.0% 37.0% Corporate 50.0% 56.6% 58.9% 49.0% 57.0% 49.0% 48.0% Residential 21.0% 23.4% 22.7% 34.0% 31.0% 25.0% 24.0% Retirement Living 62.4% 56.5% 55.4% 57.0% 50.0% 43.0% 41.0% 4 Includes Executive Committee, General Manager, Senior Manager and Manager job bands. RATE OF RETURN FROM PARENTAL LEAVE5 Our employee rates of return from parental leave continued to be well above our target of 80% in FY16. Within 6 months Return Exit Gender Total leave Returns rate Exits rate Male 38 36 94.74% 2 5.26% Female 82 75 91.46% 7 8.54% Overall 120 111 92.50% 9 7.50% 5 Parental leave return rates look at the return rates of employees who have returned from parental leave in FY15 and FY16 and either remain employed (returns) or exited during FY16 within 6 months of return. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to enrich our value chain | 53 Operational excellence Improving the way we operate across the business to drive efficiency and effectiveness. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Operational excellence | 54 Our progress STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Our proactive focus on operational IDEAS@STOCKLAND excellence means we are always looking Our people remain highly engaged, • Drive operational efficiency for better ways to work and deliver improved delivering exceptional outcomes and outcomes for our customers and ultimately contributing to a range of initiatives that • Continue to improve technology our securityholders. After centralising improve the way we work. Stockland use and systems and standardising our support activities launched a company-wide innovation • Strong commitment to safety in recent years, we are now focused program called Ideas@Stockland on embedding operational improvements in August 2015 to encourage and foster the • Maintain high employee engagement and empowering our employees to both commercialisation of innovation. Rapid • Achieve leading sustainability work more efficiently and innovate. technology advancements and other credentials converging mega trends are changing SUPPORTING EFFICIENCY AND AGILITY consumer behaviour. We are focused on During the year we made significant creating opportunities from these changes. progress on improving the Group’s IT To that end, we are introducing support and FY16 PROGRESS systems capabilities, as we began the tools for our employees to foster innovation Recognised as Global Real Estate largest investment in our systems in and make it easy to implement ideas quickly. Industry Leader in the Dow Jones Stockland’s history through the Core In the first 12 months of Ideas@stockland, Sustainability Index for 2015–16 Systems Program. This program aims to more than 100 new ideas were submitted and reduce the number of legacy systems we over 800 people across the organisation Retained our Employer of Choice use around our business to simplify and participated in some way in an innovation for Gender Equality WGEA citation streamline our activities, reduce costs, and challenge. Of those 100 ideas, nine have been take advantage of rapid developments in chosen to be developed and resourced, and Improved ROE from 9.9% to 11.0% technology to improve customer outcomes. six ideas are progressing towards working Established Stockland Support As part of the feasibility phase of the program pilots. In addition, 20 employees were Centre offshore team, adding this year, we have committed to implement selected to receive training on leading capacity and capability across SAP as our core enterprise resource planning innovation methodologies and tools. These a range of finance and IT activities system and Salesforce as our customer ‘Innovation Champions’ are now assisting Significant progress improving Group relationship management system. business units or functional teams with their system capabilities including Deployment will take place during the next own ideation or innovation initiatives. commitment to implement SAP two years. Acknowledging the Our Voice and Salesforce as core systems feedback that our work process and systems SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP are an area for improvement, we will Sustainability remains a key focus for continue to maintain two-way engagement Stockland. We have continued our with employees across the business about commitment to engage effectively and the program and system implementations to improve the liveability, convenience and enable a smooth transition. efficiency of our communities and commercial This year we also embedded the Stockland operations, and to continue to reduce our Support Centre (SSC) within our business. impact on the environment, particularly by The SSC is an outsourced offshore team that improving energy and water efficiency. provides support to Stockland employees Recognising these efforts, we were proud across a range of business activities. We to be named the 2015–16 Global Real decided to establish the SSC permanently Estate Industry Leader in the Dow Jones in June 2015, after an initial six month pilot Sustainability Index, the third time we have proved successful in providing more flexible received this outstanding acknowledgement. and scalable support for our in-house teams It is also the ninth consecutive year that and achieving the estimated benefits in the we have been listed in the Index. In addition, business case. Since then, we have we were awarded 2015 Australian Diversified transitioned a number of finance and Property Sector Leader on the Global Real IT activities to the team. Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB). As this change led to a number of We also maintained our listing on the redundancies, a key priority was to support FTSE4GoodIndex and retained our Employer our people through this transition. We of Choice for Gender Equality citation with mitigated the number of redundancies Australia’s Workplace Gender Equality Agency. through the use of fixed term contracts and by redeploying impacted employees. We were committed to open and honest communication throughout the process and provided employees with access to emotional and professional support options, including the Employee Assistance Program and career transition support. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Operational excellence | 55 Our progress HEALTH AND SAFETY Life Quality category of Our Voice, which construction activities are conducted by our Our vision is to foster a culture where also declined two points in FY16 to 67%, but contractors, we require principal contractors health, safety and wellbeing are considered remains above the ANN by two points. A key on all of our major projects to have core values and continuous improvement driver of these results has been identified comprehensive Workplace Health and Safety of our safety performance is part of our as frustration with work systems and (WHS) management systems. This is verified normal business practice. processes. We are addressing this through in the tender review process and we continue the Core Systems Program, which will be key to communicate our expectations and In FY16, we continued to improve health to improving our systems (page 55). manage health and safety risks through our and safety compliance across all business ongoing project-level safety management units through our operational risk This year we achieved the lowest Lost Time systems, project inductions, risk reviews assurance program. Compliance scores Injury (LTI) metrics in the last five years, and WHS performance monitoring have progressively improved since the including 11 LTIs and the associated Lost of project delivery. inception of this assurance program in FY14, Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) of four. achieving a combined average score of 94% Various remedial activities implemented in the FY16 health and safety audits, progressively throughout the year have which is up from 78% in FY14 and translates contributed to this reduction, including to a reduction in required audit actions refresher training in workers’ compensation from 2,869 in FY14 to 563 in FY16. and injury management, manual handling training, an increased focus on incident Our employee wellbeing score, as measured reporting and the engagement of injury in our annual Our Voice survey, was 75% management specialists to assist in the in FY16. While this represents a two point management of work related injuries decline on FY15, our score remains eight (including stress). points above the Australian National Norm (ANN) (see Employee Engagement and Stockland has experienced an increase Development on page 50). We also scored in the amount of built-form development 13 points above the ANN for the question works over the last 12 months, which may “I often feel anxious at work”. These results have attributed to the increase in contractor parallel those for the Work LTIs reported over the same period. As our HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE1 FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 Total average workforce 2 1,507 1,438 3 1,695 1,736 4 1,384 Total hours worked (million) 2.75 2.53 2.97 3.03 2.42 Contractor lost time injuries 5 12 6 5 10 14 11 Number of lost time injuries (LTI) 7 11 12 18 17 18 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) 8 4.0 4.7 6.1 5.6 7.4 Number of injuries requiring medical treatment (MTI) 9 12 14 14 11 13 Medical treatment injury frequency rate (MTIFR) 10 4.4 5.5 4.7 3.6 5.4 Frequency rate (LTI and MTI) 11 8.4 10.2 10.7 9.2 12.8 Occupational diseases instances 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Lost days (total for the recorded lost time injuries) 599 12 267 817 417 257 Average lost day rate 13 27.1 14 22.2 45.3 24.5 14.3 1 With the exception of contractor lost time injuries, all health and safety metrics include Stockland employees only. 2 Total average workforce uses monthly employee totals rather than the end of financial year figure used in Our People metrics. 3 Total average workforce in FY15 reduced as a result of the sale of the Aged Care business in FY14. 4 Total average workforce was updated in FY13 to include Aevum payroll employees. 5 Refers to all workers undertaking work on Stockland sites that are not direct Stockland employees. 6 Stockland has experienced an increase in the amount of built form development works over FY16 which may have contributed to the increase in contractor LTIs reported over the same period. 7 An injury resulting in the loss of one or more shifts. Includes injuries incurred as a result of a work-related incident. Does not include commuting/recess injuries. 8 Number of LTIs / total hours worked during Financial Year x 1,000,000 hours. Excludes contractors as we do not measure total hours worked by our contractors. 9 An injury resulting in the injured person receiving further treatment from a medical practitioner i.e. GP, physio, hospitalisation etc. Not including lost time injuries. 10 Number of MTIs / total hours worked from July 2014 to June 2015 x 1,000,000 hours. 11 Number of LTIs + MTIs / total hours worked from July 2014 to June 2015 x 1,000,000 hours. Not including injuries requiring first aid treatment only. 12 The increase in lost days has been largely attributed to two longstanding injuries from previous financial years accounting for 301 days. 13 Number of Lost Days / number of LTIs. 14 This figure is derived from 298 days lost attributed to 11 LTIs recorded in FY16. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Operational excellence | 56 A better way to optimise and innovate We aim to provide business solutions that better serve our customers while reducing our impact on the environment. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to optimise and innovate | 57 Our progress STRATEGIC PRIORITIES As a real estate manager and developer, in communities around social cohesion, we are always looking for smarter and economic viability and connectivity and The following elements are our key more efficient ways to develop and to identify opportunities to contribute areas of environmental impact and operate our assets in line with our further to community resilience through how we seek to manage them: Operational Excellence strategic priority. our community development planning We are committed to creating resilient process. The community resilience Carbon and energy assets and communities that can flourish scorecard has since been adapted and with adaptive and responsive design. integrated into the climate resilience • Reduce emissions and improve Our customers want to run their homes strategies for our Residential and climate change resilience within our and businesses cost effectively, but Retirement Living businesses, allowing portfolio also appreciate a connection to the us to assess the resilience of buildings • Invest in alternative energy supplies natural environment. and infrastructure as well as our residents’ to reduce our emissions ability to respond to significant climatic events. RESILIENT COMMUNITIES AND ASSETS Across Commercial Property, we continued Biodiversity For the benefit of our stakeholders, and to focus on understanding the regional • Minimise our impact on local society more broadly, we are committed variances and unique vulnerabilities, using the bushland habitat, ecologicial to creating climate resilient assets and 1-to-9 rating scale developed as part communities and protected communities that can endure severe weather of our assessment methodology. Climate or significant species impacts and operate without disruption. resilience assessments were undertaken Understanding where events are likely to occur at Stockland shopping centres at Bundaberg • Design that promotes nature reserves and how well our assets and communities and activates parklands in Queensland and at Nowra in New South are able to respond enables us to improve Wales in FY16. We also engaged the 19 Water management and quality the resilience of our assets and reduce risks centres assessed over the last four years to business continuity. It also potentially to review progress on the range of climate • Improve water consumption efficiency reduces the risk to human life and resilience actions that have been and sustainable sourcing community safety. implemented across the portfolio. • Deliver projects that minimise water Maintaining an active focus on climate For our retail assets in North Queensland use and positively contribute to local change adaptation and resilience assists where there is a high exposure to extreme water catchments us to: weather events, we have set a regional Waste and materials 1. Understand future climate trends improvement target to be achieved by FY17. and predictions; Our aim is to improve the regional average • Reduce, reuse and recycle our waste, resilience score for North Queensland minimising our contribution to landfill 2. Identify where we are exposed to the impacts of climate change in different shopping centres from 5.9 to 5.5 through • Specify the use of ecologically regions where we operate; and the implementation of recommended and health preferable materials actions and reassessment of the centres 3.Take action to address vulnerability in the in this region. During the year, we worked short term and develop plans to improve with the Cyclone Testing Station at James resilience over the long term. Cook University to complete two cyclonic FY16 PROGRESS Our ability to understand and effectively wind vulnerability assessments at our respond to current and predicted climate shopping centres at Bundaberg and Hervey Australian first Green Star – change aims to: Bay in North Queensland. Performance portfolio rating for 22 of our shopping centres • Minimise increases in operation and We also completed a national review of our maintenance costs; retirement living villages and residential 96% of Residential and Retirement • Enable informed decisions to be made masterplanned communities to identify Living and 39% of Retail waste regarding future investments; those individual villages and communities diverted from landfill • Reduce liability and insurance premiums which have the greatest exposure to climate Electricity intensity reductions by ensuring assets are prepared for extremes including heat waves, drought, at our retail centres, resulting climate change; flooding, storms, cyclones, coastal in $30m savings since FY06 inundation and bushfires. We have also • Increase customer comfort levels within remapped all of our residential projects Pioneering solar air conditioning our assets and communities; and against a revised risk assessment matrix. technology at Stockland Wendouree • Help maintain the longevity of assets Over the next 12 months we will focus our with CSIRO within our portfolio. attention on preparing climate and Around 1,750 hectares reserved community resilience plans for priority Following our extensive work on the for biodiversity conservation and projects identified as being in high climate climate resilience of our retail buildings protection in perpetuity risk locations and implementing initiatives and infrastructure in previous years, in FY16 on all assessed sites. we developed a community resilience scorecard with an initial focus on our Retail Read more in our Climate and Community Our environmental metrics are provided on page 63. portfolio. The purpose of the scorecard Resilience DMA www.stockland.com.au/ is to understand underlying issues about-stockland/sustainability. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to optimise and innovate | 58 Our progress TARGETING ENERGY EFFICIENCY Civil works on residential development parks to identify new retail solar projects in AND EMISSIONS REDUCTION projects constitute a major source of our FY17. The Wetherill Park installation will take We recognise we have a role to play emissions. Civil contractors fall inside our our installed capacity to 2.27MW or 5.37% to influence the energy efficiency of our operational control boundary, as defined by of FY13 retail electricity consumption, which assets and reduce emissions, and have the National Greenhouse and Energy is 70% above our Retail portfolio renewable taken a proactive approach to developing Reporting Act 2007 (NGER Act). Our civil energy target of 3.0% by FY17. policies and implementing action plans contractors use heavy equipment to move A large proportion of our retirement village over a number of years. large volumes of spoil across sites to homes already have solar PV installations. achieve development and landscape levels. The increasing cost of energy, particularly Over the next 12 months we will be looking We work with our contractors to develop electricity, poses a challenge for the closely at how solar can be adopted in the strategies for bulk earthworks at a site and property industry and for all Australians. Residential business on a large scale regional level, targeting opportunities to Improving the energy efficiency of our assets through different network ownership and minimise vehicle movements, which reduces and communities will not only ensure management models. We also focus on emissions, and, where possible, balance improved environmental outcomes, but will building embedded energy networks across excess spoil and fill requirements, reduce also improve cost of living and deliver our retail centres and retirement living earthworks and save money. tangible benefits for our business. villages. This enables larger installations to We are committed to design and technology meet both base building and tenancy energy Across our commercial property innovation and access to alternative energy requirements and enables us to reduce the developments and assets we continue supplies to help us and our customers cost of electricity for our tenants and gain to trial new technologies as they emerge realise a cost efficient, low carbon future. visibility of asset-wide energy consumption and where proven successful, we stage data. This allows us to identify further implementation through the portfolio. For our commercial properties, our emission reduction opportunities and will This year, implementations included major approach to alternative energy is focused enable us to work collaboratively with our LED lighting upgrades and large heating, predominantly on solar PV, with installations tenants to further reduce their energy costs ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) already in place at Shellharbour, Green Hills in the future. system upgrades at centres in Queensland and Nowra in New South Wales and and New South Wales, which have resulted Jimboomba in Queensland. In FY16 we in projected energy savings of approximately committed to installing a 900 kW system at 1,718,000kWh annually. This is equivalent Stockland Wetherill Park in FY17, following to removing 255 passenger vehicles driven feasibility analysis assessments conducted for one year. at 15 shopping centres and two business SOLAR AIR CONDITIONING EFFICIENCY Through our partnership with CSIRO, we have recently unveiled a new solar powered air conditioning system that aims to change the way energy is used on a commercial scale. Operating at Stockland Wendouree Shopping Centre in Ballarat, Victoria, the system uses concentrating solar thermal technology to produce heat energy that powers the air conditioning system. The operational system is expected to significantly reduce HVAC electricity usage for commercial buildings. The roof space required for this pioneering technology can be 40% less than a traditional single stage desiccant system. The Australian Renewable Energy Agency provided $520,000 support toward to the $1.2 million, three-year project, which has been jointly managed by CSIRO and Stockland. Read more in our Carbon and Energy DMA at www.stockland.com.au/aboutstockland/sustainability. © CSIRO / Ian Wilson Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to optimise and innovate | 59 Our progress SUSTAINABLE ASSETS AND In addition, Stockland is progressing its DEVELOPMENTS Green Star – Communities certification Asset ratings and certifications are a key credentials. Building on our FY15 means of assuring and demonstrating the achievement of the 6 Star rating at Aura quality of our projects and assets. These in Queensland, we registered seven new ratings serve as validation that key social projects for our residential communities and environmental aspects have been at Cloverton, The Grove, Calleya, Newport, considered in our project and asset designs, Willowdale, Altrove and Stamford Park. developments and operations. Rating and Six of these projects were subsequently certification schemes also enable us to awarded a combination of 5 and 6 Star Green demonstrate compliance with state and Star – Communities ratings in August 2016, national regulations, benchmark our with the rating for Stamford Park expected sustainability performance against our to be received later in FY17. peers and regularly track and improve Stockland’s Office and Business Parks on our performance across our various portfolio achieved a NABERS combined asset classes. portfolio average for energy in calendar year At Stockland, we have a strong commitment 2015 of 4.76, up from 4.64 in the prior year. to the use of product rating and certification For our Retail portfolio, we undertook tools to ensure the sustainability ratings on a broader selection of sites for performance of our projects and assets: calendar year 2015, with 16 centres scoring energy ratings of 4.0 stars or better and • Green Star – a range of tools administered 12 centres scoring water ratings of 4.0 stars by the Green Building Council of Australia or better. Hervey Bay was rated for the first (GBCA) that rate the sustainable design, time since development and achieved an construction and operation of buildings energy rating of 4.5 stars. and communities, using a scale from 1 to 6 Stars, with 1 being Minimum Practice In FY16, we progressed our Liveable Housing and 6 being World Leadership. Australia (LHA) certifications, achieving a LHA Silver rated design for Willowdale House, • NABERS – the National Australian Built our sustainability and community hub, Environment Rating System uses and delivering the first stage of our LHA Gold measured and verified performance Standard certified Willowdale Retirement information to assess energy efficiency, Village. We also updated and relaunched water usage and other factors of a building our Retirement Living Design Guidelines or tenancy and its impact on the to reflect LHA principles and committed environment. This performance is converted to 100% LHA Silver for new greenfield into a rating scale of 1 to 6 stars, retirement living village developments. with 6 being market-leading performance. We maintained our approach to achieve • NatHERS & BASIX – measures the a target of 20% of medium density homes thermal performance or energy use by FY18 and 50% target by FY19 to be of homes. NatHERS uses a 1 to 10 scale, developed in accordance with LHA Guidelines. with 10-star rated homes being the most thermally efficient. Read more in our Asset Rating and Certification DMA at www.stockland.com.au/aboutstockland/sustainability. • Liveable Housing Australia (LHA) – three tiered performance certification for liveable housing design: Silver, Gold and Platinum. Green Star is now a standard Stockland requirement on all shopping centre and retirement living developments, with a minimum of 4 Star Green Star – Design & As Built certification required. In FY16 we continued to extend our Green Star certifications across all new retail and retirement living projects, achieving 4 Star Green Star ratings at Stockland Harrisdale (Design) and at Mernda Retirement Village (Custom Design). Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to optimise and innovate | 60 Our progress DELIVERING MORE SUSTAINABLE Stockland’s innovations such as climate of approximately 1,718,000kWh annually. AND EFFICIENT RETAIL CENTRES adaptation and resilience, inclusive This is equivalent to removing 255 Stockland has the largest number of playspaces, electric vehicle charging passenger vehicles driven for one year. Green Star rated retail properties in stations and use of cool roof materials These efforts add to our significant Australia, as verified by the GBCA. In FY16 rated particularly well. We will now achievements since FY06, which have we continued to extend our ratings and continue working with our retailers seen us reduce electricity usage by certifications, with a key target to secure and the community to improve the 30% per square metre, resulting in a Green Star – Performance portfolio sustainability management and a $30 million saving from avoided bills rating for our retail centres. This is a new performance of our retail centres and within our Retail operations. Green Star tool requiring an existing capitalise on savings we achieve through energy rating from NABERS. operational efficiencies to invest in bringing the next wave of new In an Australian first, in June 2016 technologies to life. we achieved a Green Star – Performance portfolio rating for 22 of our metropolitan In FY16 alone we invested in numerous and regional retail centres, receiving energy efficient measures across various an average 3 Star rating, which is considered commercial property assets with ‘Good Practice’. projected energy savings Stockland has Australia’s largest number of Green Star rated retail properties, with 23 assets currently awarded one or more ratings R  etail centres with Green Star – Performance portfolio rating C  entres with Green Star – Design and As Built ratings Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to optimise and innovate | 61 Our progress WATER MANAGEMENT AND QUALITY issues, faulty metering or the absence of At Allura in Victoria, for example, we are We maintain a strong focus on water metering on bore water supplies. These protecting local grassland habitat for the management and quality in the development issues will be rectified for the next rating Golden Sun Moth, and at Calleya in Western and operation of our assets, including cycle and we anticipate that we will rate Australia we are protecting the Spider improving the quality of rainwater runoff all eligible assets in FY17. Orchids. We are also protecting various leaving our project sites, access to alternate areas of koala habitat across our South In our Retirement Living business, water infrastructure and practical innovation East Queensland projects. Once these upgrades to operational village clubhouses to support more efficient water use. projects are complete, we will have placed and common areas include water saving approximately 1,750 ha of land into protection Ensuring effective water management measures such as water efficient tap fittings for local councils and the community systems are in place to minimise and toilets and utilising rainwater tanks to access and manage in perpetuity. consumption and manage water quality for water collection and irrigation where is a key priority. Effective systems deliver possible. In our Residential business, During the year we also completed the significant benefits to the environment and we generally hand operational control Stockland biodiversity calculator, piloted promote performance and cost efficiencies to councils following project completion. in FY15, and used it to assess the change across our projects and operations. in biodiversity value of our projects based Read more in our Water Management and on an initial pre-development value at a site. We use the GBCA Green Star rating tools to Quality DMA at www.stockland.com.au/ We have now applied the calculator to support the design and delivery of water about-stockland/sustainability. six new projects with all projects achieving initiatives and to set a platform for optimal a positive biodiversity outcome. The performance. All new commercial property biodiversity calculator was also used to and retirement living developments are BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT help us demonstrate the conservation required to achieve a minimum 4 Star Developments on greenfield sites can outcomes for projects where we sought Green Star rating. Green Star sets minimum impact local bushland habitat, ecological Green Star ratings from the GBCA. standards for water management and communities and protected or significant efficiency in commercial property and species. These impacts occur both during Read more in our Biodiversity DMA at retirement living assets. construction and as a result of urbanisation www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/ and are for the most part particular to our sustainability. We use the CCAP Precinct tool to help masterplanned communities. us manage the environmental impact of our projects. Our Residential business, As part of our strategy to deliver shared for example, ran the CCAP Precinct tool value, we aim to minimise and mitigate Our targets on new bids to buy land. The Retirement these impacts to protect the biodiversity Living business uses the CCAP Precinct tool of our surrounding environments. To reduce our net environmental on new retirement village developments We appreciate that preserving biodiversity impact we aim to achieve: or redevelopments, which enables enhances the liveability and vitality the business to identify water reduction of our communities over the long term. 10% reduction in the emissions opportunities compared to regional averages. Our Liveability surveys (with our residential intensity of our Office and Retail communities) tell us that customers value portfolios by FY17 (based on All of our residential projects in NSW FY14 baseline). green space and so balancing developable are BASIX compliant, and water tanks are land with retention and activation 40% reduction in energy usage typically provided at all homes to supply of biodiversity is critical to the success per residential lot and retirement a combination of irrigation, toilets and of our masterplanned communities. home incorporated into the laundry. Water Sensitive Urban Design By effectively minimising and mitigating design of newly developed is also considered in all our developments. the impacts on biodiversity, we are also able projects (compared As a minimum requirement for to reduce development approval delays at to regional averages). environmental approval on all projects, a local, state and national level. we have to reduce the pollutant load of any Create a net positive impact on stormwater runoff before discharging water Threatened species with habitats affected biodiversity across our new to receiving water bodies. by our operations are considered as part developments by FY17. of the environmental approval process for In Commercial Property operations, we each development. In many cases we are able 40% reduction in potable water undertake NABERS water ratings to to conserve local biodiversity and place consumption per residential lot benchmark the performance of our assets a large portion (if not all) of the significant and 20% reduction per retirement against industry standards and to measure species found on our sites into protected areas. home incorporated into the design the effectiveness of the initiatives and actions In FY16 we had 25 projects in the construction of newly developed projects. we implement. In our Office portfolio, we phase with identified biodiversity on site to undertake NABERS ratings annually and have be protected. Many of the areas identified a long-standing portfolio average target of for protection include species that are 4.5 stars. In FY16 we have undertaken considered threatened or vulnerable. ratings on 20 out of 23 established retail assets and our portfolio average target is 3 stars by the end of FY17. Several locations could not be rated due to utility billing Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to optimise and innovate | 62 Our environmental metrics TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS FY16 saw an increase in scope 1 emissions primarily due to increased construction and delivery in the Residential business. Scope 2 emissions reduced from FY15, largely due to reduced gross energy consumption at commercial property assets and an improvement in retirement living data acquisition. This improvement means that we can now separate management controlled emissions at our retirement living villages from our residents’ emissions at sites where we have embedded electricity networks. The table below outlines our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions over the last five years. SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS (tCO2-e) FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 Scope 1 1 35,036 26,368 22,102 18,509 26,961 Scope 2 2 89,881 97,763 99,927 104,393 117,517 Total Scope 1+2 emissions 124,917 124,131 122,029 122,902 144,478 Scope 3 3 39,628 4 21,002 23,556 23,449 23,726 1 Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions, i.e. emissions from fuels that are combusted on site (including natural gas, diesel and petrol from fleet) as well as refrigerant leakage. This includes direct emissions reported by contractors where we have operational control (typically residential community projects). 2 Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the consumption of electricity only. This includes indirect emissions reported by contractors where we have operational control (typically residential community projects) and emissions from base building electricity across the office and business parks, retail, logistics, residential and retirement living assets for which we have operational control. 3 Scope 3 emissions are other indirect emissions, including hire cars, rental vehicles and airline travel, transmission and production losses from purchased electricity, gas and fleet fuel and operational waste from our Commercial Property portfolio. 4 For FY16 we have expanded our boundary to include scope 3 emissions from waste generated at our commercial property assets. TOTAL SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS BY BUSINESS UNIT TOTAL SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS BY BUSINESS UNIT The charts below outline the percentage allocation of our scope Commercial Property constitutes our largest proportion of scope 2 1 and 2 emissions by business units. Residential constitutes the emissions and remains the focus of our strategic energy efficiency largest proportion of our scope 1 emissions due to contractor initiatives. Total scope 2 emissions are 89,881 tCO2-e. construction activity across our development projects. New construction projects in FY16 include Altrove, Newport and Pallara For a detailed breakdown of our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, please refer to our in Queensland. Total scope 1 emissions are 35,036 tCO2-e. Environmental Data at www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/sustainability. % % 0 Corporate 1 Corporate 3 Retirement Living 8 Retirement Living 12 Commercial Property 89 Commercial Property 85 Residential 2 Residential Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to optimise and innovate | 63 Our environmental metrics COMMERCIAL PROPERTY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY (kgCO2-e/m2)1 We track our energy consumption on a per square metre intensity basis as a means to understand our energy impacts while taking divestments and investments into account. Our greenhouse gas emissions intensity has been steadily decreasing across all commercial property asset classes and we will continue to monitor and invest in technology to assist us in achieving our FY17 target. The table below outlines our GHG emissions intensity data since FY12. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY (kgCO2–e/m2)1 REDUCTION FROM BASELINE FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 Office and Business Parks -2.57 64.98 67.32 67.55 72.1 77.3 Retail -2.76 56.58 58.32 59.34 62.0 69.2 Commercial Property -2.97 58.55 60.66 61.52 65 72 SOLAR GENERATION The table below illustrates our solar generation over the past three years. FY16 FY15 FY14 Solar generation kWh 1,940,689 292,124 175,374 1 Based on scope 1 and 2 emissions. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to optimise and innovate | 64 Our environmental metrics WATER Commercial Property water consumption (kL) The table below outlines our year on year water consumption over the last five years. Water consumption decreased in our Office and Business Parks portfolio in FY16 due to the divestment of Waterfront Place. While water consumption increased in Retail, this is predominantly due to redevelopments at Stockland Wetherill Park in Sydney and Stockland Baldivis in Perth. The continuing shift in our retail tenant mix toward more high water intensity food retailers, gymnasiums and car washes, and the extended operating hours has further contributed to the increase. FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 Office and Business Parks 220,704 232,249 271,905 299,122 347,865 Retail 1,153,565 1,096,808 1,077,563 928,198 818,058 Commercial Property 1,374,269 1,329,057 1,349,468 1,227,320 1,165,923 Water consumption intensity (kL/m2) We track our water consumption on a per square metre intensity basis as a means to understand our water impacts while taking divestments and investments into account. The table below outlines our year on year water intensity progress over the last five years. In our Office and Business Parks portfolio, water consumption intensity has increased by 12% against FY15. The increase is due to irrigation of new landscapes in our business parks, installation of additional cooling towers in office and various major toilet and tap leaks across the portfolio. These results were not replicated in Retail which saw water consumption held at almost the same level as FY14 and FY15. FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 Office and Business Parks 0.65 0.58 0.63 0.63 0.63 Retail 1.11 1.10 1.10 1.03 0.94 Commercial Property 1.00 0.96 0.976 0.91 0.82 Residential and Retirement Living water consumption (kL) We report our water consumption according to our operational control boundary under the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 (NGER Act). Residential communities, apartments and retirement living water consumption results are provided by collecting and collating water use from invoices. Where invoices are unavailable or extend across financial years, estimates are provided for relevant periods. Water consumption by contractors operating on our development sites is compiled using invoice data and estimates, supplied by contractors through monthly Health, Safety and Environment reports. Data has been reported for 100% of properties this year. These figures are based on a combination of contractor estimates and invoice data. Residential water data varies from year to year due to activities such as filling lakes in large developments and location specific variables such as natural rainfall, project life cycles, market conditions, site management techniques and local landscaping requirements set by councils. FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 Residential sites 600,623 353,620 297,826 76,254 227,853 Retirement Living villages 58,158 48,500 162,930 152,065 391,734 Contractors – Residential 1,948,614 1,469,853 1 351,046 213,118 1,499,264 Contractors – Retirement Living 8,985 49,285 216,910 60,648 6,356 Total 2,616,380 2 1,921,259 1,028,712 502,085 2,125,208 1 Contractors self report water data, which means we do not review each contractor’s data collection processes. In FY15, we completed a comprehensive review of data sets provided to us by contractors, which ensured a higher level of accuracy than in previous years. 2 We experienced an increase in both potable and non potable water consumption due to new residential developments which commenced at the close of FY15 and during FY16. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to optimise and innovate | 65 Our environmental metrics BIODIVERSITY Biodiversity impact and management Biodiversity impact and management represents the impacts of our business on biodiversity and how we minimise and mitigate these impacts to protect the biodiversity of our surrounding environments. Stockland’s biodiversity impact decreased in FY16 (compared to FY15) in line with the reduction in total projects with masterplan approval, from 39 projects in FY15 to 31 projects in FY16. FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 Portfolio Total projects with masterplan approval1 31 39 42 44 42 Total land area (ha) 8,637 12,302 7,303 7,210 6,733 Biodiversity impact Total projects with areas of significant biodiversity value 2 25 30 20 20 18 Total land area of significant biodiversity value (ha) 1,332 1,736 1,198 1,197 910 Total area of land of significant biodiversity value to be cleared (ha) 425 639 655 641 489 Biodiversity management Total projects with areas of significant biodiversity value that have a biodiversity management plan (%) 583 100 100 100 100 Total area of land to be regenerated, re-vegetated, restored or rehabilitated on ground or through offsets (ha) 1,641 1,5814 358.5 342.5 190.5 Total projects working with community and non-governmental organisations 6 5 1 12 10 1 Our biodiversity results are representative of our residential projects that have received masterplan approval and/or were active developments as at 30 June 2016. 2 As defined by the relevant state and Federal legislation. 3 This has decreased from FY15 as previous year’s reporting included a commitment to prepare a Biodiversity Management Plan. This year we are reporting on the percentage for those projects that have actually prepared a Biodiversity Management Plan as at 30 June 2016. Note that all of our projects without a Biodiversity Management Plan have made a commitment to develop one. 4 In FY15, this section was expanded to include land onsite and offsite offsets as this is a key method in balancing the provision of ecological habitats with development activities. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to optimise and innovate | 66 Our environmental metrics WASTE We report against the same National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 (NGER Act) ‘operational control’ boundary that we use for energy and water. We report on all properties within this boundary, with the exception of some properties where our tenants run their own waste contracts. We also report on a small number of additional properties that fall outside of our NGER Act boundary, but where we manage the waste contract for service provision purposes. Data provided by waste contractors is based on estimates (bin volumes converted to tonnes rather than weighed). Operational waste In FY16 we continued to engage with our tenants, retailers and customers to further improve the levels of recycling at our retail sites. Retail waste diverted from landfill in FY16 was 39%, exceeding our waste diversion target of 36% by the end of FY17. In our Office and Business Parks portfolio, our FY16 waste diversion from landfill was 42% which is a 4% improvement against FY15. This diversion rate is lower than anticipated due to the closure of an offsite sorting facility. Further, the Better Business Partnership (BBP) has identified that there is no industry standard for waste reporting and has introduced the BBP Operational Waste Reporting Guidelines. Stockland will adopt the bronze standard for FY17 and reset our target for the Office and Business Parks portfolio to 45% of waste diverted from landfill. OPERATIONAL WASTE (TONNES) RETAIL OFFICE AND BUSINESS PARKS Tonnes FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 Total waste 17,895 16,717 16,809 14,890 13,808 1,182 1,298 1,607 1,810 2,697 Total waste to landfill 10,858 11,537 11,549 10,443 9,793 680 806 763 538 972 Total waste recycled 7,038 5,181 5,260 4,446 4,015 502 491 944 1,272 1,725 Diversion from landfill (%) 39 31 31 30 29 42 38 53 70.3 64 % portfolio reporting 95 95 95 95 95 100 80 100 100 100 Development waste Commercial Property Our commercial property development construction waste is calculated based on total number of projects for which we are the developer. Active waste is tracked through the builders, as for these sites the principal contractor has active control. There have been no significant office developments since FY12. Our combined landfill diversion rate for retail construction projects in FY16 is 83%, which exceeds our Green Star target by 3%. However, this represents a reduction on our FY15 diversion rate of 92% and our FY17 target of 80%. Recycling rates can vary from project to project depending on the types of materials recovered during demolition or used during construction. We remain focused on achieving our diversion target by the end of FY17 and will track key construction projects such as Stockland Green Hills to support the achievement of this target. RETAIL DEVELOPMENT CONSTRUCTION WASTE (TONNES) FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 Total waste 3,253 6,428 4,453 7,284 8,596 Waste recycled 2,684 5,940 3,778 6,583 6,971 Waste to landfill 569 487 924 704 1,625 Diversion from landfill (%) 83% 92% 85% 90% 81% Developments included (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Residential and Retirement Living All residential and retirement living waste data was provided by contractors operating on Stockland sites during the reporting period. Data is estimated by contractors or obtained from waste receipts and invoices. Data is collected from monthly Health, Safety and Environment reports submitted to Stockland by our contractors. Waste has decreased substantially in FY16 as there has been a reduced number of sites which require large amounts of debris removed from site. Stockland has been seeking to optimise this as part of ongoing design processes. RESIDENTIAL AND RETIREMENT LIVING CONTRACTOR WASTE (TONNES) FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 Total waste 35,424 82,033 80,135 82,503 137,748 Waste diverted from landfill 33,881 78,415 78,149 80,148 131,270 Waste sent to landfill 1,542 3,617 1,986 2,355 6,478 Diversion from landfill 96% 96% 98% 97% 95% Stockland Annual Review 2016 | A better way to optimise and innovate | 67 Our reporting approach The aim of our integrated approach is to inform investors and others stakeholders on how our business performance, strategy, governance and prospects lead to the creation of value over the short, medium and long term. It is also to provide a concise document including material matters that may be of interest to our stakeholders. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our reporting approach | 68 Materiality process Stockland has used the materiality definition We identified our FY16 material matters from the Integrated Reporting Framework that using the following process. states ‘an integrated report should disclose The issues identified through this process information about matters that substantively and the sustainability content in the affect the organisation’s ability to create Annual Review are reviewed and approved value over the short, medium and long term’. by Stockland’s executive team and the Board. Identify Evaluate and prioritise Alignment and disclosure We combined the outcomes of the following An integrated reporting materiality workshop Following the materiality workshop, two materiality processes to identify draft was held with members of the leadership team the identified material matters were validated material matters: to identify any additional relevant issues, rank via a six stage collaborative assessment 1 Materiality test capturing internal issues of greatest significance and prioritise undertaken by Group Strategy. This included them based on their ability to affect value. input from teams across the whole business. and external perspectives in alignment with the principles of AA1000 and Material matters were mapped in terms of their The final list of material matters was potential impact on value creation over the presented to our internal Integrated GRI G4, including: short, medium and long term. Reporting Committee. • Investor research and engagement; Once confirmed, the matters formed the basis of the Board and Executive Committee’s • Customer feedback and insights; strategy discussion. • Employee surveys; • Political and regulatory developments; • Industry engagement and advocacy; and • Social and mainstream media. 2 An internal operational and strategic risk assessment. The resultant list of matters served as a starting point for our integrated reporting materiality workshop. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our reporting approach | 69 Material matters Through our materiality research, we have 1. Increased competition and changing 2. Delays or changes to the delivery identified emerging societal issues that market conditions impact our of infrastructure and amenities affect impact the landscape in which we operate. opportunities for growth customer satisfaction They represent future risks and opportunities All of our businesses are impacted by local Australia’s growing population requires for our business and our stakeholders over and global economic conditions. International physical and social infrastructure services the short, medium and long-term. economic markets remain volatile and the to support the growth and development Our material matters also align with outlook for specific markets in Australia of new suburbs. This includes the provision the core focus areas of our sustainability remains uneven. We expect conditions of sustainable and accessible transport strategy. We anticipate that these matters to remain reasonably supportive. Interest and community facilities. Delay in the will evolve over time and we will continue rates are anticipated to be stable and we provision of these services can result to work with relevant stakeholders to shape expect the economy to continue to grow, in unhappy customers at our assets and these issues going forward. albeit at below trend levels. negative sentiment on social media. A summary of Stockland’s emerging issues We have capitalised on supportive market Effective stakeholder engagement on our and where further information can be found conditions throughout the year, while projects with suppliers, customers and is provided in the following pages. ensuring the decisions we make now will government has resulted in positive serve our business well through the cycle. outcomes across several projects. We will We will maintain asset and geographic continue to use our proprietary Liveability diversification and will continue to focus research to understand the priorities on retaining a strong balance sheet with of residents in our communities and drive low gearing and diverse funding sources. property management and development We will also concentrate on efficiency decisions. We will also continue to ensure and cost management and maintaining that all active projects have stakeholder a prudent approach to provisioning. engagement plans that minimise obstacles to infrastructure and amenity delivery and Our growth is supported by a strong ensure appropriate communication with medium-term organic pipeline. In the longer all stakeholders about these matters. term, however, the continued growth of our business is dependent on our ability The resilience of our supply chain is also to acquire new land and assets. Strong key in the delivery of our projects. We are domestic and offshore investor demand continuing to enhance our supply chain for property assets is expected to continue, risk management and seek to provide supported by relatively high asset yields, the greater clarity of sustainability expectations decline in the Australian dollar and Australia’s with the development of a Sustainable record of economic and political stability. Supply Chain Charter. We will continue to ensure discipline and Other stakeholders potentially impacted agility in our investment decision making by this issue include government, providers so we can take advantage of opportunities of infrastructure services and customers. that will deliver the appropriate riskadjusted returns. We will use a rigorous See Our Business pg 11, Shape Thriving whole of business approach informed Communities pg 35, Enrich our Value Chain, pg 47 and our Community DMA, Stakeholder by detailed research to drive our capital Engagement DMA and Supply Chain allocation process. Within our existing Management DMA. portfolio we have significant organic development opportunities supported by a strong balance sheet to provide funding flexibility. Other stakeholders potentially impacted by this issue include customers, investors and the property industry in general. See Grow Asset Returns and Our Customer Base pg 29 and Capital Strength pg 40. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our reporting approach | 70 Material matters 3.Housing affordability is increasingly 4.Systems enhancements affect business 5.Regulatory changes impact our challenging in Australia process efficiency business and customers Stockland’s Residential business is To achieve operational excellence we need Substantial policy reform presents both influenced by the dynamics of the Australian to ensure that our systems are cost effective opportunities and potential impacts for residential market. Housing affordability and agile to support the diversified nature our business and our customers. Tax and remains of key concern for Australians as the of our business. planning reform remain key policy areas price of housing and rental properties in some where we will continue to engage with We continue to execute our Information areas continues to increase. industry and government. We will continue Technology strategy with a focus on to focus our development activity in areas We believe that current market prices long-term strategic investment, and we will where governments support growth and and volumes in the residential sector continue to identify and integrate technical focus on good practice to remain well are elevated in many markets as a result enhancements across the business. positioned in the market. of historical undersupply combined with We have made significant progress on strong demand from home owners and Other stakeholders potentially impacted improving the Group’s systems capabilities, investors. We expect the particularly high by this issue include investors, customers including the commitment to implement SAP level of price growth in Sydney to moderate and the property industry. and Salesforce as core systems. This project in the short to medium term. aims to reduce the number of legacy systems See Our Business pg 11 and our Stakeholder We will continue to seek opportunities we use in our business to simplify and Engagement DMA. to help meet demand and broaden our streamline our activities, reduce costs, and customer reach by creating market leading take advantage of rapid developments in sustainable communities and a broad mix technology to improve customer outcomes. 6. Community resilience to evolving of value for money housing options – house This investment will also position Stockland’s security and safety risks and land packages, completed homes, systems to continually improve in line with The safety of our customers and employees medium density and apartments. We have improvements to SAP and Salesforce. is a key priority. Ensuring their safety and the also sought to balance the demand from With deployment to take place during the resilience of the communities in which we home owners and investors to ensure our next two years, we will continue to maintain operate is becoming increasingly complex. residential communities remain attractive two-way engagement with employees across This includes safety and security risks to future buyers. We continue to engage the business to enable a smooth transition. associated with terrorism, cyber threats and with all levels of government to seek extreme weather events. Other stakeholders potentially impacted effective solutions on land supply issues. by this issue include employees, customers We continue to build our resilience to these Other stakeholders potentially impacted and suppliers. evolving risks: training our employees and by this issue include the property industry, increasing their risk awareness, scenario investors and customers. See Operational Excellence pg 54 and our testing, engaging with peers and across Employee Engagement and Development DMA. industry, and investing in asset upgrades. See Our Business pg 11, Grow Asset Returns and Our Customer Base pg 29. Other stakeholders potentially impacted by this issue include investors, customers, community, industry and employees. See Optimise and Innovate pg 57, and our Health and Safety DMA and Climate and Community Resilience DMA. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our reporting approach | 71 Material matters 7. Capital market volatility impacts our 8.Ability to develop products that 9. Digital disruption affects customer ability to access suitable capital meet anticipated future customer behaviour and transforms the market Stockland’s long-term growth is dependent and societal demands Enhancements in digital technology have on our ability to access suitable capital Our ability to develop products that meet rewired customer behaviour. We need to at the appropriate time and cost even anticipated future customer and societal be accessible, responsive and anticipate as capital markets fluctuate in response demands is crucial to the sustainability future consumer behaviour and disruption to domestic and global economic shifts. of our business, particularly in light to our industry. of Australia’s ageing population and Over the past 10 years we have maintained We will continue to identify and integrate changing demographics. a strong balance sheet at appropriate levels technical enhancements across the business, of gearing, enabling us to continue to We are continuing to evolve our market including enhancing online residential and sustainably fund growth in the business. leading product innovation and deepen retirement living engagement opportunities. In the short term we have also been able our customer insights using our proprietary We will also continue support our retail to refinance borrowings and maintain Liveability Index research and platforms centres as thriving community hubs by diverse funding sources. such as Stockland Exchange (our online delivering quality services and retail and research community) and Quantium community spaces that are e-enabled. So that we are able to continue to access (which provides de-identified customer sufficient capital to fund growth, we will Our innovation hub established in October transactional data to inform how we view continue with our prudent capital 2015, Ideas@Stockland, provides employees markets and opportunities). We are management policies. from across the business a place to share, fostering a culture of innovation where collaborate and build on ideas, further Our well-defined capital management we remain flexible and identify and take enabling us to take advantage of new approach enables us to invest, allocate advantage of opportunities to leverage opportunities. and raise capital across various funding movements in stakeholder preferences. types and geographies at different points Other stakeholders potentially impacted It is also important that we focus on the in the cycle. by this issue include our customers and creation of sustainable and liveable employees. Other stakeholders potentially impacted by communities and assets. This includes this issue include investors, customers, developing understanding of the longer-term See Grow Asset Returns and Our Customer community and employees. impacts of climate change and incorporating Base pg 29, Operational Excellence pg 54. our findings into the design and upgrade of assets. See Capital Strength pg 40. Other stakeholders potentially impacted by this issue include our customers. See Operational Excellence pg 54, Optimise and Innovate pg 57, and Our Customer Engagement DMA, Climate Resilience DMA, Community DMA and Employee Engagement DMA. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Our reporting approach | 72 Assurance The sustainability reporting content within the Annual Review has been externally assured in accordance with the Australian Standard for Assurance Engagements (ASAE3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information and (ASAE 3410): Assurance Engagement on Greenhouse Gas Statements by Ernst & Young (EY). A copy of EY’s assurance statement is available on our website. Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Assurance | 73 Ernst & Young Tel: +61 3 9288 8000 8 Exhibition Street Fax: +61 3 8650 7777 Melbourne VIC 3000 Australia ey.com/au GPO Box 67 Melbourne VIC 3001 Independent Assurance Report to the Management and Directors of Stockland Corporation Limited in relation to its 2016 Sustainability Reporting Our Conclusion • Based on our limited assurance procedures conducted, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected sustainability disclosures for the year ended 30 June 2016 have not been reported and presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. • Based on our reasonable assurance procedures conducted, Stockland’s description of its adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of Materiality, Inclusivity, and Responsiveness for the year ended 30 June 2016 have been reported, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria. Ernst & Young (EY) has carried out an assurance As presented engagement pertaining to limited and reasonable Performance data within: assurance over aspects of Stockland Corporation Limited’s (‘Stockland’) consolidated Online Sustainability 13. Number of Asset and Project Report (as presented online: Based Initiatives www.stocklandsustainability.com.au and Customer engagement data: ► Customer www.stockland.com.au/corporate-reporting) (‘the Report’) Engagement for the year ended 30 June 2016. 14. Residential – Liveability Index Survey results DMA Subject Matter ► Community Data ► Annual Review Limited assurance Subject Matter included the following: Health & Safety data: ► Health and ► Selected material non-financial performance Safety DMA 15. Total number of Lost Time Injuries information (‘Selected Performance Information’) ► People Data (LTIs) ► Annual Review limited to those listed in Table 1 and related 16. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate qualitative disclosures included in the report. (LTIFR) 17. Total number of Injuries requiring Table 1: Selected Performance Data medical treatment (MTIs) and Medical treatment injury As presented frequency rate (MTIFR) Performance data within: Gender diversity data: ► Diversity and ► Carbon and 18. Workforce by gender (%) Inclusion DMA Greenhouse gas and energy data: Energy ► People Data 1. Total greenhouse gas (GHG) 19. Women in Management by Disclosure on ► Annual Review emissions, in tonnes of carbon Business (%) Management 20. Average Fixed Remuneration dioxide equivalent (tCO 2-e) Approach (DMA) Ratio by job band 2. Total Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2-e) ► Environmental 21. Gender Pay Equity Ratio Data 3. Total Scope 2 GHG emissions ► Annual Review (tCO2-e) ► Stockland’s reported alignment to the self-declared 4. Total Scope 3 GHG emissions Comprehensive level of ‘in accordance’ reporting (tCO2-e) requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative’s 5. Greenhouse gas emissions (‘GRI’) G4 Guidelines. intensity (kgCO2-e/m2) for Commercial Property portfolio Reasonable assurance Subject Matter included the 6. Electricity intensity reductions in following: Retail (% and Australian dollars ($)) ► Stockland’s description of adherence to the AA1000 7. Total Energy Consumption from AccountAbility Principles of Materiality, Inclusivity, and Purchased Electricity, in kilowatt Responsiveness as defined in the AA1000 hours (kWh) AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) (‘AA1000 8. Renewables electricity generation (kWh) APS’). 9. Total Energy Consumption from For both our limited and reasonable assurance Gas Consumption, in megajoules (MJ) engagements, the subject matter did not include: 10. Total Energy Consumption from ► Data sets, statements, information, systems or Transport Fuel Consumption, in approaches other than the Selected Performance Litres (L), and kilograms (kg) Data and related qualitative disclosures Community Contribution data: ► Community DMA ► Management’s forward looking statements ► Community Data 11. Community Development spend $ ► Annual Review 12. Community Investment spend $, including CARE Foundation A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Assurance | 74 Page 2 Criteria We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis Limited assurance Criteria include: for our limited assurance conclusions. ► Definitions as set out in the Global Reporting Summary of Procedures Undertaken Initiative’s (‘GRI’) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Stockland’s own criteria as set out in Our procedures included, but were not limited to: the Report ► Conducting interviews with key personnel to ► GRI G4 Comprehensive ‘in accordance’ reporting understand the process for collecting, collating and criteria reporting the Selected Performance Data during the reporting period Reasonable assurance Criteria include: ► Checking that the calculation criteria had been ► AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) correctly applied in accordance with the methodologies outlined in the Criteria Management’s Responsibility ► Site visits to Stockland’s Aura, Wetherill Park, and Willowdale facilities to understand how site-level data Management of Stockland is responsible for the was collected and reported to the group preparation and fair presentation of the Subject Matter in accordance with the Criteria, and is also responsible for ► Undertaking analytical review procedures to support the selection of methods used in the Criteria. No the reasonableness of the data conclusion is expressed as to whether the selected ► Identifying and testing assumptions supporting methods are appropriate for the purpose described calculations above. Further, Stockland’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal controls relevant ► Testing, on a sample basis, underlying source to the preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter information to check the accuracy of the data that is free from material misstatement, whether due to ► Reviewing the report and testing a sample of fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate criteria; maintaining adequate records, and making estimates that assertions and claims made throughout the Report are reasonable in the circumstances. including substantiating claims to evidence provided. Limited Assurance Responsibility and Reasonable Assurance Responsibility and Procedures Procedures Assurance Practitioner’s Responsibility Assurance Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance Our responsibility is to express a reasonable assurance conclusion on the Subject Matter based on our assurance conclusion on the Subject Matter based on our assurance engagement, conducted in accordance with the engagement conducted in accordance with the Australian Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board Auditing and Assurance Standards Board Australian Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements Other Standard on Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (‘ASAE Information (‘ASAE 3000’) and Assurance Engagements 3000’) and the terms of reference for this engagement as on Greenhouse Gas Statements (ASAE3410) and the agreed with Stockland. terms of reference for this engagement, as agreed with Our reasonable assurance procedures were designed to Stockland. express an opinion as to whether the Subject Matter, in Our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of all material respects, has been prepared in compliance assurance on which to base our conclusion, and, as with the Criteria based on our reasonable assurance such, do not provide all of the evidence that would be engagement. Our procedures performed depend on the required to provide a reasonable level of assurance. The assurance practitioner’s judgement including the risk of procedures performed depend on the assurance material misstatement of the Subject Matter, whether due practitioner’s judgement including the risk of material to fraud or error. While we considered the effectiveness misstatement of the Subject Matter, whether due to fraud of management’s internal controls when determining the or error. While we considered the effectiveness of nature and extent of our procedures, our assurance management’s internal controls when determining the engagement was not designed to provide assurance on nature and extent of our procedures, our assurance internal controls, and therefore no opinion is expressed engagement was not designed to provide assurance on on this. internal controls. We believe that the assurance evidence we have Our procedures did not include testing controls or obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis performing procedures relating to checking aggregation for our reasonable and limited assurance conclusions. or calculation of data within IT systems, which would have been performed under a reasonable assurance engagement. A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Assurance | 75 Page 3 Summary of Procedures Undertaken Materiality Our procedures included, but were not limited to the Stockland has a well-developed materiality assessment following: process that considers both operational matters, captured as part of its ‘enduring themes’, and emerging matters ► Interviews with Stockland personnel, including the over the shortand long-term. Stockland is therefore able Chairman and some Non-Executive Directors of the to allocate appropriate attention to material and wellBoard, all of Stockland’s executive management considered operational matters, whilst also monitoring team, selected members of the senior management emerging matters where the business response requires team, as well as selected external stakeholders. The ongoing development. purpose of these interviews being to understand the key sustainability issues related to the subject matter Throughout the year Stockland has further developed its and the effectiveness of Stockland’s response to the approach to managing these emerging matters through issues that matter to them the Ideas@Stockland program. Once ideas are commercialised, we suggest Stockland considers ► Undertaking an integrated materiality gap analysis to measuring and reporting outcomes of the ideas independently assess material matters based on the progressed to implementation and how they are Integrated Reporting <IR> framework and achieving value for the business. AccountAbility’s ‘five-part materiality test’. This included a desktop review, assessment of key internal Stockland could further enhance its materiality process documentation provided by Stockland, and analysis by validating outcomes with external stakeholders. against external guidelines and frameworks detailing emerging matters for the property sector Responsiveness ► Site visits to Stockland’s Aura, Wetherill Park, and Stockland has formal and informal processes in place to Willowdale facilities to understand how stakeholder respond to stakeholder concerns and feedback. These needs are considered and responded to, and how processes are carried out at both a corporate group and material sustainability issues are managed and asset level, as considered appropriate for the specific reported. stakeholder and matter raised. We found Stockland’s responsiveness processes to be timely and balanced. There is an opportunity for Stockland to further improve EY Observations and Opportunities for Improvement its responsiveness in relation to managing areas of risk in respect to adherence with the AA1000APS across its supply chain. In particular, the business is subject to potential risks as a result of contractor activities Sustainability considerations are integrated within many which could impact the ability of Stockland to operate. aspects of Stockland’s business processes, reflecting its Stockland continues to develop its approach on this longer-term commitment to the principles of Inclusivity, matter, which we suggest could include more consistent Materiality, and Responsiveness. We provide the processes to assess, validate and enforce expectations it following observations in relation to Stockland’s has of key contractors with regards to sustainability risks adherence with AA1000APS, noting that these across its supply chain. observations did not impact our ability to form an unqualified assurance conclusion regarding Stockland’s adherence to AA1000APS. Use of our Assurance Engagement Report Inclusivity We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this assurance report, or on the Subject Stockland has demonstrated its accountability to key Matter to which it relates, to any persons other than groups of stakeholders covering employees, government, Management and the Directors of Stockland, or for any investors, customers, suppliers, communities, and the purpose other than that for which it was prepared. media via engagement and disclosure on sustainability performance. Stockland has in place policies, procedures, and processes to identify and engage with stakeholders on an ongoing basis at both a corporate Independence and Quality Control group and at asset-level. Further, outcomes of In conducting our assurance engagement, we have met Stockland’s stakeholder engagement processes are the independence requirements of the APES 110 Code incorporated into wider business imperatives, for example of Ethics for Professional Accountants. We have the by incorporating stakeholder feedback into the target required competencies and experience to conduct this setting process. assurance engagement. Stockland currently reports on the results of selected stakeholder engagement activities, such as customer, community and people survey results. There is an opportunity for Stockland to consider capturing and measuring the results and outcomes of engagement with Ernst & Young other key stakeholder groups. For example, describing Melbourne, Australia how local government engagement contributes to value creation. 20 September 2016 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation Stockland Annual Review 2016 | Assurance | 76 Stockland Corporation Ltd ACN 000 181 733 Stockland Trust Management Limited ACN 001 900 741; AFSL 241190 As responsible entity for Stockland Trust ARSN 092 897 348 Head Office Level 25, 133 Castlereagh Street Sydney NSW 2000 Sydney Telephone 02 9035 2000 Melbourne Telephone 03 9095 5000 Brisbane Telephone 07 3305 8600 Perth Telephone 08 9368 9222 www.stockland.com.au
