CR Fact book 2015 The Nykredit Realkredit Group Unaudited 1 Table of contents 1 UN Global Compact 2 Policies 3 Customers 4 Sustainable investments 5 Corporate Governance 6 Mangement Code of The Danish Bankers Association 7 Environment and climate 8 Human Relations 9 Global Reportive Initiative (GRI) The Corporate Responsibility Fact Book contains disclosures regarding the Nykredit Realkredit Group's corporate social responsibility (CSR). The Corporate Responsibility Fact Book also includes Nykredit's statutory disclosures on corporate social responsibility in accordance with sections 135 and 135a of the Danish Executive Order on Financial Reports for Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, etc. issued by the Danish FSA. 2 UN Global Compact -Nykredit commits to sustainable conduct Principle Approach Human rights 1. Businesses should support and Nykredit's portfolios are screened twice a year to make sure that they respect the protection of are in accordance with the UN Global Principles for Responsible internationally proclaimed human Investment. In addition to regular screening, Nykredit's portfolios are rights. subject to continuous monitoring in order to assure its customers that steps are taken against non-compliant companies. 2. Businesses should make sure that Nykredit's investment policy implies that Nykredit will try, through they are not complicit in human dialogue, to make non-compliant companies change their conduct. If rights abuses. necessary, Nykredit will join forces with other investors in the attempt to bring about a change of conduct. Where dialogue does not lead to a change of conduct, Nykredit may sell its securities in the company. In addition to regular screening, Nykredit has a socially responsible investment policy, which can be found on our website. Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the Nykredit has a good relationship with NYKREDS, its staff association, freedom of association and the and Nykredit appreciates that NYKREDS seeks influence and works to effective recognition of the right to ensure that staff conditions are considered in the day-to-day collective bargaining. operations and the continuous group development. Interaction takes place at many levels: between the individual supervisor and union representative, in the local and central works councils and health and safety committees, as well as in a number of ad hoc working groups. 4. Businesses should uphold the In order to support the objective of being an attractive and elimination of all forms of forced and challenging workplace, Nykredit has prepared a staff policy, which is compulsory labour. being implemented through the local works councils in dialogue with NYKREDS. 5. Businesses should uphold the Nykredit's portfolios are screened twice a year to make sure that they effective abolition of child labour. are in accordance with the UN Global Principles for Responsible Investment. Based on the outcome, Nykredit decides which steps should be taken if a company in which it has invested does not comply with the conventions. 3 6. Businesses should uphold the Nykredit widely supports staff diversity in age, gender, sexual elimination of discrimination in orientation, ethnicity and disability. We believe that a diverse staff, respect of employment and reflecting who our customers are, strengthens the business and occupation. fosters a good and innovative working environment. Environment 7. Businesses should support a Nykredit intends to boost internal energy efficiency by combining precautionary approach to reductions in energy consumption with the establishment of environmental challenges. renewable energy systems such as solar cells. Also, we are in the process of reducing emissions from transport. 8. Businesses should undertake The objective of our internal efforts is to achieve an absolute initiatives to promote greater reduction of 65% of Nykredit's total CO2 emission by end-2020. environmental responsibility. Transport will account for an 8% reduction and internal efficiencies and renewable energy systems for 32%. Via our business initiatives, Nykredit will promote the Energy Agreement's target of more renewable energy in the Danish energy supply network. The contribution from Energy Agreement 2020 will be in the range of a 25% reduction of Nykredit's total CO2 emission relative to the 2012 levels. 9. Businesses should encourage the Nykredit has a climate and environment strategy up to 2020, focusing development and diffusion of on both Nykredit's financial service activities and a reduction of environmentally friendly Nykredit's own CO2 emission. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against Nykredit's anti-corruption policy sets out the principles for Nykredit's corruption in all its forms, including approach to countering any form of corruption. The policy points to extortion and bribery. specified activities and areas in which management and staff must be particularly alert to a potential risk of corruption. Initiatives such as elearning programmes for all staff members aim to ensure that all Nykredit Group staff act ethically correct at any time. The risk of corruption at the Nykredit Group is assessed as low, as Nykredit is a Danish-based financial services group with relatively few foreign customers and operates mainly in Scandinavia and the EU. But typical risk areas include nepotism, conflicts of interest, money laundering and inappropriate gifts. 4 Policies Nykredit's externally published policies Policy Description Link Corporate As the Nykredit Group is owned by a financial mutual, its Corporate governance shares are not listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen. Therefore, the governance Recommendations of Corporate Governance do not apply directly to Nykredit. However, Nykredit monitors the development in the Recommendations of Corporate Governance and widely adheres to them. Environment and Nykredit's environment policy is based on our business Environment and climate policy concept of Financial Sustainability. Financial Sustainability climate policy promises balance and lasting relations. The impacts on the environment are a serious challenge to society. Being one of Denmark's largest financial businesses, we share a responsibility for contributing to a long-term environmental response. Stakeholder Based on Nykredit's business concept – Financial Stakeholder policy policy Sustainability – we will contribute to securing a stable and efficient financial market and thus meet the expectations and requirements of our customers, staff and other stakeholders. Tax policy It is Nykredit's policy to be a competitive company while at Tax policy the same time being a responsible tax payer, and Nykredit intends to make its tax affairs as transparent as possible. Remuneration Pursuant to the rules on responsible remuneration, the Board Remuneration policy of Directors of financial businesses must perform an annual policy review of their remuneration policies. Every year Nykredit must report and disclose information about our remuneration policy and practices pertaining to the Board of Directors, the Executive Board and other staff members whose activities significantly affect Nykredit's risk profile. Disclosure requirements are stated in section 15 of the Danish executive order on remuneration policy and public disclosure of salaries in financial institutions and financial holding companies. Sustainable Nykredit's socially responsible investment policy is based on Sustainable investment policy the same awareness as Nykredit's business concept of investment policy Financial Sustainability: That sustainability may be a catalyst for higher returns and lower risk. This is why Nykredit is committed to both Global Compact and UNPRI; accordingly, our investment policy not only pertains to Nykredit's investment funds, but also to the Group's investment of its own funds. 5 Some of Nykredit's internal policies Policy Description The companies of the Nykredit Group operate according to Nykredit's business Code of conduct concept and code of conduct. Nykredit's credit policy determines the desired credit risk profile for Nykredit Credit policy Realkredit and Nykredit Bank. Nykredit's IT policy aims to ensure transparency and consistency for customers and IT safety policy staff through sustainable IT solutions. Nykredit aims at staff diversity in terms of gender, age, ethnicity, sexual orientation Diversity policy and flexitime jobs. Through consistent efforts to improve physical as well as psychological working Health and safety conditions, Nykredit aims to increase staff satisfaction and reduce sick absence policy rates. Nykredit's anti-corruption policy sets out the principles for Nykredit's approach to countering any form of corruption. The policy points to specified activities and areas Anti-corruption in which management and staff must be particularly alert to a potential risk of policy corruption. Initiatives such as e-learning programmes for all staff members aim to ensure that all Nykredit Group staff act ethically correct at any time. Fraud or Procedures aim to ensure that staff members of the Nykredit Group know how to act suspected fraud in case of another staff member committing or being suspected of fraud. policy Whistle-blower Nykredit's whistle-blower policy ensures an open company culture where staff can policy express concerns about possible violations of financial regulations. Nykredit's group staff policy defines Nykredit's general approach to and expectations of its staff. Staff policy The policy sets the overall framework, direction and scope for the behaviour of Nykredit's staff when at work. Confidentiality Upon employment with the Nykredit Group, staff members are made familiar with policy Nykredit's confidentiality policy. Given Nykredit's size, the credit policy allows for the aim of a suitable market Capital and risk presence and an objective of limited losses. The credit policy has been prepared with policy a view to hedging the risks affected by changes in economic trends between the granting of loans and their final settlement. Liquidity policy Nykredit has structured its lending in a manner that ensures a high level of liquidity. Managing of Customer information is confidential and is not shared among companies within the customer Nykredit Group unless it serves the customer's best interest and a consent form has informationbeen signed by the customer. policy 6 Customers Nykredit puts the customer first and aims Customer satisfaction to have the most satisfied customers Nykredit works systematically on customer among the leading Danish financial sector satisfaction and development and improvement players. measures that match our customers' needs and requirements and create long-term relationships. The Nykredit Group is in contact with more than It is important to us that our customers have a 1 million customers. This includes almost positive experience when dealing with Nykredit. 450,000 personal customers, more than 70,000 Therefore, we regularly ask our customers about commercial customers under the Nykredit their expectations regarding Nykredit's advisers, brand, and over 600,000 personal customers products and services. served by local and regional banks under the Totalkredit partnership Nykredit's ambition is to have the most satisfied customers. Advantages as a Nykredit customer It is important to us that our customers have a Nykredit's customers, have access to competent positive experience when dealing with Nykredit. advice whenever they need it. We offer banking, Therefore, we regularly ask our customers about mortgage lending, insurance, investment and their expectations regarding Nykredit's advisers, pension expertise. In other words, we cover all products and services and whether their aspects of our customer's financial situation. experience matches those expectations. As a personal customer We spare no effort We look at your overall financial requirements Our satisfaction surveys provide us with valuable because home loans, personal finances, savings input from thousands of customers, and their and investments are inextricably interlinked. time is not wasted. When we are made aware of areas where we As a commercial customer could do better, we take it seriously and change You get a bank with in-depth business our practice. knowledge and understanding of the challenges facing you and your company. This is how we listen We listen to our customers and take their Access to finance feedback seriously. Only that way can we achieve We want to share knowledge of financial issues our ambition of having the most satisfied and the financial services sector through customers among key financial service providers. dialogue with our stakeholders. Focus on our Nykredit measures customer satisfaction several stakeholders is vital to our objective of carrying times a year and receives responses from about on financial business for the benefit of our 25,000 customers. This provides us with insight customers. Nykredit contributes to society by into our customers' expectations and conducting business in a responsible manner, experiences. enabling us to provide loans to individuals and businesses in good times as well as in more Customer ambassador challenging times. Since 2007, Nykredit has had a customer For a overview of our lending portfolio on ambassador. The customer ambassador's regions, countries and more, see our financial objective is to ensure that the complaints factbook on nykredit.com/ir. of any dissatisfied customers are handled fairly. Market stablity In line with our CSR policy, Nykredit strives to contribute to a stable and efficient financial market. As a large workplace and business, we play an important role in society. As a financial mutual governed by our customers, we have a special obligation to show commitment and assume responsibility – also through support and involvement in other areas in Danish society, locally as well as nationally. 7 Customers Number of customers 1000s 2013 2014 2015 Number of customers 1,093 1,075 1,065 Of which personal customers 420 412 398 Of which commercial customers 74 74 73 Of which Totalkredit customers 627 615 617 Of which double customers * -28 -26 -23 *Number of customers who are customers of both Nykredit and Totalkredit Electronic customers 1000s 2013 2014 2015 Hits at nykredit.dk 11,044 9,865 10,356 Online calculations 1,285 1,003 1,061 Video conferences with advisers 0.0 2.2 3.4 Webdesk calls 33 27 Downloads of moblie apps 85 85 57 Customer satisfaction 2013 2014 2015 Personal customers, (EPSI 1-100) 72 72 70 Corporate customers, (EPSI 1-100) 64 65 66 Number of complaints 409 294 267 Number of complaints 450 1,120 400 1,100 350 300 1,080 250 1,060 200 150 1,040 100 1,020 50 0 1,000 2013 2014 2015 Number of complaints (lhs) Number of customers (rhs) 8 6XVWDLQDEOHLQYHVWPHQWV 1\NUHGLW VVXVWDLQDEOHLQYHVWPHQWVSROLF\ )LQDQFLDOVXVWDLQDELOLW\ 1\NUHGLW VVXVWDLQDEOHLQYHVWPHQWSROLF\LVEDVHGRQWKHVDPHDZDUHQHVVDV1\NUHGLW VEXVLQHVV FRQFHSWRI)LQDQFLDO6XVWDLQDELOLW\7KDWVXVWDLQDELOLW\PD\EHDFDWDO\VWIRUKLJKHUUHWXUQVDQG ORZHUULVN7KLVLVZK\1\NUHGLWLVFRPPLWWHGWRERWK *OREDO&RPSDFW DQG 8135,DFFRUGLQJO\RXU LQYHVWPHQWSROLF\QRWRQO\SHUWDLQVWR1\NUHGLW VLQYHVWPHQWIXQGVEXWDOVRWRWKH*URXS V LQYHVWPHQWRILWVRZQIXQGV 7ZROHJV 1\NUHGLW VSROLF\UHVWVRQWZROHJV2QHOHJLVWRSXVKIRUDVROXWLRQZKHQDFRPSDQ\YLRODWHV QDWLRQDOOHJLVODWLRQJHQHUDOO\DFFHSWHG81FRQYHQWLRQVRU*OREDO&RPSDFW VSULQFLSOHV:HVHHWKLV DVWDNLQJDFWLYHRZQHUVKLS7KHRWKHUOHJLVRXUREMHFWLYHWRLQFUHDVLQJO\XVHNQRZOHGJHDERXW FRUSRUDWHVXVWDLQDELOLW\SHUIRUPDQFH HQYLURQPHQWVRFLDODQGJRYHUQDQFHFULWHULD LQWKH LQYHVWPHQWSURFHVV 6FUHHQLQJRISRUWIROLRV (DFKTXDUWHUZHVFUHHQDOOLQWHUQDOO\DVZHOODVH[WHUQDOO\PDQDJHGHTXLW\FRUSRUDWHDQGPRUWJDJH ERQGSRUWIROLRVRI1\NUHGLW VLQYHVWPHQWIXQGVDQG1\NUHGLW VDQGLWVVXEVLGLDULHV LQYHVWPHQWRI RZQIXQGVZLWKWKHDVVLVWDQFHRIRXULQYHVWPHQWDGYLVHU $FWLYHRZQHUVKLS :KHQZHUHFHLYHFRQILUPHGLQIRUPDWLRQRQEUHDFKRIFRQYHQWLRQVHWFZHWDNHDFWLYHRZQHUVKLSRI WKHUHOHYDQWFRPSDQ\LQRUGHUWRPDNHLWFKDQJHLWVFRQGXFW:HPD\FRRSHUDWHZLWKRWKHU LQYHVWRUVRUZHPD\FKRRVHWRFDVWRXUYRWHDWWKHFRPSDQ\ VJHQHUDOPHHWLQJ6KRXOGWKH GLDORJXHSURYHXQVXFFHVVIXORUDUHWKHFRPSDQ\ VFRUHRSHUDWLRQVLQYLRODWLRQRILQWHUQDWLRQDOODZ ZHZLOOH[FOXGHWKHFRPSDQ\ ,IWKH6XVWDLQDEOH,QYHVWPHQW&RPPLWWHHGHFLGHVWRH[FOXGHD FRPSDQ\DQHYDOXDWLRQZLOOEHXQGHUWDNHQZLWKLQWZR\HDUVRIWKHGHFLVLRQLQRUGHUWRGHWHUPLQH ZKHWKHUH[FOXVLRQRIWKHFRPSDQ\LVVWLOOZDUUDQWHG )LQDQFLDOLQVWUXPHQWVVXFKDVILQDQFLDO GHULYDWLYHLQVWUXPHQWVDQGOLVWHGLQGH[OLQNHGIXQGVDUHQRWVXEMHFWWRWKLVSROLF\DV1\NUHGLWGRHV QRWKROGVKDUHVLQWKHFRPSDQLHVDQGWKHUHIRUHFDQQRWWDNHDFWLYHRZQHUVKLS *RYHUQPHQWERQGV 1\NUHGLW VDPELWLRQVRIVXVWDLQDEOHLQYHVWPHQWVDOVRLQFOXGHJRYHUQPHQWERQG LQYHVWPHQWV2XULQYHVWPHQWVDUHEDVHGRQFRPSOLDQFHZLWKLQWHUQDWLRQDOODZ$OVRZHEHOLHYHWKDW GHPRFUDF\DQGKXPDQULJKWVPD\LPSURYHUHWXUQV *RYHUQPHQWERQGLQYHVWPHQWVPD\FRQWULEXWH SRVLWLYHO\WRWKHGHYHORSPHQWLQDFRXQWU\EXWWKLVUHTXLUHVWKDWLQYHVWRUVDUHYLJLODQW7KHUHIRUH 1\NUHGLW VJXLGHOLQHVDUHEDVHGRQWKUHHVWHSV  ([FOXVLRQRIFRXQWULHVWKDWDUHVXEMHFWWRILQDQFLDO WUDQVDFWLRQVDQFWLRQVRUVDQFWLRQVDJDLQVWWKHOHDGHUVRIVSHFLILFFRXQWULHV  ,QFOXVLRQRI GHPRFUDF\DQGKXPDQULJKWVLQWKHLQYHVWPHQWSURFHVV  7KH2(&'FRXQWU\ULVNFODVVLILFDWLRQLV XVHGIRUFRQWLQXRXVPRQLWRULQJRILQYHVWPHQWV ,IDSRUWIROLRPDQDJHURUDQH[WHUQDOPDQDJHUZDQWV WREX\JRYHUQPHQWERQGVIURPDFRXQWU\LQWKHORZHVWRUVHFRQGORZHVWFDWHJRU\RIWKH2(&' FRXQWU\ULVNFODVVLILFDWLRQWKHSRUWIROLRPDQDJHURUH[WHUQDOPDQDJHUPXVWPDNHDVXVWDLQDELOLW\ DVVHVVPHQWRIWKHLQYHVWPHQW1\NUHGLW V6XVWDLQDEOH,QYHVWPHQW&RPPLWWHHZLOOWKHQGHFLGHRQ WKHEDVLVRIWKHVXVWDLQDELOLW\DVVHVVPHQWZKHWKHUWKHLQYHVWPHQWLVLQFRPSOLDQFHZLWK1\NUHGLW V SROLF\,IQRWWKHFRXQWU\LVH[FOXGHG 6SHFLDOLVHGSURGXFWV 1\NUHGLWRIIHUVVSHFLDOLVHGSURGXFWVWRFXVWRPHUVWKDWKDYHDQRWKHUDSSURDFKWRUHVSRQVLEOH LQYHVWPHQWV$VDPLQLPXPDOOVXFKSURGXFWVFRPSO\ZLWK1\NUHGLW VVXVWDLQDEOHLQYHVWPHQWSROLF\ 1\NUHGLW V6XVWDLQDEOH,QYHVWPHQW&RPPLWWHH 1\NUHGLW V6XVWDLQDEOH,QYHVWPHQW&RPPLWWHHRSHUDWHVZLWKLQWKHIUDPHZRUNRI1\NUHGLW V VXVWDLQDEOHLQYHVWPHQWSROLF\7KH&RPPLWWHHPHHWVIRXUWLPHVD\HDUWRGHFLGHRQDFWLYH RZQHUVKLSDQGH[FOXVLRQVDQGWRIXUWKHULQWHJUDWHVXVWDLQDELOLW\LQWKHLQYHVWPHQWSURFHVV .QRZOHGJHVKDULQJDQGGHYHORSPHQW 6XVWDLQDEOHDQGUHVSRQVLEOHLQYHVWPHQWLVQRWDQH[DFWVFLHQFH&RQVHTXHQWO\SDUWRIRXUZRUNLQ WKHDUHDRIVXVWDLQDEOHLQYHVWPHQWLVWRXQGHUVWDQGQHZWUHQGVDQGVKDUHRXUNQRZOHGJHZKLFKZH GRLQ 8135, 'DQVLI DQGWKURXJKWKHGLUHFWFRQWDFWZLWKRXUFXVWRPHUV 9 Sustainable investment UNPRI Principles for sustainable investment Nykredit has signed up to the six UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI). The principles constitute a set of common global guidelines for responsible investor conduct. Nykredit incorporates environmental, social and corporate governance issues into its entire investme process. Responsible Investment Transparency Report can be found on our website: UNPRI report Sustainable investments in numbers Year-end 2013 2014 2015 Number of companies screened 2,000 2,000 2,000 Number of companies subject to active ownership 23 21 21 Number of companies excluded 12 20 20 Sustainable investments, DKKbn* 241 258.5 253.8 * Total investments in respect of Nykredit's socially responsible investment policy. Includes both Nykredit's investment funds and the Group's investment of its own funds. 10 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance in Nykredit The Nykredit Group (hereinafter Nykredit ) carries on financial business through Nykredit Realkredit A/S and the wholly-owned subsidiaries Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit Bank A/S as well as the latter's wholly-owned subsidiary Nykredit Portefølje Administration A/S. Nykredit Realkredit A/S is wholly owned by Nykredit Holding A/S, the shareholders of which are Foreningen Nykredit (89.8%), Foreningen Østifterne (3.25%), Industriens Fond (4.7%), and PRAS A/S (2.25%). The ultimate authority of Foreningen Nykredit is the Committee of Representatives, which is composed of up to 100 representatives who are elected by the borrowers and bondholders of Nykredit Realkredit A/S. Owing to Nykredit's special ownership and corporate structure, Foreningen Nykredit, Nykredit Holding A/S and Nykredit Realkredit A/S have the same objectives and common interests. Nykredit's shares are not listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen. Therefore, the Recommendations on Corporate Governance (hereinafter the Recommendations ), last revised by the Committee on Corporate Governance in May 2013, are not directly applicable to Nykredit. However, Nykredit decided already in 2002 that, given the adjustments following from the Group's special ownership and corporate structure, it should act as a listed company for external purposes, operating on sound business terms and taking into consideration the Recommendations. The managerial code of conduct of November 2013 of the Danish Bankers Association integrate and supplement the Recommendations and apply to Nykredit Bank A/S as a bank. Nykredit has furthermore decided that all the financial companies of the Group must address and adhere to the code of conduct where relevant. This implies that the financial companies of the Nykredit Group take into consideration both the Recommendations on Corporate Governance and the managerial code of conduct of the Danish Bankers Association and adhere to them where relevant. To ensure suitable risk management across the Group and optimum resource utilisation, various overall objectives, policies, etc are determined at group level. Owing to Nykredit's corporate structure, a number of decision-making and reporting processes, etc in Nykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to the fact that the companies are wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Recommendations as well as the code of conduct imply that the companies must explain how they address the recommendations, in accordance with the comply-or-explain principle, ie they may either comply with the Recommendations/code of conduct or opt not to comply and instead explain the reason why. The report below is divided into a section about the Recommendations on Corporate Governance and a section about the managerial code of conduct. The report concerns all the financial companies of the Nykredit Group unless otherwise stated. 11 A. Report concerning Recommendations on Corporate Governance for the financial year 2015 Recommendation Approach 1.1.1. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors ensure ongoing dialogue between the The members of the Board of Directors of Nykredit company and its shareholders in order for the Holding A/S are appointed by the boards of directors shareholders to gain relevant insight into the of Foreningen Nykredit (main shareholder) and two company’s potential and policies, and in order for out of the other three shareholders, and the Board the board of directors to be aware of the of Directors of Nykredit Realkredit A/S is elected by shareholders’ views, interests and opinions on the Nykredit Holding A/S. The Board of Directors of company. Foreningen Nykredit is elected by and among the Committee of Representatives, which is composed of customers having loans with Nykredit Realkredit A/S, customers having loans with Totalkredit A/S who have become members of Foreningen Nykredit, customers of Nykredit Bank A/S with total facilities of at least DKK 50,000 and bondholders. It is customary at Nykredit that the members of the Board of Direc-tors of Foreningen Nykredit are also members of the Boards of Di-rectors of Nykredit Holding A/S and Nykredit Realkredit A/S. The small number of shareholders creates a good setting for an active dialogue between the members, owners and Group Management. 1.1.2. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors adopt policies on the company’s Nykredit has adopted a policy on the Group's relationship with its stakeholders, including relationship with its stakeholders. Nykredit has shareholders and other investors, and that the furthermore laid down guidelines on its conduct in board ensures that the interests of the shareholders relation to its stakeholders both in and outside the are respected in accordance with company policies. Group. The guidelines include information on Nykredit's business concept, values and business objectives. Nykredit's business concept, Financial Sustainability, describes the values which have been at the core of the Company's activities since the formation of the first mortgage association, and which remain the historical foundation of the Company. In addition, Nykredit is dedicated to strengthening the Group's relations with its stakeholders, which includes efforts to gain more insight into stakeholder demands, expectations and interaction vis-à-vis Nykredit. One way of doing this is through Nykredit's non-financial report, Nykredit – Engaging with Society , and a CR Factbook, which are published together with the Annual Report. 1.1.3. The Committee recommends that the Nykredit complies with the recommendation. company publish quarterly reports. 12 Recommendation Approach 1.2.1. The Committee recommends that, when Nykredit complies with the recommendation. organising the company’s general meeting, the The decision-making and reporting processes, etc in board of directors plan the meeting to support Nykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit active ownership. Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to the fact that the companies are wholly-owned subsidiaries. 1.2.2. The Committee recommends that proxies Nykredit complies with the recommendation. granted for the general meeting allow shareholders to consider each individual item on the agenda. 1.3.1. The Committee recommends that the Nykredit does not comply with the recommendation. company set up contingency procedures in the The recommendation is not relevant due to the event of takeover bids from the time that the board ownership structure of the Nykredit Group. of directors has reason to believe that a takeover bid will be made. According to such contingency procedures, the board of directors should not without the acceptance of the general meeting, attempt to counter the takeover bid by making decisions which in reality prevent the shareholders from deciding on the takeover bid themselves. 2.1.1. The Committee recommends that at least Nykredit complies with the recommendation. once a year the board of directors take a position on The decision-making and reporting processes, etc in the matters related to the board’s perform-ance of Nykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit its responsibilities. Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to the fact that the companies are wholly-owned subsidiaries. 2.1.2. The Committee recommends that at least Nykredit complies with the recommendation. once a year the board of directors take a position on The decision-making and reporting processes, etc in the overall strategy of the company with a view to Nykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit ensuring value creation in the company. Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to the fact that the companies are wholly-owned subsidiaries. 2.1.3. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors ensure that the company has a capital Nykredit has arranged its capital structure so as to and share structure ensuring that the strategy and comply with regulatory requirements at any time long-term value creation of the company are in the and with a view to maintaining lending activities best interest of the shareholders and the company, regardless of economic trends, while retaining a and that the board of directors pre-sents this in the competitive rating. management commentary on the company’s annual report and/or on the company’s website. A report is given in the Annual Report and at www.nykredit.dk. 13 Recommendation Approach 2.1.4. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors annually review and approve guidelines The decision-making and reporting processes, etc in for the executive board; this includes es-tablishing Nykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit requirements for the executive board on timely, Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to accurate and adequate reporting to the board of the fact that the companies are wholly-owned directors. subsidiaries. 2.1.5. The Committee recommends that at least Nykredit complies with the recommendation. once a year the board of directors discuss the The decision-making and reporting processes, etc in composition of the executive board, as well as develNykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit opments, risks and succession plans. Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to the fact that the companies are wholly-owned subsidiaries. 2.1.6. The Committee recommends that once a year Nykredit complies with the recommendation. the board of directors discuss the company’s Nykredit has adopted a diversity policy and has set activities to ensure relevant diversity at managetargets for the proportion of female board members ment levels, including setting specific goals and and female managers at all other managerial levels. accounting for its objec-tives and progress made in achieving the objectives in the management The decision-making and reporting processes, etc in commentary on the company’s annual report and/or Nykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit on the website of the company. Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to the fact that the companies are wholly-owned subsidiaries. The targets and current situation appear from the Annual Report, CR Factbook and the website www.nykredit.dk. 2.2.1. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors adopt poli-cies on corporate social A policy on the corporate social responsibility of the responsibility Nykredit Group has been adopted. Nykredit's business concept describes Nykredit's stakeholder relations and Nykredit's commitment to social respon-sibility. In 2008 Nykredit adopted the UN Global Compact, a pro-gramme for sustainable conduct. Nykredit has also prepared a climate and environment strategy 2020. This issue is described in Nykredit – Engaging with Society and a CR Factbook. 2.3.1. The Committee recommends appointing a Nykredit complies with the recommendation. vice-chairman of the board of directors who will assume the responsibilities of the chairman in the event of the chairman’s absence, and who will also act as effective sparring partner for the chairman. 14 Recommendation Approach 2.3.2. The Committee recommends ensuring that, if Nykredit complies with the recommendation. the board of directors, in exceptional cases, asks the The boards of directors of the financial subsidiary chairman of the board of directors to perform companies are composed of executive board special operating activities for the company, members and executive staff of including briefly par-ticipating in the day-to-day Nykredit who perform tasks for several group management, a board resolution to that effect be companies as part of their jobs. passed to ensure that the board of directors maintains its independent, overall management and control function. Resolutions on the chairman’s participation in day-to-day management and the expected duration hereof should be published in a company announcement. 3.1.1. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors annually accounts for The boards of directors are the supreme • the skills it must have to best perform its tasks, management bodies of the financial companies, • the composition of the board of directors, and which make decisions of a strategic and fun• the special skills of each member. damental nature. The boards – and the Committee of Representa-tives of Foreningen Nykredit which serves as a recruitment base for the boards of directors of the Nykredit Group – are intended to be composed of a group of persons who, together, will serve the best interests of the Company with due regard for all its stakeholders. The boards of directors of Nykredit's financial companies should possess skills within the following areas, as well as special skills relevant to the activities of the individual company: • Strategy • Knowledge of the mortgage and banking industry and the real estate area • Economics, finance and accounting • Capital markets, securities and funding • Politics, management and associations • Financial regulation • Corporate governance • Digitisation, IT and processes • Market conditions, customer relations and sales • Organisation/HR and processes • Credit matters. The composition of the boards of directors and the special skills and experience of each board member are outlined at www.nykredit.dk and in the Management's Review in the Annual Report. 15 Recommendation Approach 3.1.2. The Committee recommends that the Nykredit complies with the recommendation. selection and nomination of candidates for the board In addition to the professional skills mentioned in of directors be carried out through a thorough and para 3.1.1, the composition and recruitment of transparent process approved by the overall board board members take into account personal skills and of directors. When assessing its composition and diversity in terms of gender, age etc. nominating new candidates, the board of directors The decision-making and reporting processes, etc in must take into consideration the need for Nykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit integration of new talent and diversity in relation to Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to age, international experience and gender. the fact that the companies are wholly-owned subsidiaries. 3.1.3. The Committee recommends that a Nykredit complies with the recommendation. description of the nominated candidates’ The decision-making and reporting processes, etc in qualifications, including information about the Nykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit candidates’ Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to • other executive functions, e.g. memberships in the fact that the companies are wholly-owned executive boards, boards of directors, and subsidiaries. supervisory boards, including board committees in foreign enterprises, be accompanied by the notice convening the general meeting when election of members to the board of directors is on the agenda • demanding organisational tasks, and information • about whether candidates to the board of directors are considered independent. 3.1.4. The Committee recommends that the Nykredit does not comply with the recommendation. company’s articles of association stipulate a The articles of association of Nykredit's financial retirement age for members of the board of companies do not stipulate a retirement age for directors. members of the boards of directors. In practice, a retirement age applies to the eight board members of Nykredit Realkredit A/S elected by the General Meeting, who are also members of the Board of Directors of Foreningen Nykredit, as the articles of association of Foreningen Nykredit stipulate a maxi-mum age for election to the Committee of Representatives which implies that board members resign at the age of 66-70 years at the latest. 3.1.5. The Committee recommends that that Nykredit complies with the recommendation. members of the board of directors elected by the general meeting be up for election every year at the annual general meeting. 16 Recommendation Approach 3.2.1. The Committee recommends that at least half Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of the members of the board of directors elected by It is standard practice at Nykredit that the eight of the general meeting be independent per-sons, in the nine members of the Board of Directors of order for the board of directors to be able to act Foreningen Nykredit elected by the Committee of independently of special interests. Representatives are also elected for the Boards of To be considered independent, this person may not: Directors of Nykredit Holding A/S and Nykredit • be or within the past five years have been Realkredit A/S and that the last two members of the member of the executive board, or senior staff Board of Directors of Nykredit Realkredit A/S elected member in the company, a subsidiary undertaking by the General Meeting are also members of the or an associate, Board of Directors of Nykredit Holding A/S. • within the past five years, have received larger The majority of the members of the Board of emoluments from the company/group, a subsidiary Directors elected by the General Meeting are undertaking or an associate in another ca-pacity therefore considered independent, while three than as member of the board of directors, members of the Board of Directors have been so for • represent the interests of a controlling more than 12 years and are therefore not shareholder, considered independent. • within the past year, have had significant business relations (e.g. per-sonal or indirectly as partner or The recommendation is not relevant to the whollyemployee, shareholder, customer, supplier or owned financial subsidiaries whose boards of member of the executive management in companies directors as a natural consequence of the group with corresponding connection) with the company, a structure are composed of executive board members subsidiary undertaking or an associate, and executive staff members of Nykredit. • be or within the past three years have been employed or partner at the external auditor, • have been chief executive in a company holding cross-memberships with the company, • have been member of the board of directors for more than 12 years, or • have been close relatives with persons who are Formally speaking, the directors elected by the General Meeting represent the interests of controlling shareholders. However, this is a natural consequence of the shared objectives and interests of the companies, for which reason the members of the Board of Directors of Nykredit Realkredit A/S elected by the General Meeting are considered capable of acting independently of special interests. 3.3.1. The Committee recommends that each Nykredit complies with the recommendation. member of the board of directors assesses the expected time commitment for each function in order that the member does not take on more functions than he/she can manage satisfactorily for the company. 17 Recommendation Approach 3.3.2. The Committee recommends that the Nykredit complies with the recommendation. management commentary, in addition to the provisions laid down by legislation, includes the following information about the members of the board of directors: • the position of the relevant person, • the age and gender of the relevant person, • whether the member is considered independent, • the date of appointment to the board of directors of the member, • expiry of the current election period, • other executive functions, e.g. memberships in executive boards, boards of directors, and supervisory boards, including board committees in foreign enterprises and • demanding organisational tasks, and • the number of shares, options, warrants and similar in the company, and other group companies of the company, owned by the member, as well as changes in the portfolio of the member of the securities mentioned which have occurred during the financial year. 3.4.1. The Committee recommends that the Nykredit complies with the recommendation. company publish the following on the company's Nykredit has set up an Audit Board, a Remuneration website: Board, Nomination Board and a Risk Board. The • the terms of reference of the board committees, boards are common to all companies of the Nykredit • the most important activities of the committees Group. during the year, and the number of meetings held by each committee, and Detailed information on the boards is available at • the names of the members of each committee, www.nykredit.dk. including the chairmen of the committees, as well as information on which members are independent members and which members have special qualifications. 3.4.2. The Committee recommends that a majority Nykredit partially complies with the of the members of a board committee be recommendation. independent. The majority of the members of the Audit Board and the Risk Board are independent. On the Remuneration Board and the Nomination Board, two of four members are not considered inde-pendent due to the length of their directorships. 3.4.3. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors set up a formal audit committee composed such that • the chairman of the board of directors is not chairman of the audit committee, and • between them, the members should possess such expertise and experience as to provide an updated insight into and experience in the financial, accounting and audit aspects of companies whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market. 18 Recommendation Approach 3.4.4. The Committee recommends that, prior to Nykredit complies with the recommendation. the approval of the annual report and other financial reports, the audit committee monitors and reports to the board of directors about: • significant accounting policies, • significant accounting estimates, • related party transactions, and • uncertainties and risks, including in relation to the outlook for the current year. 3.4.4. The Committee recommends that, prior to Nykredit complies with the recommendation. the approval of the annual report and other financial reports, the audit committee monitors and reports to the board of directors about: • significant accounting policies, • significant accounting estimates, • related party transactions, and • uncertainties and risks, including in relation to the outlook for the current year. 3.4.6. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors establish a nomination committee chaired by the chairman of the board of directors with at least the following preparatory tasks: • describe the qualifications required by the board of directors and the executive board, and for a specific membership, state the time expected to be spent on having to carry out the membership, as well as assess the competences, knowledge and experience of the two governing bodies combined, • annually assess the structure, size, composition and results of the board of directors and the executive board, as well as recommend any changes to the board of directors, • annually assess the competences, knowledge and experience of the individual members of management, and report to the board of directors in this respect, • consider proposals from relevant persons, including shareholders and members of the board of directors and the executive board for candidates for the board of directors and the executive board, and • propose an action plan to the board of directors on the future composition of the board of directors, including proposals for specific changes. 19 Recommendation Approach 3.4.7. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors establish a remuneration committee with at least the following preparatory tasks: • to recommend the remuneration policy (including the general guidelines for incentive-based remuneration) to the board of directors and the executive board for approval by the board of directors prior to approval by the general meeting, • make proposals to the board of directors on remuneration for members of the board of directors and the executive board, as well as ensure that the remuneration is in compliance with the company’s remuneration policy and the assessment of the performance of the persons concerned. The committee should have information about the total amount of remunera-tion that members of the board of directors and the executive board re-ceive from other companies in the group, and • recommend a remuneration policy applicable for the company in general. 3.4.8. The Committee recommends that the Nykredit complies with the recommendation. remuneration committee do not consult with the same external advisers as the executive board of the company. 3.5.1. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors establish an evaluation procedure where The decision-making and reporting processes, etc in contributions and results of the board of directors Nykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit and the individual members, as well as collaboration Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to with the executive board are annually evaluated. the fact that the companies are wholly-owned Significant changes deriving from the evaluation subsidiaries. should be included in the management commentary or on the company's website. 3.5.2. The Committee recommends that in Nykredit complies with the recommendation. connection with preparation of the general meeting, The decision-making and reporting processes, etc in the board of directors consider whether the number Nykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit of members is appropriate in relation to the Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to requirements of the company. This should help the fact that the companies are wholly-owned ensure a constructive debate and an effective subsidiaries. decision-making process in which all members are given the opportunity to partici-pate actively. 3.5.3. The Committee recommends that at least Nykredit complies with the recommendation. once every year the board of directors evaluate the The decision-making and reporting processes, etc in work and performance of the executive board in Nykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit accordance with predefined clear criteria. Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to the fact that the companies are wholly-owned subsidiaries. 3.5.4. The Committee recommends that the Nykredit complies with the recommendation. executive board and the board of directors establish The decision-making and reporting processes, etc in a procedure according to which their cooperation is Nykredit Bank A/S, Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit evaluated annually through a formalised dialogue Portefølje Administration A/S have been adapted to between the chairman of the board of directors and the fact that the companies are wholly-owned the chief executive officer and that the outcome of subsidiaries. the evaluation be presented to the board of directors. 20 Recommendation Approach 4.1.1. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors prepare a clear and transparent remuneration policy for the board of directors and Reference is made to www.nykredit.dk. the executive board, including • a detailed description of the components of the remuneration for members of the board of directors and the executive board, • the reasons for choosing the individual components of the remuneration, and • a description of the criteria on which the balance between the individual components of the remuneration is based. The remuneration policy should be approved by the general meeting and published on the company’s website. 4.1.2. that, if the remuneration policy includes Nykredit complies with the recommendation. variable components, • limits be set on the variable components of the total remuneration package, • a reasonable and balanced linkage be ensured between remuneration for governing body members, expected risks and the value creation for shareholders in the short and long terms, • there be clarity about performance criteria and measurability for award of variable components, • there be criteria ensuring that qualifying periods for variable components in remuneration agreements are longer than one calendar year, and • an agreement be made which, in exceptional cases, entitles the company to reclaim in full or in part variable components of remuneration that were paid on the basis of data, which proved to be misstated. 4.1.3. The Committee recommends that Nykredit complies with the recommendation. remuneration of members of the board of directors does not include share options. 4.1.4. The Committee recommends that if shareNykredit complies with the recommendation. based remuneration is provided, such programmes be established as roll-over programmes, i.e. the options are granted periodically and should have a maturity of at least three years from the date of allocation. 4.1.5. The Committee recommends that agreements Nykredit complies with the recommendation. on termination pay-ments should not amount to more than two years’ annual remuneration. 4.2.1. The Committee recommends that the Nykredit complies with the recommendation. company’s remuneration pol-icy and compliance with this policy be explained and justified annually in the chairman's statement at the company’s general meeting. 21 Recommendation Approach 4.2.2. The Committee recommends that the Nykredit complies with the recommendation. proposed remuneration for the board of directors for the current financial year be approved by the shareholders at the general meeting. 4.2.3. The Committee recommends that the total Nykredit complies with the recommendation. remuneration granted to each member of the board of directors and the executive board by the company and other companies in the group, including information on the most important contents of retention and retirement/resignation schemes, be disclosed in the annual report and that the linkage with the remuneration policy be explained. 5.1.1. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors in the management commentary review and account for the most important strategic and business-related risks, risks in connection with the financial reporting as well as for the company’s risk management. 5.2.1. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors decide whether to establish a whistleNykredit set up a whistle-blower scheme in 2014 to blower scheme for expedient and confidential counter violations of financial legislation. notification of possible or suspected wrongdoing. 5.3.1. The Committee recommends that the board Nykredit complies with the recommendation. of directors ensure regular dialogue and exchange of information between the auditor and the board of directors, including that the board of directors and the audit committee at least once a year meet with the auditor without the executive board present. This also applies to the internal auditor, if any. 5.3.2. The Committee recommends that the audit Nykredit complies with the recommendation. agreement and auditors' fee be agreed between the board of directors and the auditor on the basis of a recommendation from the audit committee. 22 Report concerning the managerial code of conduct of the Danish Bankers Association for the financial year 2015 Recommendation Approach GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS The recommendation is complied with. 1. The Association recommends that member companies Reference is made to section A, address all recommendations of the Committee on containing the report of the Nykredit Corporate Governance. Group regarding the recommendations of the Committee on Corporate Governance. Nykredit complies with the 2. The Association recommends that member companies recommendation. prepare and publish a code of conduct describing the The companies of the Nykredit Group business concept and the desired conduct in respect of operate according to Nyk-redit's business operation and management. concept and code of conduct. RECOMMENDATIONS CONCERNING THE COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3. The Association recommends that member companies apply a specified and structured process when recruiting Nykredit complies with the candidates for their boards of directors and possibly recommendation. include external competences. Nykredit complies with the 4. The Association recommends that member companies recommendation. whose arti-cles of association stipulate that members of the board of directors may only be elected among a The Articles of Association of the Nykredit restricted group of persons account for the basis of such Group contain no such restrictions. restrictions. RECOMMENDATIONS CONCERNING TRAINING OF MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 5. The Association recommends that board members commence a training programme in banking as soon as possible and not later than six months after joining the Nykredit complies with the board of directors unless they al-ready possess updated recommendation. and specific banking skills. The programme should reflect the size, business model and complexity of the com-pany. 6. The Association recommends that members of the board of direc-tors regularly participate in competency Nykredit complies with the development of relevance to their directorship. The recommendation. subjects and scope should be adapted to the size, business model and complexity of the company. RECOMMENDATIONS CONCERNING EVALUATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND BOARD MEMBERS 7. The Association recommends that each individual board member annually evaluate his or her work on the board of Nykredit complies with the directors. As part of the evaluation, the board members recommendation. should fill in an evaluation form that contains both managerial and banking-related topics. 23 RECOMMENDATIONS CONCERNING COOPERATION WITH THE DAY-TO-DAY MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY 8. The Association recommends that relevant specialists be involved in the cooperation with the board of directors Nykredit complies with the and that they attend board meetings when particularly recommendation. complex issues are discussed. 9. The Association recommends that the cooperation between the executive board and the board of directors Nykredit complies with the be discussed at a meet-ing of the board of directors at recommendation. least once a year. The executive board should not be present during such discussions. OTHER RECOMMENDATIONS Nykredit complies with the 10. The Association recommends that member companies recommendation. publish on their website or in a similar way a list of the Lists of attendance at board and attendance of board members at board and committee committee meetings of Nykredit meetings. Realkredit A/S are published. 11. The Association recommends that member companies Nykredit complies with the consider the rules on limits to directorships laid down in recommendation. the Danish Financial Business Act. 12. The Association recommends that member companies focus on the role of the external auditors and the quality of their services. Mem-ber companies should set forth demands as to the composition of the teams of external auditors to ensure that a team includes at least two Nykredit complies with the experienced auditors with complementary skills. To be an recommendation. experienced auditor, an auditor must have completed supplemen-tary training in the field of banking and have participated in the auditing of a bank, savings bank or cooperative bank for at least three years. 24 Environment and climate Nykredit wants to run a sustainable and socially responsible business. We have therefore set a target for the reduction of our carbon footprint by 65% by 2020 relative to the level in 2012. Key figures – internal consumption Indeks 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012-2015 CO2 emission per full time staff, ton* 2.64 2.40 2.43 2.11 80% Heating per sqm, kWh 94 86 95 107 114% Heated area, sqm 146,784 149,821 142,626 125,455 85% *Full time staff at sept. 30th Ressource consuption Indeks 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012-2015 Total energy consumption (MWh) 30,149 29,167 28,922 27,418 91% Of which electricity (total) 16,054 16,320 15,172 13,630 85% Of which electricity from renewable sources 241 303 Of which heating* 14,094 12,847 13,509 13,486 96% Energy consumption within the organization (MW 806 780 963 1,270 158% Energy consumption outside the organization (M 29,343 28,387 27,958 26,148 89% *Degree-day adjusted **The largest part of the rise in direct energy consumption is attributable to Nykredit's generation and on-site consumption of solar CO2 emission (scopes) Indeks 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012-2015 Total CO2 emission, ton 10,821 9,511 9,749 7,604 70% Direct CO2 emission (scope 1) 308 280 295 308 100% Of which company cars under gross salary con 143 119 147 110 77% Of which heating – natural gas 165 160 148 198 120% Indirect CO2 emission (scope 3) 8,131 7,029 7,727 6,032 74% Of which electricity 6,609 5,565 6,175 4,478 68% Of which heating from CHP plants 1,522 1,464 1,552 1,554 102% Other indirect CO2 emission (scope 3) 2,382 2,202 1,727 1,264 53% Of which by aircraft 1,191 1,135 718 493 41% Of which by train 52 68 68 60 115% Of which by own car 1,060 955 883 669 63% Of which by taxi 78 44 57 42 54% The reporting period of Nykredit's Environmental and Climate Report for 2015 is from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015. The reporting period was chosen to allow Nykredit to report climate and environmental data at the beginning of the year. For more details on Nykredit's climate and environmental efforts, please see Nykredit's Climate and Environmental Report 2015 and www.nykredit.dk/klima 25 Human Relations Key figures 2013 2014 2015 Average number of full-time staff* 4,052 3,971 3,709 Staff turnover 7.1% 9.5% 15.1% Women in management 30% 31% 31% *The average number of full-time staff, determined on the basis of the Danish ATP method, excluding Nykredit Forsikring A/S and JN Data A/S Staff figures 2013 2014 2015 Permanent staff, year-end 3,855 3,567 3,432 -of which part-time staff 407 404 349 Staff paid by the hour 642 574 626 New staff 209 132 285 Outflow 274 357 543 New staff as percentage of permanent staff 5.4% 3.7% 8.3% Staff opinion survey Level (0-100) 2013 2014 2015 Staff satisfaction 74 71 74 Physical workplace assessment 96 94 97 Work-life balance 2013 2014 2015 Part-time staff 407 404 349 of which women 373 372 318 of which men 34 32 31 Average number of days per paid maternity 118 124 125 Number of staff on leave 413 377 371 Health 2013 2014 2015 Number of staff participating in annual 1,976 1,580 1,245 health check offer Average days of absence because of illness 6.3 6.1 5.6 *A great part of Retail staff have postponed the annual health check from 2015 to 2016 due to an overlap of the health check and another event in Retail. 26 Percentage of female managers % 2013 2014 2015 Target 2018 Executive-level management 11% 12% 16% 20% Middle-level management 22% 24% 26% 30% Lower-level management 45% 48% 48% 50% Total female managers 30% 31% 31% Percentage of female managers 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% 2013 2014 2015 Target 2018 Executive-level management Middle-level management Lower-level management Since 1996 Nykredit has focused on more women in management and has made an active contribution under the Charter for more women in management and Operation Chain Reaction . Nykredit has set targets for the percentage of women on the boards of directors of Nykredit's financial companies and has developed a policy to raise the percentage of women at other management levels. In recent years Nykredit has recruited more female managers at the lower management levels. There is still room for improvement at the higher management levels and in some career paths. Nykredit has a structured programme to recruit more women for the top management level. The programme identifies and develops management talents at Nykredit, creating a pipeline of staff ready for their first managerial job as well as experienced management staff at executive level. The programme includes objective assessments supporting the identification of management talents with potential for the next rung on the career ladder – regardless of gender. Nykredit's target for the percentage of female managers in executive-level management was 15% in 2015. The target was met with a percentage of 16%. Nykredit is aiming to increase this to 20% by 2018. Nykredit's policy for women in management and other information on nykredit's efforts in this respect are available at nykredit.dk. Female board representation % 2013 2014 2015 Target 2017 Nykredit Realkredit 20% 20% 20% 25% Nykredit Bank 20% 20% 20% 25% Totalkredit 14% 22% 22% 25% Staff receiving regular performance and career development reviews 2015, % of employees Men Women Total Management 91.0% 91.0% 91.0% Total 91.0% 86.0% 89.0% Note: Numbers are lower than 100% because of maternity leave, leave, illness, change of job etc. 27 Nykredit GRI-Index 2015 Nykredit’s Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index includes reference to relevant reports and websites dealing with the matter in question. Annual report = Annual Report 2015, Nykredit Realkredit Group Fact book = Fact book 2015, Nykredit Realkredit Group CR-fact book = CR Fact book 2015, Nykredit Realkredit Group CSR-report = Nykredit engaging with society General standard disclosures GRI Disclosure Discription/Reference External Assurance Strategy and Analysis No G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionAnnual report, Chief Executive Officer's Statement maker of the organization about the relevance Annual report, Organization, management and of sustainability to the organization and the corporate responsibility organization’s strategy for addressing CSR-report sustainability. Organizational profile No G4-3 Name of the organization. Annual report, Company information G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. Annual report, Business Areas Website: www.Nykredit.com G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. Annual report, Company information G4-6 Number of countries where the organization Annual report, Business Areas operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Annual report, Group chart Annual report, Group entities G4-8 Markets served. Annual report, Business Areas G4-9 Scale of the organization. Annual report, Financial highlights Annual report, Business Areas G4-10 Workforce. Annual report, Financial highlights Annual report, Note 11 CR-fact book, Human Relations G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by Nykredit has a collective agreement with Nykreds, a collective bargaining agreements. company-specific branch of the Danish Financial Services Union G4-12 The organization’s supply chain. CR-fact book, Sustainable investments G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Annual report, Nykredit's strategy regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach Annual report, Organization, management and or principle is addressed by the organization. corporate responsibility G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental CR-fact book and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or CR-fact book international advocacy organizations. 28 Identified Material Aspects and No G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s Annual report, Group chart consolidated financial statements and whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements is not covered by the report. G4-18 The process for defining the report content and The material aspects were identified through the Aspect Boundaries and how the internal assesment of key factors. organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for See the two tables below with Specific Standard defining report content. Disclosures and Finacial Services Sector Disclosures G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization for None material aspects. G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for None material aspects. G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information None provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting None periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stake holder Engagement No G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the nykredit.com organization. G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of nykredit.com stakeholders with whom to engage. nykredit.com G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement. nykredit.com G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised nykredit.com through stakeholder engagement, and how the Environment and climate policy organization has responded to those key topics Nykredit blog: http://weblog.nykredit.dk/ and concerns Nykredit's financial hotline Report Profile No G4-28 Reporting period. Calender year 2015 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. Nykredit GRI-index 2015 in Nykredit CR Fact Book, Februrary 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the Corporate Communications report. G4-32 The GRI-reporting option chosen. GRI Content Index for 'In Accordance' Core This table, CR-factbook G4-33 Assurance. No external assurance of the GRI-index. Governance No G4-34 Governance structure of the organization. CR-fact book, Corporate governance Annual report, Organisation and delegation of responsibilities Annual report, Corporate governance Annual report, Other information Ethics and Integrity No G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of Financial sustainability behavior. Core Values CR-fact book 29 Specific standard disclosures GRI Material Aspects & Indicators Reported DMA & Indicators External Assurance Economic No G4 Economic Performance & Community It is important that Nykredit has a strong capital DMA Investment position so that we can provide our customers with loans – also in times of crisis. As a SIFI and a responsible company, Nykredit will continue to operate with a conservative capital structure, ensuring high credit ratings. Nykredit's capital policy contain a growth buffer and a buffer for regulatory changes. Nykredit sponsors and supports Louisiana, the Royal Danish Theatre, the National Gallery of Denmark and Copenhagen Business School. Nykredit possesses competencies which we make available for a number of ongoing social projects and partnerships. Nykredit is a part of Økonomisk Overblik (Financial Overview), offering independent financial advice to previously deployed soldiers who have lost their financial bearings due to personal problems. Nykredit forms part of a social partnership – Råd til livet – with the Mary Foundation, Mødrehjælpen (a private humanitarian organisation for vulnerable families with children) and Foreningen Østifterne. In addition to financial support, Nykredit also encourages staff to offer free and independent financial advice to battered women and other women at risk in the metropolitan area. nykredit.com G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Fact book p. 7 distributed. Value generated by the Annual report, Financial highlights organization’s community investment programs and breakdown of community investment by theme. G4 Indirect Economic Impacts As a large workplace and business, we play an DMA important role in society. Nykredit strives to contribute to a stable and efficient financial market. We contribute to the development of Danish society by engaging in numerous non-profit activities in the areas of social projects, climate and environment, art, culture, public health, sports, etc. Nykredit contributes to society by conducting business in a responsible manner, enabling us to provide loans to individualsand businesses in good times as well as in more challenging times. G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including Fact book pp. 19-20, 23-28, 28, 30-38 the extent of impacts 30 Environmental No G4 Energy The impacts on the environment are a serious DMA challenge to society. Being one of Denmark's largest financial businesses, we share a responsibility for contributing to a long-term environmental response. Nykredit intends to boost internal energy efficiency by combining reductions in energy consumption with the establishment of renewable energy systems such as solar cells. nykredit.com nykredit.com G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption CR-fact book, Environment and climate G4 Emissions Nykredit has set a climate and environment DMA strategy up to 2020, focusing on both Nykredit's activities and a reduction of Nykredit's own CO2 emission. Nykredit is among other initiatives included in this report in the process of reducing emissions from transport. The objective of our internal efforts is to achieve an absolute reduction of 65% of Nykredit's total CO2 emission by end2020. Transport will account for an 8% reduction and internal efficiencies and renewable energy systems for 32%. nykredit.com nykredit.com G4Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions CR-fact book, Environment and climate EN15 G4 Effluents and Waste In Nykredit internal climate ambassadoors serve as DMA rolemodels for their colleauges with the aim of implementing climate friendly habits in the organization. Paper constitutes a large share of the waste in Nykredit, we are aware of this and focus using less paper in the future. Paper is recyled and internal climate ambassadoors are focusing on printing less e.g. by printing duplex. G4Total weight of waste by type and disposal The paper disposal was 197.000 kilos in 2014 and EN23 method has decreased slightly to 190.000 kilos in 2015. G4 Products and Services In our customer-oriented activities we focus on DMA including environmental considerations in our daily work and developing concepts, products and advisory services stimulating the environmental awareness and investments of our customers and primary stakeholders. nykredit.com nykredit.com G4Extent of impact mitigation of environmental CSR-report p. 7-8 EN27 impacts of products and services G4 Supplier Environmental Assesment Nykredit focuses on purchasing sustainable products DMA that cause the least impact on the environment from manufacturing to disposal. Ecolabels such as the Nordic Ecolabel (the Swan) and the EU Ecolabel (the Flower) are used as guides. G4Percentage of new suppliers that were screened CR-fact book, Sustainable investments EN32 using environmental criteria 31 GRI Disclosure Discription/Reference External Assurance Labor practices and Decent Work No G4 Employment Nykredit strives to be one of the most attractive DMA and challenging workplaces in Denmark. In Nykredit, you will become part of a large group that offers internal career paths and development opportunities. We focus on the talent of the individual and a high professional level. Together with their immediate superior, all staff members specify individual goals for their work and prepare a performance-based development plan. Nykredit assumes corporate social responsibility when you as a staff member have room to unfold your full potential while maintaining a work-life balance. nykredit.com G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires CR-fact book, Human Relations and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region G4 Labor/Management Relations Nykredit has a good relationship with NYKREDS, its DMA staff association, and Nykredit appreciates that NYKREDS seeks influence and works to ensure that staff conditions are considered in the day-to-day operations and the continuous group development. Interaction takes place at many levels: between the individual supervisor and union representative, in the local and central works councils and health and safety committees, as well as in a number of ad hoc working groups. In order to support the objective of being an attractive and challenging workplace, Nykredit has prepared a staff policy, which is being implemented through the local works councils in dialogue with NYKREDS. G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Minimum 3 months notice according to the collective changes, including whether these are specified agreement. Changes needs approval from NYKREDS in collective agreements before implementation. G4 Occupational Health and Safety Nykredit is focusing on health in general, as healthy DMA staff members have higher job satisfaction, lower sick absence rates and create a good social environment. The annual staff health check offer forms part of a large package of health offers, including sports and exercise via Nykredit sponsorships. Eventhough the risk of robberies in Nykredit is limited due to the amount of cash handled Nykredit has guidelines for employees to follow in case of robberies. Psychological treatment is offered to employees in case of robberries. nykredit.com G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in Total workforce of Nykredit is represented formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs 32 G4 Training and Education In 2011 new rules were introduced requiring DMA financial companies to ensure and prove that advisers have the necessary skills to advise customers on investment products and financial instruments. Nykredit's compulsory training programme ensures that advisers have a high expertise and that such expertise is translated into sound advice. A wide range of internal and external courses and training programmes ensures continuous development of staff skills. Nykredit make an effort to spot talent and offer talent programmes for both advisers, specialists and managers. nykredit.com G4Percentage of employees receiving regular CR-fact book, Human Relations LA11 performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category G4 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Nykredit aims at staff diversity in terms of gender, DMA age, ethnicity, sexual orientation and flexitime jobs. Nykredit focus on more women in management and has made an active contribution under the Charter for more women in management and Operation Chain Reaction . Nykredit has set targets for the percentage of women on the boards of directors of Nykredit's financial companies and has developed a policy to raise the percentage of women at other management levels. nykredit.com G4Composition of governance bodies and CR-fact book, Human Relations LA12 breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Nykredit has an equal wage politic and statistics on DMA the wage distribution is kept every year. It is Nykredit's ambition to remunerate based on competencies, effort and results independently of gender. G4Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of CR-fact book, Human Relations LA13 women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation 33 *5, 'LVFORVXUH 'LVFULSWLRQ5HIHUHQFH ([WHUQDO$VVXUDQFH +XPDQ5LJKWV 1R * ,QYHVWPHQW 1\NUHGLWLVDZDUHRIWKHUHVSRQVLELOLW\IROORZLQJ '0$ IURPLQYHVWPHQWV7KHEDODQFHEHWZHHQUHWXUQVDQG UHVSRQVLEOHLQYHVWPHQWUHVWVRQ1\NUHGLW VEXVLQHVV FRQFHSWRI)LQDQFLDO6XVWDLQDELOLW\$OWKRXJK 1\NUHGLW VFXVWRPHUVDUHYHU\GLYHUVHWKH\DOO H[SHFWWKHFRPSDQLHVLQZKLFKZHLQYHVWWRDFWLQ FRPSOLDQFHZLWKLQWHUQDWLRQDOODZ 1\NUHGLWKDVGUDZQXSDVXVWDLQDEOHLQYHVWPHQWV SROLF\7KHSXUSRVHRIWKHSROLF\LVWRHQVXUHWKDW 1\NUHGLWLQFRUSRUDWHVHQYLURQPHQWDOVRFLDODQG FRUSRUDWHJRYHUQDQFHLVVXHVLQWRLWVHQWLUH LQYHVWPHQWSURFHVV:HVFUHHQWKHFRPSDQLHVLQ RXUSRUWIROLRIRUEUHDFKHVRIJHQHUDOO\DFFHSWHG FRQYHQWLRQVWKH*OREDO&RPSDFWSULQFLSOHVHWF Q\NUHGLWFRP *+5 7RWDOQXPEHUDQGSHUFHQWDJHRIVLJQLILFDQW 1\NUHGLW&5IDFWERRN6XVWDLQDEOHLQYHVWPHQWV LQYHVWPHQWDJUHHPHQWVDQGFRQWUDFWVWKDW LQFOXGHKXPDQULJKWVFODXVHVRUWKDWXQGHUZHQW KXPDQULJKWVVFUHHQLQJ )6 )RUDVVHWVXQGHUPDQDJHPHQWUHSRUWLI\RX 1\NUHGLW VSRUWIROLRVDUHVFUHHQHGWZLFHD\HDUWR KDYHDQ\VFUHHQVWKDWH[SOLFLWO\LQFOXGHKXPDQ PDNHVXUHWKDWWKH\DUHLQDFFRUGDQFHZLWKWKH81 ULJKWVFODXVHV *OREDO3ULQFLSOHVIRU5HVSRQVLEOH,QYHVWPHQW%DVHG RQWKHRXWFRPH1\NUHGLWGHFLGHVZKLFKVWHSV VKRXOGEHWDNHQLIDFRPSDQ\LQZKLFKLWKDV LQYHVWHGGRHVQRWFRPSO\ZLWKWKHFRQYHQWLRQV Q\NUHGLWFRP * 1RQGLVFULPLQDWLRQ 1\NUHGLWKDVDGRSWHGWKH81*OREDO&RPSDFW '0$ LQLWLDWLYHDQGLWVSULQFLSOHVRQKXPDQULJKWV ODERXUVWDQGDUGVHQYLURQPHQWDQGDQWLFRUUXSWLRQ %XVLQHVVHVVKRXOGXSKROGWKHHOLPLQDWLRQRI GLVFULPLQDWLRQLQUHVSHFWRIHPSOR\PHQWDQG RFFXSDWLRQ 1\NUHGLWDLPVWREHDFRPSDQ\WKDWDFFRPPRGDWHV VWDIIDQGPDQDJHPHQWRIGLIIHUHQWDJHVDQGVH[XDO RULHQWDWLRQRIERWKJHQGHUVDQGZLWKGLIIHUHQW HWKQLFDQGUHOLJLRXVEDFNJURXQGV1\NUHGLWLVD PHPEHURIWKH$VVRFLDWLRQ1HZ'DQHV 1\GDQVNHU  DQGDOVRSDUWLFLSDWHVLQRQH'DQPDUN Q\NUHGLWFRP 34 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and None reported corrective actions taken G4 Freedom of Association and Collective Nykredit has adopted the UN Global Compact DMA Bargaining initiative and its 10 principles on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. nykredit.com G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the Number of firms excluded and subject to active right to exercise freedom of association and ownership reported on the sustainable Investments collective bargaining may be violated or at pages in Nykredit CR-factbook. significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights G4 Supplier Human Rights Assessment Nykredit has adopted the UN Global Compact DMA initiative and its 10 principles on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The procurement practice of the Nykredit Group should support the overall strategy and goals. Contracts are maid in accordance with the law and in lign with the policies on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). nykredit.com G4Percentage of new suppliers that were screened CR-fact book, Sustainable Investments HR10 using human rights criteria 35 *5, 'LVFORVXUH 'LVFULSWLRQ5HIHUHQFH ([WHUQDO$VVXUDQFH 6RFLHW\ 1R * /RFDO&RPPXQLWLHV 7R1\NUHGLWFRUSRUDWHVRFLDOUHVSRQVLELOLW\LVIDU '0$ PRUHWKDQFRPSOLDQFHZLWKWKHOHWWHUDQGVSLULWRI UXOHVDQGUHJXODWLRQV 7KHUHLVWUHQGWRZDUGVLQFUHDVHGPLJUDWLRQWR JURZWKDUHDVDURXQGWKHODUJHWRZQVDQGFLWLHV KHQFHVWKHJDSEHWZHHQ WKHFLWLHVDQGWKHUHVWRIWKHFRXQWU\LVEHFRPLQJ PRUHSURQRXQFHG1\NUHGLW VUDLVRQG rWUHLVWR FDUU\RQILQDQFLDOEXVLQHVVIRUWKHEHQHILWRIRXU FXVWRPHUVLQFOXGLQJWRH[WHQGORDQV 1\NUHGLWIRUPVSDUWRIDVRFLDOSDUWQHUVKLS±5nGWLO OLYHW±ZLWKWKH0DU\)RXQGDWLRQ0¡GUHKM OSHQ D SULYDWHKXPDQLWDULDQRUJDQLVDWLRQIRUYXOQHUDEOH IDPLOLHVZLWKFKLOGUHQ DQG)RUHQLQJHQVWLIWHUQH,Q DGGLWLRQWRILQDQFLDOVXSSRUW1\NUHGLWDOVR HQFRXUDJHVVWDIIWRRIIHUIUHHDQGLQGHSHQGHQW ILQDQFLDODGYLFHWREDWWHUHGZRPHQDQGRWKHU ZRPHQDWULVNLQWKHPHWURSROLWDQDUHD 1\NUHGLWVSRQVRUVDQGVXSSRUWV/RXLVLDQDWKH5R\DO 'DQLVK7KHDWUHWKH1DWLRQDO*DOOHU\RI'HQPDUN DQG&RSHQKDJHQ%XVLQHVV6FKRRO *62 3HUFHQWDJHRIRSHUDWLRQVZLWKLPSOHPHQWHG ORFDOFRPPXQLW\HQJDJHPHQWLPSDFW DVVHVVPHQWVDQGGHYHORSPHQWSURJUDPV Q\NUHGLWFRP )6 $FFHVVSRLQWVLQORZSRSXODWHGRUHFRQRPLFDOO\ 7KHUHDUHQRGDUNVSRWVRQWKHPDSZKHUH GLVDGYDQWDJHGDUHDVE\W\SH 1\NUHGLWGRHVQRWRIIHUORDQV±ZHRIIHUPRUWJDJH OHQGLQJDQGEDQNLQJVHUYLFHVLQDOOSDUWVRI 'HQPDUN$OVRWKHUHLVQRPLQLPXPORDQDPRXQW &65UHSRUW )DFWERRNSS * $QWLFRUUXSWLRQ 1\NUHGLW VDQWLFRUUXSWLRQSROLF\VHWVRXWWKH '0$ SULQFLSOHVIRU1\NUHGLW VDSSURDFKWRFRXQWHULQJDQ\ IRUPRIFRUUXSWLRQ7KHULVNRIFRUUXSWLRQDWWKH 1\NUHGLW*URXSLVDVVHVVHGDVORZDV1\NUHGLWLVD 'DQLVKEDVHGILQDQFLDOVHUYLFHVJURXSZLWKUHODWLYHO\ IHZIRUHLJQFXVWRPHUVDQGRSHUDWHVPDLQO\LQ 6FDQGLQDYLDDQGWKH(8 Q\NUHGLWFRP *62 &RPPXQLFDWLRQDQGWUDLQLQJRQDQWLFRUUXSWLRQ $OOQHZVWDIIPHPEHUVDUHWUDLQHGLQPHDVXUHVWR SROLFLHVDQGSURFHGXUHV FRPEDWPRQH\ODXQGHULQJ$OOVWDIIPXVWIROORZWKH 1\NUHGLW&RGHRI&RQGXFW * 3XEOLF3ROLF\ 1\NUHGLWGRHVQRWSURYLGHGLUHFWRULQGLUHFWILQDQFLDO '0$ VXSSRUWWRSROLWLFLDQVRUSROLWLFDOSDUWLHV *62 7RWDOYDOXHRISROLWLFDOFRQWULEXWLRQVE\FRXQWU\ 1\NUHGLWGRHVQRWSURYLGHGLUHFWRULQGLUHFWILQDQFLDO DQGUHFLSLHQWEHQHILFLDU\ VXSSRUWWRSROLWLFLDQVRUSROLWLFDOSDUWLHV * 6XSSOLHU$VVHVVPHQWIRU,PSDFWVRQ 7KHSURFXUHPHQWSUDFWLFHRIWKH1\NUHGLW*URXS '0$ 6RFLHW\ VKRXOGVXSSRUWWKHRYHUDOOVWUDWHJ\DQGJRDOV &RQWUDFWVDUHPDLGLQDFFRUGDQFHZLWKWKHODZDQG LQOLJQZLWKWKHSROLFLHVRQ&RUSRUDWH6RFLDO 5HVSRQVLELOLW\ &65 DQGHQYLURQPHQW *62 3HUFHQWDJHRIQHZVXSSOLHUVWKDWZHUHVFUHHQHG&5IDFWERRN6XVWDLQDEOH,QYHVWPHQWV XVLQJFULWHULDIRULPSDFWVRQVRFLHW\ 36 Product Responsibility No G4 Product and Service Labeling Nykredit wants to offer its customers the best and DMA most competent advice in the market. It is important that customers have a positive experience when dealing with Nykredit. Nykredit wants to offer its customers the best and most competent advice in the market. Under Nykredit Certification, all customer-facing staff undergo a structured development programme providing them with training that goes beyond the requirements of Danish law. Nykredit regularly ask customers about their expectations regarding Nykredit's advisers, products and services and whether their experience matches those expectations. nykredit.com G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer CR-fact book, Customers satisfaction G4 Customer Privacy Security has top priority in the financial sector in DMA general. The sector as a whole acknowledges the fact that in this area we are not competitors but have a shared interest in maintaining maximum security at national level. Threats are monitored closely, and cooperation across the financial sector involves internal as well as external experts. Nykredit participates actively in this sector cooperation and complies with the security rules laid down by the Danish Bankers Association for self-service solutions. We conduct annual penetration tests, ie an external expert attempts to hack into our systems. G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints CR-fact book, Customers regarding breaches of customer privacy and CSR-report losses of customer data G4 Compliance Nykredit acts in compliance with laws and DMA regulations. Under Nykredit Certification, all customer-facing staff undergo a structured development programme providing them with training that goes beyond the requirements of Danish law. G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products d i 37 Financial Services sector disclosures GRI Sector Specific Aspects & Indicators Reported DMA & Indicators External Assurance Product Responsibility No G4 Product Portfolio Considering Nykredit's market share of the Danish DMA mortgage market of around 45%, future measures in the construction area will significantly impact Nykredit's activities as well as our customers' financial situation. Nykredit therefore wishes to contribute to meeting the challenges of the coming years – by providing support for the solutions needed by society as well as changing our own conduct. Nykredit developes concepts, products and advisory services stimulating the environmental awareness and investments of our customers and primary stakeholders. nykredit.com FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by Fact book pp. 19-20, 22, 28, 32-36 specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. G4 Audit Nykredit Realkredit A/S is subject to financial DMA regulation, an internal audit function has been set up in the Nykredit Group. Nykredit Realkredit A/S has set up a joint Audit Board for all the companies within the Nykredit Group that are obliged to set up such a board. The Board of Directors and the Audit Board meet with the independent auditors at least once a year without the attendance of the Executive Board. nykredit.com G4 Active Ownership A changing society needs sound financial DMA enterprises to foster changes and secure sustainable short and long-term financial solutions. As a market player, Nykredit's business concept is financial sustainability. When we receive confirmed information on breach of conventions etc, we take active ownership of the relevant company in order to make it change its conduct. We may cooperate with other investors, or we may choose to cast our vote at the company's general meeting. nykredit.com FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and CR-fact book, Sustainable investments negative environmental or social screening. 38
