2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.1 0 2 15 Expanding to new horizons Corporate Social Responsibility Report www.goldcar.com Designed and made by: Lavola CONTENTS INTRODUCTION p.6 2015 FIGURES p.12 05 06 04 SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC PEOPLE AND INTERNAL 07 GOLDCAR AND MANAGEMENT CULTURE PROTECTING THE THE COMMUNITY p.51 p.55 ENVIRONMENT 03 p.45 p.67 08 CUSTOMER SUPPLIER EXPERIENCE AND RELATIONSHIPS SATISFACTION p.79 p.33 02 09 COMMITMENT ABOUT TOWARDS CORPORATE THIS REPORT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY p.85 p.23 01 GLOBAL REPORTING MEET GOLDCAR INITIATIVE’S p.15 TABLE OF CONTENTS p.88 ANNEX I: CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND DIRECTOR'S REPORT 2015 p.97 p.6 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION REPORT p.7 LETTER FROM THE CEO One of 2015’s most remarkable events technological innovations. These are Our collaboration with one of the Our mission within the local communities We would like to encourage each and was undoubtedly the efforts made to the foundations of Goldcar's strategy to major corporate social responsibility in which we operate is also very important every one of you to read this Goldcar improve Goldcar’s customer purchase improve customer satisfaction. initiatives on a global level gave a boost to us. We strengthened our support in Corporate Social Responsibility report experience. In this regard, we have to the development of specific actions sport and cultural events, increasing the for 2015 which we believe will be of been through the implementation of a 2015 saw an investment of around 2 to improve our global sustainability. number of sponsorships a great way to great interest to you. system designed to measure customer million euros in technology innovation, Through the preparation of this promote the values of sport, a healthy satisfaction based on the Net Promoter 20.4% more than 2014, and we document, our second Corporate Social lifestyle, and the importance of culture. Score (NPS) index. This new system, employed more than 30 specialised Responsibility report, we aim to inform Juan Carlos Azcona implemented in a total of 21 offices, staff – a key aspect for our business everyone of our progress within the From an environmental point of view, CEO established the key elements that create model, not only from the point of view social, governance and environmentally we are aware of the effects that our jcazcona@goldcar.com our unique service experience and point of creating technological solutions aimed responsible development. business has on the environment and, to improvements that can be made. We at our customers, but also as a means more importantly, the effects of our plan to implement this tool throughout of improving the Company’s internal This report, again prepared using the rental fleet on climate change. For our offices so as to improve our services management. Our new smart office Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 guide, that reason, we launched our Goldcar on a daily basis as one of the Company queue management system, and the coupled with the identification process Blue campaign, an initiative comprising long-term priority. development of a self-service kiosk an of Goldcar’s relevant sustainability several measures aimed at reducing the industry first are just some examples aspects, complies with the guide’s own environmental impact of our business. 2015 saw Goldcar grow and expand of the initiatives that will take us to the requirements, and includes the direct One of the first undertakings was the on an international level. By opening cutting edge of our sector. participation of all stakeholders. addition of electric vehicles to our rental a total of 11 offices in France, Greece fleet, enabling our customers to reduce and Croatia, we increased our presence Our commitment is towards geographical Our commitment towards sustainable their carbon footprint. in new tourist destinations within expansion and the development of development and our approach towards the Mediterranean region. We also a new internal culture based upon improving our customer’s experience Summing up, 2015 not only saw increased our presence in countries customer service. At Goldcar, we firmly was the main objective of our team Goldcar rise to the challenge of where we were already operating by believe that these strategic guidelines of professionals, which increased by expanding new horizons, but also, opening 5 more offices in Spain and will allow us to continue growing. 15.2% compared to the previous embrace new cultures, grow in new Italy. New openings are part of an year. We created an internal culture countries, and gain confidence in our ambitious international growth plan Our business strategy is based upon based on teamwork while focusing on ability and commitment towards our that has been continuously pursued responsible and sustainable Company developing each individual’s own talent. staff as the basis for our success. A throughout the years since the growth. We took a big step in 2015 in We also approved our Strategic Training success that is based on Company Company's inception as the innovative our commitment to corporate social Plan for 2015-2017 and created new sustainability and responsibility, and model in leisure car rental. responsibility by joining the UN Global communication channels between staff thus, renewed commitments to the UN Compact. Aligned with our participation and executive management, such as Global Compact for another year. A huge investment in training, call in this important initiative, we have the Goldcar Newsletter initiative, with centre in Italy, and specialised customer improved our Corporate Governance the purpose of consolidating a team care personnel, a firm commitment to by developing internal policies and able to work at full capacity in order to transparecy on our website, a renewed management systems related to this area, confront any future challenges that we fleet, and reinforced IT systems and which is key for our sustainability strategy. may encounter. p.8 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.9 LETTER FROM THE CFO Goldcar is a multinational company With the aim of reinforcing our focus leverage and interest coverage ratios In 2015, we also initiated an ambitious with a strong operational and financial on the leisure segment of the car rental have been 1.2 times EBITDA and 5.45 project of change regarding internal performance. In recent years the Company market, in 2015 we divested Goldcar times interest respectively at year-end. culture and a redefinition of the has grown steadily and total revenues Fleets, a division dedicated to long Company’s mission, vision and excluding fuel amounted to €214m in term flexible renting of business and The Company also benefits from a strong values. According to our value of 2015, after growing 9.0% during the last industrial vehicles. liquidity position and a wide headroom of transparency and the aim to be a datayear. For the first time in our history, we covenants that will permit us to continue driven company, we worked diligently surpassed a million car rental contracts, 2015 sales growth was accompanied by investing in order to grow throughout the towards the improvement of internal and our customers enjoyed close to 9 a significant increase in EBITDA, which Mediterranean market, which represents reporting, GRC and systems, and the million rental days with us. amounted to €125m and represented a around 40% of the total tourism market professionalisation of the financial areas 16.3% increase over the previous year. worldwide, with the aim of becoming of the company. We at Goldcar, are In 2015, we reinforced our market In 2015, Goldcar's EBIT margin was the leaders in the leisure segment of this confident that these efforts will support leadership in the leisure segment 27.4% over Revenue excluding fuel, market. In addition, we will continue the Company to maintaining high level of the car rental market in Spain benefitting from our lean cost structure to invest in technological innovation to of profitability in the coming years. and Portugal, we consolidated our and industry-leading fleet utilisation rate deliver an outstanding and differentiated strong position in the Italian market, which was of 80.3% on average in 2015. experience to our customers. and we developed our presence in Lluís Pérez other Mediterranean countries that Our unique business model and a strong The management of the fleet assets is CFO are strategic for our interests such execution have permitted us to generate another key aspect for Goldcar. We own lluisperez@goldcar.com as France, Greece and Croatia. This positive cash flows that allow us to one of the youngest fleets in the market determined growth strategy pivots on grow organically by double digits and and renew 80% of our vehicles every a highly diversified client base in which at the same time reduce our leverage. year. The large majority of our fleet no single nationality represents more The financial ratios demonstrate the benefits from buy-back agreements than 20% of the total. financial strength of the company as the with first-rate suppliers. p.10 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.11 SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM Goldcar's TONICA JOSÉ JOSÉ LUÍS MANAGEMENT TEAM SAFONT MORENO MARTÍN Ms Tonica Safont is Goldcar’s Human Mr José Moreno is Goldcar’s Network Mr José Luís Martín is Goldcar’s Resources and Customer Service Director. He has more than 14 years’ Fleet and Sales Analysis Director. TOP MANAGEMENT TEAM Director. She has more than 11 years’ professional background in the car rental With more than 9 years’ experience experience in the car rental sector. Her sector, five of those at Goldcar. Mr in the car rental sector, he was Supply FERNANDO JUAN CARLOS professional career includes experience Moreno has prior experience as Sales Chain Manager and, prior to that, LLUÍS PÉREZ VILLAR AZCONA as General Resources Director of Record Country Manager and, before that, as Maintenance and Distribution Manager CFO Goldcar CDO Goldcar CEO GOLDCAR – Northgate Spain, and as Finance Regional Sales Manager and Key Account at Hertz Spain. His education includes Operations Director of Adecco Iberia. Executive at Hertz Spain. He holds a degree training in process improvement and Ms Safont holds a degree in Economics in Economics and Business Studies and leadership and team management. Mr Lluís Pérez is Goldcar’s Chief Mr Fernando Villar is Goldcar’s Chief Mr Juan Carlos Azcona is and Business Studies and an MBA from completed a Management Development Financial Officer. His broad Digital Officer. He has more than Goldcar’s Chief Executive IE Business School. Program at IESE Business School. professional career includes experience 10 years’ experience in the car rental Officer. With a professional as CFO of Celsa Nordic Group, sector. His professional career includes background of more than 12 headquartered in Stockholm (Sweden). experience as General Manager and, years in the car rental sector, RAÚL PEDRO PABLO PEDRO Previously, Mr Pérez served as Finance prior to that, as Innovation and Change Mr Azcona has prior experience MARSET SASTRE BONET Director of Celsa Steel Services UK and as Management Director of Goldcar. as General Manager of the FIA Head of Internal Audit of Taurus Group. Mr Villar holds a degree in Chemical Formula E Championship and His educational background comprises a Sciences from the University of Valencia as General Manager of Hertz Mr Raúl Marset is Goldcar’s Fleet Mr Pedro Pablo Sastre is Goldcar’s Mr Pedro Bonet is Goldcar’s Group degree in Business Economics from the and an Advance Management Program Spain. Director. He has more than 12 years’ eCommerce Director. He has a wide Controller. His prior experience includes UAB (Barcelona) and an Executive MBA from IESE Business School. experience in the car rental sector at career path in the tourism sector, having six years as Financial Controller of Vía from La Salle Business School. He was also Finance Director of Goldcar, his first role being that of served as Head of Online Division of Operador Petrolífero S.L. headquartered BMC Software Spain & Portugal Company Purchases Director. He has Orizonia Corporation and, previously, in Barcelona and also held positions as and previously of Dyson Spain. held his current position since 2010. Pricing Manager of TUI Travel PLC Spain. Risk Management, Commodity Trader His career path includes more than 10 Graduate in Graphic and Multimedia and Logistics Manager with the same JAIME SERGIO Mr Juan Carlos Azcona holds years’ experience as Sales Manager of Design, Mr Sastre also holds a Master in company. Mr Bonet holds a Degree in SORIANO HERNÁNDEZ a degree in Economics and Hijos de Manuel Crespo Mercedes-Benz Project Management from Alfonso X El Business Administration and Management COO Goldcar CFLO Goldcar Business Studies, an MBA authorised dealer in Alicante (Spain) Sabio University. from the University of Barcelona. with specialisation on Financial Management from the National Mr Jaime Soriano is Chief Operations Mr Sergio Hernández is Goldcar’s University of San Diego, MANUEL DAVID ALFONSO Officer of Goldcar. With more than 10 Chief Fleet Officer. He has a broad a Certificate in Marketing NUÑEZ CONTRERAS VIDAL years’ experience in the car rental sector, professional background in the achieved “With Distinction” Mr Soriano served as General Manager, automotive sector, having worked from the University of California, Country Manager, and Operations and as European Fleet & Remarketing Berkeley and an Orchestrating Mr Manuel Nuñez is Goldcar’s Mr David Contreras is Goldcar’s Mr Alfonso Vidal is Goldcar’s Logistics Franchise Director at Hertz Spain and Area Manager of Hyundai Europe Winning Performance from Commercial Director. Mr Nuñez has Pricing Director. With more than 5 and Remarketing Director. He has was also General Manager of SEUR, headquartered in Frankfurt (Germany). IMD Business School of developed his professional career within years’ experience in the car rental sector, more than 17 years’ experience in the and Logistics Director of Chronopost. Prior to that, he was Sales Area Manager Lausanne, Switzerland. the car rental sector. He held executive Mr Contreras has prior experience as car rental sector. Before his arrival at Mr Soriano holds a degree in Economics of Fiat and Chrysler. Mr Hernández’s positions at Avis Budget Group, including Marketing and Business Development Goldcar in 2007, Mr Vidal worked as and Business Studies and a Master in education includes a degree in Business six years as Sales Director for Leisure Director at Goldcar, General Manager General Manager at Star Rent a Car and Marketing from IDE-CESEM Business Administration and Management from inbound and outbound, and 33 years as of Aerodynamics Malaga S.L., and Iberocar Car Rental. Mr Vidal’s education School. the European University of Madrid, a Network and Facilities Director. Marketing and Customer Satisfaction includes executive training in Leadership degree in Economics from the University Mr Nuñez holds a degree in English Studies Manager at Cableuropa ONO. He holds and People Management from Otto of Strathclyde Glasgow, and a Master in from the University Claude Bernard of a degree in Economics and Business Walter School. International Trade. Lyon and is fluent in 7 languages. Studies from the University of Malaga. p.12 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 REPORT p.13 FIGURES PEOPLE GOLDCAR BUSINES S FINANCIAL 714 70 Staff at 31st December Offices 67.5% 9 214.5 M€ Permanent staff Number of countries Revenue excluding fuel 38.9% 8,867,702 125 M€ Female staff Days of rental EBITDA 30,145 9.0% Average vehicle rental fleet Revenue increase 9 MONTHS 2.2 M€ Average age of fleet vehicles IT investment 1,609 Total number of suppliers 3.1 MWh per person 90.7% 93% Electricity consumption (per staff member) % Online Bookings Local suppliers 115.5 ENVIRONMEN gCO2eq/km 78% Goldcar rental fleet’s greenhouse T International customers gas emissions 95,832 3,626 m 3 SUPPLIER S Yearly recycled water volume C UST Goldcar club members ER S 31,181 0.044 lit per number of contracts OM Social network followers Water intensity consumption p.14 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.15 01 MEET GOLDCAR 01 2015 MEET CORPORATE SOCIAL GOLDCAR RESPONSIBILITY GROUP REPORT p.16 p.17 MEET OUR BUSINESS DAYS OF RENTAL GOLDCAR + 12.5% in regards to 2014 2015 8,867,702 2014 7,880,349 2013 7,410,976 AVERAGE VEHICLE RENTAL FLEET + 4.1% in regards to INDUSTRY 2015 2014 LEADERS 30,145 2014 At Goldcar, following more than In 2016, we expect to continue our 28,950 30 years in the business, we have international expansion by opening new 2013 consolidated as the leading leisureoffices in the Netherlands and Mexico, 25,778 focused car rental company in Spain thanks to our franchisees, with a giant whilst enjoying strong growth across leap towards other regions in both the We have one of the newest rental fleets in Europe. the Mediterranean region. European continent and the rest of the world. Next year we will also continue to We are leaders in the Spanish expand our presence in Italy and France NUMBER OF CONTRACTS + 8.7% leisure-focused car rental with the opening of new offices. in regards to PER YEAR sector with a 24% market 2015 2014 share, and also in Portugal. 1,054,100 2015 was an important year for the 2014 Company's international expansion. We 969,600 opened offices in three new countries; 2013 3 offices in France, 5 in Greece and 877,000 3 in Croatia. In addition to this, we continued to expand our office network in Italy and Spain. All the above has WIDE SERVICE RANGE served to improve our presence across the Mediterranean region, which is EKOMI SILVER Through its two main commercial brands, Goldcar offers services that adapt to the Goldcar's main business area. SEAL OF APPROVAL different needs of holidaymakers visiting the multiple tourist destinations where we For a further year, we operate year after year. Our fleet's range of vehicles includes most models available During 2015, we also consolidated our were awarded the Silver in the market, from the best value utility vehicle to people carriers, automatic or franchise model, which allowed us to open seal of approval by this larger vehicles. a new office in Rhodes (Greece). Goldcar independent provider continues its commitment towards this of customer satisfaction business model which facilitates the feedback, with a rating of Company's growth whilst allowing our 8.8 (out of 10). franchisees to take advantage of our Value vehicle hire (cost effective) Premium vehicle hire service reputation and excellent business model. 01 2015 MEET CORPORATE SOCIAL GOLDCAR RESPONSIBILITY GROUP REPORT p.18 p.19 FRANCE BERGAMO ZAGREB MILAN VENICE MILAN BOLOGNA BORDEAUX LINATE CROATIA SANTIAGO DE OVIEDO SANTANDER BILBAO COMPOSTELA SPLIT ANDORRA MARSEILLE NICE PISA ITALY DUBROVNIK ROME FIUMICINO PAMPLONA GIRONA ROME CIAMPINO BARCELONA PORTO SPAIN ZARAGOZA REUS OLBIA MADRID CASTELLON PORTUGAL MENORCA THESSALONIKI VALENCIA SAN JUAN DE ALICANTE LISBON CORDOBA IBIZA MAJORCA GREECE DENIA CAGLIARI SEVILLE GRANADA PALERMO MURCIA FARO BENIDORM CATANIA ALICANTE ATHENS RHODES JEREZ TORREVIEJA CADIZ MALAGA ALMERIA ÀGUILAS SANCTI PETRI HERAKLION GIBRALTAR CHANIA MALTA CASABLANCA MOROCCO MADEIRA NEW We have FRANCHISEES FRANCHISEES NEW FUNCHAL 70 GOLDCAR AIRPORT BRANCH offices LANZAROTE GOLDCAR CITY BRANCH TENERIFE NORTE spread CANARY across ISLANDS LAS PALMAS GOLDCAR RAILWAY STATION BRANCH DE GRAN CANARIA 9 HEAD OFFICE FUERTEVENTURA countries. TENERIFE SUR 01 2015 MEET CORPORATE SOCIAL GOLDCAR RESPONSIBILITY GROUP REPORT p.20 p.21 ORGANISATIONAL COLLABORATION WITH STRUCTURE TRADE ASSOCIATIONS Goldcar's Board of Directors is the Company's top governance body. It comprises At Goldcar, we believe that one of the key factors to helping improve the entire nine board members; three of which represent shareholders, three are also industry's positioning, is to create the right synergies and collaborations with trade executive directors and the remaining are independent advisors. This governing associations that facilitate the spreading of knowledge and the development of body is responsible for making strategic decisions, including those related to the new initiatives. Company's corporate social and environmental sustainability. For that reason, we have been members of the following industry associations for several years: GANVAM APECA ASEVAL CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Spanish National Motor Vehicle Santa Cruz de Tenerife province's Madrid's Self Drive and Chauffer Sellers Association Vehicle Rental Association Vehicle Rental Business Association CHIEF FINANCIAL CHIEF OPERATIONS CHIEF DIGITAL CHIEF FLEET AECOVAL ADP FENEVAL OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER Valencian Region's Vehicle Rental Spanish Association for the Spanish National Self Drive and Business Association Development of Executive Managers Chauffer Vehicle Rental Business GROUP NETWORK PRICING FLEET HR & CS COMMERCIAL Association CONTROLLER DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR & FRANCHISES DIRECTOR AECAV BALEVAL Canary Island's Vehicle Rental Island's Self Drive and Chauffer Vehicle LEASEUROPE FLEET & BUSINESS INFRASTRUCTURE ECOMMERCE Business Association Rental Services Association European Federation of Leasing ANALYSIS DIRECTOR & REMARKETING DIRECTOR DIRECTOR Company Associations AEVAC Catalan Region's Vehicle Rental Business Association In addition, in 2015, we also joined the following associations: Adigital (Spanish Digital Economy Association) An association of innovative and transformation of businesses that believe in, and work towards, the development of Internet based economy using digital means and new technologies. Barcelona Tech City An association open to all those based in Barcelona working in digital and technology businesses with the aim of consolidating and stimulating an emerging sector comprising mainly technological and digital companies. Top Seeds Lab A cluster of companies that help travel and technology-based start-ups to develop new business. Goldcar is a member of this business association's Advisory Board. p.22 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.23 02 COMMITMENT TOWARDS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 02 2015 COMMITMENT TOWARDS CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.24 p.25 COMMITMENT TOWARDS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY UN GLOBAL COMPACT This chapter within the report covers: SUSTAINABLE AND 01 03 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 06 Businesses should uphold the elimination of RESPONSIBLE COMPANY Businesses should support and respect the association and the effective recognition of the discrimination in respect of employment and protection of internationally proclaimed human MISSION right to collective bargaining occupation. rights within their sphere of influence. Throughout 2015 we strengthened our commitment towards Goldcar offers car rental services 04 10 responsible and sustainable Company management by to satisfy leisure customer mobility 02 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all Businesses should work against corruption in all adhering to the UN's Global Compact. Our collaboration needs around the world, providing Businesses should make sure that they are not forms of forced and compulsory labour its forms, including extortion and bribery. with one of the major corporate social responsibility initiatives best value for money for our complicit in human rights abuses. 05 globally, has given a boost to the development of specific customers and pursuing long term Businesses should uphold the effective abolition actions to improve Goldcar's global sustainability. sustainability and profitability for of child labour. our stakeholders. In these regards, we carried out a strategic internal project which began with the preparation of a Company diagnosis VISION based on the ten principles promoted by this initiative, with To become the leading the purpose of identifying those areas for improvement in leisure-focused car rental company order to continue working on them. The results obtained in the world. from this project have served to define Goldcar's sustainability In October 2015 targets for the future. VALUES we formally adhered Transparency to the UN Global Also during 2015, we redefined our goals, vision and values to Data driven company Compact. form the basis for the development of a new internal culture Passion that will help us to improve our internal processes, work as a Accountability team, and achieve ongoing improvement. This restatement Team spirit of our working methods will ultimately help us increase our Innovation and continuous customer satisfaction levels. improvement Entrepreneurship Safety 02 2015 COMMITMENT TOWARDS CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.26 p.27 In 2015 we undertook new internal audits of all Goldcar network bases, except in ETHICS AND the case of new offices in Croatia, which had only recently opened. As a general GOOD CORPORATE rule, all offices that open after July will be audited during the following year's campaign. MANAGEMENT These internal audits allowed us to verify the correct implementation of all Goldcar At Goldcar, we believe in sustainable a series of behavioural principles Our Ethics Channel is a system put in rules and processes in all workplaces, as well as to detect new improvement and responsible Company growth. In and guidelines aimed at ensuring place by the Company to ensure that all opportunities. These audits are key to the Company's global management. 2014, we prepared our Code of Ethics ethical and respectful behaviour of Goldcar staff are able to confidentially which was approved by the Company's all Company members, including the report any complaints or suggestions top governance bodies a giant step observance of all applicable legislation, related to compliance with the Code of towards the development of an internal along with international regulations Ethics and above mentioned policies. culture based on ethics, transparency regarding human rights (UN Norms Compliance with the Code of Ethics INTERNAL AUDITS 2015 and good corporate management all on the Responsibilities of Transnational and the daily management of the Ethics key aspects of ensuring the Company's Corporations and Other Business Channel are part of Goldcar's Ethics responsible growth and international Enterprises with Regard to Human Committee competences that operate expansion. Rights and the OECD Guidelines). in conformity with the Prevention and Response manual, which is applicable 38 4 12 3 3 We have a Code of Ethics We also introduced a compliance policy to the entire Group Spain Portugal Italy Greece France that defines the behaviour to monitor and provide internal control guidelines for all Goldcar as a means of preventing corruption and All above mentioned documents that members. other type of offences, which includes a are part of the Ethics System and Catalogue of Offences applicable to all Goldcar's Anti Corruption Strategies are Goldcar's Code of Ethics applies to staff. Within the above anti-corruption available to all staff via the Company's all Company staff and professionals, strategies' framework, our ‘Rules intranet. Likewise, the management both internally and externally, to on gifts, benefits and advantages’ promotes the knowledge and use of the include all professional relationships document sets out the limitations and Ethics Channel amongst all staff via the maintained with third party entities, practices that must be applied with Goldcar Newsletter. suppliers or individuals throughout our the aim of preventing possible criminal daily business. This Code establishes practices linked to these situations. GLOBAL CSR GLOBAL MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT TARGETS ETHICS AND GOOD CORPORATE MANAGEMENT PROMOTION TARGETS DEGREE OF INDICATOR'S 2015 TARGETS INDICATOR COMPLIANCE VALUE DEGREE OF WITH TARGET 2015 TARGETS INDICATOR COMPLIANCE Carrying out an internal audit at 100% Goldcar offices % offices audited 100.0% 100.0% Training 100% of line managers in good corporate management and % line managers trained 100.0% (except those opened after the month of July) anti-corruption strategies (Code of Ethics and compliance policy) 2016 TARGETS 2016 TARGETS Carry out an internal audit of 100% of Goldcar offices % offices audited Knowledge and acceptance of the Code of Ethics by all franchisees who % of franchisees who have Carry out an internal audit of 100% of Goldcar % franchises audited joined the Company before 2015 validated their knowledge and observance franchises of Goldcar's Code of Ethics Including environmental inspection, human rights, and Number of audits carried our using Online training on the Code of Ethics and compliance policy aimed at all % staff members trained on working conditions in all aspects of the current audit model the new audit model staff (except executives and line managers) ethics and compliance aspects Delivering the new Company goals, vision and values to Number of implemented initiatives Reviewing the Prevention Manual and adapting it to Italy's specific Reviewed Prevention and Response Manual all Company members regulations 02 2015 COMMITMENT TOWARDS CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.28 p.29 OUR STAKEHOLDERS IDENTIFYING RELEVANT CSR Our relationships with stakeholders is crucial to determine their expectations and concerns, so that we can address them and include them within our business ASPECTS strategy. For this reason, in 2015 a work group made up of key Company individuals reviewed our stakeholder mapping. By preparing our Corporate Social Responsibility report, in conformity with At Goldcar, we have a number of different communication channels available, GRI's G4 guide, we have determined with a strong emphasis on the use of new technologies. the need to report on those corporate social responsibility issues that are most relevant to the Company and its During 2015, we stakeholders. reviewed Goldcar's stakeholder mapping. Regarding this, we reviewed the identification process used to highlight the relevant corporate social responsibility aspects used for 2014. Our main goal GOLDCAR'S STAKEHOLDER was to increase the enquiry made to all MAPPING Company's stakeholder groups. We undertook a materiality assessment in conformity with the AA1000SES Accountability standard in consideration of the GRI's G4 guide principles. The SHAREHOLDERS STAFF CUSTOMERS results obtained allowed us to establish We work to create value through a We provide a quality work environment We offer an excellent vehicle rental what the most relevant issues in both sustainable Company management. to facilitate talent retention. service and strive towards improving the internal and external Company the Goldcar experience. viewpoint, therefore complying with the requirements of both standards. Our materiality matrix shows the results of this assessment, where all points are classified based on their internal and external relevance. SUPPLIERS PUBLIC AUTHORITIES FRANCHISES We establish relationships that are We cooperate by complying with We collaborate with their business success based on trust and the promotion of all applicable regulations and by through our experience and Goldcar's Casi 800 personas, de sustainability. developing new industry standards. own developed business model. Almost 800 people from our different stakeholder AIRPORT OPERATORS LOCAL COMMUNITIES RENTAL AGENCIES groups have helped us We provide a service aimed at the We have a positive impact in those We work together to create shared identify the key features holidaymakers’ industry that enhances communities where we carry out our wealth on the basis of good marketing for Goldcar's sustainability. the range available at the airport. business. practices and transparency. 02 2015 COMMITMENT TOWARDS CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.30 p.31 MATERIALITY MATRIX MATERIALITY SUSTAINABLE ISSUES Presence in the marketplace Quality employment Establishing CSR criteria when selecting Equal opportunities PRIORITISING VALIDATING suppliers Staff training Prioritising the identified In order to ensure a CO2 emissions management Child and forced labour Secure services issues in the internal reasonable and balanced Customer privacy Customer satisfaction and scope (Goldcar views) reflection of Goldcar's HIGH complaints procedure was done through a relevant corporate social Online transactions security* workshop attended by responsibility aspects, New technologies available to key Company individuals. we also analysed the customers* In this manner, we obtained results. With the created a forum for purpose of showing a fair IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES FOR STAKEHOLDERS discussion, where all image of the Company's participants defined sustainability strategy, we Inclusive work environment Staff and management relationships Financial performance Preventing discrimination Unfair competition practices Occupational Health and Safety the key aspects for considered the importance Environmental awareness of employees Energy Good marketing practices IDENTIFYING Goldcar's social, financial of including Local and customers* Anti-corruption strategies In order to achieve a and environmental Community Participation INTERMEDIATE preliminary identification sustainability. and Water consumption of all sustainability in addition to those aspects, we use the Our external assessment identified in the matrix. industry benchmarking (stakeholder views) was Likewise, GRI recommends completed in 2014, which undertaken by means including those aspects allowed us to discover of a survey aimed at all located at both ends of those matters identified Goldcar's stakeholders. the matrix (very relevant as relevant by other to the Company but Buying from local suppliers Water consumption Materials consumed companies in Goldcar's Prioritising these aspects not very relevant to Customer compensation for CO2 Expanding our business and Correct refuse management own industry. We also and relevant issues the stakeholders and emissions* sustainability strategies to our identified the points was achieved through otherwise); and for that Eco friendly services* franchisees* included in GRI's G4 statistical processing of reason, we also considered Commitment towards industry initiatives Investment in the environment on clean technologies* Association and the right to collective guide. survey answers and crossMaterial Consumption LOW Human rights training bargaining referencing the resulting and Correct Waste Social impact claims process As a result of this phase, data. Management. Social action and volunteering we obtained the initial Compliance with regulations list of Goldcar's relevant aspects. LOW INTERMEDIATE HIGH RELEVANT TO GOLDCAR Environmental aspects Human rights aspects Financial aspects Society aspects Work practice aspects Product responsibility aspects * Other issues (that do not correspond to the GRI G4 Guide) p.32 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.33 03 CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND SATISFACTION 03 2015 CUSTOMER CORPORATE SOCIAL EXPERIENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY SATISFACTION REPORT p.34 p.35 CUSTOMER CUSTOMERS ARE THE FOCUS OF OUR BUSINESS EXPERIENCE AND Goldcar's international expansion allowed us to increase the amount of customers resident in over 15 countries Score (NPS) index, in addition to modernising our website to improve transparency for our users and provide European tourist destinations, together with our efforts towards improving the services we supply have strengthened SATISFACTION within Europe and the rest of the world who can now benefit from our services. In 2015, we focused on improving our additional support channels, such as Goldcar Help. We also focused on developing new technological solutions aimed at improving our service, such our position as one of the leading leisure-focused car rental companies in Europe. customer's experience, a crucial factor as the queue management system to achieving increased customer trust. implemented in some offices. For this reason, we implemented a UN GLOBAL COMPACT customer satisfaction measurement Our Company's business model and our This chapter within the report covers: system based on the Net Promoter commitment to be present in the main 01 Businesses should support and respect the 93% of contracted CUSTOMER'S COUNTRY protection of internationally proclaimed human services have been OF RESIDENCE rights within their sphere of influence booked online. 9.3% OTHER 2015 1.4% ROMANIA 22.0% 1.8% SPAIN DENMARK 12.3% 2014 1.9% 1.9% PORTUGAL 2.0% 2.4% 1.8% NORWAY 22.5% 2.7% 2.4% 2.6% SWEDEN 3.9% 4.0% BELGIUM 5.2% 20.3% 6.5% 4.6% NETHERLANDS 5.8% 12.5% 7.4% FRANCE 18.7% UNITED KINGDOM 7.8%ITALY 12.1% GERMANY 03 2015 CUSTOMER CORPORATE SOCIAL EXPERIENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY SATISFACTION REPORT p.36 p.37 CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE IMPROVEMENT GOLDCAR CLUB 2015 saw the launch of Club Goldcar, a member's club offering discounts to all its members in not only Goldcar At Goldcar, we worked hard from the very beginning to services but also in several hotels and tourist attractions. provide the best offers and service to our customers. In 2015 Our Goldcar Club has 95,832 members, just one year after we went one step further to improve the overall experience for launching, a figure we hope will continue to increase. those who book our services, thanks to the implementation of a customer satisfaction measurement system based on the Net Promoter Score (NPS) rating. PRESENCE IN SOCIAL NETWORKS In 2015, we implemented an NPS customer satisfaction measurement system. Social networks have become a key element in Goldcar's relationship with its customers. Our presence in the principal social networks, such as Facebook, Twitter 29,908 This new system resulted in changes to the internal culture Facebook followers and Instagram, grows year on year and allows us to maintain a closer relationship that required the adaptation and involvement of all our staff with those people who put their trust in our services as well as the local communities. in order to ensure that we retain our customers’ trust when booking their holiday vehicle rental. In a world where digital technology is increasing at a fast pace, Goldcar remains fully aware of the potential and efficiency of these communication channels, where A further measure implemented in 2015 to determine our customers can receive a response within an average of 2 hours on Facebook, or 24 hours on Twitter. 2,273 customer's satisfaction levels, was to include a telephone helpline and road assistance satisfaction survey via a social call; Twitter followers we contact all customers to enable them to rate the service Our commitment towards our customers and other stakeholders will lead us to provided whilst helping us to improve it. develop new ways of interacting with them and to continue promoting new During 2015, we technologies. received around 35,000 customer interactions 2015 also saw the consolidation of the corporate blog Ongoldroad, which achieved via Facebook and 110,000 views and was read by over 100,000 users. Twitter. IMPLEMENTATION OF NET PROMOTER SCORE (NPS) SYSTEM CUSTOMERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS’ In 2015, Goldcar carried out a pilot trial to RELATIONSHIP TARGETS implement the NPS customer satisfaction measurement system. This system was DEGREE OF INDICATOR'S implemented as a pilot trial in 21 offices located 2015 TARGETS INDICATOR COMPLIANCE VALUE WITH TARGET in 5 different countries within our Company's network (Spain, Portugal, Italy, France and % Improvement of Goldcar 's presence in % increase in the number of Facebook 40.0% increase 100.0% social networks followers since 2014 Greece). We plan to implement this system throughout the entire Goldcar office network % increase in the number of Twitter 6.2% 100.0% during 2016. followers since 2014 NPS scores are an indicator used to measure 2016 TARGETS customer loyalty and/or satisfaction. One of Continue to improve our presence on social % increase in the number of Facebook the tool's main advantages is identification of networks % followers since 2015 the key reasons for customer satisfaction or % increase in the number of Twitter disappointment; these results determine actions followers since 2015 for improvement. 03 2015 CUSTOMER CORPORATE SOCIAL EXPERIENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY SATISFACTION REPORT p.38 p.39 CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE CUSTOMER SERVICE IMPROVEMENT TARGETS In order to improve the levels of service currently available to customers as well DEGREE OF INDICATOR'S as the efficiency of our query resolution systems, in 2015 we defined a number of 2015 TARGETS INDICATOR COMPLIANCE VALUE targets and indicators in order to assess their operation. The results achieved not WITH TARGET Customer satisfaction measurement via the NPS system % of countries where we have 100.0% 100.0% only show proof of their effectiveness, but are also a reward for all the hard work Goldcar's telephone within a sample of offices in each of the countries implemented NPS carried out by Goldcar members, throughout the previous year. service average where Goldcar operates, except Croatia rating was Implementing our road assistance customer satisfaction survey in Spain, Portugal, Italy, France and Greece % of countries where we have implemented our road assistance Survey implemented in Spain, Portugal, Italy, 100.0% Our query management system, also known as the back office service, allows us to centralise all incidents collected from the Company's diverse customer service 4,51 out of 5. customer satisfaction survey France and Greece. –100% channels, including those arising from services booked via intermediaries. countries– Customer satisfaction levels (customer helpline) above Average customer satisfaction 4.51 100.0% 4.5 out of 5.0 rating. CUSTOMER SUGGESTIONS MANAGEMENT 2016 TARGETS IMPROVEMENT TARGETS Customer satisfaction measurement via the NPS system % of offices where we have DEGREE OF within the entire Goldcar office network implemented NPS INDICATOR'S 2015 TARGETS INDICATOR COMPLIANCE VALUE Implement our road assistance customer satisfaction % of countries where we have WITH TARGET survey in Croatia implemented our road assistance Call handling levels (SLA) of at least 90% % call handling levels 90.1% 100.0% customer satisfaction survey Customer satisfaction levels (customer helpline and Average customer Percentage of customer issues solved on first call of at % customer queries solved on 80.8% 100.0% road assistance) above 4.5 out of 5.0 satisfaction rating least 65% first call Average complaints resolution term under 7 days Average complaints resolution 4.7 days 100.0% term CUSTOMER HELPLINE 80% of complaints resolved in under 13 days % complaints resolved in under 90.9% 100.0% 13 days Customer support is a key factor in achieving a top quality service. At Goldcar, we have established several methods to make it easier for those booking any of our Ensuring that we can provide a fast road assistance Average towing service waiting 30’ 24’’, average towing 100.0% service in under 40 minute, in Spain time service waiting time services to resolve queries or send us suggestions in the most user-friendly way. Expanding the customer helpline in Italy Countries with customer helpline Spain and Italy 100.0% By accessing our Goldcar help centre, customers can identify even the smallest detail regarding our terms and conditions and check practical information along with frequently asked questions before booking a vehicle. Another improvement to 2016 TARGETS our service for customers was the implementation of the contact center in Italy, in A new customer helpline Ensuring that our call handling levels (SLA) are at least % call handling levels addition to the existing Goldcar direct communication channels, which reflects the is available for our 90% Spanish version. customers in Italy. Maintain our current percentage of customer issues % customer queries solved on solved on first call at over 65% first call In the event of emergency, customers can get in touch with our road assistance Maintain our current average complaints resolution term Average complaints resolution service 24/7, in every country where we operate. in under 7 days term Continue to resolve 80% of complaints in under 13 days % complaints resolved in under Our personal advisors, available in all Goldcar network offices, and our presence 13 days on social networks, complete our extensive range of customer service support Continue to ensure that we can provide a fast road Average towing service waiting channels available to all our users. assistance service in under 40 minutes time Consolidating our customer helpline in Italy Number of Italy's call centre users 03 2015 CUSTOMER CORPORATE SOCIAL EXPERIENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY SATISFACTION REPORT p.40 p.41 COMMITMENT TOWARDS NEW TECHNOLOGIES At Goldcar, technology is crucial to As part of Goldcar's website We also began working on a new selfour daily operations and a key factor modernisation plan in 2015 we also service kiosk pilot trial, an industry first, that helps us to achieve our ambitious developed a system to permit users aims to offer an exceptional customer growth and international expansion to book the vehicle and model of experience. This new system will allow FIRST EVER SMART QUEUE plans. For that reason, we have an their choice. This service, although users to collect their rental vehicles MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ever growing team of professionals only implemented in specific Goldcar in under 2 minutes with no need for Another challenge that we often face is to reduce specialising in innovation and destinations, has become a new check-in at the counter. This significantly queues when collecting vehicles. information technologies. industry standard. reduces waiting times which addresses a key customer demand. 2015 saw the launch of a new queue Goldcar's website is continuously Another key aspect for our business is IT management system, at present only available at updated with new technology security in order to ensure its continuity Alicante airport, which resulted in better customer improvements and includes an at all times. We invested in projects such CUSTOMER PRIVACY perception towards our services. The system automated booking management as the creation of a Data Processing reduced time spent by staff serving customers, system. In 2015, we underwent Centre (DPC), a remote data mirror to At Goldcar, we have developed gathered statistics for further waiting time control, a platform review in order to improve our IT system's security and procedures and control mechanisms that and suggested options to make them shorter in improve accessibility and capacity their continuity in the event of failure of enable us to ensure compliance with all real time. for transformation, turning it the main DPC. applicable legislation on data protection into a responsive design. All new and confidentiality in all countries where This IT initiative is fully intended to improve the improvements undertaken, along with We are at the cutting edge of we operate. services we offer to our customers, verifying that the renewal of our Good Practices the leisure-focused car rental we are dedicated to resolving key issues that our in E-Commerce Certification, have sector. Pursuant to Act 15/1999 passed on 13th users demand. enabled us to be more transparent with de December on Personal Data Protection, our customers and other stakeholders. Our commitment towards new all personal details provided by customers technologies will play a key role in the are filed and dealt with in conformity with business within the next few years, the above mentioned legislation. with the purpose of offering a service that is closer than ever to meeting all Regarding our subsidiaries abroad, we Renewal of our user requirements and consumer habits have implemented adaptations to the Good Practices for customers who are increasingly local Data Protection legislation in force. in E-Commerce more comfortable with new technology In 2015, there were no records of any CUSTOMER TRANSPARENCY IMPROVEMENT Certification platforms and demand personalised sanctions arising from privacy breaches TARGETS services for leisure time. or customers data loss. 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR Obtaining the online Trust Online Trust certification certification 03 2015 CUSTOMER CORPORATE SOCIAL EXPERIENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY SATISFACTION REPORT p.42 p.43 SECURE SERVICE Ensuring the safety of both our vehicle fleet and the services we offer is a key factor We have developed a for our business. At Goldcar, we have established a number of control procedures procedure to ensure a correct to provide a correct technical maintenance for all our rental vehicles. Furthermore, maintenance for our fleet. 80% of our fleet is renewed annually, so it comprises vehicles with an average of 9 months old, one of the youngest fleets in Europe. All vehicles are subject to the Ministry of Transport (MOT) tests pursuant to the specific regulations established for the rent a car industry, which is a much more rigorous than in regards to private vehicles. In addition to the statutory requirements, we have also established routine vehicle inspection controls: PAYMENT TRUST Pre-MOT specific procedure. Post check-in inspection. Regular checks. As one of the many IT advances All vehicles are subject to this type Whenever a vehicle is returned, it will All vehicle cleaning subcontractors undertaken at Goldcar in the past few of inspection prior to undergoing the be inspected for any damages that carry our basic safety checks (oil levels, years, being able to book and make statutory MOT testing. Inspections may have been caused during use, lights, and tyre pressure and damage) payments online is a feature that we are carried out by specialised staff, classified in 3 different levels. Vehicles during every car wash performed. considered when confronted with the A payment gateway created by Geotrust is the second largest in accordance with the specific with more serious damages (levels 2 need to produce a secure platform for all the Spanish firm PAYTPV Online worldwide provider of digital procedure created for this purpose. and 3) are considered unroadworthy our customers. which enables companies to handle security certifications, with more This procedure has been approved by for safety reasons and removed from payments from anywhere in the than 100.000 customers based the Fleet Maintenance, Internal Audit the fleet. Goldcar's payment gateway is compliant world. Among its main advantages in over 150 countries. SSL True and Fleet Purchase Managers. with PCI-DSS standards, thus providing we can highlight its capacity to BusinessID certifications issued by total confidentiality and security for fully integrate with any external GeoTrust® are used to indicate that all details entered during the purchase application and its powerful the website can be trusted and that transaction. Our implemented antifraud system. all transactions are secure. transparent integration model PAYTPV, Our commitment towards our customers' safety leads us to implement awareness enables us to carry out the entire actions for all our users concerning the observance of traffic rules. All customers purchase process from Goldcar's own who book our services receive an information leaflet showing the basic local traffic website, therefore ensuring full control rules in force in the country where the booking is made to ensure observance. of the transaction at all times. Our SSL Certification awarded by Geotrust also certifies that all Internet based communications are carried out in a secure manner throughout the process. Goldcar is highly commited to data security. In this regard, the Company strives to ensure customer's data protection by implementing additional security systems in the mid-term. p.44 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.45 04 GOLDCAR AND THE COMMUNITY 04 2015 GOLDCAR CORPORATE SOCIAL AND THE RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNITY REPORT p.46 p.47 GOLDCAR SPORT EVENTS SPONSORSHIP MAJORCA 312 AND THE For the second consecutive year we sponsored the cyclist route Mallorca312, a race covering 312 km around the island of Majorca, with 4,000 cyclists taking part. Goldcar took an COMMUNITY active part with their own team Goldcar Bike Sport, which achieved a very good result. Through this, Goldcar is sponsoring the practice of this sport whilst evidencing the need for a better coexistence between cyclists and drivers on the road. UN GLOBAL COMPACT This chapter within the report covers: EUROPEAN LASER UNDER 21 OLYMPIC CATEGORY 01 Businesses should support and respect the A championship sponsored by Goldcar, which was held in Los protection of internationally proclaimed Alcazares during the summer of 2015, gathered competitors human rights within their sphere of influence. from 27 different nationalities who made their championship debut. Through this collaboration, we worked to underpin the relationship between humans and the sea whilst promoting the values of sport and boosting the tourist areas where the events were held. In 2015, we continued to collaborate in different sports events. Through these We have collaborated in over several various events and initiatives with actions, we work towards promoting 30 events and community the aim of increasing our participation the values of sport and a healthy participation projects. IRONMAN BARCELONA within the environment where we carry lifestyle amongst young people and out our business. adults. Collaborating is also crucial to We also undertake other actions to We collaborated with Ironman Barcelona for the first time, promoting tourist destinations where we promote culture and help improve the showing our commitment towards promoting triathlon At Goldcar, one of the main channels are based, thereby promoting economic lives of disabled people. events. Ironman is considered the toughest, most demanding of community action is to sponsor development. triathlon test which sees competitors complete 3 different races consisting of a 3.9 km open sea swim followed by a 180 km cycle race to finish off with a 42.2 km marathon run. WKU MARTIAL ARTS WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS Over 1,500 national and international athletes gathered to CYCLIST MANIFESTO compete at the Martial Arts Championships held between At Goldcar, we know the precise relationship between cyclists and drivers, and the often dramatic Alfaz del Pi and Benidorm. At Goldcar, we are committed situations that can take place on the road. For this reason, and with the aim of improving to showing our support for a sport that requires discipline coexistence between both cyclists and drivers, we are taking part in a Cyclist manifesto that is and perseverance. Alicante province was the ideal setting to expected to be launched during 2016. Through this activity, we intend to involve both the drivers promote the integration and participation of both local and and cyclists in order to create a culture based on mutual respect on the road, with the purpose of international visitors from 60 different countries. reducing the risk of accidents. 04 2015 GOLDCAR CORPORATE SOCIAL AND THE RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNITY REPORT p.48 p.49 SUPPORTING PEOPLE OTHER WITH DISABILITIES SPONSORSHIPS COLLABORATION WITH MAIGMO ‘WE ARE ONE’ EVENT OCCUPATIONAL CENTRE ‘CYCLING MEETING EXHIBITION’ We also took part in the annual event We Are One, organised On the 25th anniversary since they started working Goldcar also sponsored the Cycle Tourism conference Cycling by Invest for Children. In a similar fashion to previous years, in the province of Alicante, we took part in Maigmo Meeting held in Majorca in an attempt to show our support the 2015 edition consisted of a 7-a-side football tournament Occupational Centre's charitable calendar by donating a towards this endeavour in favour of networking within the at the RCD Espanyol stadium in Barcelona. Every Company financial contribution to help with their production. We also cycling and cycle tourism sector. Networking conferences was represented by their own team, and the final prize was contributed to fund schemes aimed at improving the quality and sessions were the main hub of this event, which saw to play a game against a group of ex RCD Espanyol players. of life for people with learning disabilities. representatives and managers from several cycling and cycle During the event, which gathered more than 900, attendees tourism companies sharing their own experiences. were treated to raffles and contests with prizes donated by all participating companies, and all proceeds donated to charitable causes. 50% of the funds raised were donated LOW FESTIVAL BENIDORM to Fundacion Aura, the 25% of the funds were donated to Alzheimer prevention research projects carried out by At Goldcar we value the promotion of culture, and this year Fundacion Pascual Maragall, and the remaining 25% were we sponsored Benidorm's Low Festival, where 25,000 young donated to serious childhood diseases prevention research people enjoyed a summer festival to remember, and a truly projects carried out by Hospital de Sant Pau, Barcelona. unique experience. COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT TARGETS DEGREE OF COMINDICATOR'S 2015 TARGETS INDICATOR PLIANCE WITH VALUE TARGET Monitoring social action investments € allocated to social actions 28,000 € 100.0% 2016 TARGETS Increasing our social action investment % increase in our social action investment Launch of a micro grants scheme1 Number of initiatives launched 1Activation of a field in the online resevation process to give customers the opportinity to collaborate with social projects. p.50 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.51 05SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT 05 2015 SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE SOCIAL ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT p.52 p.53 SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION IS AT THE CORE OF OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY In 2015, our investments in innovation (IT) amounted to ECONOMIC We have invested 2.2 million 2.2 million euros together with the hard work of our staff, Euros in technology innovation, including the appointment of around 30 new specialised 20.4% more than during 2014. professionals. These facts demonstrate the importance of improving the competitiveness of our business model. MANAGEMENT Goldcar's technological development is mainly focused on improving customer experience for our users, who are increasingly connected and comfortable with new technologies. Some examples of the initiatives undertaken are the launch of a smart queue management system and the ONGOING GROWTH creation of a self-service kiosk, an industry first. BUSINESS However, innovation is also key to good internal management for Goldcar. In 2015, we began an IT corporate Goldcar's key for success is based governance project consisting of the implementation of EBITDA 2015 EBIT margin around a well-planned business processes, procedures and methods to increase the team's strategy focusing on the leisure market, and a very satisfactory value for money 125 M€ 27.4% working capacity whilst improving our internal management and ensuring that we continue to offer a quality service. service offering. Another example of a leading project was the creation of a continuous data protection system (DPC), a remote data 2015 was a year for international REVENUE EVOLUTION EXCLUDING FUEL (million Euros) mirror to improve our IT system's security facilitating business expansion which saw us extend our continuity at all times. presence in new countries such as 2015 214.5 France, Greece and Croatia. In addition to that, we strengthened our presence in Spain and Italy with the opening of 2014 OUTLOOK FOR 2016 new offices. All the above facts have 192.4 helped to position our Company as 2013 At Goldcar, we are embarking on an ambitious geographical one of the leading holidaymaker rental 145.5 and operational expansion plan that will continue throughout vehicles in Europe. 2016 with new openings in new European tourist destinations. Goldcar's steady growth and good 9.0% 9.3% STATUS OF ADDED We are also committed to developing our franchise model prospects for the future have boosted VALUE 2015 which began in 2014, as a driving force in our Company's the expansion of our team of globalisation process. With over 30 years' experience, Goldcar professionals, thus creating new jobs 28.4% SALARY EXPENSES offers their franchisees all the necessary tools and knowledge and opportunities in the local area. OPERATIONAL EXPENSES to maximise their opportunities for business success. In a FINANCIAL EXPENSES joint effort with our franchisees, we expect to open the first We continue growing: 9.0% CORPORATION TAX Goldcar office in Latin America by the end of 2016. increase in our revenue when OTHERTAX compared to 2014. DEPRECIATIONS Goldcar's investment in new technologies will continue to be RESERVES one of our priorities in the coming years as a crucial element All proceeds from for our economic growth. bookings are reinvested 0.4% 5.5% 38.5% into the Company in order to sustain business growth. 10.7% p.54 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.55 06 PEOPLE AND INTERNAL CULTURE 06 2015 PEOPLE AND CORPORATE SOCIAL INTERNAL RESPONSIBILITY CULTURE REPORT p.56 p.57 PEOPLE AND INTERNAL We continue to grow our team, 15.2% more than 2014. CULTURE STAFF MEMBERS UN GLOBAL COMPACT at 31 December This chapter within the report covers: 2015 01 Businesses should support and respect the 04 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all 06 Businesses should uphold the elimination of 714 people 436 Male 61.1% 278 Female 38.9% protection of internationally proclaimed forms of forced and compulsory labour. discrimination in respect of employment and human rights within their sphere of influence. occupation. 05 2014 03 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition 620 Businesses should uphold the freedom of of child labour. 389 Male 62.7% 231 Female 37.3% association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 2013 534 327 Male 61.2% 207 Female 38.8% Please note: Figures shown in the tables below only include data related to staff employed directly by Goldcar, and therefore excludes any staff employed by the COMMITMENT franchisees or outsourced. TOWARDS GOLDCAR'S TEAM STAFF MEMBERS BY COUNTRY AND GENDER at 31 December Opening new Goldcar offices and 31st December had risen to 714 people, Entry level salaries offered to all new 2013 2014 2015 focusing on improving our customer 67.5% of which were permanent recruits in all countries where Goldcar experience have been the two main and 91.5% of which were full time operates are higher than the local strategic guidelines which have employees. minimum wage. 1 Spain 293 165 333 174 322 189 4 6 resulted in the growth of our team of professionals, without whom neither of Goldcar's business sector, which is 2 Portugal 21 27 23 32 27 34 these achievements would have been focused on the leisure market, also 3 3 Italy 13 15 33 25 46 37 possible. determines seasonal variations among its staff, with the summer months 2 1 5 4 France 18 13 Goldcar collaborates by creating new usually being the busiest times for 5 Greece 15 4 quality jobs in those countries where we recruitment. At 31st July 2015, we are based. In 2015, the total number reached total number of 988 employees 6 Croatia 8 1 of staff employed by the Company at working for our Company. 06 2015 PEOPLE AND CORPORATE SOCIAL INTERNAL RESPONSIBILITY CULTURE REPORT p.58 p.59 STAFF DISTRIBUTION BY AGE GROUPS At Goldcar, we are aware of the importance of creating a good AND GENDER at 31 December working environment as the key to our Company's success. For that reason we are working hard to develop an internal 2013 2014 2015 culture based on commitment, team work, responsibility and mutual respect. Total Total Total Under 30 66 54 120 74 50 124 84 56 140 Goldcar's Code of Ethics explicitly states the Company's commitment towards compliance with all human and labour 30 to 50 234 143 377 280 169 449 311 211 522 rights acknowledged by all referred national and international 50 years 27 10 37 35 12 47 41 11 52 legislation, including those related to the prevention of any type of child and/or forced labour. AVERAGE NUMBER OF OUTSOURCED STAFF IN GOLDCAR FIELDS In 2015, we developed new initiatives that help to improve staff and management relationships. We launched our 2015 During 2015, 67.5% 260 Goldcar Newsletter, an online gazette created to inform all of our staff was Company members of the milestones achieved, as well as 2014 permanent and 91.5% any organisational or geographic changes, and to promote 180 worked full time. the various communication channels within the Company, to 2013 name a few. 146 Another of the initiatives we launched is the Have breakfast with the CEO scheme, an opportunity for staff to share a STAFF SHEET BY EMPLOYMET TYPE communicative space with the Company's top decision maker PERMANENT TEMPORARY in order to openly discuss common interests. 2015 67.5 % permanent staff COMPARISON BETWEEN GOLDCAR'S ENTRY LEVEL 305 177 131 101 SALARY AND THE LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE FOR 20151 2014 263 164 126 67 Croatia 68.9 % 2.28 Portugal Greece 2013 205 135 122 72 local Spain 1.40 France 63.7 % mínimum 1.06 1.01 1.28 wage STAFF SHEET BY WORKING HOURS at 31 December 1 There is no minimum wage in Italy FULL TIME PART TIME 2015 STAFF SHEET BY CATEGORY 91.5 % full time staff at 31 December 419 Male 234 Female 17 Male 44 Female EXECUTIVE LINE OTHER OFFICERS MANAGERS STAFF 2014 91.0 % 2015 14 91 609 368 Male 196 Female 21 Male 35 Female 2014 12 86 522 2013 89.5 % 2013 12 94 428 300 Male 178 Female 27 Male 29 Female 06 2015 PEOPLE AND CORPORATE SOCIAL INTERNAL RESPONSIBILITY CULTURE REPORT p.60 p.61 FAIR WORK ENVIRONMENT Goldcar's Equal Opportunities Scheme, prepared pursuant % FEMALE STAFF BY CATEGORY STAFF WITH DISABILITIES BY CATEGORY to Act 3/2007 passed on 22nd March on effective equality at 31 December at 31 December between men and women and approved by the Management, EXECUTIVE LINE OTHER establishes measures and actions to promote a fair work OFFICERS MANAGERS STAFF OTHER STAFF environment. 2015 Our Code of Ethics also defines this culture of respect and 14.3% 35.2% 40.1% Total 2.2 % prevention of any discrimination, which applies to all Company 2015 16 employess 2015 staff across all seniority levels. At Goldcar, preventing 38.9% discrimination is beyond gender issues and also refers to 2014 ensuring the inclusion of people with disabilities within the 0.8 % workplace. 25.0% 33.7% 38.1% Total 5 employess 2014 2014 Our Ethics Channel may be used by any member of staff to 37.3% 2013 report any discriminatory situation or harassment that may 1.5 % have taken place to our Equality Standing Commission, which 25.0% 34.0% 40.2% 8 employess is formed by both members of the Management as well as Total 2013 2013 staff representatives. Please note: There are no staff with any type of disability 38.8% employed as Executive officers and Line managers. We have our own Equal Opportunities Scheme. % FEMALE STAFF BY CATEGORY AND COUNTRY at 31 December 2013 2014 2015 Executive Line Other Executive Line Other Executive Line Other officers managers staff Total officers managers staff Total officers managers staff Total Spain 25.0% 32.1% 37.3% 36.0% 25.0% 31.9% 35.0% 34.3% 14.3% 37.7% 37.6% 37.0% Portugal 0.0% 42.9% 58.5% 56.3% 0.0% 42.9% 60.4% 58.2% 0.0% 37.5% 58.5% 55.7% Italy 0.0% 50.0% 54.5% 53.6% 0.0% 42.9% 43.1% 43.1% 0.0% 36.4% 45.8% 44.6% France 0.0% 50.0% 40.7% 41.9% Greece 0.0% 0.0% 25.0% 21.1% Croatia 0.0% 0.0% 20.0% 11.1% Please note: All Company executive officers are based in Spain, which is the location of Goldcar's headquarters. 06 2015 PEOPLE AND CORPORATE SOCIAL INTERNAL RESPONSIBILITY CULTURE REPORT p.62 p.63 WORK AND FAMILY BALANCE TALENT PROMOTION At Goldcar, we believe that all staff are entitled to achieve a good work and personal Every person's individual talent within the Company represents a competitive We have approved our life balance. advantage that is crucial to Goldcar’s success and revenue. We developed an Strategic Training Plan for ambitious Strategic Training Plan with the purpose of improving our teams' abilities 2015-2017 That is why we make it easier for any staff who request a reduction of their working whilst facilitating promotion and talent retention. hours and shifts for family or legal guardianship reasons. We promote rotating, morning only and / or afternoon only working shifts among our operations teams to ensure Our Strategic Training Plan is structured in 5 different training areas which were that our staff are able to adapt their working hours to their personal circumstances. defined following a preliminary diagnosis undertaken to identify the training needs and areas for improvement. PERCENTABLE OF STAFF RETURNING TO WORK AND RETENTION RATE1 at 31 December This strategic training is additional to that provided to all operations staff to ensure Staff entitled to Staff who have taken Percentage of staff that they know the required procedures and technical aspects needed to carry out parental leave parental leave returning to work (%) Retention rate (%) their daily duties correctly. Spain 322 189 16 16 100 81 56 100 Portugal 27 34 0 2 0 100 0 100 AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS PER MEMBER OF STAFF Please note: Our staff returning to work percentage is calculated by dividing the total number of staff who returned to work after parental leave by the total number of at 31 December 2015 staff. Our staff retention percentage is calculated by dividing the total number of staff who continue to work for the Company 12 months after they have returned to work following a parental leave period by the total number of staff who have returned to work after parental leave during the reporting period. EXECUTIVE LINE OTHER 1Although in France, Greece and Croatia all staff have been entitled to parental leave, no requests have been made in this reporting period. OFFICERS MANAGERS STAFF 2015 13.5 WORK AND FAMILY BALANCE hours per PROMOTION TARGETS member of staff 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR 7.31 hours 33.28 hours 10.28 hours Implementation of flexible working % staff taking advantage of hours for head office staff flexible working hours TRAINING STAFF AREAS TRAINED Leadership and team GOLDCAR TALENT INTERNSHIP PROGRAM management 18 We have developed a professional scheme to prepare university students during their time with the Company Skills development 124 so that they are more employable in the future. Languages 12 Technology (IT This scheme includes agreements with different colleges governance) 3 and business schools to provide internships. However, High potential profiles what sets it apart, is the fact that our internships have project 1 clear career paths whereby each student is mentored by a member of our staff and includes a final assessment of Total 158 the whole experience obtained by both Goldcar and the students themselves. Our scheme was approved by the Company's management, who are directly involved with this project by maintaining regular meetings with all participants. 06 2015 PEOPLE AND CORPORATE SOCIAL INTERNAL RESPONSIBILITY CULTURE REPORT p.64 p.65 TALENT PROMOTION NO. OF ACCIDENTS RESULTING IN TIME OFF WORK1 TARGETS ITALY SPAIN INDICATOR'S DEGREE OF 2015 TARGETS INDICATOR VALUE COMPLIANCE Please note: Does not include accidents in 2015 26 itinere Design and implementation of the Strategic Training Average training hours per 13.15 hours per 25.0% 1No accidents resulting in time off work 10 4 8 4 Plan for 2015-2017 member of staff staff member were recorded in Portugal during either 2013, 2014 or 2015. In addition, there were no 2014 Approval of Goldcar Talent Goldcar Talent approval 100.0% accidents resulting in time off work in either 3 4 13 3 Design and approval of Goldcar's Talent Internship France, Greece or Croatia in 2015. 23 Program Scheme by the Management 2013 5 5 10 2016 TARGETS Implementation of Goldcar's Strategic Training Average training hours FRECUENCY INDEX1 Plan on the global level per member of staff 2013 2014 2015 Development of a new e-learning platform with e-learning platform completed training paths 10 courses available Implementation of Goldcar Talent Internship Program 10 students joining the scholarship scheme and 2 Spain 5.0 5.0 9.4 2.2 0.04 0.1 working sessions Italy 0.0 0.0 33.0 52.1 2.7 1.6 Please note: Our frequency index is calculated by dividing the number of accidents by the total number of hours worked multiplied by 1,000,000. 1-Portugal's frequency index for 2013, 2014 and 2015 has been nil. In France, OCCUPATIONAL Greece and Croatia, the frequency index for 2015 has also been nil. RISK PREVENTION ÍNCIDENT INDEX1 2013 2014 2015 Goldcar has put in place prevention services in all the countries where we currently operate in order to manage all aspects related to staff occupational health and safety under direct supervision by the Company's own HR department. Spain 870.4 870.4 1,655.3 382.0 2,284.3 815.8 All Goldcar staff have received Italy 0.0 0.0 5,882.4 9,302.3 21,739.1 10,810.8 health and safety training. Please note: Our incidents index is calculated by dividing the number of accidents with medical leave by the total number of hours worked multiplied by1,000,000. Our staff's health and wellbeing is one of Goldcar's top priorities, and for that 1-Portugal's incident index for 2013, 2014 and 2015 has been nil. In France, reason, we have developed specific prevention procedures for each position within Greece and Croatia, the incident index for 2015 has also been nil. the Company which are based on a preliminary risk assessment of all potential job related issues. ABSENCE RATE1 2015 All Goldcar's staff regularly receive training regarding occupational health and safety which is specific to their position within the Company including all field and base staff who are provided with the statutory safety kits specific to their duties. Any accidents resulting in time off work have been minor and any increase during 3.0 2.3 2.6 1.6 1.2 2015 is due to an increase in the overall number of staff. Spain Portugal Italy Please note: Our absence rate is calculated by dividing lost working hours by the total amount of working hours multiplied by 100. 1For years 2013 y 2014, there is only standardised data available for Spain, where the values were 2.1 and 2.3 respectively. For year 2015, there is no disaggregated data for Spain classified by gender. In France, Greece and Croatia, the absence rate for 2015 was zero. p.66 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.67 07 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 07 2015 PROTECTING CORPORATE SOCIAL THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY p.68 REPORT p.69 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT UN GLOBAL COMPACT This chapter within the report covers: 07 08 09 Businesses should support a precautionary Businesses should undertake initiatives to Businesses should encourage the development approach to environmental challenges. promote greater environmental responsibility. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. GOLDCAR BLUE ENVIRONMENTAL In 2015 we launched the Goldcar Blue initiative with MANAGEMENT the purpose of developing a number of measures aimed at strengthening Goldcar's commitment towards our At Goldcar we are aware that our For a further year, we have renewed the corporate intranet. This informative environment. One of the first actions undertaken was business has an impact upon the our ISO 14.001 certification at our document provides details concerning the purchase of electric vehicles for our rental fleets environment. For that reason, we are headquarters, which has helped good environmental practices. in Barcelona and Palma de Majorca. This addition of a committed to minimising our carbon us to improve our business from a new eco-friendly fleet represents an efficient alternative footprint through the development of sustainability point of view. There are further environmental effects for the Company as opposed to traditional vehicles, eco-friendly actions aimed at respecting arising from our marketing activities providing further opportunities to help our customers to our environment. During 2014, we developed the Good undertaken at Goldcar's office network have a more sustainable holiday. Housekeeping Practices file, created to which, from an environmental point of We have renewed our promote our staff's cooperation with the view, are managed by specific procedures Our launch in Palma also involved our participation in ISO 14.001 certification Company's environmental sustainability, that are subject to internal audits. the promotion of the benefits related to electric vehicles at head office. which is available to all Goldcar staff via and eco-friendly tourism on the island, together with a number of other local companies and institutions. 07 2015 PROTECTING CORPORATE SOCIAL THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY p.70 REPORT p.71 ENERGY CONSUMPTION ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT TARGETS Goldcar's main energy consumption is electricity, mainly at the Company's INDICATOR'S DEGREE OF headquarters. For that reason, we carry out several measures in order to reduce it, 2015 TARGETS INDICATOR VALUE COMPLIANCE such as environmental awareness actions amongst staff and investments to improve Replacing 50% of the Company's traditional lighting % of traditional lighting replaced 43.5% 43.5% our facilities' energy efficiency. with LED for 2015-2020 by LED Reducing the Company's own fleet fuel consumption % reduction on the Company's 6.2% 100.0% by 4% per 100 kilometres travelled (l/100 km) own fleet fuel consumption ANNUAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (MWh)1 SPAIN PORTUGAL ITALY FRANCE GREECE + 12.2% 2016 TARGETS in regards to 2015 2014 Replacing 50% of the Company's traditional lighting % of traditional lighting replaced 1,873 (+4.6% in regards to 2014) (+3.9% in regards to 2014) 201 38 5758 2,227.0 with LED for 2015-2020 Energy audits undertaken throughout the Group by LED Number of audits undertaken. 2014 Detect potential areas for improvement 1,984.8 1,791.4 193.4 2013 1,954.4 1,789.7 164.7 Please note: Above data was obtained from the control of our consumption data in the invoices. There was no consumption of renewable energies. There was no sale or purchase of energy. 1N/a: There is no historical data available for Italy. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (MWh/per staff member) We have reduced our 2.6% in electricity consumption per regards to 2014 member of staff by 2.6% 2013 2014 2015 3.7 3.2 3.1 less than 2014. ANNUAL FUEL CONSUMPTION (l)1 OWN VEHICLE FLEET PETROL AND DIESEL CONSUMPTION GENERATOR SETS DIESEL CONSUMPTION 4.1% in regards to 2015 2014 2,200 2,000 (-12.8% in regards to 2014) 200 2014 2,294 2013 449 Please note: Above details are for Spain only, which is the only location where Goldcar has any fuel consumption. Own vehicle fleet refers to vehicles used by internal auditors and a further vehicle available for internal transportation at head office. 1There is no historical data availableregardingtheconsumption of diesel for generator sets. 07 2015 PROTECTING CORPORATE SOCIAL THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY p.72 REPORT p.73 WATER CONSUMPTION AND RECYCLING Goldcar maintains control over its water consumption levels at all offices and fields through the use of individual meters. In this respect, we are able to detect any leaks that may result in additional water consumption at our premises. We have recycled 3,626 GAS EMISSIONS Our Company's main water consumption, in addition to water for sanitary facilities m3 of water representing at our headquarters, is spent in vehicle wash facilities located at some of Goldcar's 7.8% of our total water Another of Goldcar's environmental impacts are the greenhouse gas emissions sites. In order to reduce the use of this resource, our facilities are equipped with consumption. (GHG) related to our business, mainly those produced by our customers during the water recycling systems that enable us to reuse up to 20% of the water used in use of our rental fleet. Based on our awareness of this environmental impact, in every wash. 2015 we added new electric vehicles to our fleet in an attempt to promote this new clean technology and make it available to all our customers. WATER CONSUMPTION SUPPLIED With the aim of involving our customers in Goldcar's enviromental strategy we are BY THE COUNCIL BOARD (m3) working on a mid-term carbon customer's emissions offset program. This project Used at headquarters, offices and bases, including water usage by the vehicle wash facilities will reduce the Carbon footprint derived from the use of Goldcar fleet (Scope 3) SPAIN PORTUGAL + 13.9% while we will allow our customers to collaborate with renewable energy initiatives in regards to in developing countries. 2015 2014 46,411 For a further year, we calculated our GHG emissions produced by our business, We have reduced by 2.2% 40,695 (+18.7% in regards to 2014) 5,716 (-11.7% in regards to 2014) including those arising from electricity consumption in all countries where Goldcar 2014 is currently based on. We also included those emissions arising from the services our CO2eq emissions per 40,747 provided to customers through our vehicle rental fleet. Finally, this year we also kilometre travelled by our 34,275 6,472 included those emissions arising from diesel consumption by our generator sets, in rental fleet. 2013 an attempt to produce a more accurate calculation of the total emissions produced. 34,626 30,339 4,287 TOTAL EMMISSIONS BY SCOPE (t CO2eq) Please note: Water consumption data is obtained from the invoices received by the water boards. variations 1Year 2015 includes all locations in Portugal. 2013 2014 2015 2014-2015 Indirect emissions of CO2eq (Scope 1) 0.0 27.2 54.9 100.0% WATER CONSUMPTION % WATER RECYCLED FROM THE Diffuse HFC emissions (R-22) 0.0 27.2 54.3 100.0% (lit per number of contracts) TOTAL WATER USED + 4.6% Diesel for generator sets N/A N/A 0.6 in regards to 2015 2014 2015 Indirect emissions of CO2eq (Scope 2) 703.6 734.4 890.8 21.3% 2013 2014 0.039 0.042 0.044 7.8 % Electricity 703.6 734.4 890.8 21.3% Indirect emissions of CO2eq (Scope 3)1 38,946.0 88,301.4 89,729.4 1.6% Vehicle rental fleet 38,946.0 88,301.4 89,729.4 1.6% VOLUME OF RECYCLED WATER IN 14.4% in regards to VEHICLE WASH FACILITIES (m3) 2014 TOTAL 39,649.5 89,063.0 90,675.1 1.8% 2.5% in regards to 2015 2014 Please note: Our calculations to obtain scope 3 figures include Goldcar's total vehicle rental fleet. Data concerning scopes 1 and 2 has been calculated based on the energy 3,626 2014 2013 consumption levels and fluorinated greenhouse gas leaks, which are only available for year 2015. N/A: There is no historical data available. 9.1 % 10.0 % Sources: Our greenhouse gas emissions estimation expressed in CO2eq tonnes have been calculated in consideration of the electric energy usage, diesel fuel consumption 2014 by the generator sets, fluorinated greenhouse gas leaks and kilometres travelled by Goldcar's rental vehicle fleet. In regards to scope 1 emissions, we have used the R-22 Please note: Our recycled water levels have been emission factor included in the 4th Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and the emission factor for diesel fuels within our premises was 3,721 calculated based on the water used by each vehicle obtained from the emissions factor document Registration of carbon footprint, compensation and projects for absorption of carbon dioxide, published by the Ministry of wash facility, their technical specifications (percentage Agriculture, Food and Environment (MAGRAMA). In regards to scope 2, we have used the emission factor for electricity consumption published by the National Energy 2013 of reused water per wash) and the number of washes Commission for years 2013, 2014 and 2015. In regards to scope 3 emissions, we have used the gC02 per km available for each vehicle model in Goldcar's fleet and, in 3,472 completed during the year. certain cases, an average of the total fleet emissions. 07 2015 PROTECTING CORPORATE SOCIAL THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY p.74 REPORT p.75 EMISSION INTENSITY PAPER CONSUMPTION IN OFFICES (Kg) SCOPE 2 (t CO2eq per staff member) + 5.3% SPAIN PORTUGAL ITALY FRANCE in regards to 2014 1.32 1.18 1.25 2015 2013 2014 2015 15,800.0 10,818.1 489.5 4,128.5 364.0 SCOPE 3 (gCO2eq per kilometre ) 2.2% in regards to 2014 2014 4,231.9 3,175.2 301.2 755.5 119.9 118.2 115. 5 2013 3,534.1 2013 2014 2015 2,379.5 589.9 564.8 EMISSIONS REDUCTION PRODUCTS CONSUMED IN GOLDCAR FIELDS1 (l) TARGET ANTIFREEZE CONSUMED 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR 2015 Ensuring that 70% of Goldcar's vehicle fleet complies with Euro VI % of Goldcar's vehicle fleet compliant with Euro VI 1,160 emission regulations emission regulations 2014 3.6% in regards to Addition of hybrid vehicles to Number of hybrid vehicles in 1,100 2014 2013 Goldcar's vehicle fleet Goldcar's vehicle fleet 1,240 CHEMICALS 2015 MATERIALS CONSUMED 19,970 Goldcar's main consumption is related to office supplies and products used in the fields to maintain our rental fleet 1Our product consumption corresponding to workshops only represents Goldcar's Spanish operations. vehicles. The latter mainly comprise engine oil and chemicals, Except in Spain, our suppliers in the rest of the countries are in charge of purchasing all cleaning and antifreeze products. such as detergents used in the vehicle wash and polishing, and air fresheners to name a few. ENGINE OIL CONSUMED IN GOLDCAR FIELDS1 (l) In 2015, we observed an increase in the use of paper in some countries, due to paperwork generated with every new 2013 2014 2015 opening. Spain 9,552 21,194 20,568 Portugal 832 1,040 Italy 1,872 1,664 TOTAL 9,552 23,898 23,272 We have reduced our consumption of engine oil in our Spanish fields by 3%. 1During 2015, the consumption of this item in France, Greece and Croatia was zero. During 2014, the consumption of this item in Portugal and Italia was also zero. 07 2015 PROTECTING CORPORATE SOCIAL THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY p.76 REPORT p.77 WASTE WASTE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT TARGETS INDICATOR'S DEGREE OF 2015 TARGETS INDICATOR VALUE COMPLIANCE Goldcar carries out a selective waste collection on almost all its premises in Reducing our plastic waste production at head office by % of reduction of our plastic 50.0% 100.0% compliance with the corresponding local waste management regulations applicable 5% per staff member as compared to 2014 waste production at head office in every country where we operate. 2016 TARGETS All waste by the Company is managed though outsourced approved waste management companies prioritising their recovery, where possible. All waste Internal waste management audit No. of offices audited and and detect areas for improvements detect areas for improvements produced is managed in conformity with the correct management methods as established by the applicable regulations. WASTE PRODUCTION NON HAZARDOUS SOLID BY TYPE WASTE PRODUCED (Spain 2015) t (Other countries 2015) t Solid pollutants (t) 1.0 Portugal 1.2 Non-hazardous solids (t) 53.3 Italy 1.6 Oil (t) 5.2 France 0.4 Hydrocarbon sludge (t) 40.4 Greece 0.9 Organic sludge (t) 50.0 Cardboard (t) 2.9 Plastic (t) 0.8 Electronic waste (t) 0.3 Tyres (u) 8,043 p.78 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.79 08 SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS 08 2015 SUPPLIER CORPORATE SOCIAL RELATIONSHIPS RESPONSIBILITY p.80 REPORT p.81 SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS Our suppliers are selected on the basis of strict criteria concerning, among other aspects, their quality, Company UN GLOBAL COMPACT solvency and their capacity to fulfil the orders or services This chapter within the report covers: required. Most of our contracts are awarded after a bidding process where a minimum of three firms are invited to put 02 forward their best proposal. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Goldcar's main products and raw material suppliers are direct manufacturers and import companies representing the vehicle models in our fleet. Fuel distributors are also relevant suppliers. Goldcar has established commercial relationships with various In regards to our subcontractors, some of our most prominent local companies in a wide range of industries within the suppliers are those related to key Company outsourced services locations where we operate, resulting in a total cost of 433.1 such as road assistance for customers, customer service million Euros in 2015, including operating expenses and (telephone suppliers, social media companies) and vehicle investments. We established relationships based on mutual maintenance and management services at Goldcar's own sites. trust and transparency which are regulated and have clearly defined procedures set out by our Purchase department and approved by the Management, pursuant to our Ethics code and compliance policy. TOTAL NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS +23.8% 2015 in regards to 2014 1,609 2014 1,300 02 2015 COMMITMENT TOWARDS CORPORATE SOCIAL CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.82 p.83 MAIN GOLDCAR SUPPLIERS SOURCE OF GOLDCAR SUPPLIERS INCORPORATION OF CSR CRITERIA IN 2015 IN 2015 DURING THE SUPPLIER PROCUREMENT 3.8% 2.9% PROCESS TARGETS 15.7% 4.6% 13.5% FRANCE GREECE 3.5% 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR 0.4% PORTUGAL OTHER COUNTRIES 0.9% Including CSR related clauses in % of outsourced supplier 12.3% at least 30% of our outsourced agreements including CSR supplier agreements related clauses ITALY Including CSR related clauses % of fuel supplier in 100% of our fuel supplier agreements including CSR agreements related clauses 64.1% SPAIN 78.4% FUEL DISTRIBUTORS VEHICLE MANUFACTURERS ANDDEALERSHIPS MAIN COLLABORATING BRANDS VEHICLE MAINTENANCE OUTSOURCING OTHER Please note: This calculation is based upon the expenditure levels by supplier type PERCENTAGE OF LOCAL SUPPLIERS FOR EACH COUNTRY 2015 Through our supplier chain, we contribute to stimulate the local Spain Portugal Italy economies where we 96.0% 91.9% 84.3% operate. Greece France Croatia 65.7% 66.7% 60.0% p.84 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.85 09 ABOUT THIS REPORT 09 2015 ABOUT CORPORATE SOCIAL THIS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT REPORT p.86 p.87 ABOUT THIS REPORT SCOPE AND COVERAGE This Corporate Social Responsibility report for 2015 is the second report published by Goldcar and includes the period between 1st January and 31st December 2015. It covers all operations involving Car Rental Topco S.L., Goldcar Group's parent company, which comprises the following subsidiary firms: Car Rentals Parentco, DEFINITION OF CONTENTS S.A.U., Car Rental Subsidiary, S.A.U., Goldcar Spain, S.L.U., Car Rentals Italy, S.R.L, AND PREPARATION PROCESS Goldcar Italy, S.R.L, Goldcar Master S.L., Goldcar Fleetco, S.A., Goldcar Fleets Spain, S.L.U., Goldhire Portugal Sociedade Unipessoal, LDA, Goldcar France S.A.R.L., Goldcar Hellas, A.E, Goldcar Rental d.o.o. and Group Goldcar Car Rental, A.I.E. All This report has been prepared in consideration of the above firms are included in the Consolidated annual accounts and management following standards: Sustainability reporting guidelines, report for financial year 2015 (page 2). In these regards, 100% of the revenue version G4 by Global Reporting Initiative and the AA1000SES corresponding to 2015 has been included in this report. (2011) stakeholder engagement standard in regards to the materiality assessment. Concerning the details related to environmental issues, their scope includes the Company's operations in Italy, France and Greece, with the corresponding indications This report has been prepared in direct collaboration with regarding the available data for this report. In regards to Croatia, the corresponding key individuals from different Goldcar's management areas, offices were only opened at the end of 2015 therefore, any data corresponding to who have taken part in work groups by providing relevant environmental aspects is expected to be featured in future reports. data regarding the different aspects included herein. This collaboration was coordinated jointly by the Human Resources Data related to human resources issues includes all countries where Goldcar and Customer Service departments. operates through their own Company offices. This report does not include any data in relation to any franchised offices due to the fact that Goldcar does not manage In the event of any queries concerning the contents of this or hold any control over the aspects mentioned in this report at the corresponding report, please get in touch with us via the email address csr@ companies. goldcar.com. p.88 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GLOBAL REPORT p.89 G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary 68-77 REPORTING principle. G4-15 Initiatives to which the organisation 24 subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations. 21 INITIATIVE'S Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organisation’s conso86 lidated financial statements. G4-18 Process for defining the report content and 29-30 TABLE OF the Aspect Boundaries. G4-19 Material aspects. 31 G4-20 Aspect Boundary for each material aspect within the organisation. CONTENTS G4-21 Aspect Boundary for each material aspect outside the organisation. Limitations and coverage Internal External Goldcar business Vehicle suppliers Service suppliers Customers Materiality of issues to the business The following table summarises the general basic and specific contents of the Global Reporting Initiative FINANCIAL (GRI) in conformity with the G4 standard for the In accordance Core option. Financial performance GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Presence in the marketplace Establishing CSR criteria when selecting suppliers Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions Verification ENVIRONMENT Materials Strategy and analysis Energy G4-1 Statement from the most senior 6 Water decision-maker of the organisation. Emissions Organisational profile Effluents and waste SOCIAL Work practices and decent work G4-3 Name of the organisation. 86 Employment G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. 17 Staff and management relationships Occupational health and safety G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters. Ctra. Valencia N332, km 115 Edificio Goldcar Training and education 03550 San Juan, Alicante Diversity and equal opportunities G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation 16-19 SOCIAL Human rights operates. Child and forced labour G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 86, Annex I SOCIAL Society G4-8 Markets served. 16-18, 35 Local communities Anti-corruption strategies G4-9 Scale of the organisation. 12-13, 17, 52, 57 Unfair competition practices Total Assets: 585.2 million Euros. Total Equity and Liabilities: 585.2 million SOCIAL Product liability Euros. Customer's health and safety G4-10 Total number of employees. 56-61 Customer satisfaction Customer privacy G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by 100% of Goldcar's staff were under a collective bargaining agreements. collective agreement in 2013 and 2014, Good marketing practices while only 96% of their staff were under a collective agreement in 2015 Payment and other online website transactions' security* since neither Greece nor Croatia have Use of new technologies to improve the services offered to customers (i.e., collective agreements. jumping the queue and improving vehicle delivery times, thus improving G4-12 Organisation's supply chain. 80-83 customer contact *) *Non GRI aspect G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting There were no significant changes period. during the reporting period. p.90 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.91 G4-22 Effects of any restatements of informaThis report includes the following G4-26 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder tion provided in previous reports and the restatements of information for the engagement. reasons. reasons stated below: Percentage of workers under G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been collective agreements: we have raised through stakeholder engagement. updated the data for 2013-2014 due to an error in the previous year's estimation. Energy and water consumption Stakeholders Main communication and dialogue channels Main identified issues indicators: we have modified the denominator of the ratio in order to better adapt it to Goldcar's business Shareholders Board of Directors meetings Financial performance, impact on the labour market, energy conaspects that bear a closer relationship Management meetings sumption, mitigation of climate change and compensation of CO2 with both environmental vectors. Regular reporting emissions, quality employment, promoting occupational health and Paper consumption in 2013 and safety, professional development, preventing discrimination, child 2014: we have updated the data, and forced labour, anti-corruption strategies, safe services, customer since in 2015 we did not include satisfaction. paper usage in addition to that used in the office environment. Customers Counter service Financial performance, responsible supplier selection, energy and Goldcar rental fleet emissions: we Website, social networks (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram) and materials consumption, quality employment, staff and management have updated the data for years blog relationships, promoting occupational health and safety, preventing 2013 and 2014 in order to exclude Customer service (call centre and road assistance, email (Condiscrimination, child and forced labour, security staff training those vehicles belonging to Goldcar tact Goldcar)) on human rights, anti-corruption strategies, preventing unfair fleets that are not part of Goldcar's Media publications and newsletter competition practices, safe online payments. rental fleet. G4-23 Significant changes in the scope and coveraThere have been no significant changes Staff Counter service Quality employment, staff and management relationships, ge of every aspect in the Scope and Aspect to the report's scope and coverage. Website, social networks (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram) and professional development, promoting equal opportunities, responsible Boundaries. blog supplier selection, impact on the labour market, energy consumption, Customer service (call centre and road assistance, email (Conmitigation of climate change, preventing discrimination, child and tact Goldcar) forced labour, anti-corruption strategies. Stakeholder engagement Media publications and newsletter G4-24 Stakeholders groups engaged by the 28 organisation Suppliers and Direct contact with the Purchase manager Secure online payments, preventing child and forced labour, quality contractors Agreement type documentation employment, responsible supplier selection, water and energy G4-25 Basis for stakeholder identification. Goldcar has identified its stakeholders consumption, mitigation of climate change, customer satisfaction, through the use of criteria such as: good marketing practices. dependence (upon its stakeholders or otherwise), responsibility towards them, Rental agencies Direct contact with Sales representatives, legal and customer Impact on the labour market, responsible supplier selection, proximity and influencing power. service managers. mitigation of climate change, staff and management relationships, Marketing agreements. quality employment, correction of discrimination issues, freedom of association. Franchisees Direct contact with the Franchise manager No answers were received from this group of stakeholders. Agreement type documentation Regular Goldcar meetings and notifications Local communities Website, social networks (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram) and Financial performance, impact on the labour market, mitigation of blog climate change, quality employment, data privacy, preventing unfair Media publications and newsletter competition practices, regulation compliance. Meetings with local entities and associations' representatives Airport operators Direct contact with office staff Secure online payments, data privacy, customer satisfaction, safe Agreement type documentation services, good marketing practices, use of new technologies to improve the services offered to customers, occupational health and safety, staff and Company relationships, responsible supplier selection. Public authorities Direct contact with legal representatives and other Goldcar Preventing unfair competition practices customer satisfaction, departments. environmental or social issues complaints procedure, quality Administrative notifications. employment, waste management, responsible supplier selection. Public notifications made by the authorities. Report profile G4-28 Reporting period. 2015 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. 2014 G4-30 Report cycle: Goldcar prepares its corporate social responsibility report on an annual basis. G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the 87 report or its contents. G4-32 'In accordance' option chosen by the 88 organisation and the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. p.92 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.93 G4-33 Current policy and practice in relation to This report has not been externally Supplier EnG4-DMA Management approach. Among its future goals, Goldcar is requests for external auditing of the report. audited. vironmental contemplating the inclusion of these aspects in the procurement of some Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that of its new suppliers. Governance were screened using environmental criteria G4-34 Company's management structure. 20 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, standards 25, 27 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE WORK PRACTICES and norms of behaviour. Material External Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions aspects auditing SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Employment G4-DMA Management approach. 56-59 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates 62 after parental leave. Labor/ G4-DMA Management approach. 56-59 Material External Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions Management aspects auditing G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding All issues related to notice periods Relations operational changes. are established in the self-drive Economic G4-DMA Management approach. 52, 53 vehicle rental ruling, applicable collective agreements (Italy, performance Portugal, Malaga, Balearic Islands G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated 52 and Madrid), the Spanish Statute of and distributed. Workers Rights and all applicable Market G4-DMA Management approach. 56-61 legislation in force at any given time. presence Occupational G4-DMA Management approach. 64-65 G4-EC5 Comparison between entry level 59 salary and local minimum wage. Entry level salaries are similar for health and females and males in all countries G4-LA6 Absenteeism, occupational diseases, 65 safety lost days rates and total number of There were no fatalities during the where Goldcar is based. work-related fatalities. reporting period. Training and G4-DMA Management approach. 63-64 education G4-LA9 Average training hours. 63 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Diversity and G4-DMA Management approach. 60-62 There is no available training hours equal data disaggregated by gender, although we expect that it will be Material External opportunities available for future reports. Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions aspects auditing G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies 59-60 and breakdown of employees. Our Board of Directors is made up Materials G4-DMA Management approach. 68, 74-75 of nine members, three of which are legal entities. All Board of G4-EN1 Materials used. 75 Directors members and legal entities representatives are male in gender and Energy G4-DMA Management approach. 68, 70-71 aged between 34 and 74 years old. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the 70 Equal RemuG4-DMA Management approach. 60 Company. neration for G4-EN5 Energy intensity ratio 70 Women and G4-LA13 Equal Remuneration for Women This information is confidential. Men and Men. Water G4-DMA Management approach. 68-72 Supplier G4-DMA Management approach. Among its future goals, Goldcar is G4-EN8 Total volume of water withdrawn by 72 Assessment contemplating the inclusion of these source. G4-LA14 New suppliers analysed on the basis aspects in the procurement of some for Labor of work practices. of its new suppliers. G4-EN10 Total volume of water recycled and 72 Practices reused. Emissions G4-DMA Management approach. 68-69, 73-74 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emis73 sions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 73 (GHG) (Scope 2). G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emis73 sions (GHG) (Scope 3). G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 74 intensity. Effluents G4-DMA Management approach. 68,76-77 and waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste. 76 p.94 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.95 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE HUMAN RIGHTS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE PRODUCT LIABILITY Material External Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions aspects auditing Material External Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions Child G4-DMA Management approach. 24-27, 59 aspects auditing labour Customer's G4-DMA Management approach. 43 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified No Goldcar centres have currently as having significant risk for been identified as affected by health and incidents of child labour and the risk of child labour issues. G4-PR1 Products and services assessed for 43 measures taken to contribute to its However, Goldcar undertakes a safety customer's health and safety impact. effective abolition. comprehensive monitoring of all its staff's labour conditions in all its Labelling of G4-DMA Management approach. 35-39 workplaces in order to prevent the goods and G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction survey results. 38 occurrence of this type of situations. services. Regarding its suppliers, Goldcar undertakes specific controls upon Good G4-DMA Management approach. 27, 40-41 the subcontracted companies' marketing employment paperwork in order to practices G4-PR7 Number of good marketing practices Goldcar has not had any legal prevent the occurrence of this type or marketing code breaches. breaches in these regards during of situations. year 2015. Forced G4-DMA Management approach. 24-27, 59 Customer G4-DMA Management approach. 40 labour privacy G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified No Goldcar centres have currently G4-PR8 Claims concerning customer privacy 40 as having significant risk for been identified as affected by and personal data loss. incidents of forced or compulsory the risk of forced labour issues. labour, and measures to contribute However, Goldcar undertakes a to its elimination comprehensive monitoring of all its staff's labour conditions in all its workplaces in order to prevent the occurrence of this type of situations. OTHER NON GRI ISSUES Regarding its suppliers, Goldcar undertakes specific controls upon the subcontracted companies' employment paperwork in order to Material aspects External Description Direct page or answer Omissions prevent the occurrence of this type auditing of situations. Payment and other online website transacManagement approach. 42 Assessment G4-DMA Management approach. Among its future goals, Goldcar is contemplating the inclusion of these tions security of supplier's Procedures implemented by the Company to 42 G4-HR10 New suppliers analysed on the basis aspects in the procurement of some ensure secure payments from the website. human rights of its new suppliers. of human rights compliance. compliance Use of new technologies to improve the services Management approach. 36, 40-41, 53 offered to customers Number of followers in social media networks 36 and visits to our website resources. Technology initiatives to simplify customer 40-41, 53 service. SOCIAL PERFORMANCESOCIETY Material External Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions aspects auditing Local G4-DMA Management approach. 46 communities G4-SO1 Operations with implemented local 46-49 community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. AntiG4-DMA Management approach. 24-27 corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on 27 strategies anti-corruption policies and procedures. Unfair G4-DMA Communication and training 27 competition on anti-corruption policies and G4-SO7 procedures During 2015, we have not had any practices unfair competition claims. ANNEX 1 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND DIRECTOR'S REPORT 2015 WITH THE AUDITOR’S REPORT Car Rentals Topco, S.L. and its subsidiaries Consolidated Annual Accounts 31 December 2015 Director’s Report 2015 (With the Auditor’s Report Thereon) (Translation from the original in Spanish. In the event of discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails.) KPMG Auditores S.L. Edificio Oficentro Avda. Maissonave, 19 2 03003 Alicante We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a (Translation from the original in Spanish. In the event of discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails.) basis for our audit opinion. Opinion Independent Auditor's Report on the Consolidated Annual Accounts In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated annual accounts give a true and fair view, in all material respects, of the consolidated equity and consolidated financial position of Car Rentals To the Shareholders of Topco, S.L. and subsidiaries at 31 December 2015 and of their consolidated financial Car Rentals Topco, S.L. performance and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and other Report on the Consolidated Annual Accounts provisions of the financial reporting framework applicable in Spain. We have audited the accompanying consolidated annual accounts of Car Rentals Topco, S.L. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2015 and the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of The accompanying consolidated directors’ report for 2015 contains such explanations as the comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement Directors of Car Rentals Topco, S.L. consider relevant to the situation of the Group, its business of cash flows for the year then ended, and consolidated notes. performance and other matters, and is not an integral part of the consolidated annual accounts. We have verified that the accounting information contained therein is consistent with that Directors' Responsibility for the Consolidated Annual Accounts disclosed in the consolidated annual accounts for 2015. Our work as auditors is limited to the verification of the consolidated directors’ report within the scope described in this paragraph The Company's Directors are responsible for the preparation of the accompanying consolidated and does not include a review of information other than that obtained from the accounting annual accounts in such a way that they give a true and fair view of the consolidated equity, records of Car Rentals Topco, S.L. and subsidiaries. consolidated financial position and consolidated financial performance of Car Rentals Topco, S.L. and subsidiaries in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted KPMG Auditores, S.L. by the European Union (IFRS-EU) and other provisions of the financial reporting framework applicable to the Group in Spain, and for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated annual accounts that are free from material misstatement, Miguel Ángel Paredes Gómez whether due to fraud or error. 31 March 2016 Auditor's Responsibility (Signed on original in Spanish) Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated annual accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with prevailing legislation regulating the audit of accounts in Spain. This legislation requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated annual accounts are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated annual accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated annual accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the preparation of the consolidated annual accounts by the Company's directors in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated annual accounts taken as a whole. KPMG Auditores S.L., a limited liability Spanish company Entered into the Spanish Official Register of Auditors with and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent number S0702, and the Spanish Institute of Registered member firms affiliated with KPMG International Auditors’ list of companies with reference No. 10. Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Filed at the Madrid Mercantile Registry in volume 11,961, sheet 90, section 8, page number M-188,007, entry number 9 Tax identification number (NIF): B-78510153 CAR RENTALS TOPCO S.L. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statement of Financial Position ended 31 december 2015 and 2014 Thousands of Euros CAR RENTALS TOPCO S.L. AND SUBSIDIARIES Assets Notes 12/31/2015 12/31/2014 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Non-current assets: Goodwill 4 187,598 187,486 Intangible assets 5 22,690 20,070 Thousands of Euros Property, plant and equipment 6 137,338 116,580 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Notes 12/31/2015 12/31/2014 Financial investments 1,022 756 Deferred tax assets 10 945 2,699 Revenue 11 237,399 4,609 Total non-current assets 349,593 327,591 Other operational income 3,669 191 Cost of sales (21,980) (511) Current assets: Personnel expenses 11 (22,961) (145) Non-current assets held for sale 382 Other operating expenses 11 (71,557) (2,868) Inventories 985 329 Negative consolidation differences 4 8 Trade and other receivables 7 17,138 48,748 Adjusted EBITDA 124,570 1,284 Current tax assets 10 4,456 3,369 Other non recurring income and expenses 11 (2,241) (1,440) Financial investments 7 35,043 49,403 Fixed asset amortisation and buy back renting costs 5, 6 and 11 (69,853) (1,603) Prepayments 4,053 6,788 Impairment and profit/loss on disposal of fixed assets 5, 6 and 11 4,394 38 Cash and cash equivalents 174,022 126,907 Profit/loss From Continuing Operations 56,870 (1,721) Total current assets 235,697 235,926 Financial income 11 328 Financial costs 11 (26,289) (786) Total assets 585,290 563,517 Exchange gains or losses (92) Finacial profit/loss (26,053) (786) Profit/loss before tax 30,817 (2,507) Equity: Income tax 10 (8,648) 679 Share capital and share premium 8 215,000 215,000 Profit for the period 22,169 (1,828) Consolidated reserves 8 (1,828) Comprehensive result for the period 11 22,169 (1,828) Profit/Loss attributable to minority interests Total equity 235,341 213,172 Profit/Loss attributable to the Parent Company 22,169 (1,828) Non-current liabilites: Provisions 14-c 955 114 Financial debt 9 303,332 304,345 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive income 12/31/2015 12/31/2014 Derivatives 9 277 Deferred tax liabilities 10 219 1,777 There is no difference between the amount included in Profit for the period and the amount of Other non-current liabilities 9 123 183 Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2015 and 2014. Total non-current liabilities 304,906 306,419 Current liabilites: Provisions 1,439 1,998 Notes 1 to 14 described below are part of the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Financial debts 9 4,457 6,195 for the year ended on 31 december 2015. Trade and other payables 14 23,003 23,505 Personnel 11 1,892 1,018 Current tax liabilities and other balances with Public Administrations 10 4,780 5,376 Customer advances 3,077 2,535 Accruals 2,187 1,874 Other current liabilities 4,208 1,425 Total current liabilities 45,043 43,926 Total equity and liabilities 585,290 563,517 Notes 1 to 14 described below are part of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for the year ended 31 December 2015. Translation of a report originally issued in Spanish, In the event of a discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails Translation of a report originally issued in Spanish, In the event of a discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails 1 2 CAR RENTALS TOPCO S.L. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow for the year ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 CAR RENTALS TOPCO S.L. AND SUBSIDIARIES Thousands of Euros Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Notes 12/31/2015 12/31/2014 ended 31 december 2015 Cash flow from operating activities Consolidated profit before tax 30,817 (2,507) Negative consolidation differences 4 (8) Financial cost recognised in income statement 9 26,289 786 Share Profit/Loss Financial income recognised in income statement (328) Thousands of Euros Notes Share Capital Premium Reserves for the Year Total Fixed asset amortisation and buy back renting costs 5, 6 and 11 69,853 959 Balance at 1 January 2015 21,500 193,500 (1,828) 213,172 Impairment and profit/loss on disposal of fixed assets 5, 6 and 11 (4,394) (38) Others 671 Cash flow 122,908 (808) Total comprehensive income for the year 2015 11 22,169 22,169 Other changes in equity Movement in working capital Distribution of profit for the year (1,828) 1,828 Change in trade receivables 303 (6,922) Change in trade payables (1,689) (5,932) Change in other net assets (731) 1,691 Balance at 31 December 2015 21,500 193,500 (1,828) 22,169 235,341 Cash flows from operations 120,791 (11,971) Notes 1 to 14 described below are part of the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Others cash flows: for the year ended 31 december 2015. Interest paid Interest paid 9 (22,264) Interest recovered 328 Income tax received (paid) 10 (9,306) CAR RENTALS TOPCO S.L. AND SUBSIDIARIES Net cash flows from operating activities 89,549 (11,971) Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 december 2014 Investing activities Proceeds from issue of equity instruments 8 172,000 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets, property and equipment. 5, 6 and 7 300,312 8,185 Payment for investment in intangible assets, property and equipment 5, 6 and 7 (336,411) (744) Payment for investment in equity (business combination) 4 (261,174) Share Profit/Loss Other investings (309) Thousands of Euros Notes Share Capital Premium for the Year Total Net cash flows used in investing activities (36,408) (81,733) Balance at 1 January 2014 Financing activities Incorporation of the Parent Company 1 3 3 Payments received from long-term bank loans 9 309,720 Payments made for redemption of long-term bank loans 9 (5,966) (104,488) Capital increases 8 21,497 193,500 214,997 Others changes (60) Total comprehensive expense for the year 11 (1,828) (1,828) Net cash flows from/used in financing activities (6,026) 205,232 Balance at 31 December 2014 21,500 193,500 (1,828) 213,172 Net cash flows in cash and cash equivalents 47,115 111,528 Change from amendments to scope of consolidation 15,379 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 126,907 Notes 1 to 14 described below are part of the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 174,022 126,907 for the year ended 31 december 2015. Notes 1 to 14 described below are part of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow for the year ended on 31 december 2015. Translation of a report originally issued in Spanish, In the event of a discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails Translation of a report originally issued in Spanish, In the event of a discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails 3 4 NOTES Translation of a report originally issued in Spanish, In the event of a discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails Car Rentals Topco S.L. and Subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 1. General information and Group Companies Car Rentals Topco S.L.U. (hereinafter the Parent Company) was incorporated in Spain, in compliance with Spanish Corporate Law, on 4 September 2014 under the name of Nuevo Impulso Comercial 21, S.L. for an indefinite period of time. At 31 December 2014 was registered in the Mercantile Registry of Alicante under the Fiscal I.D. B54806971 and it is domiciled in Carretera de Valencia, kilómetro 115, Alicante (Spain). During 2015 the legal address of the company has changed to Selva, 4, Prat del Llobregat (Barcelona). In accordance with its Articles of Association, the purpose of the Parent Company is: 1. The acquisition, holding, administration, swap and disposal of all types of securities including public, private, national and foreign securities. Particularly, its main activity is the acquisition, by subscription swap or any other way, of partnership shares and financial assets, as well as taking part in the establishment, development and control of any company or entity. 2. The acquisition, holding, disposal, selling, renting, third-party transfers and exploitation of any class of motor vehicles with or without a driver. 3. The repair, maintenance and technical assistance of all kinds of motor vehicles. 4. Taking part in companies whose purpose wholly or partly extends to the aforementioned areas of activity, in order to develop the Parent Company’s own purpose by means of subscribing their shares, founding or increasing their share capital or acquiring them under any legal title. The main activity of the Parent Company in 2014 and 2015 consisted of holding 100% of the shares of the company Car Rentals Parentco S.L.U. as well as that generated by the function of head of the Group. Consequently, the Parent Company is the parent of a group of companies which, along with itself, comprise the Goldcar Group (hereinafter the Group). The main activity performed by the Goldcar Group in 2014 and 2015 has been the provision of services related to the rental of vehicles which is included in the purpose of the Group. Comparative information 2014 was the first year of activity of the Parent Company and hence the consolidated annual accounts in 2014 did not include comparative information. In this sense, the accompanying consolidated statement of profit or loss for the year 2014 only included the figures corresponding to the period beginning after the incorporation of the Parent Company (4 September 2014) and ending on 31 December 2014. Additionally, the Parent Company took control of a group of companies which were active for the twelve-month period corresponding to the 2014 calendar year. However, in compliance with the applicable accounting standards, the income and expenses of this subgroup were included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss since the date control was effectively obtained on 18 December 2014. Due to the fact that in the last weeks of the year 2014 certain transaction costs were registered and that the activity of the acquired Group presented a high seasonality, the consolidated statement of profit or loss for the year ended 31 December 2014 shows losses. These aspects need to be taken into consideration in order to obtain an adequate understanding of the consolidated annual accounts. Additionally, information regarding the income and expenses of the new Group taking into account the whole twelve-month period of the 2014 calendar year can be found in Note 4. 1 NOTES Subsidiaries • In accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union (hereinafter, EU-IFRSs), in conformity with Regulation (EC) no. 1606/2002 of the European The companies in which the Parent Company takes part in are considered subsidiaries. The only direct Parliament and of the Council, that were in force at 31 December 2015. participation the Parent Company holds is over Car Rentals Parentco S.A.U. which has a book value of EUR 215,003 thousand. The most significant information related to the subsidiaries at 31 December 2015 is detailed The principal accounting policies and measurement bases applied in preparing the Group’s below: consolidated annual accounts for the year 2015 are summarised in Note 3. Registered • Taking into account all the mandatory EU-IFRSs accounting principles and valuation criteria that Company Main activity Ownership have a significant effect on the consolidated annual accounts. office Car Rentals Parentco S.A.U. Share Holding Spain 100% • So that they fairly present the Group’s consolidated equity and financial position at 31 December Car Rentals Subsidiary S.A.U. (*) Share Holding Spain 100% 2015 and the results of its operations, the changes in consolidated equity and the consolidated cash Goldcar Spain S.L. Car Rental Spain 100% flows in the year then ended. Car Rentals Italy S.r.L. Share Holding Italy 100% However, since the accounting policies and measurement bases used in preparing the Group's Goldcar Italy S.r.L. Car Rental Italy 100% consolidated annual accounts for the year ended on 31 December 2015 may differ from those used Goldhire Portugal Lda. Car Rental Portugal 100% by certain Group companies, the required adjustments and reclassifications were made on Goldcar Fleets Spain S.L.U. Car Rental Spain 100% consolidation to unify the policies and methods used and to make them compliant with EU-IFRSs. Goldcar Fleetco S.A. Car Rental Spain 100% • Based on the historical cost basis except for certain items, such as financial instruments that are Goldcar Master S.L. Car Rental Spain 100% valued based on their fair value, as detailed in the significant accounting policies adopted by the Goldcar France S.à.r.l. Car Rental France 100% Group (see Note 3). Goldcar Hellas S.à.r.l. Car Rental Greece 100% Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an Pulsar Rentar a Car S.L.U. Car Rental Spain 100% orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating the fair (*) In addition to being a share holding company, Car Rentals Subsidiary S.A.U. has also signed the financing agreements value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability described in Note 9. if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in these There are no companies that being part of the Group have been excluded from the consolidation perimeter consolidated annual accounts is determined on such basis, except for share-based payment except for Group Goldcar Car Rental A.I.E. and Godcar Rental, d.o.o. Its exclusion has no significant impact on transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS the fair presentation of the Group’s consolidated equity, consolidated financial position, consolidated results of 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net operations and consolidated cash flows. A breakdown of the main aspects of the mentioned entities is provided realizable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36. below: Additionally, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to Thousands of Euros which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable, according to the following description: Carrying amount Registered Indirect Net Equity of investment in office ownership Level 1: Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Parent's books Group Goldcar Car Rental, A.I.E (*) Alicante 100% (13) Level 2: Inputs are Inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable Goldcar Rental, d.o.o. (**) Croatia 75% 6 3 for the asset or liability, either directly (prices) or indirectly (inputs derived from prices); and Total (7) 3 Level 3: Inputs are unobservable inputs referenced to valuation techniques (that are not (*) In 2014 and 2015 included in quoted prices described in Level 1). (**) In 2015 • On the basis of the accounting records kept by the Parent and by the other Group companies. 2. Basis of presentation of the consolidated annual accounts and consolidation principles Pursuant to IAS 1 (revised in 2011) “Presentation of Financial Statements”, these consolidated annual accounts include the following statements for the year ended 31 December 2015: 2.1 Regulatory financial reporting framework applicable to the Group • Consolidated statement of financial position. These consolidated annual accounts for the year ended on 31 December 2015 were formally prepared: • Consolidated statement of profit or loss and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income. • Consolidated statement of changes in equity. • By the Directors of the Parent Company, on 17 March 2016. Moreover, they will be submitted for approval of the Sole Shareholder where they are expected to be approved without any modifications. 2 3 NOTES • Consolidated statement of cash flows. 2.3 New and revised EU-IFRSs • Notes to the consolidated financial statements. a) Standards and interpretations effective in the current period 2.2 Responsibility for the information and use of estimates Given that the first time the Group prepared consolidated annual accounts is in the year 2014 (see Note 1), it applied retrospectively all of the IFRS adopted by the European Union in the year ended 31 December 2014, including all of the standards that came into force in the year ended on 31 The information contained in these consolidated annual accounts is responsibility of the Parent’s December 2014 (except for the optional exemptions and mandatory exceptions set out in IFRS 1). Directors. During the year 2015 the amendments to IFRS and their new interpretations (hereinafter, “IFRIC”) In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the Directors of the came into effect. These amendments have not had a significant impact on the consolidated annual Parent Company are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying accounts of the Group. amounts of several assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and judgements that most significantly affect the amounts b) Standards and interpretations that will come into force from the year 2016. recognised in the annual accounts relate basically to the following: These are the new standards, amendments and interpretations that are mandatorily effective in the • The fair value in business combinations. As it is described in Note 3, a business combination took years subsequent to the calendar year that began on 1 January 2015: place in 2014 entailing an estimation of the fair value of the assets and liabilities assumed in said operation. However, in the opinion of the Directors the amortized cost of substantially all the assets Mandatory Application and liabilities assumed by the Group reflected their fair value at the date of acquisition and, Standards, amendments and interpretations approved for use in the European in the Years Beginning therefore, it was not necessary to carry out complex valuation techniques nor subjective hypothesis. Union On or After Amendments to IAS 1. These amendments include various clarifications 1 January 2016 • The calculation of impairment of goodwill on consolidation. The calculation of the recoverable relating to disclosures. amount of a cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated requires the use of estimates. Amendments to IAS 16 and 38” It clarifies the acceptable methods of amortising 1 January 2016 The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. The property, plant and equipment and intangible Group generally uses cash flow discounting methods to calculate these values. This requires the assets. directors to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a Amendments to IAS 11: Accounting Provides guidance on how to account for the 1 January 2016 suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. Where the actual future cash flows are less than expected, a material impairment loss may arise. for acquisitions of interests in joint acquisition of an interest in a joint operation in operations which the activities constitute a business. The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2015 was EUR 187,598 thousand (EUR 187,486 Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Minor amendments to a set of rules. 1 January 2016 thousand in 2014). Details of the impairment test are set out in Notes 3-a and 3-d. Amendment to IAS 27: “Equity The equity method will be allowed in the 1 January 2016 method in separate financial separate financial statements of an investor. • The useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. As it is explained in Notes 3statements” b and 3-c, the Group reviews its estimates of the amortization rates at the end of each year. Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41: Bearer plants will be measured at cost, rather 1 January 2016 “Bearer plants” than fair value. • Assessing whether provisions related to claims in progress should be registered (see Note 14-c). If it Standards, amendments and interpretations not approved for use in the is probable for an obligation entailing an outflow of resources to exist at the end of the year, the European Union Group recognizes a provision provided that its amount can be estimated reliably. IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”: This standard replaces the requirements for 1 January 2018 classification, measurement and classifying, derecognising and valuating financial • Assumptions used in the calculation of the fair value of financial instruments, in particular financial derivatives. subsequent amendments to IFRS 9 assets and liabilities and hedge accounting (IAS and IFRS 7. 39). IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts This standard regulates revenue recognition 1 January 2017 Following the regular review process conducted by the Directors of the Parent Company, although these with customers replacing IAS 11, IAS 18, IFRIC 13, IFRIC 15, estimates were made based on the best information available at 31 December 2015, events that take IFRIC 18 and SIC-31. place in the future might make it necessary to change these estimates (upwards or downwards) in coming Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: These amendments explain how to treat the 1 January 2016 years. The change in estimates would be carried out prospectively , in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting “Disposal or transfer of assets result of these operations in the case of Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors , recognising the effect of changes in estimates in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss or in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, as between an investor and its businesses related to assets. appropriate. associate / joint venture” 4 5 NOTES IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will replace IAS 39. The new standard changes the model for the Relevant information about the companies included in the consolidated Group is provided in Note 1. classification and measurement of financial assets. It also introduces a new impairment model based on expected losses, rather than incurred losses, and measures to closely align hedge accounting with risk Consolidation method management activities. IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” is the new comprehensive standard for revenue The annual accounts and financial statements of the subsidiaries are fully consolidated. Consequently, all arising from contracts with customers and it supersedes the following revenue Standards and of the significant balances and transactions between the consolidated companies have been eliminated Interpretations upon its effective date: upon consolidation. • IAS 18 Revenue; 2.5 Functional currency and currency of presentation • IAS 11 Construction Contracts; These consolidated annual accounts corresponding to the year ended on 31 December 2015 are • IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes; presented in thousands of euros. The functional currency of the Group and of the Parent Company is the euro. • IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate; • IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers; and 3. Significant accounting policies • SIC 31 Revenue-Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services. The principal accounting policies and principles, as well as valuation criteria used by the Group in preparing The new revenue standard applies to all contracts with customers except those that are within the scope these accompanying consolidated annual accounts for the year ended on 31 December 2015, in accordance with of other IFRSs, such as leases, insurance contracts and financial instruments. The central recognition International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, were as follows: model is structured around the following five steps: 1. Identifying the contract with a customer. a) Business combinations 2. Identifying the performance obligations in the contract. The acquisition of the control of a depending company by the Parent Company is a business combination 3. Determining the transaction period. in which the acquisition method is applied. In subsequent consolidations, the elimination of the investmentequity related to the depending companies will be generally carried out based on the figures 4. Allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. resulting from applying the acquisition method that is described below at the date control is obtained. 5. Recognising revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method for which the acquisition The Directors of the Parent Company have assessed the potential impact of the future application of the date and the cost of the combination are determined and calculated. At the acquisition date, the remaining aforementioned standards and amendments and they have concluded that their coming into identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value, except that: force will not have a material effect on the consolidated annual accounts. • Deferred tax asset or liabilities, and assets or liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements are Additionally, the new standards, amendments and interpretations indicated above have not been applied recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 respectively; in advance. 2.4 Basis of consolidation • Liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangement of the acquiree or share-based payment arrangements of Group entered into replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 at the acquisition date; and Uniformity of items • Assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 NonIn order to uniformly present the various items composing the accompanying consolidated annual accounts current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that for the year ended 31 December 2015, the same accounting policies have been applied to all of the Standard. companies included in the consolidated Group, adjusting when necessary the corresponding annual accounts and financial statements of such companies to bring their accounting policies into line with those of Liabilities assumed include contingent liabilities provided that they represent current obligations arising the Group. The effect of the adjustments and reclassifications carried out to this purpose is not significant. from past events with a fair value that can be reliably estimated. In this sense, both the Parent Company and its subsidiaries end their financial year on 31 December 2015. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the Subsidiaries acquire (If any) over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. According to the model of consolidation under international accounting standards (mainly IFRS 10, 11 and 12), subsidiaries would be those entities over which the Parent Company is exposed or has rights to The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power to affect its the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the returns. The Parent Company is exposed or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the Group to the former owners of the acquire, the equity interests issued by the Group and any other subsidiary when the returns that it obtains may vary depending on the economic performance of said contingent consideration depending on future events or on the meeting of certain criteria in exchange for entity. control of the acquire. 6 7 NOTES If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable asset acquired an liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held interest in the acquire (if any), If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss the excess is recognized immediately in the profit or loss as bargain purchase gain. is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro rata basis based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit to the limit of The fees paid to the legal advisers and other professionals that have intervened in the combination, as the higher value between the following: fair value less selling costs, value in use and zero. well as all of the internally generated expenses regarding these concepts are not part of the cost of said combination and, therefore, they are charged as an expense on an accrual basis. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the On disposal of the relevant cash-generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the Group to the former owners of the acquire, the equity interests issued by the Group and any other determination of the profit or loss on disposal. contingent consideration depending on future events or on the meeting of certain criteria in exchange for control of the acquire. Individually acquired intangible assets When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities Intangible assets acquired individually are initially recognised at acquisition price or production cost. resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its Afterwards, they are valued at cost less any accumulated amortisation and, if applicable, any impairment acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. losses calculated in accordance with the criterion mentioned in the Note 3-d. Intangible assets with an Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments indefinite useful life are not amortised (goodwill and trademarks) but they are assessed for impairment, at are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill. Measurement period least once a year. adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the ‘measurement period’ (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date. Patents, trademarks and similar intangible assets The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify Patents, trademarks and similar intangible assets reflect the costs incurred on the acquisition of ownership as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. or rights to use or on their registration. The assets registered under this heading present an indefinite Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and useful life and thus they are not amortised annually. its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39, or IAS 37 Computer software Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss. Computer software accounts reflect the costs incurred on the acquisition of computer software. The maintenance costs related to computer applications are charged as expenses in the period in which they If at the end of the year in which the business combination has taken place the valuation processes that occur. The amortisation of the computer software is carried out annually on a straight-line basis over a are needed to apply the aforementioned acquisition method cannot be concluded, the accounting of the three-year period. business combination would be considered to be provisional. These provisional amounts can be adjusted in the period that is necessary to obtain the required information which cannot exceed one year in any c) Property, plant and equipment case. The effects of the adjustments made are accounted for retrospectively and they would modify the comparative information if it were necessary. Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost of acquisition or production, using the same criteria as for determining the cost of production of inventories. Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost b) Intangible assets less any accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any, as mentioned in Note 3-d. Goodwill Replacements or renewals of complete items that lead to a lengthening of the useful life of the assets or to an increase in their economic capacity are recognised as additions to property, plant and equipment, and Goodwill arising on business combinations is recognised under the heading “Goodwill” of the consolidated the items replaced or renewed are derecognised. Periodic maintenance, upkeep and repair expenses are statement of financial position. It represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or loss on an accrual basis as incurred. the Group's share of the net identifiable assets of the subsidiary at the date in which the business combination takes places. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. A cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is indication that the unit may be impaired. In this sense, a cash-generating unit is defined as an identifiable group of smaller assets that generates cash flows for the Group that are basically independent from cash flows derived from other assets or groups of them. 8 9 NOTES The Group amortises its property, plant and equipment by distributing the cost of the asset on a straightd) Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets line basis over its useful life. In order to calculate the corresponding amortisation, the Group has considered the following rates of amortisation: At the end of each reporting period or whether there is any indication of an impairment loss, the Group tests the intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for impairment to determine whether the Amortization recoverable amount of the assets has been reduced to below their carrying amount. At 31 December 31 Rate 2015, based on the assessment made on external and internal factors, the Directors of the Parent Buildings Company consider that there are not relevant indications of impairment. In any case, the Group has 3% proceeded to estimate the possible loss of value of tangible assets as part of the annual evaluation of Technical installations and machinery 8% 12.5% goodwill allocated to groups of cash generating units. Other installations, equipment and furniture 10% 25% Information technology equipment 25% The procedure applied by Group management to perform the impairment test consists of ascertaining the recoverable amounts calculated for each cash-generating unit. However, whenever possible, in the case Motor vehicles 16% 20% of property, plant and equipment, impairment is calculated on a case-by-case basis. Where the asset itself Other property, plant and equipment 10% 25% does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. The Group identifies as groups of cash-generating units the assets assigned to each of the companies comprising the Group. The Directors of the Parent Company consider that the carrying amount of the assets does not exceed their recoverable amount, which is calculated on the basis described in Note 3-d. The recoverable amount is calculated as the higher value between fair value less disposal costs and value in use. In assessing value in use at 31 December 2015, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic their present value using a post-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on the disposal value of money and the risks that are specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sale have not been adjusted. price less any selling costs and the value in books of the asset and it is recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. In case of need to recognize an impairment loss for a group of cash-generating units to which it is assigned all or part of a goodwill, it is first reduced the book value of the goodwill relating to that unit. If the Vehicles under repurchase agreements impairment loss exceeds the amount of it, then it is reduced in proportion to its book value, the remaining assets of the group of cash generating units, to the limit of the higher of the following: its fair value less Vehicles under repurchase agreements are those for which the companies comprising the Group and the selling costs, value in use and zero. manufacturers or vehicle dealerships have entered into agreements whereby, at the end of the holding period, these assets will or can be bought back by the manufacturers or dealerships. Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, circumstance not permitted in the specific case of goodwill, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased up to the revised estimate For acquisitions of vehicles subject to these repurchase agreements, the Group companies assess of its recoverable amount, recognized as an expense, but so that the increased carrying amount does not whether ownership, in accounting terms, has been transferred under the agreements. If this is the case, exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognized in the accounting principles described for the remaining items of property, plant and equipment are applied. prior years. That reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income. Where ownership, in accounting terms, of the vehicles is not transferred, these assets are recognised as e) Operating leases operating leases, as described below. Lessor accounting records At the outset of the agreement, the difference between the initial payment and the fair value of the estimated repurchase price agreed by the parties is recognised as a prepayment of expenses to be The Group has conveyed the right to use certain assets, mainly motor vehicles, through lease contracts incurred on the operating lease for the use of these vehicles and is classified under prepayments for current assets. This prepayment is recognised as a lease expense in the consolidated statement of profit Leases which transfer to third parties substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership, in or loss under “Fixed asset amortisation and buy back renting expenses” on a straight-line basis over the accounting terms, of the assets are classified as finance leases, otherwise they are classified as operating holding period of these vehicles. leases. In essence, all of the leases of the Group are classified as operating. At the outset of the agreement, the fair value of the repurchase price is recognised separately under Assets leased to third parties under operating lease contracts are presented according to their nature, “financial investments” and the accounting principles described in letter f) of this Note. applying the accounting policies set out in Note 3-c). Operating lease income, net of incentives granted, is recognised in income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 10 11 NOTES Lessee accounting records Financial liabilities The Group has rights to use certain assets through lease contracts. Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and they are classified in accordance with the content and the substance of the contractual arrangements. Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are classified as finance leases, otherwise they are classified as operating leases. The main financial liabilities held by the Group are classified as held-to-maturity financial liabilities. Interest-bearing bank loans are recognized at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Borrowing Lease payments under an operating lease, net of incentives received, are recognised as an expense on a costs, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are recognized in straight-line basis over the lease term under the heading “Other operational expenses” of the consolidated the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on an accrual basis using the effective interest statement of profit or loss. method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. Contingent lease payments are recognised as an expense when it is probable that the Group is going to incur in them. The effective interest rate is the discount rate that exactly matches the carrying amount of a financial instrument to all its estimated cash flows of all kinds through its residual life. For fixed rate financial Operating leases are deemed to be arrangements in which the lessor grants the lessee the right to use an instruments, the effective interest rate coincides with the contractual interest rate established on the asset during a specific period of time in exchange for a sole payment or a series of payments. These acquisition date plus, where applicable, the fees that, because of their nature, can be equated with a rate leases cannot be considered finance leases as the ownership of the leased asset and substantially all the of interest. In the case of floating rate financial instruments, the effective interest rate coincides with the risks and rewards relating to the leased asset remain with the lessor. rate of return prevailing in all connections until the date on which the reference interest rate is to be revised for the first time and, therefore, the Parent Company’s Directors consider that the differences arising from the changes in interest rate that could arise will not be material. f) Financial instruments When the maturity of the loans is subject to express annual renewal at the decision of the lender or the Financial assets associated terms and the conditions to be fulfilled used to calculate the future borrowing costs cannot be estimated reliably, the aforementioned financing is recognized at nominal value. Financial assets are initially recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at the fair value of the consideration given plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Payable to suppliers and trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value, which does not vary substantially from their fair value. The financial assets held by the Group relate to loans and receivables which are financial assets arising from the sale of goods or the rendering of services in the ordinary course of the Group's business, or The Group writes-off the financial liabilities only when obligations, specified in the contract that generates financial assets which, not having commercial substance, are not equity instruments or derivatives, have them, have been met, cancelled or expired. fixed or determinable payments and are not traded in an active market. Subsequently they are measured at nominal value which, in the opinion of the Parent Company’s Director, does not differ significantly from Financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading amortised cost, and the interest income is recognized in consolidated statement of comprehensive income on the basis of the nominal interest rate. Financial assets or financial liabilities held for trading are those which are classified as held for trading from initial recognition. A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for trading if it: At least at each reporting date the Group tests its financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss for impairment. Objective evidence of impairment is considered to exist when the recoverable amount of the financial asset is lower than its carrying amount. When such impairment occurs, it is o Originates or is acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the recognized in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. near term o Forms part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which In particular, the Group registers impairment losses under the heading “Trade and other receivables” there is evidence of a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking or when there is a remote probability to recover the amounts registered under said heading. o Is a derivative, except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract or a designated and The Group derecognises a financial asset when it expires or when the rights to the cash flows from the effective hedging instrument. financial asset have been transferred and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset have been transferred, such as in the firm sale of assets and transfers of commercial credit Financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading are initially recognised at fair value. Transaction in “factoring” operations in which the Company has no credit or interest-rate risk, has extended no costs directly attributable to the acquisition or issue are recognised as an expense when incurred. guarantees or assumed any other type of risk. After initial recognition, they are recognised at fair value through profit or loss. Fair value is not reduced by Conversely, the Group does not derecognise financial assets, but recognises a financial liability for an transaction costs incurred on sale or disposal. Accrual interest and dividends are recognised separately. amount equal to the consideration received, in the assignments of financial assets in which substantially all the risks and rewards associated with ownership of the assets are retained, such as the discounting of The Group does not reclassify financial assets or financial liabilities into or out of this category while notes and “factoring with recourse”. recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position, except when there is a change in the classification of hedging financial instruments. 12 13 NOTES Determining the fair value of financial assets and liabilities On the other hand, the assets due to deferred taxes are only registered as they are considered possible when the Company considers that is possible to generate future taxable profits in order to pay taxes and The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is determined as described below: not resulting from the initial recognition, except in a business combination, of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit. The remaining deferred tax assets (tax losses and deductions pending) are only recognized if it is probable that the consolidated entities will o The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities, under standard terms and conditions, which are have sufficient future taxable profits against which to utilize them. traded in active and liquid markets, will be based on quoted market prices. Current tax and deferred tax are recognized against the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive o The fair value of other financial assets and liabilities (excluding those mentioned in the paragraph Income, except when they are associated with transactions that are recognized in the consolidated equity, above) will be determined according to generally accepted valuation models on the basis of in which case the current tax and deferred tax is also recognized in the consolidated equity. When the discounted cash flows using the observable market transaction prices and the quotations of the current tax and deferred tax arise from the accounting of a business combination, the tax effect is contributors for similar instruments. recognized in the accounting of the combination. The Directors of the Parent Company consider that the carrying amount of the financial assets and At each closing date, the assets due to deferred taxes registered are considered, making the liabilities included in the amortised cost recognised in the current consolidated annual accounts corresponding corrections to these if there is doubt whether such can be redeemed. Furthermore, at each approximates their fair value. Furthermore, substantially all of the financial assets and liabilities at 31 closing date, the assets due to deferred taxes which are not registered in the balance sheet and are December 2015 and 2014 correspond to instruments valued at amortised cost. recognized possible as redeemable with future tax benefits. Equity instruments i) Revenues and expenses An equity instrument represents a residual share in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its Revenues and expenses are recognized depending on an accrual basis, that is to say, when the actual liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Parent Company are recognised in consolidated equity at the flow of related assets and service occurs, notwithstanding the time of occurrence of financial or money proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. flow resulting from these. Revenues are valued at their fair values of the consideration received, deducting discounts and taxes. g) Classification of current and non-current balances Sale revenue is recognised when the Company transfers the significant risks and rewards incidental to the Current assets are assets associated with the normal operating cycle, which in general is considered to be ownership of the sold asset, which include not having effective control over the asset and not being able one year; other assets which are expected to mature, be disposed of or be realised within twelve months to manage it. from the end, financial assets held for trading, with the exception of financial derivatives which settlement exceeds a year and cash. Assets that do not meet these requirements are mark as non-current assets. Revenues associated with the rendering of services are recognised in the income statement by reference to the stage of completion at the reporting date when revenues, the stage of completion, the costs Similarly, current liabilities are liabilities associated with the normal operating cycle, and financial liabilities incurred and the costs to complete the transaction can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the held for trading, with the exception of financial derivatives which settlement exceeds a year, and in economic benefits derived from the transaction will flow to the Group. general all obligations that will mature or be extinguished at short term. All other liabilities are classified as non-current liabilities. j) Termination benefits h) Corporate income tax and deferred tax Under current legislation, the Group companies are required to pay termination benefits to employees, under certain conditions. Termination benefits that can be reasonably quantified are recognised as an The expenses or incomes due to taxes on profit are related to the part of expenses or incomes for current expense in the year in which the decision to terminate the employment relationship is taken The taxes and the part corresponding to the expenses or incomes for deferred tax. accompanying financial statements at 31 December 2015 do not include any provision in this connection, since no situations of this nature are expected to arise. The current tax is the amount that the Company pays as a result of tax payments on the corresponding profits produced in a financial year. The deductions and other tax advantages in the tax rate, excluding the k) Provisions and contingencies withholding of tax and payment on account, as well as losses compensated in tax from previous years and effectively applied to the current tax year, result in a lesser amount of current tax. The Directors of the Parent Company in the elaboration of the current annual accounts of the year ended on 31 December 2015 differentiate between: Expenses or incomes due to deferred taxes correspond to the recognition and cancellation of assets and liabilities due to deferred taxes. These include the provisional differences that are identified as those a) Provisions: credit balances that cover current obligations arising from past events, whose amounts payable and redeemable deriving from the differences between the amounts on books in assets cancellation is likely to lead to the exit of resources, but which are undetermined with regards to the and liabilities and their tax value, as well as the negative taxable base pending compensation and the amounts and/ or time of cancellation, and credits for tax deductions not applied in tax. Such amounts are registered applying to the provisional difference or credit that corresponds to the type of lien that should be recuperated or paid. b) Contingent liabilities: possible obligations emerged as consequences of past events, whose future materialisation is conditioned by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future events not Liabilities due to deferred taxes are recognized for all the different tax bases, except for those deriving wholly within the Group’s control. from the initial recognition of goodwill value or of other assets and liabilities in an operation which affects neither the tax results nor the accounting results and is not a combined trading. 14 15 NOTES The consolidated annual accounts of the year ended on 31 December 2015 include all the important provisions with respect to which one considers the possibility of attending such an obligation is greater than otherwise. The contingent liabilities are not registered in the annual accounts at 31 December 2015, o) Consolidated Cash Flow Statement but rather are disclosed, unless the possibility of an outflow in settlement is considered to be remote. The meanings of the following expressions in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement prepared using the Provisions are valued at their present value of the best possible estimate of the amount required to cancel indirect method are: or transfer the obligation, taking into account the information available on the event and its consequences, and the adjustments are registered as they emerge on updating the said provisions as financial costs according to their accrual periods. • Cash flows: inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents, this includes investments that are short term, highly liquid insignificant risk of changes in value. The compensation to be received from a third party at the time of liquidating the obligation, as long as there are no doubts to that such refund will be perceived, is registered as an asset, except for those cases • Operating activities: typical activities of the Companies of the Group, as well as other activities that in which there is a legal attachment for which part of the risk is outsourced, and in virtue of which the could not be classified as investing or financing activities. Company is not obliged to respond; in such case, the compensation will be taken into account in order to estimate the amount for which, if applicable, the corresponding provision appears. • Investing activities: the acquisition, sale or disposal of long-term assets and other investments not included in cash and cash equivalents. The Group, according to the IFRS 7, assess to disclose the l) Offsetting balances cash flows attending to the appropriateness to their nature. Investing cash flows include cash flows relating to the acquisitions and disposals of vehicles under repurchase agreements independently Only offset each other, and are presented in the consolidated statement of financial position on a net whether ownership, in accounting terms, has been transferred under the agreements (see note 3 basis, debtor and creditor balances arising from transactions in which, contractually or by operation of a (c)). legal regulation, contemplating offset and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. • Financing activities: activities which produce changes in the size and composition of equity and liabilities that are not part of operating activities. m) Activitites with environmental impact p) Financial information by segments Environmental activity is defined as any action intended to prevent, regulate or repair damage to the environment. An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur in expenses, whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Group’s chief Investments in environmental activities, if any, are valued at acquisition cost and capitalized as cost of decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its assets in the year in which they are incurred. performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. Environmental protection and improvement expenses are charged to consolidated statement of profit or q) Adjusted EBITDA loss in the year in which they are incurred, regardless of when the resulting monetary or financial flow arises. In order to give more information on the profit or loss of the year, the Management of the Group has included an intermediate margin in the accompanying consolidated financial statement integral result of Provisions for probable or certain, litigation in progress and indemnities or obligations of an undetermined the years 2015 and 2014 titled “adjusted EBITDA” which includes all of the income and expenses of the amount of an environmental nature, not covered by insurance policies, are constituted at the time when year except for: the liability or obligation that determines the indemnity or payment rises. • Income or expense arising from corporate tax. n) Transactions with related parties • Financial income and expenses. The Group performs all the intercompany transactions at market values. Additionally, the transfer pricing is adequately supported so that the Directors of the Parent Company consider that there are no significant • Fixed asset amortisation expenses and buy back renting costs. risks in this connection that might give rise to significant liabilities in the future. • Income and expenses that are considered non-recurring because of their nature. • Impairment and profit/loss on disposal of fixed assets 16 17 NOTES 4. Business combinations and Goodwill Acquired assets and assumed liabilities At 18 December 2014, the date of acquisition, the acquired assets and the assumed liabilities amounted to EUR The business combination has taken place in order to obtain control of the new Goldcar Group by setting up a 116,693 thousand and the breakdown of their calculation by cash-generating unit is contained in Annex I to the corporate structure through which the companies indicated in the following paragraphs have been acquired from present notes to the consolidated financial statements. For accounting purposes, the Parent Company Alcor Sociedad Estratégica S.L. (prior parent company of the Goldcar Group). considered the transaction date to be 18 December 2014. The acquisition costs related to the business combination and its financing, which are borne by the depending At 31 December 2014 the valuation processes needed to apply the acquisition method were carried out. company Car Rentals Subsidiary, S.L.U. amounted to EUR 1,448 thousand in 2014 and they were included in the accompanying consolidated statement of profit or loss. In conformity with the legal reporting framework that is applicable to the Group, the deferred tax assets have not been recognised at fair value, instead they were registered at their nominal value. Cost of the business combination Moreover, in compliance with IFRS 3, at 31 december 2014, the Parent Company is performing an analysis of As it is indicated in Note 1, at 18 December 2014 the Parent Company took control of the Goldcar Group through those identifiable acquired intangible assets to which the goodwill emerged in the business combination (EUR several operations in a single act. 187,486 thousand) could be allocated to. While the regulating standard grants a period of twelve months for its definite allocation, Management believes there were no relevant assets that met the identifiability criteria Car Rentals Topco, S.L. (the Parent Company) acquired 100% of the shares of Goldcar Spain,S.L. for EUR 215 described on IAS 38. million, where 20% of Goldcar Spain, S.L. was acquired by a non-monetary contribution made by Alcor Sociedad Estratégica, S.L. with the result that it owns 20% of capital. Additionally, the Group acquired 100% of the share Other related information capital of various companies. The income and expenses attributable to the business combination from the acquisition date (18 December A detail of the acquisition cost of the aforementioned companies is provided below; 2014) until the end of the year 2014 were presented in the consolidated statement of profit or loss since the Parent Company did not have earnings or losses during the year 2014. Thousands Company of Euros Additionally, the consolidated combined figures of the acquired companies corresponding to the complete twelveGoldcar Spain S.L. 215,010 month period of the year 2014 are the following: Goldcar Italy S.r.L. 31,600 Thousands Goldhire Portugal Lda. 57,100 of Euros Goldcar Fleets Spain, S.L.U. 300 Goldcar Fleetco S.A. 60 Revenue 227,801 Other operational income 3,557 Goldcar Master S.L. 100 Cost of sales (31,357) Goldcar France S.a.r.l. 1 Personnel expenses (18,485) Total 304,171 Other operating expenses (74,502) Negative consolidation differences 8 Adjusted EBITDA 107,022 The fair value of the consideration transferred in the business combination amounted to EUR 304 million. The Other non-recurring expenses 8,229 mentioned sum does not include the cost of accrued fees regarding legal and other professional advisers in relation to the transaction. In this sense, such fees have been charged as an expense on an accrual basis. Fixed asset amortisation expenses and buy back renting costs (54,275) Impairment and profit/loss on disposal of fixed assets 2,896 Moreover, in the purchase agreement signed between Car Rentals Topco, S.L. and Alcor Sociedad Estratégica Profit/Loss from continuing operations 63,872 S.L., a contingent future consideration was established. This consideration is subject to the attainment of a specified minimum corporate EBITDA during the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. In this sense, the degree of compliance with the corporate EBITDA is independent each year as long as a series of contingent conditions are The Directors of the Parent Company believed that these figures presented a fair estimate of what would be the additionally met which can only be verified at the moment of divestment of the buyer. annual performance of the new combined entity and that they provide an initial benchmark with which to compare future periods. The financial expenses derived from the financing obtained in December 2014 (see Note 9) did At the acquisition date, and at 31 December 2015, the Directors of the Sole shareholder of the Parent Company not extrapolate to the twelve-month period. estimated that the fair value of such contingent consideration will be EUR zero since its probability of occurrence cannot be estimated, nor valued reliably. 18 19 NOTES Goodwill Impairment analysis The movement for the year 2015 under the heading “Goodwill”, which has been allocated to each cashMoreover, as it is indicated in Notes 3-1 and 3-d, the Group has performed the corresponding impairment test generating unit has been the following: according to IAS 36. The recoverable amount of the assets allocated to the CGUs has been calculated based on its value in use Thousands of Euros calculated as the present value of the future cash flows discounted at a discount rate considering the risk 2015 inherent in these flows. Balance at Balance at Company 12/31/2014 Additions Retirements 12/31/2015 The calculations of value in use and fair value use cash flow projections based for five-years based on the Goldcar Italy S.r.L. 26,683 326 27,009 financial budgets approved by management. Cash flows estimated as of the year in which the CGU achieves a Goldhire Portugal Lda. 44,851 44,851 stable rate of growth are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates indicated below. Goldcar Fleets Spain, S.L.U. 214 (214) The key assumptions used to calculate impairment of the CGUs in 2015 are as follows: Goldcar Spain S.L. 115,737 115,737 Goldcar France S.à.r.l. 1 1 Perpetual growth Post-tax discount (214) Company rate rate Total 187,486 326 187,598 Goldcar Italy S.r.L. 1.5% 9.0% Goldhire Portugal Lda. 1.5% 9.7% Goldcar Spain S.L. 1,5% 9.2% Thousands of Euros 2014 Balance at Balance at Management determined the budgeted gross margins based on past experience and forecast market Company 12/31/2013 Additions 12/31/2014 performance. Perpetual growth rates are coherent with the forecasts included in industry reports. The discount Goldcar Italy S.r.L. 26,683 26,683 rate uses post-tax values and reflects specific risks related to the CGU. Goldhire Portugal Lda. 44,851 44,851 Because the business was acquired recently and the recoverable amount is considerably higher than the carrying Goldcar Fleets Spain, S.L.U. 214 214 amount of the net assets, specific information from the impairment test sensitivity analysis is not included. Goldcar Spain S.L. 115,737 115,737 Goldcar France S.à.r.l. 1 1 Total 187,486 187,486 The goodwill corresponds to the difference between the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities and the cost of the business combination at the date of acquisition of each identified cash-generating unit. In this sense, the consideration paid for the business combination includes amounts corresponding to know-how, benefit of the acquired synergies, expected growth of the business and workforce. These benefits are not recognised separately from the goodwill since they do not meet the criteria to be considered identifiable intangible assets. The Group has defined as cash-generating units the different companies acquired in the business combination. A breakdown of the acquired companies is detailed in the following section. The goodwill derived from the business combination explained in this note is not tax deductible. 20 21 NOTES 5. Intangible assets Trademarks The movement in the accounts corresponding to intangible assets and their accumulated amortisation during the Under the caption described as “Trademarks”, the Group registers certain commercial trademarks acquired from year 2015 and 2014 is as follows: the company Alcor Sociedad Estratégica, S.L. amounting to EUR 18,829 thousand. Based on an analysis of all the relevant factors, Group Management considers that there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which Thousands of Euros these trademarks are expected to generate net cash inflows for the Group and, therefore, the trademarks have 2015 been classified as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised although their Balance at Balance at classification as assets with indefinite useful lives is reviewed at the end of each fiscal year and it is consistent 12/31/2014 Additions Retirements Transfers 12/31/2015 with the Group’s related business plans. Cost: The intangible assets with indefinite useful lives were assigned jointly with goodwill and their impairment has Trademarks 18,829 90 18,919 been analysed jointly with that goodwill (see note 4). Other intangible assets 1,246 2,981 (7) (90) 4,130 Total cost 20,075 2,981 (7) 23,049 The Company has analysed the impairment of each intangible asset under development by calculating the recoverable amount thereof based on its fair value. Accumulated amortisation: Trademarks 6. Property, plant and equipment Other intangible assets (5) (358) 4 (359) Total amortisation (5) (358) 4 (359) The movement of the property, plant and equipment accounts and their accumulated amortisation for the year 2015 and 2014 is detailed below: Net value: Trademarks 18,829 90 18,919 Other intangible assets 1,241 2,623 (3) (90) 3,771 Thousands of Euros Total net book value 20,070 2,623 (3) 22,690 2015 Balance at Balance at 12/31/2014 Additions Disposals Transfers 12/31/2015 Thousands of Euros 2014 Cost: Business Land and buildings 370 370 Combination Technical facilities and other property, plant and Balance at Additions (see Balance at equipment 113,348 226,664 (205,692) 2,500 136,820 12/31/2013 Note 4) Additions 12/31/2014 Property, plant and equipment in the course of construction and advances 2,521 46 (2,516) 51 Cost: Total cost 116,239 226,710 (205,692) (16) 137,241 Trademarks 18,829 18,829 Other intangible assets 986 260 1,246 Accumulated amortisation: Total cost 19,815 260 20,075 Land and buildings Technical facilities and other property, plant and equipment 341 (45,800) 45,959 500 Accumulated amortisation: Property, plant and equipment in the course of Trademarks construction and advances Other intangible assets (5) (5) Total amortisation 341 (45,800) 45,959 500 Total amortisation (5) (5) Depreciation Land and buildings Net value: Technical facilities and other property, plant and (593) 190 (403) Trademarks 18,829 18,829 equipment Other intangible assets 986 255 1,241 Property, plant and equipment in the course of Total net book value 19,815 255 20,070 construction and advances Accumulated depreciation (593) 190 (403) Total net book value 116,580 180,317 (159,543) (16) 137,338 22 23 NOTES Thousands of Euros 7. Trade and other receivables and Financial investments 2014 Business In connection with the Group’s main activity, which is the renting of vehicles, its sales are mainly paid in cash Combination Balance at Additions Balance at causing the average credit and collection periods to be virtually zero. For this reason, there is no significant 12/31/2013 (see Note 4) Additions Disposals Transfers 12/31/2014 impairment in the accounts receivables. Cost: Due to the trade receivable management policy used by the Group and to its type of business, there are no Land and buildings 370 370 significant provisions related to trade receivables nor has there been a significant movement of the registered Technical facilities and other property, plant and provision during 2015 nor in the year ended on 31 December 2014. For this reason, the Group has not equipment 121,100 475 (7,598) (629) 113,348 recognised any significant impairment of its trade receivables. Property, plant and equipment in the course of construction and advances 2,512 9 2,521 Additionally, the Group’s accounts receivables registered under the heading “Trade and other receivables” of the Total cost 123,982 484 (7,598) (629) 116,239 consolidated financial statement mainly comprise amounts due from manufacturers and, to a lesser extent, vehicle dealerships, primarily for vehicle sales derived fundamentally from sales of vehicles subject to Accumulated amortisation: repurchase agreements for which the transaction has taken place. Land and buildings Technical facilities and other property, plant and At 31 December 2015, the Group has derecognised an amount of EUR 16,978 thousand in respect of factoring equipment (954) 1,048 247 341 without recourse operations with a total fixed limit of EUR 20,000 thousand, and a variable limit for individual Property, plant and equipment in the course of operations depending on the balance receivable that gave rise to the corresponding credit (see note 14 (b)). construction and advances Total amortisation (954) 1,048 247 341 The heading “Financial investments” mainly comprises the amounts receivable from manufacturers, primarily for vehicle sales with repurchase agreements, and reflect the fair value of the repurchase price (see note 3-c) of Total net book value 123,982 (470) (6,550) (382) 116,580 vehicles that have not yet been bought back. The Group reflects its trade receivables at nominal value, provided that it does not differ significantly from its fair value. Additions resulting from business combinations 8. Consolidated net equity and equity The main additions in 2014 relate mainly to vehicles. a) Equity Other information The impairment loses of Technical facilities and other property, plant and equipment corresponds to valuation Share capital adjustments arising as a result of missing or stolen vehicles at year-end, based on the net book value of such vehicles. The share capital of the Parent company is represented by 21,500,000 shares of EUR 1 par value each, with a share premium of EUR 193,500 thousand, which have been created through the incorporation of Disposals in 2015 and 2014 correspond almost entirely with vehicle sales. The profit of the sales amounted to the Parent company and two share capital increases of 17,197,000 and 4,300,000 shares each, executed EUR 4,951 thousand in 2015 (EUR 41 thousand in 2014) and it is registered under the heading “Impairment and through a public deed on 18 December 2014. All of the shares have been fully subscribed and paid as of profit/loss on disposal of fixed assets” in the statement of profit or loss. 31 December 2014. At 31 December 2015 fully depreciated property, plant and equipment total EUR 577 thousand (EUR 0 in 2014) The shares of the companies that comprise the Group are not listed on any official organised market. and have been recognised under technical installations and other items of property, plant and equipment. At 31 December 2014, the shareholders of the Parent Company who are legal persons are International At 31 December 2015, the Group has firm commitments to purchase assets totalling approximately EUR 13,250 Car Rentals II S.C.A. and Alcor Sociedad Estratégica S.L. owning 80% and 20% of the shares thousand, (EUR 7,063 thousand in 2014). The assets to be purchased correspond essentially to vehicles. respectively. There are no firm commitments to sell assets, except those relating to certain rental vehicles owned by the Group At 31 December 2015, the shareholders of the Parent Company who are legal persons are International that are subject to repurchase agreements with the manufacturers and dealerships, which have a carrying Car Rentals III S.à.r.l. and Alcor Sociedad Estratégica, S.L. owning 80% and 20% of the shares amount of EUR 60,842 thousand at 31 December 2015 (EUR 32,806 thousand in 2014). respectively. At 31 December 2015, certain transportation elements have been pledged to secure the proceedings described Legal reserve in Note 14.c which have net book value of EUR 703 thousand (EUR 7,288 thousand in 2014). Under the Consolidated Spanish Companies Law, 10% of net profit for each year must be transferred to The policy of the Group is to take out insurance policies to cover the potential risks to which its fixed assets are the legal reserve until the balance of this reserve reaches at least 20% of the share capital. Such reserve subject. At 31 December 2015, the mentioned policies nearly cover the net book value of said elements. can be used to increase capital provided that the remaining reserve balance does not fall below 10% of 24 25 NOTES the increased share capital amount. Otherwise, until the legal reserve exceeds 20% of share capital, it can 9. Financial debt and Derivatives only be used to offset losses, provided that sufficient other reserves are not available for that purpose. At the end of the year 2015, the Parent Company’s legal reserve had not been legally constituted. Long term financial liabilities Capitalisation reserve The balance of the accounts registered under the heading “Financial debt” and “Derivatives” at the end of the year 2015 and 2014 are the following: Appropriations shall be made to the capitalisation reserve in accordance with articles 25 and 62 of the Spanish Corporate Income Tax Law, which stipulates that this reserve must be appropriated in the Thousands of Euros amount of the reduction in the income tax base for the year to which the tax group is entitled. The right to 2015 a reduction in the income tax base of the tax group amounts to 10% of the increase in the capital and Long-Term Short-Term Total reserves of the tax group, as defined in this article, and in no case may exceed 10% of the income tax Senior Facility 303,332 4,385 307,717 base of the tax group for the tax period prior to the reduction and the integration referred to in section 12 Derivative financial instruments 277 277 of article 11 of the Law and the offsetting of tax losses. However, in the event that the tax group has Other debt with financial institutions 72 72 insufficient taxable income to apply the reduction, the amounts pending can be applied in the tax periods Total 303,609 4,457 308,066 ending during the two successive years following the close of the tax period in which the right to the reduction was generated, together with the reduction that could apply in that year, subject to the aforementioned limit. The reserve is non-distributable and is subject to the tax group maintaining the increase in capital and reserves during a period of five years from the end of the tax period in which the Thousands of Euros reduction was generated, except in the event that the Company incurs accounting losses. 2014 Long-Term Short-Term Total Consolidated reserves Senior Facility 304,345 2,034 306,379 Other debt with financial institutions 4,161 4,161 Details by company of this heading at 31 December 2015 are as follows: Total 304,345 6,195 310,540 Thousands of Euros Almost of all the financial debt has a floating interest rate. 2015 Car Rentals Subsidiary S.A.U.(*) (897) The detail of the due dates of the debt that is registered under the heading “Financial debt” of the non-current Goldcar Spain S.L. (476) liabilities is as follows: Car Rentals Italy S.r.L. (226) Goldcar Italy S.r.L. (274) Thousands of Euros Goldhire Portugal Lda. 8 2015 2014 Goldcar Fleets Spain S.L.U. 29 Senior Facility Senior Goldcar Master S.L. 8 Facility Total (1.828) 2016 3,663 2017 4,878 4,828 2018 7,228 7,158 Basic earnings/(loss) per share 2019 30,992 7,116 2020 260,234 281,580 The basic earnings/losses per share in relation to continuing operations recognised for 2015 and 2014 are Total presented below, expressed in Euros per share: 303,332 304,345 2015 2014 Total loss for the year (thousands of Euros) 22,169 (1,828) Weighted average of shares outstanding 21,500 21,500 Basic earnings/(loss) per share 1.0311 (0.0850) Since there is no dilutive effect on the losses per share, the basic losses and the diluted losses per share total the same amount. 26 27 NOTES Characteristics of the Group's financial debt Derivative Financial Instruments Within the process of taking control of the Group carried out on 18 December 2014 (see Note 1 for a full At 18 March 2015, the Group, through its subsidiary Car Rentals Subsidiary, S.A.U., has entered into derivative description), the company Car Rentals Subsidiary, S.A.U. entered, as the debtor, along with Car Rentals financial instruments to hedge its exposure to the interest rates of the syndicated financing described above. Parentco, S.L.U., as the Parent Company, into a syndicated global financing agreement with several financial These financial instruments have been formalised through the following operations: institutions. Both companies are Group companies. The financing totals an amount of EUR 450,000 thousand and it was subdivided in two parts: An interest rate SWAP maturing on 31 December 2017 with a notional amount of EUR 50 million in which the Group pays a fixed monthly rate of 0.04% and charges a variable interest rate based on Euribor 1 M. Senior Facility: the loan has a total nominal value of EUR 325,000 thousand. The amortised cost at 31 This instrument would hedge tranche A of the syndicated financing. December 2015 of the mentioned loan amounts to EUR 307,717 Thousand (EUR 306,679 thousand in Two CAP agreements with a fixed interest rate (strike) of 1.50%. The two agreements have the same 2014) and its aim is to finance the share purchase of the foreign companies comprising the Group (Goldhire conditions maturing both on 18 December 2007 and having each notional amounts of EUR 137.5 million. Portugal Lda. and Goldcar Italy S.r.L.), the purchase of certain trademarks, to cancel the previously existing The benchmark interest rate is Euribor 6 M. This instrument would hedge tranche B of the syndicated debt and to increase the operational flexibility of the Group. The senior facility was issued in two tranches financing. and their most significant traits are the following: • “Tranche A” was granted for a total amount of EUR 50,000 thousand. The Group will annually amortise 10. Public Administrations and tax position the accumulated drawn amounts through annual repayments until the due date, 18 December 2019. Reconciliation of accounting profit/loss and tax base • “Tranche B” was issued for a total amount of EUR 275,000 thousand. The Group will amortise this The income tax is calculated on the basis of accounting profit or loss determined by application of generally amount through one sole payment to be made at the date of maturity which is 18 June 2020. accepted accounting principles which does not have to necessarily coincide with the taxable profit or the tax base. The financing through Tranche A, as well as the financing through Tranche B bear a variable interest rate at Euribor-indexed (adjusted) plus a margin. The margin is computed on the basis of the leverage The reconciliation of accounting profit/(loss) and the theoretical taxable income/(tax loss) for the tax period from 4 ratio of the Group which can range from 3.25% up to 3.75% for Tranche A and from 5% up to 5.50% September 2014 to 31 December 2014 and the year ended 31 December 2015 is as follows: for Tranche B. Thousands of euros A revolving credit facility with an initial limit of EUR 125,000 thousand to finance the working capital of the 2015 Group in order to fuel its growth. This facility matures in 18 December 2019 and accrues interest on floating Additions Reductions Total market rates based on Euribor plus a margin that is conditioned to certain financial figures of the Group Accounting profit/loss before tax 30,817 measured at the date of disposal. At 31 December 2015 and 2014, no amount has been drawn from this Permanent differences 3,071 (5,071) (2,000) facility. In 2015 there have been two limit increases amounting to EUR 25,000 thousand and EUR 12,000 Temporary differences 5,563 (6,230) (667) thousand, therefore the limit, at the end of the year amounted to EUR 162,000 thousand. Tax base 8,634 (10,717)) 28,150 The effective interest rate of the senior facility for the year 2015 has been 7,83% (6.91% in 2014) and it has resulted in financial expenses amounting to EUR 24,573 thousand in the year 2015 (EUR 784 thousand in 2014, Thousands of euros it should be taken into account that the mentioned financing was issued at the end of this year) which are 2014 registered under the heading “Financial costs” of the consolidated statement of profit or loss (See Note 11.e). Additions Reductions Total Accounting profit/loss before taxes (2,507) Moreover and in accordance with said financing agreement, the Group has provided several guarantees to the Permanent differences 11 (8) 3 creditor financial institutions and it is required to comply with several economic and equity ratios in relation to the Temporary differences 314 314 consolidated financial statements as it is detailed in Note 14. Tax base 325 (2,515) (2,190) 28 29 NOTES Reconciliation of the consolidated accounting profit or loss before tax to the tax income or Deferred tax assets and liabilities expense In 2014, although the consolidated statement of profit or loss and prior reconciliations refer to a tax period from 4 The reconciliation of the accounting profit or loss before tax to the tax result corresponding to the tax period September to 31 December 2014, the deferred tax assets and liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial starting on 4 September 2014 and ending on 31 December 2014 and on 31 December 2015 is as follows: position reflect the situation arising from taxation for the entire 2014 tax period. Thousands of Euros Details of the Deferred tax assets at the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2015 and At 31/12/2015 At 31/12/2014 2014 are as follows: Profit or loss Profit or loss Accounting profit/loss before tax 30,817 (2,507) Thousands of Euros 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 Tax charge 8,705 (680) Limit on deductibility of amortisation/depreciation 466 2,334 Deductions (220) Tax loss carryforwards 349 349 Non-deductible expenses 870 1 Others 130 16 Non-taxable income (795) Total 945 2,699 Capitalisation reserve (610) Prior year adjustments 46 Unrecognised tax credits 652 Regarding Deferred tax assets, most of the amount comprising the limit on the deductibility of Total tax expense/(income) recognised in the amortisation/depreciation (applicable in 2013 and 2014) was recovered in 2015 as it related to the depreciation of consolidated statement of profit or loss 8,648 (679) the fleet of vehicles expected to be withdrawn from service between 2015 and 2017. The Group has a commitment to maintain the assets and liabilities for which it received a deduction for Details of the tax expense/(tax income) in the consolidated statement of profit or loss are as follows: reinvestment for five years, or three years in the case of moveable property, unless the amount obtained or the carrying amount, if lower, is to be reinvested. Thousands of Euros At 31/12/2015 At 31/12/2014 In relation to the negative tax bases and given that they were generated independently by a Spanish company Current tax under the individual income tax regime, the recoverability of the negative tax bases will depend on the tax bases For the period 8,670 (585) generated by that company for the periods beginning after 1 January 2015. Previously unrecognised tax deductions (256) Furthermore, the detail of the heading “Deferred tax liabilities” registered in the consolidated statement of Total 8,414 (585) financial position at 31 December 2015 and 2014 is the following: Deferred tax Property, plant and equipment 188 (94) Prior year adjustments 46 Total 234 (94) Thousands of Euros 31/12/2015 31/12/2014 From continuing operations 8,648 (679) Accelerated depreciation and amortisation 1,558 (2010, 2011 and 2012) Other 219 219 Withholdings and payments on account made during 2015 amounted to Euros 9,710 thousand (Euros 0 thousand Total 219 1,777 for the tax period from 4 September to 31 December 2014). Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2014 related to deferred taxes arising from the tax incentives applied as a result of the accelerated depreciation and amortisation (Eleventh Additional Provision of the CIT law) the Company availed of in 2010, 2011 and 2012 (until 30 March 2012, when the incentive ended). In 2015 this amount was fully recovered. At end of the year 2015, there are no pending deductions nor temporary differences related to investments in depending companies and related parties or to interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised. The negative tax bases registered in in the accompanying consolidated statement of financial position have no temporary limit. 30 31 NOTES Due to the entry into force of Spanish Corporation Tax Law 27/2014, of 27 November 2014, and in order to adapt b) Personnel the deferred tax assets and liabilities to the new tax rates that have come into force for the year beginning on 1 January 2015 and the following, which are 28% and 25% respectively, the Spanish companies comprising the The average number of Group employees during the year 2015 and 2014, detailed by categories, is the Group regularised the balances registered at the end of 2014. following: In relation to the deduction for reinvestment of extraordinary profits established in article 43 of the Royal Number of Employees Legislative Decree 4/2004, of 5 March, for which the Revised Text of the Corporate Tax Law is approved by, the Professional Categories 2015 2014 following information is provided. Senior management (not dirtectors) 4 2 Other management personnel 20 19 Deduction Reinvestment Technicians, professionals and support personnel 87 67 Period Gains Applied Period Administrative staff 59 80 2009 2,941 353 2008-2012 Sales and similar personnel 347 284 2010 3,265 355 2009-2013 Other qualified personnel 104 46 2011 1,747 210 2010-2014 Unskilled workers 168 196 2012 1,238 149 2011-2014 Total 789 694 2013 964 116 2012-2014 Additionally, the distribution by gender of Group personnel at the end of the year 2015 and 2014, detailed by categories, is as follows: Years open to inspection 2015 2014 Under current tax regulation, taxes cannot be deemed definitive until they have been inspected by the tax authorities or the corresponding prescription period of four years has passed. As a consequence of the possible Professional Categories Male Female Male Female different interpretations of the current tax regulation, among other reasons, additional liabilities could arise as a Senior management (not dirtectors) 4 2 result of an inspection. In any case, the Directors of the Parent Company believe that in the case that the Other management personnel 19 3 12 3 mentioned liabilities arise they would not significantly affect the annual accounts. Technicians, professionals and support personnel 50 38 48 11 Administrative staff 34 29 40 34 At 31 December 2015, the Parent Company has the period 2014 open to inspection since it has been Sales and similar personnel 157 176 122 118 incorporated in that period and at 31 December 2015. The subsidiaries have all of the main applicable taxes Other qualified personnel 93 38 18 17 open to inspection by the tax authorities since January 2012, except for the income tax which is open to Unskilled workers 99 17 150 47 inspection since the year 2011. Subsidiaries with tax residence in countries other than Spain, are open to Total 456 301 392 230 inspection their taxes based on current tax laws in each country The Directors of the Parent Company believe that, in the event that an inspection takes place, no additional relevant liabilities will arise. The average number of Group employees with a disability greater than or equal to 33% during the year Tax consolidation 2015 is 6 (5 in 2014). The Spanish companies comprising the consolidated Group will be taxed from January 2015 onwards under the c) Leases consolidated tax regime established in Chapter VI of the Title VII of the Spanish Corporation Law (27/2014) of the Income Tax. Operating leases lessor Moreover, the Spanish companies comprising the consolidated Group have applied the special regime for groups of entities in relation to the value added tax established in Chapter IX of Title IX of the Value Added Tax Law At 31 December 2015 and 2014 there are no significant non-cancelable operating leases to which the (37/1992) to the operations carried out from 1 January 2015 onwards. Group companies are considered lessors. Operating leases lessee 11. Income and expenses Operating leases in which the Group acts as a lessee relate to the leases of offices, buildings and land a) Revenue located in different settings of Spain and the European community. The Group pays a fixed monthly fee which is updated by indexes that correct the effect of inflation. Moreover, the Parent Company is present Revenues mainly derive from the commercialization of self-drive vehicle hire. The amount registered in numerous Spanish airports by means of the entity A.E.N.A. (Aeropuertos Españoles y Navegación under this heading of the consolidated statement of profit or loss for the year 2014 corresponded to the Aérea) to which it pays fixed and variable fees. In this sense, the variables fees are calculated on the revenue resulting from the fourteen-day period of activity of the Subsidiaries. In this context, the Group basis of invoicing, facility use, and airport area and they cannot be lower than 9.25% of the turnover does not have clients that represent more than 10% of the total revenue. generated in the corresponding airports. The breakdown of the revenue of the Group by activity segments is detailed in Note 13. 32 33 NOTES In addition to acting as a lessee as explained above, the Group is also a lessee of rental vehicles without a driver. e) Income and expenses resulting from financial instruments Moreover, the Group classifies as an operating lease certain vehicles that are destined to car rental and that have been acquired from manufacturers or dealerships. These vehicles are subject to repurchase The financial expenses correspond mainly to the financing described in Note 9 which refers to the “Senior agreements (See Note 3-c). Facility”. The expenses of the period resulting from operating leases ascend to EUR 54,728 thousand (EUR 1,541 thousand in 2014) and their detail is disclosed below: f) Other non-recurring income and expenses Thousands of Euros In 2014, the Group recognises under this heading, in essence, those non-recurring expenses resulting from the hiring of professional services to assess and structure the corporate transaction described in 2015 2014 Note 1 and other restructuring and non-repetitive nature expenses in 2015. Buy back renting costs 23,695 644 Renting costs 11,404 356 g) Subsidiary contribution to the consolidated profit Airport royalties 15,164 404 Other leases 4,583 137 The contribution made by each of the companies comprising the Group to the consolidated results for the Total 54,846 1,541 year 2015 and 2014 is the following: Thousands of Euros Buy back renting costs with the amortisation expenses detailed in Notes 5 and 6 are classified under the 2015 2014 heading “Fixed asset amortisation and buy back renting costs” of the accompanying consolidated Result Result statement of profit or loss. attributable to attributable to the Parent the Parent Future minimum payments under non-cancellable operating leases are detailed below, excluding future Company Company increases due to inflation and future minimum payments on vehicle operating leases with a duration of Car Rentals Topco S.L.U. (68) three years or less, which could not be reliably estimated: Car Rentals Parentco S.A.U. (91) Car Rentals Subsidiary S.A.U.(*) (846) (897) Thousands of Euros Goldcar Spain S.L. 17,396 (476) Car Rentals Italy S.r.L. (487) (226) 2015 2014 Goldcar Italy S.r.L. (375) (274) Less than one year 3,510 9,542 Goldhire Portugal Lda. 8,683 8 One to five years 3,523 15,588 Goldcar Fleets Spain S.L.U. (65) 29 More than five years 503 Goldcar Fleetco S.A. (7) Total 7,536 25,130 Goldcar Master S.L. 66 8 Goldcar France S.à.r.l. (653) d) Other operating expenses Goldcar Hellas S.A. (1,366) Pulsar Rent a Car S.L.U. (18) External services Total 22,169 (1.828) The fees for financial audit and other professional services provided by the auditors of the consolidated annual accounts of the Group, KPMG Auditores S.L., as well as the fees invoiced by the auditors of the annual h) Operations by geographical market accounts of the companies included in the consolidation perimeter and of the entities that are considered related by means of control, common ownership or management, have been the following in 2015 and 2014: A breakdown of the revenue and non-current assets by geographical market at 31 December 2015 and 2014 is detailed below: Thousands of Euros 2015 2014 Thousands of Euros Main Other Main Other 31/12/2015 31/12/5015 Description Auditor Auditors Auditor Auditors NonNonAudit services 97 14 83 8 current current Other assurance services Revenue assets (*) Revenue assets (*) Other services provided by the main National (Spain) 167,184 103,737 3,768 134,710 auditor Rest of the European Union 70,215 58,258 841 5,395 Total 97 14 83 8 Total 237,399 161,995 4,609 140,105 (*) Excluding goodwill 34 35 NOTES 12. Related parties balances and transactions The Group only operates in the car rental segment. In this sense, the information that serves as a base to the maximum authority in the decision making process regarding Group operations is structured according to the different offices in which each of the Subsidiaries operates. a) Remuneration of the Group’s Directors and senior management The aggregate annual remuneration paid to the Senior Management of the Parent Company in wages and 14. Other information salaries totalled an amount to EUR 592 thousand (There has been no remuneration in the period ended 31 December 2014). The Parent Company’s senior management does not receive any other remuneration other than the wages and salaries mentioned above. a) Guarantees and obligations derived from the financing agreement The Directors of the Parent Company, (other than those referred to in the preceding paragrafh, for the The main guarantees granted by the Group to the creditor financial institutions upon the issuing of the case in which the Group’s Senior Management are part of the Board of Directors), have received syndicated financing described in Note 9 are disclosed below: attendance fees, diets and remuneration amounting to EUR 90 thousand during the year ended 31 December 2015 (EUR 0 in 2014). A pledge on the shares of the depending companies Goldcar Spain S.L. and Goldhire Portugal Lda. The Parent Company has not assumed any commitments with its Directors or the Group’s senior Additionally, every material Group company will be considered a guarantor of the obtained management regarding pensions, life insurance, advance payments, loans or any of the sort. financing. According to the financing agreement, a Group company will be considered material if its assets or individual EBITDA (*) amount to at least 5% of those of the Group’s. In this sense, at the closing of each financial year, the Group shall evaluate if the material restricted Subsidiaries comply b) Information regarding conflict of interest situations with the Directors with the Coverage Test (Guarantor Coverage Test) which establishes that the total of assets and EBITDA(*) of the guarantors are higher than 80% of those of the Group. At 31 December 2015 and During the year 2015 and 2014 the Directors of the Parent Company have not communicated to the Company’s 2014, the Group considers that the granted guarantees are enough to comply with what is shareholder any situation regarding themselves or their related parties in which there could be an indirect or established in the agreement reached with its financial creditors. direct conflict of interest with the Parent Company. In this sense, the term “related parties” refers to the one defined under Spanish Corporation Law, except for the Director Juan Alcaraz Alcaraz, which ones have been In the same way, guarantees are granted on the bank accounts and trade receivables of Goldcar disclosed in note c) below. Spain S.L. and Goldhire Portugal Lda. The trade receivables comprise receivables with clients, manufacturers of vehicles subject to repurchase agreements, and other Group companies. c) Balances and transactions with other related parties Additionally, Goldcar Spain S.L. has entered into a senior mortgage commitment on its owned vehicles. At 31 December 2015 and 2014, the main balances and transactions of the Group related to transactions with Alcor Sociedad Estratégica, S.L. (one of the shareholders of the Goldcar Group, see Note 8). Moreover, Goldcar Spain has entered the financing as a debtor and guarantor. Goldcar Fleetco, S.A. has also entered the financing as a guarantor and guarantees have been issued over its Moreover, the main operations with related parties were: shares and bank accounts. The purchase of several trademarks (see Note 5) from Alcor Sociedad Estratégica, S.L. for an According to the financing agreement and provided that there are drawn amounts in any of the amount of EUR 18.829 thousand in 2014. syndicated loans or the revolving policy, a number of mandatory conditions are established. Such Invoicing the costs related to the transaction described in Note 4 incurred by a related entity to one conditions are measured on the basis of certain ratios and financial levels to be estimated on the of the shareholders for an amount of EUR 400 thousand. consolidated financial information of the Goldcar Group. These ratios are the total banking ratio Operating expenses resulting from the lease of buildings for an amount of EUR 965 thousand with (total consolidated net debt/ consolidated EBITDA) and the interest coverage ratio (consolidated related companies to Alcor Sociedad Estratégica, S.L. (non-significant amounts in 2014) and nonEBITDA/ total net payment of interests). At 31 December 2015 and 2014, the Group believes that significant advisory services expenses by these entities. all of the conditions included in the agreements are met. Operating expenses resulting from vehicles repair for non-significant amounts. (*) EBITDA, as defined in global funding agreement. 13. Segment information b) Information on the management of capital and the nature and level of financial risks IFRS 8 requires an entity to report financial and descriptive information about its reportable segments. Reportable segments are operating segments or aggregations of operating segments that meet specified criteria. An operating segment is defined as a component of an entity: The Group’s financial risk management is centralised in its Financial Management, which has established the required mechanisms to control exposure to the fluctuations in interest and exchange rates, as well as credit and liquidity risk. The detail of the capital management policy and the main risks affecting the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenue and incur in expenses (including are as follows: revenue and expenses relating to transactions with other components of the same entity), whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision maker to decide about the resources that should be allocated to the segment and assess their performance; and for which discrete financial information is available. 36 37 NOTES i. Capital management policy Market risk The aim of the Group's capital management is to achieve a financial structure that optimises the cost Market risk is defined as the risk of variation in the fair value or the future cash flows of a financial of capital and maximises shortand medium-term liquidity while maintaining a solid financial position. instrument due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates or other price risks. This policy makes it possible to reconcile creating value for the Shareholders with access to financial markets at a competitive cost, which is in line with the overall Group strategy of increasing sales Interest rate risk through the expansion of its operations in Spain and abroad. Interest rate fluctuations change the fair value of assets and liabilities that bear interest at a The Group’s financial structure rests fundamentally on the syndicated financing described in Note 9 fixed rate and the future cash flows from assets and liabilities tied to a floating interest rate. The which has an available balance at 31 December 2015 of EUR 162,000 thousand (EUR 125,000 aim of interest rate risk management is to achieve a balanced debt structure that makes it thousand available in 2014) that will enable the Group, along with other factors, to fuel its growth. possible to minimise the cost of the debt over several years with reduced volatility in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. As part of its capital management policy the Group regularly monitors, inter alia, the following consolidated aggregates: The indebtedness of the Group is tied to Euribor. At 31 December 2014, the Group had not covered by means of financial derivative instruments the exposure to the variation in interest − Net financial debt: represents the sum of all the debt, both long and short term, less the amounts rates. However, as it is disclosed in Note 9, at 18 March 2015, the Group has entered into included in cash balances. derivative financial instruments to cover the future fluctuations of the syndicated financing interest rate, hence, it has been able to minimise its exposure to the variations in interest rates. − Net financial debt/EBITDA: represents the sum of dividing net financial debt by EBITDA. The SWAP and the two CAP with low strikes (1,5%) will allow the Group to minimise the possible impact. In this context, the syndicated financing obtained in the year 2014 includes conditions related to the compliance with certain economic and equity ratios that are associated with the consolidated annual Exchange rate risk: accounts of the Group. The Group virtually carries out its operations in euros, which is the local currency of all of the ii. Financial risk management policy companies comprising the Goldcar Group. Consequently, the exchange rate risk is considered to be a residual risk. Credit risk Sensitivity analysis Credit risk is the risk that a debtor may become insolvent in relation to applicable contractual obligations, giving rise to a loss for the Group. In general the Group’s policy to mitigate such risk The Group's Finance Department considers interest rates to be the main market risk. Therefore, the consists in collecting in cash the transactions related to its ordinary car rental activity from its final aforementioned hedges were entered into. The interest rate sensitivity analysis shows that an customers. However, the Group maintains trade receivables with wholesalers and travel agencies. increase of 100 basis points in the Euribor in 2016 would increase finance costs by approximately Euros 479 thousand (in 2015 finance costs would rise by approximately Euros 422 thousand), but In 2015 and 2014, in general, the main receivables are from solvent vehicle manufacturers, which the hedges contracted in 2015 would considerably minimise this impact. However, a fall in the have historically settled payables by their due dates. Cash and cash equivalents are deposited in Euribor in 2016 and 2015 would have a notable impact on the consolidated statement of profit or financial institutions with high credit ratings. loss as the Euribor would be at near-zero levels. Liquidity risk c) Legal proceedings, claims in progress and/or contingencies This risk refers to both, the risk in which the Group might find difficulties in selling a financial In 2012 the Spanish National Competition Authorities (now replaced by the Spanish National Markets and instrument quickly enough without incurring in significant additional costs, as well as the risk resulting Competition Commission – CNMC) undertook administrative proceedings on two counts. The first case from not having sufficient liquidity at the moment in which the payment obligations of the Group need was raised jointly against subsidiary Goldcar Spain, S.L., and its parent company in that period, Alcor to be met. Sociedad Estratégica, S.L., as well as AENA and several other vehicle rental sector companies. The second jointly concerned the subsidiary Goldcar Spain, S.L and Alcor Sociedad Estratégica, S.L, in The policy of the Group is to hold cash through leading financial institutions in order to be able to addition to other vehicle rental sector companies and associations. meet its future obligations. It also monitors the structure of its balance sheet by maturity on an ongoing basis in order to detect as soon as possible any inappropriate shortand medium-term The first case stemmed from possible anti-competitive conduct, namely the sharing of sensitive business liquidity structures using a strategy aimed at ensuring stable sources of financing and the information on self-drive car hire companies that rent AENA commercial premises. The Spanish National arrangement of credit facilities for amounts which are sufficient to cover the projected needs. Competition Authorities (CNC) issued a ruling on this procedure on 2 January 2014, although it imposed no fine. The Directors and legal independent advisers of the Group believe it is not probable for significant In 2015 the Group arranged a non-recourse factoring facility amounted to Euros 35.000 thousand economic responsibilities to derive for the Group. that can be applied to certain trade receivables with a maximum limit of Euros 20,000 thousand according to the guarantees and obligations derived in the syndicated financing agreement (see note 14 (a)). 38 39 DIRECTORS’ REPORT The second procedure also arose from possible anti-competitive conduct, in the form of a possible agreement to fix prices and certain business conditions in the self-drive car hire market in Spain. The Car Rentals Topco S.L. and Subsidiaries Spanish National Competition Authorities issued a ruling on this procedure on 30 July 2013, imposing a Consolidated directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2015 fine of EUR 15,456 thousand on the Group companies. The appeal made by the subsidiary Goldcar Spain, S.L. was pending the outcome of the vote at 31 December 2014. This outcome of the vote has been issued at 24 February 2016, so at the date of preparation of these current consolidate annual Current position and outlook for the Group accounts the appeal was still pending. At 18 December 2014 Goldcar Spain, S.L. had made a provision for this amount. However, under the agreements signed in the date the control of the Group was Car Rentals Topco S.L. was incorporated on 4 September 2014 and on 18 December 2014 two capital increases obtained, which are described in Note 4, the seller made a commitment to hold the Group harmless were carried out by the shareholders, International Car Rentals II S.C.A. and Alcor Sociedad Estratégica S.L., as against al liabilities regarding this claim and certain guarantees were then entered. For this reason, the part of the Goldcar Group's acquisition process. Therefore, 2015 is the new Group's first full year of activity. subsidiary Goldcar Spain, S.L. has reverted the aforementioned provision at 18 December 2014. Under these circumstances and in the process of identifying the assets acquired and the liabilities The main activity performed by the Goldcar Group in 2015 has been the provision of services related to the rental assumed explained in Note 4, the Group believed that there was no liability related to this issue and, of vehicles without drivers which is included in the purpose of the Group. consequently, the income arising from the application of this provision is not included in the accompanying consolidated statement of profit or loss of the period ended at 31 December 2014. 2015 was marked by the achievement of milestones outlined in the Group's strategic plan, including growth in international markets through expansion into various countries (France, Greece and Croatia) and the In relation to the situation explained above, real guarantees have been formed over certain vehicles (see maintenance of optimal profit levels. Note 6). Subsequent events Other aspects No significant events have occurred since the reporting date that could affect the consolidated annual accounts at At 31 December the Group is supported by financial institutions to cover the guarantees resulting from the 31 December 2015. ordinary course of business for a total amount of EUR 10,658 thousand (EUR 10,008 thousand in 2014). Outlook for the Group At 31 December 2015 and 2014, there are no significant contingent assets. Given the situation of the sector in which the Subsidiaries operate and the prospects of the new Group, it is foreseeable that the Group will achieve sustainable economic growth in the year 2016. Additionally, the new d) Average period of payments to suppliers. investment policy applied along with the new available financing offer key growth potential in the future. The Information on Late Payments to Suppliers is as follows: Acquisition of own shares Days During the year ended on 31 December 2015, the Parent Company did not carry out any operations regarding its 2015 own shares. Average period of payments to suppliers 27.59 Ratio of paid transactions 27.22 Environment Ratio of outstanding operations 34.03 Due to the activity of the Group, it does not have any responsibilities, expenses, assets, provisions nor Thousand contingencies with an environmental nature that could be considered significant in relation to its equity, financial of euros situation or results. Total payments made 95,335 Total pending payments 5,454 R+D activities The Group has not capitalised research and development programmes under assets. However, quality of service e) Subsequent events is a key strategy for the Group and, accordingly, all the operating processes incorporate the latest developments in the vehicle rental sector, where the Company is one of the leaders in technological progress. No significant events have occurred since the reporting date that could affect the consolidated annual accounts at 31 December 2015. Personnel In 2015 the Group has not make significant changes to personnel policies other than those relating to the opening of new offices. 40 41 APPENDIX I Information on late payments to suppliers Appendix I: Assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition, 18 December 2014, presented by The Information on Late Payments to Suppliers is as follows: cash-generating unit. Car Rentals Days Goldhire Fleets Goldcar 2015 Assets Goldcar Italy, S.R.L Portugal Lda Goldcar Spain, S.L. Goldcar Master, S.L. Spain, S.L.U. Goldcar Fleetco, S.A. France, S.a.r.l. Elimination of Balances TOTAL Average period of payments to suppliers 27.59 Ratio of paid transactions 27.22 Non-current assets: Ratio of outstanding operations 34.03 Intangible assets 1 9 19,799 6 19,815 Property, plant and equipment 1,516 3,568 99,360 19,538 123,982 Thousand Deferred tax assets 2,092 10 2,102 of euros Total non-current assets 1,517 3,577 121,252 19,554 145,899 Total payments made 95,335 Current assets: Total pending payments 5,454 Cash and cash equivalents 524 557 14,179 5 53 60 1 15,379 Other current assets 32,841 14,302 98,872 114 5,382 (46,781) 104,703 Total current assets 33,365 14,859 113,051ºBORRADOR 119 5,435 60 1 (46,781) 120,109 Total assets 34,882 14,436 234,302 119 24,989 60 1 (46,781) 266,008 Information on the nature and risk of the financial instruments Liabilities: Long-term provisions 389 1,623 99 2,111 The financial risk management of the Group is centralised in the Financial Department which has established the necessary mechanisms to control the exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk, as well as the possible fluctuations Deferred tax liabilities 1,558 APPENDIX I 1,558 Financial debt 3,646 100,946 104,592 in interest and exchange rates. Other current liabilities 29,576 2,541 30,942 11 24,804 1 (46,781) 41,054 Appendix I: Assets acquired and liabilities assumed29,965 Total liabilities at the date 6,187 of acquisition, 135,029 18 December 11 24,903 2014,presented1 by (46,781) 149,315 The main financial risks that the Group faces are detailed below; cash-generating unit. Total net assets at fair value 4,917 12,249 99,273 108 86 60 116,693 a) Credit risk: Combination cost 31,600 57,100 215,010 100 300 60 1 304,171 Car Rentals Goodwill 26,683 44,851 115,737 214 1 187,486 Goldhire Fleets Goldcar In general, cash and cash equivalents are deposited in financial institutions with high credit rating. Negative consolidation differences Goldcar Portugal Goldcar Goldcar Spain, (8) Goldcar France,Elimination (8) Additionally, the main receivables are from solvent vehicle manufacturers, which have historically Assetssettled Italy, S.R.L Lda Spain, S.L. Master, S.L. S.L.U. Fleetco, S.A. S.a.r.l. of Balances TOTAL payables by their due dates. Non-current assets: b) Liquidity risk: Intangible assets 1 9 19,799 6 19,815 43 In order to ensure liquidity and to meet the payment obligations derived from its activity, the GroupProperty, holds theplant and equipment 1,516 3,568 99,360 19,538 123,982 cash shown in the financial statements, as well as the credit lines and the financing available at Deferred the end tax of assets 2,092 10 2,102 the year. Total non-current assets 1,517 3,577 121,252 19,554 145,899 c) Market risk; Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 524 557 14,179 5 53 60 1 15,379 The Group's borrowings are exposed to interest rate risk, which could have an adverse effect on financial results and on cash flows. On 18 March 2015 the Group contracted derivative financial instruments Other current assets to cover 32,841 14,302 98,872 114 5,382 (46,781) 104,703 future changes in the interest rates of the syndicated financing through which it has been able to minimise Total current assets 33,365 14,859 113,051 ºBORRADOR 119 5,435 60 1 (46,781) 120,109 its exposure to changes in interest rates. Total assets 34,882 14,436 234,302 119 24,989 60 1 (46,781) 266,008 The Group conducts practically all its transactions in Euros, which is also the local currency of all the Liabilities: Goldcar Group companies, and, therefore, considers foreign currency risk to be minimal. Long-term provisions 389 1,623 99 2,111 Deferred tax liabilities 1,558 1,558 Financial debt 3,646 100,946 104,592 Other current liabilities 29,576 2,541 30,942 11 24,804 1 (46,781) 41,054 Total liabilities 29,965 6,187 135,029 11 24,903 1 (46,781) 149,315 Barcelona, 17 March 2016 Total net assets at fair value 4,917 12,249 99,273 108 86 60 116,693 Combination cost 31,600 57,100 215,010 100 300 60 1 304,171 Goodwill 26,683 44,851 115,737 214 1 187,486 Negative consolidation differences (8) (8) 42 43 p.150 www.goldcar.es
