Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Airports for Future SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2015 3 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 C O N T E N T S 07 CEO’S MESSAGE 09 ABOUT THE REPORT 13 ABOUT TAV AIRPORTS 24 SUSTAINABILITY ORGANIZATION 27 GOVERNANCE PRACTICES AT TAV 38 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 47 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 57 EMPLOYEE HAPPINESS 69 SOCIAL IMPACTS 76 AWARDS & ACHIEVEMENTS 78 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 79 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 84 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX 87 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 88 INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL AUDIT REPORT 92 CONTACT 5 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Dear Stakeholders, At TAV Airports, we hold the view that financial rewards are not enough unless they also generate social benefits. Since our establishment we have developed and executed our operations in accordance with this principle. Throughout 2015, we carried out many projects in the fields of environmental awareness, social responsibility and corporate management in line with the principles of accountability and transparency and with the mission of improving our position as a global leader in airport operations. Thanks to this report, we would like to inform our stakeholders about the outcomes of these works while sustaining our “smart growth” strategy. The G4 principles of the Global Compact were adopted as the guidelines of this report in order to provide a focused and meaningful framework for our stakeholders. In 2015, TAV continued its growth in three areas. First, we tried to increase revenues and the profitability of our portfolio, which covers 14 airport operations in seven countries. Second, we pursued new business opportunities throughout the world in order to enrich our portfolio together with our integrated business model and solid collaborations that increase our competitiveness. Third, our service companies expanded our global footprint by undertaking operations and delivering services at the airports which are not included in our portfolio. Our business model is based on creating added value and innovative solutions in line with the expectations and requirements of our passengers to offer them a safe, rapid and comfortable travel experience. Being aware that true customer satisfaction can only come with the happiness of our employees, we provide our personnel with the right ethical values, working conditions at international standards and extensive professional and personal development opportunities. We adopt policies and practices which encourage variety. We signed onto the UN Global Compact (UNGC) to renew our commitments as part of these policies and practices. In order to carry this commitment to a further level, we plan to sign the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) as well. TAV has been implementing energy, waste and water management practices at airport terminals in compliance with international standards in order to minimize the impact on the environmental of its operations and tackle climate change. Four airports operated by TAV Airports follow the Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) Program. Neutralizing its carbon emissions, Ankara Esenboğa Airport has been listed amongst just a few airports in Europe that have managed to achieve this standard. Again, we continued to share our performance on carbon and water management transparently through CDP and increased our transparency rate to 89. Joining the globally executed Commit to Action campaign of CDP, we repeated our commitments to managing carbon emissions in compliance with scientific targets. The core of our sustainability approach is to maintain and develop our corporate reputation, which is our most valuable asset; the trust of our passengers, partners, shareholders, suppliers, over 15,000 employees and societies are directly or indirectly affected by our operations. We believe that financial returns are not enough unless they also generate social benefits and continue to contribute to sustainable development in the regions where we operate. Sani Şener TAV Airports President & CEO 7 G4-17,G4-18,G4-20,G4-21,G4-23 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 ABOUT THE REPORT Sustainability Report 2014 2015 The TAV Airports Sustainability Report 2014-2015 (The Report) has been prepared to fully explain and disseminate information regarding the sustainability performance of TAV Airports Holding (TAV) between January 1st, 2014 and December 31st, 2015 to all its stakeholders. Representing the outcome of sustainability communication work carried out in accordance with TAV’s principles of transparency and accountability, this report herein is based on performance data concerning the Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir operations, which are TAV’s main areas of activity in terms of passenger traffic. During the determination process of the scope and content of the report, G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines published by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) were used as the reporting standard. This report meets the requirements of The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Global Principles Agreement Development Report at the same time. The carbon emission data of Istanbul Atatürk Airport which has been featured in the Report was audited independently. Prepared in accordance with the “Core” option of G4 Guidelines, the report addresses TAV’s policies, implementations, performance outcomes and goals related to sustainability priorities in economic, environmental and social spheres while presenting them for the information of target stakeholder groups. The report includes the outcomes of works carried out by TAV Airports Sustainability Committee together with sustainability work groups, management approaches related to sustainability priorities defined by considering the feedback of stakeholders, as well as sector requirements and main performance criteria determined as part of the corporation’s Sustainability Strategy and Action Plan. All stakeholders are welcome to send their comments, suggestions, complaints and other feedback related to reporting to TAV Airports via sustainability@tav.aero. 9 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Airports for Future An airport can only be designed by looking ahead. Our airports today represent the dreams and aspirations of generations that came before us. At TAV, we invest in a vision of our future world. Our airports are the gates to the cities and regions they serve. Each day we provide a reliable, fast and comfortable travel experience to hundreds and thousands of passengers. We contribute to the development of communities and regions where we operate. Conscious of our responsibility towards future generations, we build the airports for future, today. 11 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 About TAV Airports TAV Airports, one of the world’s leading airport operators, operates Istanbul Atatürk, Ankara Esenboğa, Izmir Adnan Menderes, Gazipaşa-Alanya and Milas-Bodrum airports in Turkey. Internationally, Madinah Airport in Saudi Arabia, Skopje and Ohrid airports in Macedonia, Monastir and Enfidha-Hammamet airports in Tunisia, Tbilisi and Batumi airports in Georgia and Zagreb Airport in Croatia are also operated by TAV. Furthermore, the company operates the commercial areas at Riga Airport in Latvia. In addition to airport operations, the holding also operates, through its affiliates and subsidiaries, in auxiliary airport services including duty-free, food and beverage, ground handling services, IT, security and operation services. In 2015, TAV Airports provided services to approximately 780,000 flights and more than 102 million passengers. According to the 2015 passenger statistics of the General Directorate of State Airports Authority (DHMI), TAV Airports is the leading airport operator in Turkey. Thanks to its competencies, TAV can undertake any project related to building and/or operating airports around the world. These capabilities comprise terminal and airside operations, duty-free retail, food and beverage production and sales, ground handling operations, airport IT services and airport security. TAV Holding Headquarters, Istanbul 13 G4-17 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Ownership Structure Ownership Share (%) SUMMARY OF Aéroports de Paris Grubu Tepe İnşaat Sanayi A.Ş. 38.0 8.1 FINANCIAL Akfen Holding A.Ş. Sera Yapı Endüstrisi ve Ticaret A.Ş. 8.1 2.0 INDICATORS Non-floating (Other) Free-float (Other) 3.5 40.3 2015 Total 100.0 (THOUSAND TL) Net sales revenue OUR STRATEGIC SUBSIDIARIES AND SHARE HOLDING RATIOS 3.026.180 ATU 50% TAV IT 100% Operating costs BTA TAV OPERATION 2.162.843 67% SERVICES 100% HAVAS TAV SECURITY Remuneration and fringe benefits 100% 100% 768.606 TGS TAV ACADEMY Dividend paid to shareholders 50% 50% 306.053 HAVAS EUROPE 100% Tax paid You can find detailed information about TAV and ADP’s global footprint in our Annual Report 2015 (p.3) 768.595 Our Vision Amount paid to social investments To focus on new and profitable opportunities all around the world together with our strong 239 partners and integrated business model and become a pioneering and leading airport operating company worldwide. Our Mission You can find detailed information about TAV Airports’ growth strategy in our Annual Report 2015 (p.4) To create the highest value for all stakeholders in airport operations through our customer-oriented management approach. 15 Our Corporate Values Professionalism: We perform our duties with the utmost diligence and at the highest standards, following global developments related to our work. We consider our jobs and job-related priorities in all our interactions. Respect: We act in line with ethical standards as a fundamental rule, prioritizing respect for people, the environment, laws and regulations. We behave in an honest, transparent, fair and responsible manner in all our endeavors. Dynamism: Having adopted the principle of a dynamic and flexible work ethic, we work in an efficient & results-oriented manner, no matter the circumstance. Constantly remaining aware of environmental conditions and monitoring change, we respond and adapt to change promptly. Innovation: We continually create opportunities for improvement and innovation in all processes, with an emphasis on customer satisfaction. Being aware that creating a difference stems from innovative practices, we employ our best efforts to ensure that our services are contemporary and creative. Teamwork: Being aware that cooperation, mutual commitment, expertise and knowledge sharing are the building blocks of success, we also consider teamwork the assurance of personal success, supporting it in all our endeavors. TAV Value Chain Value Creation: In line with our financial and operational capabilities we will continue generating the best value for our stakeholders. Customer Satisfaction: With our vast know-how, highly-qualified human capital and advanced technology, we place customer satisfaction at the heart of our operations and management approach. Employee Happiness and Teamwork: We aim to fortify the distinguished position we have attained with our young and dynamic team, made up of the most qualified professionals in Turkey, and to generate value through our highly qualified work force, our most valuable asset. Smart Growth: We are now among the leading airport operating companies in the world, serving an average of 780,000 flights and 53 million passengers per annum. Taking advantage of opportunities globally in line with our financial and operational capabilities, we have the goal to achieving sustainable organic, inorganic and vertical growth. Milas-Bodrum Airport Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Airport Operation # Of Flights # Of Passengers # Of Employees 780,000 +102 million +15,000 Business & TAV in Figures According to data published by Airports Council International (ACI), TAV Airports in the number of passengers worldwide increased 6.1 percent in 2015. Figures – 2015 Passenger numbers increased 9.2 percent in Turkey, making it the fastest growing market in Europe. Whilst the number of aircraft movement increased 1.8 percent in total in 2015 compared to 2014, the number of international passengers increased 6.3 percent. The increase in air traffic figures in Turkey has been over the world average in recent years, and this trend continued in 2015. 181,437,000 passengers were welcomed at 55 Turkish airports. Istanbul in particular was listed amongst the # Of Flights – # Of Flights – # Of Flights – Istanbul Atatürk Izmir Adnan Menderes Ankara Esenboğa 20 busiest airports worldwide. The aviation industry is anticipated to Airport Airport Airport maintain that growth trend in 2016 thanks to the increasing number of airports, aircraft and passengers in our country. According to forecasts +447,000 +79,000 +87,000 by the General Directorate of State Airports Authority (DHMI), the number of passengers in Turkey is expected to increase 7.7 percent in 2016 to reach 195,348,000. Thanks to its geographical location and developments in the economy, Istanbul has become a natural hub for air transportation and Istanbul airports welcomed 89,000,440 passengers last year. The rising number of transfer flights and transfer passengers contributed a lot to the increase in this figure. Beyond our contributions to economies and creating employment opportunities in the regions where we operate, we are also a pioneering sector in terms of tackling climate change, which is a pressing global problem. TAV strives to achieve carbon-neutral operations in parallel # Of Passengers – # Of Passengers – # Of Passengers – Istanbul Atatürk Izmir Adnan Menderes Ankara Esenboğa with the global goal of our sector, and carry out various practices and Airport Airport Airport projects toward that end. TAV Group is proud to operate environmentallyfriendly airports with participation in the Airport Carbon Accreditation +61 million +12 million +12 million Program administered by Airports Council International (ACI) and the successes we achieved. 19 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 TAV Airports in Figures TAV Airports # of passengers Domestic pax. International pax 57,572,163 54,365,481 47,407,199 40,356,082 44,916,333 36,221,407 2013 2014 2015 21 Istanbul Atatürk Airport Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Dear Stakeholders, TAV Airports has made sustainability the focus of all its operations since its inception. Having developed an extensive array of programs geared toward corporate social responsibility during the last eight years, TAV has made significant progress in establishing a bottom-to-top, inter-disciplinary organization to extend existing know-how concerning environmental and social sustainability in parallel with measurement, reporting and development works. We are getting positive outcomes of this approach. TAV attaches priority to energy and environmental management at international standards, providing excellent working conditions, equal opportunity and extensive development opportunities for the employees, accessible services based on continuous innovation for the passengers and maintaining a relationship based on transparency, principles of responsible behavior and accountability to our stakeholders. Having been actively involved in the Airport Carbon Accreditation program since its establishment, Ankara Esenboğa is listed amongst the 17 airports in Europe that have neutralized their carbon emissions. This achievement is the latest indication of our approach to tackling climate change. As part of this approach, TAV Academy, which is an ICAO-approved training institution, has begun to institutionalize and transfer TAV’s know-how to the world and continues to develop cutting edge programs for the professional and personal development of our more than 15,000 employees. Having been included on the BIST Sustainability Index and preparing regular reports for the water and carbon programs of CDP, TAV continues to share its sustainability performance transparently with its investors and local stakeholders, who attach increasing importance on the issue. Our approach to sustainability is a reflection of our mission, which is to be a pioneering corporation “TA V attaches priority to energy and environmental management at international throughout the regions in which we operate. We will continue working to accomplish our mission in standards, providing excellent working conditions, equal opportunity and extensive collaboration with our stakeholders. development opportunities for the employees, accessible services based on continuous innovaiton for the passengers and maintaining a relationship based on transparency, Bengi Vargül Şen principles of responsible behavior and accountability to our stakeholders.” TAV Airports Corporate Communications Director 23 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Sustainability Organization CEO At TAV, we consider sustainability to be one of the most essential components of our business. Our understanding Corporate Communications Director is based on creating positive value for all of our value chain. Therefore, being aware of our social, economic and environmental impacts, we continue growing while paying the utmost attention to sustainability in all Sustainability Committee processes of our operations. Our commitment is to strengthen sustainability awareness within the company as well as throughout our value chain, maximizing benefits while mitigating negative impacts. Reaching our sustainability goals and managing related processes is only possible through a structure which • Corporate Communications Directorate • ATÜ • TAV IST SG provides an effective and high level of representation. Therefore, sustainability management at TAV is achieved • Finance Directorate • BTA • TAV ESB SG through a structure that represents all of our functions. • Financial Affairs Directorate • HAVAŞ • TAV ADB SG • Human Resources Directorate • TAV IT • TAV GZP SG The Sustainability Committee, reporting to the CEO, sets policies and it is responsible for the coordination groups in subsidiaries. The Committee is tasked with putting together and developing the Company’s • Internal Auditing Directorate • TAV O&M Sustainability Strategy and Action Plan; coordinating and steering the Sustainability Teams formed within the • Investor Relations Directorate • TAV Security terminal operation and service companies as part of this effort; and measuring, improving and reporting on the • Operations Directorate Company’s sustainability performance. The Sustainability Committee consists of representatives delegated by the managers of the related departments within the Company and its service companies. TAV Istanbul TAV Esenboğa TAV Ege TAV Gazipaşa The Sustainability Teams formed within terminal operations are responsible for carrying out measurement, Sustainability Group Sustainability Group Sustainability Group Sustainability Group assessment, supervision and reporting tasks related to key performance indicators set forth in the TAV Airports Holding Sustainability Strategy and Action Plan and developing projects and recommendations to improve sustainability performance. The Sustainability Teams are comprised of representatives from energy management, waste management, water management, human resources, corporate communications, financial affairs and other related departments. In order to raise our sustainability awareness and practices to a higher level, exchange know-how and experiences and contribute to understanding through collaboration, we support national and international initiatives through memberships. We are an active member of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Green Airport Initiative, Sustainable Development Association and Airport Carbon Accreditation. 25 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Governance Practices at TAV As the processes of globalization intensify, today’s companies encounter a variety of economic, environmental and social risks and opportunities, which results in these companies adopting business models that are more participatory, transparent, accountable, respectful of humanity and nature while striving for continuous improvement to stay competitive. Therefore, TAV Airports has embraced an approach based on modern management principles. We pay utmost attention to remaining in line with Capital Markets Board Corporate Governance Principles and all concerning laws and regulations. We continue to abide by the principles of equality, transparency, accountability and responsibility based on the Corporate Governance Principles. We manage our corporate operations with a view to applying these principles at every level. Thanks to our transparent, responsible and strategic governance structure, we have maintained our leading position in corporate governance. In 2015, SAHA, one of the pioneer rating companies in Turkey, announced the corporate governance rating of TAV Airports as 9.52 out of 10. With this rating, TAV Airports Holding secured its place among the top companies listed on the Borsa Istanbul (BIST) Corporate Governance Index, which consists of approximately 50 companies. We act in full compliance with legal and sectoral requirements during our operations. Besides our inhouse practices developed to maintain standardization in work processes, we follow international quality and management system standards. We continue our operations in accordance with the ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System, ISO 10002 Customer Satisfaction Management System, ISO 50001 Energy Management System, ISO 14064 Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Verification Management System, USTAD 2011 Environment and Construction Standard. TAV Airports increased its corporate governance rating from 9.41 to 9.52 out of 10, consecutively improving its score for the seventh year. Sub-category Weight Rating Grade Shareholders 0.25 94.94 9.49 Disclosure and Transparency 0.25 96.58 9.65 Stakeholders 0.15 98.78 9.87 Board of Directors 0.35 92.83 9.28 Total 1.00 95.19 9.52 Prince Mohammad Bin Abdulaziz International Airport 27 İzmir Adnan Menderes Havalimanı Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Risk Management It is of utmost importance to manage risks by taking a proactive approach, ensuring the sustainability of our operations and continuity of the value created by TAV. Therefore, we determine our operational risks and continue our operations with risk management practices. Throughout TAV Group, senior management continuously observes risks and opportunities according to Enterprise Risk Management and integrates them into strategic decision-making processes. The Enterprise Risk Management function is in charge of enterprise risk management setup and operation within all operation and service companies in the Group and reports to the CFO and Early Risk Assessment Committee. The risk management processes of each subsidiary of the Group are reviewed annually and the risk committee gathers bimonthly, at least 6 times a year. The Early Risk Assessment Committee was chartered to undertake activities related to the early detection and management of all types of financial, operational, strategic and regulatory risks that threaten the existence, development and continuity of TAV Airports companies as well as to implement action plans for risks that need to be mitigated. As part of risk management, financial risks, strategic and operational risks, environmental risks, security, safety and health risks, information technologies risks and legal, regulatory and compliance risks are actively managed. Further details concerning risk management processes can be accessed in the “Risk Management and Internal Audit” sections of our Annual Report 2015 (p.38-83). Internal Audit The internal audit system and internal audit activities are of great significance to effectively sustain our company’s operations and achieve corporate and financial goals in line with the plans. The function of Internal Audit is to undertake the audit of the operational, financial and information systems processes of TAV Airports and its subsidiaries. The audit plan is drawn up based on the results of the annual risk assessment. The internal audit process also supports other functions by identifying the deficiencies in risk management and corporate governance processes, as well as the practices which result in inefficiencies. The internal audit and supervision activities are executed by the Internal Audit Department reporting to the Internal Audit Committee under the Board of Directors. An audit conducted by an international independent audit company certified that the Internal Audit Department operates in compliance with “International Internal Audit Standards.” The Revised Quality Control Certificate indicates that the TAV Airports Internal Audit Department meets the required criteria and operates in compliance with international standards. 29 Milas-Bodrum Airport Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Code of Ethics Our Corporate Memberships Our Code of Ethics is a significant set of guidelines we follow during our operations. The thorough, evenACI Europe handed implementation of our code of ethics has the goal of ensuring that our executives and employees ACI World display high standards of conduct, that they are aware of the impacts of their actions and attitudes on the company, that stakeholders employ the best methods and display only the best behaviors. Business Council for Sustainable Development (SKD) In 2014, TAV Airports was one of the companies which received awards as part of the “ETIKA 2014 Ethics Awards Turkey,” which was organized by the Ethical Values Center Association (EDMER) for the third time, the Corporate Communicators Association (KİD) goal of which is to determine those companies that accord the highest importance to ethical values. Professional Women’s Network (PWN) Please visit our corporate website for TAV’s Code of Ethics under the corporate governance section. The Association of Listed Companies’ Executives (ALCE) Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) Turkish Investor Relations Society (TUYID) UN Global Compact-Global Compact Turkey Human Management Association of Turkey (PERYON) Enterprise Risk Management Association of Turkey (KRYD) Financial Literacy & Inclusion Association (FODER) 31 G4-18,G4-20,G4-21 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Combatting Fraud Sustainability Priorities Our Anti-Bribery and Fraud Policies, along with our Code of Ethics, are significant milestones in our responsible We have continued regularly reviewing and updating our sustainability priorities since we submitted them to approach to work processes. We regularly undertake a thorough review of the issues which are also included the attention of our stakeholders in the report published in 2010. We primarily take into account the views of in our Code of Ethics to determine their effectiveness in guarding against violations, adjusting our policies our work groups and stakeholders in determining our sustainability priorities. We outlined our sustainability accordingly. The Internal Audit Department audited our company 14 times in 2014 and 17 times in 2015. policies by considering the works being carried out together with our work groups to identify our priorities, During these audits, all risks related to fraud were reviewed. feedback provided by external stakeholders, as well as sectoral and sustainability issues brought by the initiatives, of which TAV is a member and the requirements of our industry. Please visit our company website for our policies, including anti-bribery and fraud policies. As a result of these works, we have identified our sustainability priorities for the 2014-2015 reporting period as the following: Supply Chain Management Creating value for our supply chain in our operations and enabling our supply chain to adopt our values are essential components of our approach to sustainability. When choosing our suppliers, we pay particular attention to professionalism, operational skills, a solution-oriented approach and references as well as cost. Furthermore, we consider environmental and social criteria. We take into account labor force and human rights criteria under the supervision of our contracted suppliers. As of the end of 2015, TAV Airports Holding had 4,800 active suppliers for its domestic operations. The economic value that we created for our suppliers was 103,095,593 euros. Our local procurement rate is 96 percent. TAV practices are introduced at the International Symposium on Sustainable Aviation Supported by TAV Airports, the International Symposium on Sustainable Aviation gathered together local and foreign professionals from throughout the aviation sector between June 1st and 3rd, 2015 at the Istanbul Steigenberger Hotel. Academicians and aviation specialists from 25 countries gave briefings on energy, the environment and sustainable development in the aviation sector during the two-day symposium. Virginia Tech Visit During the reporting period, researchers from the Virginia Tech University Center for Leadership in Global Sustainability (CLIGS) program paid a visit to TAV Airports and were briefed about the many works being carried out on sustainability. Researchers were also informed about the general approach of TAV Airports, in addition to the energy efficiency, water and waste management, occupational safety and social initiatives of TAV Izmir and TAV Istanbul. 33 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 G4-19 LEVEL OF IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Service quality Occupational health & Airport security safety Collaboration with the Business Continuity & Preparedness stakeholders within the Customer satisfaction in Emergencies Obstacle-Free Airports sector Compliance with legal and Emissions management Customer information safety sectoral requirements Employee happiness Waste management Contribution to regional economy Contribution to the Biodiversity Water management Skills management development of the industry Responsible procurement Innovation Emissions management Use of alternative energy resources Energy management To be the preferred company Equality & diversity at work Noise management LEVEL OF IMPORTANCE TO TAV 35 G4-20,G4-21,G4-24,G4-25,G4-26,G4-27 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Our Stakeholders The feedback of our stakeholders is of the highest importance for us, in that it helps us to identify our sustainability priorities and increase our performance with regard to this vital issue. Therefore, we gather together all the feedback we receive from our stakeholders as frequent as the structure of various platforms and engagement processes will allow, and improve the sustainability value that we try to create. As a result, we have Ankara Esenboga Airport been actively involved in the “Collaborative Decision-Making” project since 2011. RELATED RELATED OUR WHAT THEY COMMUNICATION OUR WHAT THEY COMMUNICATION SUSTAINABILITY OUR RESPONSE SUSTAINABILITY OUR RESPONSE STAKEHOLDERS EXPECT FROM US PLATFORMS STAKEHOLDERS EXPECT FROM US PLATFORMS PRIORITIES PRIORITIES Compliance with legal and sectoral requirements, Customer Employee happiness, Occupational Effective corporate satisfaction, Airport security, TAV employees: Occupational safety at Websites, intranet, TAV Annual reports, websites, health and safety, to be the governance, regular Business continuity and Occupational health international standards, Academy, TAV Abroad, Financial performance, social media, periodic EMPLOYEES preferred company, Skills FINANCIAL communication regarding preparedness for emergencies, and safety, professional professional development Ideaport, Employee risk management announcements, meetings, management, Equality & diversity PARTNERS operational and financial Contribution to regional economy, (TAV Airports employees, development and career opportunities Satisfaction Survey public disclosure platform at work (Partners, investors, goals Responsible Procurement, other employees working at creditors) Contribution to the development of the airport) the industry, Innovation Passengers: Safe, fast and Obstacle-free airports, Biodiversity, comfortable service. Corporate social responsibility Customer Satisfaction Obstacle-free airports, Service projects, Service quality, Economic and social Quality management Survey, websites, social quality, Customer satisfaction, Supports, collaboration, Compliance with legal and benefits, protection CUSTOMERS Airlines: Services that systems, R&D studies media, customer services Customer information security, SOCIAL information and experience Websites, media, social media sectoral requirements, Customer of environment, increase competitiveness center, The Gate, CDM Innovation STAKEHOLDERS exchange information security, Contribution (Passengers and their transparency guests, airlines) (Local Communities, to regional economy, Contribution NGOs, media) to the development of the industry, Innovation Collaboration with stakeholders within the sector, Contribution to Obstacle-free airports, Relations Predictability, fair Systematic and with unions, Compliance with Websites, evaluation surveys, the regional economy, Contribution and ethical business transparent supply chain legal and sectoral requirements, regular meetings to the development of the BUSINESS PARTNERS partnership management Collaboration with the industry, Innovation, Responsible (Suppliers, sub-employees) Procurement Compliance with legal and Annual reports, websites, stakeholders within the sector, PUBLIC sectoral requirements, Full compliance with social media, periodic Occupational health and safety, INSTITUTIONS risk management, related legislation announcements, public Emissions management, Waste (Governments, regulatory collaboration disclosure platform management, Airport security, authorities, creditors) Contribution to regional economy, Contribution to the development of the industry, Energy management, Water management 37 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Customer Satisfaction Improved accessibility of our products and services Our business strategy revolves around the needs and expectations of our customers. Airport operations form a complex process requiring the collaboration and concerted action of various stakeholders. Our purpose is to TAV Mobile provide a reliable and comfortable travel experience for our passengers, to meet the needs of airlines in the Developed by TAV Information Technologies (TAV IT), the TAV Mobile application makes travel planning easier best possible way and to form long-term relations with our business partners. Consequently, we create the as well as enabling real-time access to information about services and promotions offered at the airport. The best value for all our stakeholders. application covers 11 airports operated by TAV Airports in four countries. Having been downloaded more than 400,000 times, the updated version of TAV Mobile includes new functions to enhance customer satisfaction. Listening to customers and assessing their requirements and expectations plays a major part in developing products and services that will yield maximum benefit and add value to the corporation. To that end, the The TAV Mobile application provides information about the Istanbul Atatürk, Ankara Esenboğa, Izmir Adnan Customer Relations Department manages measurement of customer satisfaction, analysis and followMenderes, Milas-Bodrum and Gazipaşa-Alanya airports in Turkey, as well as the Enfidha-Hammamet and up, reporting processes and reports customer feedback and recommendations for improvement to senior Monastir airports in Tunisia, Tbilisi and Batumi airports in Georgia, Medina Airport in Saudi Arabia and Skopje management. and Ohrid airports in Macedonia. In 2012, our call center, the nerve center to which all requirements and expectations of our customers could be communicated, was put into operation. The Call Center provides 24/7 service at 444 9 TAV (828) in order to field complaints and accommodate the requirements of customers at Istanbul Atatürk, Ankara Esenboğa, Izmir Adnan Menderes and Antalya Gazipaşa airports. In addition to these four airports, the Call Center also deals with the customer feedback received by ATU, BTA, Havaş and TAV Operation Services. Istanbul Atatürk Airport Reaches the Top of Europe in Service Quality Organized and managed by ACI (Airports Council International) Airport Survey Quality (ASQ) is a method to compare the services provided at an airport to another airport and measure passenger satisfaction whilst they are traveling through airport quality surveys. In 2015, the general customer satisfaction level increased by approximately 10 percent compared to 2014 . The same year, Istanbul Atatürk Airport reached the top in the “Most Improved Airport in Europe” category. Please visit ACI website for further information. 39 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Obstacle-Free Airport Obstacle-free Airport presented as the “Best Practice” at UN Airports act as social hubs, catalyzing cultural and economic exchanges between people. Therefore, it is crucial Obstacle-free airport practices initiated at Istanbul Atatürk Airport were presented as “the best model” at that they are accessible to all. As a result of comprehensive implementations carried out at our airports, a forum held at UN headquarters in New York. Atatürk Airport was the first institution audited and certified passengers with disabilities are rendered equal services at every point of the airport. by GlobalGroup for the USTAD 2011:2015 Environment and Construction Standard organized by the World Disability Union (WDU) Technical Committee. At TAV Airports, we regard customer satisfaction as the top priority and work to provide a comfortable, fast and safe travel experience. We have been actively participating in the Obstacle-free Airport Project, which was TAV Represents Turkey in Vienna initiated by SHGM to render airport services accessible to all passengers, since 2013. As of 2015, 10 stations Atatürk Airport’s Obstacle-free Airport project was the only project representing Turkey at the Zero Project, of Havaş are included in the project. where innovative practices worldwide are identified. Announced during the two-day conference held at the United Nations Vienna International Center, the projects were presented to 450 participants including As part of the Obstacle-free Airport Project we have developed many projects at Istanbul Atatürk, Izmir Adnan academicians, civil servants and representatives of non-governmental organizations. Menderes and Ankara Esenboğa airports. The project includes many implementations from Braille surfaces Established by the Essl Foundation, World Future Council and European Foundation Centre, Zero Project to lifts with audio alert systems, kiosks to reserved parking lots. A total of 488 employees have been provided carries out initiatives to improve the lives of persons with disabilities in line with the principles stipulated training to raise awareness on the subject. The number of passengers using the system installed for guests under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Turkey is among 158 countries that have with disabilities increased by 18 and 20 percent in 2013 and 2014, respectively, at three TAV-operated airports. signed the convention. Atatürk Airport receives Global Social Awareness Award The “Obstacle-free airport” project, implemented by TAV Airports at Istanbul Atatürk Airport, was rewarded at EYAFexpo 2015 (Obstacle-Free Life Exhibition). The World Disability Foundation (WDF) and World Disability Union (WDU) recognized the accessibility works at Atatürk Airport by granting it the Social Awareness Award. 41 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 We strive to increase the comfort of our passengers Increased seating capacity In line with the increasing number of flights and passengers at Istanbul Atatürk Airport and to enable more passengers to be able to sit at the same time, we increased the number of seats in the International Terminal Departures Floor Isolated Hall by 20 percent. F check-in island construction We also increased check-in capacity at Istanbul Atatürk Airport to improve the service quality provided to local passengers. An additional check-in island was installed in addition to the seven islands already present on the International Terminal Departures Floor. With the addition of 32 counters, the total number of counters increased from 224 to 256 at the international terminal, which resulted in a capacity increase of 14 percent. As a result, passenger passage times have been improved, increasing our service quality. Expansion of restro area Because of the increasing number of transfer passengers in recent years, the air side of the international terminal of Istanbul Atatürk Airport has become busier than the land side. Therefore, the restro area, which provides service on the Departures Floor of the International Terminal, on the land side was merged with air side to create additional food & beverage court area. Free Wi-Fi at the terminals As a result of the increasing number of transfer passengers in particular, as of 2015 we began providing free Wi-Fi service in the Atatürk Airport domestic and international terminals as well as the General Aviation Terminal for 15 minutes to passengers waiting on the air side. We plan to increase the free Wi-Fi service to 2 hours in 2016. Expansion of Early Baggage Storage (EBS) Area In line with the increasing number of passengers at the international terminal, of Istanbul Atatürk Airport the baggage claim and redistribution area for transfer passengers who will be waiting for more than 3 hours was determined to be insufficient. Consequently, the available EBS capacity of the Baggage Handling Area (Sorting Area) at the International Terminal was increased from 1,600 pieces of luggage/hour to 3,400 pieces/ hour. This improvement enabled early baggage within transfer passenger baggage to be stored accurately and safely and be processed in a timely fashion. Waiting hall for passengers requesting asylum As a result of increasing number of passengers requesting asylum, an area has been reserved for the passengers who request international protection to wait until their processes are completed, even though their entrance to the country is denied. Reserving an area on the Istanbul Atatürk Airport International Terminal Arrivals Floor for asylum-seeking passengers whose requests for international protection have been denied to wait until their processes are completed, we have decreased the passenger traffic within the terminal and increased the service quality at the Inadmissible Passenger Hall. Automation at passport control points With the purpose of decreasing the time spent during passport control procedures and enable automation, e-gates have been installed at two desks at the passport control points located on both the arrivals and departures floors. Serving only TAV Passport cardholders at the moment as a pilot project, the number of automated desks is planned to be increased. Automation during passport control processes reduces the amount of time that people spend during passport procedures and increases the service quality offered to passengers. 43 Istanbul Atatürk Airport – Duty Free Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Environmental Management Keeping the environmental impact of our operations to a minimum and, as a result, creating an environmentally-friendly airport is among the essential components of our sustainability initiatives. Thanks to this proactive management approach, we have developed our environmentally-friendly operations beyond legal requirements. Our Environmental Policy plays a guiding role in executing our operations more extensively and more efficiently. Prepared by the Management Systems Department, the policy is implemented by the Human Resources Department, Operations Directorate and other relevant departments. We fully comply with the requirements of the non-governmental initiatives of which we are signatories and the management systems that we apply, verify the outcomes during audits and present these outcomes to the attention of our stakeholders in a transparent way. Please visit our company website for our environmental policy, listed under policies. Ankara Esenboga Airport 47 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Environmentally-friendly terminals Energy and Environment Certifications TAV Airports completed the entire design, building and operation processes of Izmir Terminal in line with its sustainability policy. The Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) certification application for Izmir Adnan Menderes Airport New Domestic Terminal and Multi-Story Car Park was made in December 2012. The ADB New ANKARA ISTANBUL IZMIR Domestic Terminal will be the first airport terminal in Turkey with a LEED certificate. TSE EN ISO 14001:2014 ENVIRONMENTAL ✓ ✓ ✓ The heat pumps, rainwater harvesting systems, gray water reuse system, solar collectors and trigeneration MANAGEMENT SYSTEM plant minimize the energy and water consumption, resulting in much more efficient waste management. ISO50001:2011 ENERGY MANAGEMENT The terminal has a trigeneration system that produces electricity from natural gas and releases heating and ✓ ✓ cooling energy. SYSTEM TSE EN ISO 14064 GREENHOUSE GAS Madinah Airport became the first Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certified building ✓ ✓ ✓ INVENTORY VERIFICATION given by the United States Green Buildings Council (USGBC) in the MENA region. GREEN AIRPORT CORPORATION Climate change action ✓ ✓ ✓ CERTIFICATE AIRPORT CARBON ACCREDITATION ✓ ✓ ✓ Our Goals Climate change is a global problem. 2 percent of carbon emissions worldwide results from the aviation industry, mainly airlines. Therefore, our industry has great responsibilities. At TAV, we carry out projects to decrease our carbon footprint, extensively apply the best practices and voluntarily take part in initiatives that raise awareness as part of our responsible business style and sustainability awareness. We turn the lights off to campaign for climate change To have all airports that we operate accredited by ACA (Airport Carbon Accreditation) by TAV Airports supports Earth Hour, the worldwide environmental event which is held to raise awareness of 2018. climate change. During the last Earth Hour, the lights were turned off at Ankara Esenboğa and Izmir Adnan Menderes airports in such a way that did not infringe upon the comfort and safety of the passengers. To achieve the following percentages for Scope 1-2 emissions in 2017 – compared to 2014: We fully inform our stakeholders regarding completed and ongoing projects with the purpose of tackling climate change and the performance outcomes achieved as part of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). An emissions decrease of 8.9 percent in the operations of Istanbul Atatürk Airport TAV Airports was listed amongst the top 10 companies participating in the Climate Change reporting of CDP An emissions decrease of 4 percent in the operations of Ankara Esenboğa Airport Turkey as part of the Turkey Climate Change 2014 Report. We raised our disclosure score to 89 in 2015, from 64 in 2014. TAV is also amongst six Turkish companies participating in the global “Commit to Action” An emissions decrease of 2.9 percent in the operations of Izmir Adnan Menderes Airport campaign carried out by CDP. In 2015, thanks to the energy efficiency works carried out, we decreased CO2 emission per passenger by 6.2 We also give great importance to the application of our environmental approach on the value chain and, as a result, and 7.5 percent in our Istanbul and Ankara operations, respectively, while our Izmir operations did not register raise awareness and decrease the environmental impact throughout that value chain. We have evaluated the an increase compared to 2014. environmental performance of our 78 suppliers as part of supplier audits held during the last three years. During the reporting period 2014-2015, a total of 1,052,190 TL was spent for environmental investments and environmental As part of our efficiency projects for carbon reduction, we prevented 769.79, 767.39 and 728.78 tons of CO2 emissions at our Ankara, Izmir and Istanbul operations, respectively, which amounts to a total of 2,266 tons of management to improve our environmental performance. CO2 emission which was saved. One of the impacts that we assess as part of environmental impacts is noise management. SHGM and DHMI are the Ankara Esenboğa Airport was listed among the top 17 environmentally-friendly airports worldwide under responsible authorities in Turkey for noise management, while related public institutions are responsible for terminal the Carbon Accreditation Program of Airports Council International Europe. Izmir Adnan Menderes Airport is operations abroad. TAV supports the works carried out to mitigate the impact of the subject issue on stakeholders. also actively participating in the program. Enfidha Airport, operated by TAV in Tunisia, became the first airport 49 participating in the project from the Africa continent. Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Esenboğa becomes the first carbon neutral airport of Turkey Using its energy much more efficiently, TAV Esenboğa decreased its carbon emissions levels greatly and offset the remaining amount by investing in clean energy. Esenboğa Airport reached the top among Turkish airports in the Airport Carbon Accreditation program of ACI Europe. Operated by TAV Airports, Ankara Esenboğa Airport neutralized its carbon emissions and became the first airport in Turkey to reach this level. With this achievement, Esenboğa Airport is now listed among the 17 most environmentally-friendly airports worldwide. http://www.airportcarbonaccredited.org/ Carbon footprint calculation application from TAV for an environmentally-friendly flight TAV Airports has launched an application that enables passengers to offset the carbon emissions which result from their flights as part of the fight against climate change. The passengers can calculate the carbon footprint of their flights and offset it by supporting a project which both reduces carbon emissions and contributes to sustainable development with the application on the websites of 14 airports operated by TAV. http://www.ataturkairport.com/en-EN/flightinfo/Pages/CarbonNeutralFlying.aspx We use natural resources efficiently Consuming natural resources without hindering the right of future generations to also utilize them is at the top of our sustainability priorities. To that end, we manage the water cycle effectively, carry out efficiency works and inform our stakeholders about our performance. We are amongst the leading companies in terms of water As part of the first Water Report, published by CDP Turkey under the auspices of the Sabancı University Corporate Governance Forum, TAV was one of seven companies to prepare a report out of the 51 which were invited to do so. We monitor water consumption according to drinking/usage, irrigation and filling processes. We measure the consumption of water per passenger and periodically report to the senior management to analyze changes in consumption. Considering the performance data acquired, we create and carry out projects for the efficient and reduced use of water. The total number of passengers welcomed at the airports covered by the report in 2015 increased by 7.6 percent –around 6 million passengers– compared to 2014. Despite the increase in the number of passengers, water consumption per passenger decreased by 5.2 percent. As a result of recycling and re-use works, we saved 28,576 m3 of water at the airports covered by the report. Waste water generated at our terminals is collected via closed-circuit sewage systems and transferred to biological waste water treatment facilities within the airport premises. All waste water discharged out of our terminals is within the parameters set by laws and regulations and transmitted to the nearest collection system or receiving environment in accordance with the related environmental legislation. 51 İzmir Adnan Izmir AdnanMenderes Enfidha-Hammamet Menderes Airport Havalimanı Airport Sustainability Report 2014 2015 We support recycling through waste management practices Reducing the waste generation at the source, recycling and disposal in such a way that will not threaten public health comprises the fundamentals of our waste management strategy. Considering the increasing number of passengers being served by the aviation industry in recent years, it is not difficult to understand the increasing importance of waste management. Accordingly, we fully employ our responsible operation and sustainability understanding in the execution of waste management. Although the amount of total waste generated at our terminals has increased in recent years, thanks to our recycling projects, we have achieved a better rate of reuse of that waste. We respect biodiversity In order to protect the natural habitat through the regions in which we operate, we pay the utmost attention to preserve the biodiversity at our terminals and minimize the loss of natural habitat. As part of the preservation of biodiversity, we use pesticides with reduced biological impacts for all kinds of undesirable species, planting additional flora and installing control mechanisms to avoid irreversible and permanent damage to the ecosystem. 30,000 trees in TAV Esenboğa Memorial Forest The TAV Esenboğa Memorial Forest, which was established in 2008 by TAV Esenboğa, the operator of Ankara Esenboğa Airport, has expanded after planting new saplings, and today the number of trees within the forest has reached 30,000 trees. 10,000 trees were planted in the forest -which is located in the Cubuk district of Ankara -at an event attended by Esenboğa Airport executives and employees. The Environmental Law and related legislation do not require TAV and its subsidiaries to prepare environmental impact assessment reports for their operations. Yet, the subsidiaries of TAV prepare environmental reports and environmental management plans during both the construction and operation phases of terminals. 53 Ankara Esenboga Airport Izmir Adnan Menderes Airport Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Employee Happiness We strive to be a sought-after workplace where our employees can achieve personal development and work in a safe and peaceful environment. Our human resources policy is based on matching business requirements with the capacity and skills of our employees. To this end, we pursue programs that support diversity and equal opportunities and avoid discrimination. We monitor our employees’ happiness through surveys held biyearly and identify their expectations and preferences. According to the results of Employee Satisfaction Surveys, the satisfaction level of employees increased to 66.9 percent in 2015 compared to 2013, when the rate was 63.6 percent. The same year, the average of the Turkish companies that participated in this survey was 60.4 percent. As part of the survey, we ask the opinions of our employees on many issues such as remuneration and fringe benefits, work conditions, status, etc. and form work groups concerning the areas in which we are open to improvement. In order to be a participatory company which is open to new ideas, we establish platforms where our employees can state their opinions. 57 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Employee Happiness Total Number of Equal opportunities and diversity Female Employees We believe that diversity enriches our company while improving our business style. To this end, we work to stamp out gender discrimination and strive to create a multi-cultural human resources pool that respects cultural diversity. We favor the approach of providing equal opportunities to all employees without discriminating based on language, religion, race and gender. We believe that the participation of women in business life with equal opportunity is 3.256 3.848 3.994 also crucial in terms of sustainable development. TAV has the goal to become one of the leading corporations contributing to the development of a culture of equal opportunity and recruitment of women in Turkey. Therefore, 2013 2014 2015 we try to follow competence-based human resources processes regardless of gender to eliminate gender discrimination in recruitment processes. After becoming a member of the Equality at Work Platform established by the Family and Social Policies Ministry Number of Female Employees of Turkey in 2013, TAV updated its human resources reporting systems in line with the Platform’s requirements. Appointed to Senior Management In addition, the female/male employee ratio is shared with the Senior Management on a monthly basis in order to include the Senior Management in the process. We define equality at work and diversity as priorities to achieve sustainability. A committee was founded at TAV Izmir in order to lead the process across all terminals, define improvement areas and targets and included the issue of equal opportunity on the agenda of the annual HR meetings as well as on the annual performance targets. As a result, in 2015 32 percent of those recruited were women employees. 24 29 32 Our goal is to increase the female employee rate, which is around 27 percent in 2015, and qualify for the Equal Opportunities Model certificate issued by KAGIDER (Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey). 2013 2014 2015 Number of Mid-Level Female Managers 156 179 204 2013 2014 2015 59 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 TAV Abroad TAV Academy In 2012, our intranet platform TAV Abroad was developed as to serve as a platform bringing together the Human resources and corporate know-how in airport operations are the biggest factors in strengthening the multi-cultural human resources of TAV under one umbrella in line with the corporate culture of the company, competitiveness of TAV on the way to becoming a global player. As a result, TAV Academy was founded in enabling an efficient sharing of know-how. All employees of TAV Airports Holding and Group Companies can 2006 in order to enhance this know-how. TAV Academy, the training and development center of more than 15,000 employees of TAV Airports, which has operations at 14 airports in seven countries, also contributes access the portal, which consists of general structure, history and cultural structure of the countries where to the development of the international civil aviation industry by providing training to aviation professionals of expat employees are appointed as well as practical and legal information related to the countries. various countries such as Saudi Arabia, China, Georgia, Albania, etc. Furthermore, TAV Academy is one of the 15 global training centers of Airports Council International (ACI), which is the most important organization of Employee Mobility Program the industry with more than 1,800 airport members. In 2013, TAV Academy established a global training and consultancy company in the aviation sector under We organize an employee exchange program to enable our employees to exchange know-how on an the “TAV Aviation Minds” brand. With this brand, TAV Academy also started to offer training and consultancy services to the business world outside of the aviation industry. international level and to contribute to their career planning. Thanks to the program, our employees learn work processes of a different organization and have the opportunity to obtain working and living experiences TAV Academy has the goal of becoming the first and only authorized training center in Turkey in Airport and overseas. Terminal Operations. In pursuit of this goal, TAV Academy completed the procedures required to establish a National Education Ministry (MEB) approved training center with the purpose of getting certification regarding During the first implementation of the Employee Mobility Program, employees selected from TAV Airports the quality of its training programs and becoming the authorized corporation of the General Directorate of Civil and Aéroports de Paris Group were exchanged. During the reporting period, eight employees have been Aviation in 2014. TAV Academy can now provide MEB-approved training certificates. transferred to their new positions as part of the exchange program. The program has the purpose of creating TAV Academy, which globally expands our know-how in airport operations, was audited and authorized by a human resources pool composed of employees open to development and innovation to improve their skills the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) to provide certified civil aviation training. At the end of the and their work. audit, TAV Academy was shown to be in compliance with the designated standards in terms of training design, presentations, competencies of the trainers and quality management system. Professional and personal One of the main activities of ICAO is to improve the competencies of aviation employees and define global standards in training. TAV Academy has been certified as an ICAO TRAINAIR Plus member as of August development for our employees 2015 by ICAO. Whilst ICAO TRAINAIR Plus members are mostly composed of civil aviation authorities of their respective countries, of which they are liable to provide training, there are only 16 companies certified in the private sector. As of 2015, TAV Academy is listed amongst these 16 companies. During the reporting period, TAV Academy had provided 14,148 hours of training in total. 4,934 and 7,063 We invest in our employees’ professional and personal development. We offer various types of training employees benefitted from the training programs in 2014 and 2015, respectively. programs and platforms. Total training hours held in 2015 are over 55,000. 61 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Continuous development for leaders At TAV, we believe that the competencies which brought us to the present would not be sufficient to carry us into the future. Therefore, we have initiated the Leadership Development Programs. During the reporting period, 96 senior managers have participated in the programs. Furthermore, we have provided 566 mid-level managers with the Basic Leadership Skills Program to create the leaders of the future. Development of local employees in Saudi Arabia The purpose of the project was to increase the service quality at the airports and to provide necessary personnel development to obtain higher work efficiencies from existing airport personnel after the rehabilitation works held at Madinah and Riyadh international airports in Saudi Arabia. At the end of the training programs, within which attendances were quite high, employee loyalty was observed to have increased. Tailored programs In order to support our business expansion in the MENA region, we have initiated Arabic language programs. Focusing on customer satisfaction, we pursued our “English speaking airports” program, beginning with our employees who are in direct contact with the passengers. We have developed customized programs for TAV Operation Services and TAV Security staff in understanding and developing the customer experience. TAV Security collaborates with Anadolu University TAV Security and Anadolu University mutually provide training programs in line with their longstanding collaboration protocol. In line with the protocol, the “Training for Trainers Certification Program,” which was the first training program, was held at Atatürk Airport in 2015. The certification program was attended by 20 TAV Private Security personnel. Distance learning with E-Learning Platform This platform has the goal of creating more training opportunities for the employees who cannot attend the training held at TAV headquarters. The E-Learning platform consists of various training programs such as TAV Employee Culture, TAV Values, leadership, teamwork, time management, problem solving techniques, effective communication, basic English, etc. As of the end of 2015, more than 5,000 employees were actively using the e-learning system. The E-orientation program, which was included in the e-learning platform at the beginning of 2016, will strengthen the awareness of being a TAV employee worldwide. 63 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Highest standards in occupational Engagement is the core of our health and safety innovation approach TAV IDEAPort Our occupational health and safety policy is based on defining risks, taking the necessary measures and adapting work processes to employees. Going beyond legal requirements in the countries where we operate, We set up the TAV IDEAport Innovation Platform to collect, exchange and effectively assess innovative ideas. we strive to adapt the best practices and international standards in this area. Consequently, we establish an We collect suggestions and ideas from our employees at this platform, encouraging them to submit their occupational health and safety committee at all the airports we operate. Teams consisting of occupational ideas of positive change and improvement. health and safety specialists who report to the deputy general manager in charge of operations or directly to the general manager apply the processes via inter-departmental collaborations, committees or groups It is possible to submit a suggestion via www.tavideaport.com. Suggestion boxes have also been placed in a composed of related units. few places at the airports for TAV employees who do not have access to a computer. We also provide training programs to ensure compliance with OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety For an impartial assessment, the names of the personnel who submit the suggestions are not revealed until Management System certification and improve corporate culture in this area. During the reporting period, the end of the assessment period, and they are informed during each phase of the assessment. A total of 85 we identified the high risk areas in terms of occupational health and safety and enacted a six-stage action suggestions were submitted within the first week to the TAV IDEAport Innovation Platform, which was brought plan involving analysis of the current situation, action planning, implementation, review, improvement and into service in 2015 for more than 13,000 TAV employees. 38 of these suggestions meeting the preliminary reporting. We intend to limit the frequency of work-related accidents and lost days to zero. requirements have passed on to the assessment phase and the employees who offered the suggestions have been awarded more than 1,000 TL in total. The suggestions have been seen by 1,325 people and liked 204 Advanced driving techniques training times. Drivers working at TAV Group attended driver training courses at Volkan Işık Academy. A total of 36 TAV drivers attended the training held in July 2015. SHGM Approved training by TAV Academy As a result of the audits held by General Directorate of Civil Aviation (SHGM), TAV Academy has become an authorized training center in Aviation Safety as of 2015. Authorized to provide “Safety Awareness” training, which must be taken by all employees with an apron card before they start working at TAV and must be re-taken every three years, TAV Academy held its first training on October 1st. SHGM-approved “Safety Awareness” training designed by TAV Security in-house trainers will continue to be provided to TAV employees and everyone that requires the subject training. 65 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 We want to enhance the personal TAV Family Day lives of our employees We organize an event for the children of our employees. During the event, the children are introduced to the work environments of their parents. We incorporated the work we had been carrying out for the health and happiness of our employees and April 23rd, Children’s Day Event established the TAV Health and Wellbeing Center (HWC) under a corporate structure. HWC is a center the purpose of which is to assist the employees in establishing a healthy balance between their work and As part of April 23rd, Children’s Day, and with the purpose of organizing activities for the employees and personal lives and to improve their development and happiness. HWC has the goal to carry out preventative their families in order to increase the motivation of the employees, we sign agreements with the children’s and developmental projects in relation to the employees’ mental and physical wellbeing and offer practices area of the shopping malls in Istanbul, Izmir, Ankara, Bursa and Yalova and organize activities for the children that will improve the health and happiness of the employees and their families. of our employees to have fun and enjoy the day. We believe these events increase the motivation, sense of belonging and loyalty of the employees. In 2015, 576 children participated in the April 23rd, Children’s Day TAV CUP Tournaments Event together with their families. Moreover, we were the sponsor for a special concert held in Izmir for April 23rd, National Sovereignty and Children’s Day. “Carmina Burana: Scenic Cantata” was performed by a youth chorus of two hundred members for the first time ever. The revenue of the concert was donated to the Turkish We believe in the importance of gathering TAV Group employees together in a social platform outside of Library for the Visually Impaired (TÜRGÖK). work, so we organize a variety of sports activities. Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Table Tennis and Chess tournaments are held at the airports we operate (Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir) with the participation of our service TAV Workshop companies. We organize hobby workshops for our Istanbul personnel. The purpose of these workshops is to enable personal development for employees in their social lives, providing them with the opportunity to engage in new hobbies. 67 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Social Impacts At TAV Airports, the global brand of Turkey in airport operations, we are aware of our responsibilities towards society and the environment, and we attach a great deal of importance to activities to create social benefits at all the airports that we operate throughout various regions along with our service companies. We consider our terminals as microcosms of society. Airports are living niches and the first meeting points when entering new countries and cities; the added value they provide to the tourism sector is indisputable. To that end, our goal is to represent our country in the best way wherever in the world we take our brand, as well as contributing to the development of the tourism potential of the region. While developing the industry that we operate in, we also organize social investment programs in health, obstacle-free living, education, culture and the arts and sports. We have initiated TAV Volunteers to expand our social responsibility understanding among our employees and enable them to participate. Thanks to the taxes we pay, employment opportunities and local purchasing policies, we make significant contributions to the economies of the regions in which we operate. We encourage women, the young and educated people to take their positions in business life. We employed 397 persons that had never worked before in 2015 and a total of 1,020 persons in the last 3 years. 69 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Sustainable development through HBS case-studies industrial growth Arguably the leading business management school in the world, Harvard Business School (HBS) has become one of the global partners of TAV Operation Services. HBS students, who visited Istanbul in line with this collaboration, took the opportunity to study the innovative services provided by TAV Operation Services at the airport and prepared a project on “easing the lives of traveling families with children.” In order to provide the best travel experience to our passengers, we offer the airline companies a highlyimproved, fast and safe infrastructure. We have been actively involved in the “Collaborative Decision Making” HBS collaborates with innovative companies that carry out leading work in a variety of countries every year mechanism at Istanbul Atatürk Airport together with DHMI and Turkish Airlines since 2011. Based on the while preparing case studies. This year, as part of these case studies, the brands of TAV Operation Services exchange of information between institutions, the mechanism enables the efficient use of resources and such as TAV Passport Card and “primeclass” CIP Service, which provide exclusive passenger services, were airport capacities. examined. The group then carried out a survey with the passengers and collected a list of requests and recommendations. As a result of the information gathered, some suggestions were offered to ease the life of We undertake a significant responsibility in the promotion of the countries and regions where we have traveling families with children. operations. We represent our airports as well as the geographies in which we are located during the tourism and aviation events held throughout the world. Our purpose is to initiate collaborations with airline companies to provide direct flights to the highest number of destinations from our airports. Green Business Summit TAV Aviation Minds The Green Business Sustainable Business Summit, of which TAV was among the sponsors, took place between September 23rd and 24th. Several local and international participants gathered in Istanbul to exchange information on various subjects such as sustainability, energy efficiency, global energy problems, recycling, TAV Aviation Minds was established in 2013 to share our know-how and experience in airport operations. The corporate solutions, etc. company works on training and consultancy projects at various locations worldwide such as Saudi Arabia, Mongolia, China, Jordan, etc. TAV Aviation Minds offers tailored solutions with its “Airport Operations and Efficiency Management” training, which is a new concept throughout the world designed for the efficient Supporting Urbanization and Green Environment Summit execution of airport operations. Furthermore, there are executive development programs and various trainings on personal development available. TAV Aviation Minds carried out its first project at Madinah Airport, Saudi Organized by Milliyet Newspaper with the contributions of the Izmir Metropolitan Municipality Urbanization Arabia, in 2013. and Green Environment Summit -of which TAV was among the sponsors -hosted several panels participated in by leading business figures. Post graduate program for students of UTAA Whilst urbanization and the problems encountered during the urbanization process were discussed in detail during the summit, the participants were informed about the recycling project at the Izmir Adnan Menderes Operated by TAV Airports, one of the world’s leading airport operators, Ankara Esenboğa Airport hosted the Airport New Domestic Terminal and the environmentally-friendly terminal initiatives of TAV. “Airport Operation Business” post graduate program for students of the University of the Turkish Aeronautical Association (UTAA), the first and only university in Turkey in aviation and aeronautics. TAV Esenboğa executives taught the operation processes of Ankara Esenboğa Airport with on-site examples to the post graduate students in a 14-week course as part of the 2014-2015 academic curriculum. 71 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Social development for communities Contribution through culture and A Tree of Life from TAV Georgia the arts TAV Gallery TAV Georgia, which currently operates Batumi and Tbilisi airports, and the Georgian Red Cross organized an activity to support and lend cheer to children battling leukemia at the Tbilisi Iashvili Children’s Center Hospital. We created TAV Gallery for our passengers and employees to allow them to step into another world while they are at the airport, even for a short period of time. Visited by thousands of passengers every day, the During the “A Tree of Life from TAV Georgia” event, children and TAV Georgia employees planted trees in the culture and arts platform showcases artistic works which capture universal values and the cultural heritage garden of the hospital. 40 children staying at the hospital for their treatments were presented with gifts to of the region in which our airports are located. Located in Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir, TAV Gallery hosts several celebrate Red Cross Week. exhibitions throughout the year. #ComeSeeTurkey Award winning diabetes posters at TAV Gallery #ComeSeeTurkey, which is a promotional project for Turkey held on Instagram, greeted passengers at TAV The poster exhibition “We Are by Your Side” prepared by students of Maltepe University and the Anadolu Gallery Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir. The shots taken by 20 people famous on social media from 13 different University Faculty of Communication in order to draw attention to diabetes was opened at TAV Gallery at countries were showcased at Istanbul Atatürk, Ankara Esenboğa and Izmir Adnan Menderes airports. Istanbul Atatürk Airport. The exhibited posters were awarded by Ministry of Health as part of “World Diabetes Day” activities. Thanks to #ComeSeeTurkey, one of the most significant country promotion projects held on social media, photos taken in 23 cities of Turkey reached more than 45 million people. Dialogue in the Dark Exhibition Culture Ants Presented in 130 cities and visited by more than 7 million people, the Dialogue in the Dark exhibition was showcased at the Istanbul Gayrettepe metro station. The airport section included for the first time in the TAV Volunteers supported the “Culture Ants Project” in collaboration with the Cultural Awareness Foundation exhibition was sponsored by TAV Airports. in 2015. ‘Turkish Days’ Event in Paris We participated in the “Turkish Days” event organized between December 16th and 18th, 2015 in cooperation with Aéroports de Paris (ADP) and Turkish Airlines at Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG). The event was organized for CDG employees to provide information regarding the expectations of Turkish passengers, Turkish culture, the history of Turkey and tourism. The TAV-ADP stand was visited by 576 CDG employees over three days. 73 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 Equal opportunities in education Continuous support to educational projects TAV Airports supports several educational projects of Darüşşafaka Education Foundation. In recent years, TAV Workshop Photography Club, participated by the students of Darüşşafaka Education Foundation and TAV employees, has presented a joint project as part of the mentor-mentee program. Furthermore, the donations collected for Soma within the company were transferred to Darüşşafaka Foundation’s “Soma Donation Fund” and, as a result, all educational costs of 5 students required by Darüşşafaka Educational Institutions have been covered for 3 years. In 2016, TAV contributed to the “Parenting Book Jr. Project” initiated by Herkese Kitap (Books to All) Foundation and executed by Darüşşafaka Foundation. As part of “Read-Think-Share” project of Young Guru Academy (YGA), YGA was supported for their library and training camps. Moreover, educational aids to YGA students continue. Supporting Istanbul Cup TAV Operation Services and its brands TAV Passport Card and “primeclass” were service sponsors of the TEB BNP Paribas Istanbul Cup tennis tournament held between July 13th and 20th, 2014. The TEB BNP Paribas Istanbul Cup, the first and the most prestigious tennis tournament organized by Turkey in the WTA Tour, was held with the participation of 32 tennis professionals. Tavport.com supports street animals Operating under TAV Tourism, tavport.com supports street animals with 1 TL from every booking made via their platform. TAV Operation Services and the Marmara Animal Rights Federation (MarmaraFed) purchased food with the donations of tavport.com and distributed them to the abandoned animals. 75 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 TAV Airports Holding Awards & Achievements • TKYD 6th Corporate Governance Awards, 2016: “2nd Highest Corporate Governance Rating” • TUYID Investor Relations Summit, 2015: “The Best Annual Report,” “The Second Best Website Award,” “The Second Best Communication of Financial Results” • Institute of Internal Auditing of Turkey, Internal Auditing Awareness Award 2015 • Thomson Reuters Extel European Investor Relations Survey, 2015: TAV Airports President & CEO Sani Şener Istanbul Atatürk Airport received Turkey’s “Best CEO Award,” Finance Vice President Burcu Geriş was presented “The Best CFO • Airports Council International Airport Service Quality (ASQ), 2015: “Airport with Most Improved Service Award,” Head of Investor Relations Nursel Ilgen was rewarded “The Best Investor Relations Professional Quality in Europe” Award,” TAV Airports Holding received “The Best Turkish Company in Investor Relations” • Anna.aero Euro Annies, 2015: “Airport with Most New Long-haul Routes in Europe” • Women to Watch Summit, 2015: TAV Airports Corporate Communication Director Bengi Vargül was • ACI World, 2014: Istanbul Atatürk Airport, “Fourth Busiest Airport in Europe” presented “The Most Successful Corporate Communications-Reputation Management Leader” • ACI Europe, 2014: Istanbul Atatürk Airport, “Fastest Growing Airport in Europe” in the category of airports • TKYD 5th Corporate Governance Awards, 2015: “The Highest Rate of Turkey in Board of Directors Category” welcoming more than 25 million passengers per year • Amongst 15 companies in Sustainability Index initiated by BIST in 2014 • Skytrax, 2014: Istanbul Atatürk Airport, “10th Best Airport of the World” in the category of airports welcoming • ISS Corporate Services, 2014: TAV Airports secured 2nd position at BIST Corporate Governance Index with more than 50 million passengers per year governance rating of 9.41 • TUYID Investor Relations Summit, 2014: “Best Annual Report,” “Best Website Award,” “Best Communication Ankara Esenboğa Airport of Financial Results” • Golden Women of the Aviation Sector Awards, 2015: TAV Esenboğa General Manager Nuray Demirer was • TKYD, Corporate Governance Awards IV, 2014: “2nd Highest Corporate Governance Rating” presented “Terminal Operations Executive of the Year Award” • Thomson Reuters Extel European Investor Relations Survey, 2014: TAV Airports Chief Executive Officer • The Green Organization Awards, 2015: “Silver Medal” in the category of built environment Sani Şener received Turkey’s “Best CEO Award,” TAV Airports Holding received “Best Turkish Company in • Skalite, 2014: “Best Airport Award” in Airport Services category Investor Relations” • ACI Europe, 2013: “The Fastest Growing Airport” in airports welcoming 5-10 million passengers per year category ATU Duty Free • Frontier Magazine, 2014: “Old Bazaar” store designed as Grand Bazaar theme at the Istanbul Atatürk Airport Gazipaşa-Alanya Airport awarded the title of “Highly Commended” in the category of “Concept Store of the Year” • Anna.aero Euro Annies, 2015: “The Fastest Growing Airport” in the category of airports welcoming between • World Widelife Fund (WWF), 2014: “Green Office Certificate” 100,000 and 1 million passengers per year BTA Tbilisi Airport • European Business Awards, 2015-2016: “National Champion” in Customer orientation category • Skytrax, 2014: “7th Best Airport of Eastern Europe Award” • World Tourism Forum Awards 2015: The Best Airport Hotel Award to TAV Airport Hotel Izmir TAV Tunisie SA TAV Information Technologies • ACI Europe, 2013: Enfidha Airport is the first airport certified with carbon accreditation program on the • IDC Turkey CIO Summit, 2015: TAV IT General Manager Binnur Güleryüz Onaran was presented “Best CIO African continent in Turkey,” the IT system project of Madinah Airport carried out by TAV IT received “Best IT Management Project” and “Best Change Management Project” Skopje Alexander the Great Airport • CIO Magazine, 2014: “CIO 2014 Award” to Slot Coordination Project at “CIO 2014 Awards” • Skytrax World Airport Awards, 2016: “9th Best Airport of Eastern Europe Award” • Airports Council International Airport Service Quality (ASQ), 2015: “Europe’s Best Airport Award” in airports TAV Academy welcoming less than 2 million passengers per year category • International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), 2015: Certified civil aviation training authorization • Skytrax World Airport Awards, 2015: “9th Best Airport of Eastern Europe Award” Madinah Airport • Routes Marketing Awards 2015: “Best Airport Award” in the category of airports welcoming 4 to 20 million passengers per year in the Middle East and North Africa regions • United States Green Building Council 2014: “Green Building Award” 77 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Total amount of water drawn per resource (m3) 1,428,159 1,605,377 1,623,301 Total Workforce (in Figures) Recycled or re-used water (m ) 3 19,172 15,660 12,916 Direct Employment 13,370 14,556 15,113 Total amount of waste water (m3) 915,468 1,361,797 1,375,693 Female 3,256 3,848 3,994 Total Amount of Hazardous Waste (tons) 97.589 67.214 89.391 Male 10,114 10,708 11,119 Non-hazardous Waste (tons) 574.952 511.022 592.795 Contractor Company Employees 1,347 1,234 1,337 Direct Energy Consumption by Primary Energy Total Workforce by Contract Type (in Figures) Source Permanent Employment Contract 12,626 13,625 14,303 Natural Gas Female 3,123 3,666 3,843 GJ (total) 1,190,169 1,141,566 1,237,109 Male 9,503 9,959 10,460 GJ (Trigeneration) 1,054,374.07 1,002,027.26 1,040,342.16 Temporary Employment Contract 744 931 810 GJ (Other) 119,921.38 97,330.79 196,781.03 Female 133 182 151 Diesel Oil (GJ) 2,576.96 1,967.42 2,191.09 Male 611 749 659 Gasoline (GJ) 307.35 239.28 458.14 Total Workforce by Category (in Figures) Indirect Energy Consumption by Primary Energy Blue Collar Source Female 1,709 2,233 2,276 Power (Total Consumption) Male 7,279 8,089 8,173 GJ (Total) 561,029.25 559,249.99 589,228.78 White Collar GJ/m² (Total) 1.9 1.45 1.56 Female 1,547 1,615 1,718 GJ/1000 pax (Total) 24.48 14.36 13.1 Male 2,835 2,619 2,946 Power (purchased) 262,117.84 288,420.21 295,838.78 Total Workforce by Employment Type (in Figures) Greenhouse Gas Emission Full-time Total CO₂ Emission (1000 t) 71.65 71.82 75.92 Female 3,195 3,802 3,962 Direct CO₂ Emission (Scope 1) (1000 t) 60.21 58.1 59.98 Male 10,014 10,624 11,053 Indirect CO₂ Emission (Scope 2) (1000 t) 11.44 13.72 15.93 Part-time Other Indirect CO₂ Emission (Scope 3) (1000 t) 657.555 1,045.79 1,114.10 Female 61 46 32 CO₂ Emission per passenger (kg/pax) Male 100 84 66 Ankara 0 1.06 0.98 Total Workforce by Level of Education (in Figures) İstanbul 0.85 0.75 0.70 Primary Education 7,873 8,596 7,928 İzmir 1.02 1.50 1.46 High School 2,460 2,722 3,756 University and more 3,037 3,238 3,429 Total Workforce by Age Group (in Figures) 18-30 5,427 5,983 5,614 31-40 5,276 5,743 6,268 41+ 2,667 2,830 3,231 79 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Senior Management Structure (in Figures) Employee Training Total Hours (person x/hour) 14,148 40,037 55,069 By Gender Blue Collar 7,640 19,618 33,041 Female 24 29 32 White Collar 6,508 20,419 22,028 Male 104 102 126 Female 5,581 10,810 14,869 By Age Group Male 8,567 29,227 40,2 18-30 1 0 0 Employee satisfaction survey and results 65.20 66.90 31-40 43 45 55 Please indicate the percentage of personnel who 100 100 100 provided regular performance assessment feedback (%) 41+ 78 96 103 Blue Collar 100 100 10 Mid-level Management Structure (in Figures) White Collar 100 10 100 By Gender Number of Participants in OHS Training Provided to Female 156 179 204 680 460 Employees (Holding) Male 488 571 619 OHS Training Provided to Employees (person x hour) 3,431 3,073 By Age Group Number of employees who received training on human 1,169 773 18-30 21 25 47 rights 31-40 326 394 456 Percentage of employees who received training on 24 11 41+ 302 329 320 human rights Newly-Recruited Personnel (in Figures) Total training hours on human rights (person x hour) 4,08 6,223 Female 1,499 1,376 1,341 Percentage of security personnel who received training 100 100 100 on human rights policies or procedures (%) Male 2,929 3,167 2,793 Occupational health and safety Employees Quit (in Figures) 4,179 5,533 4,172 Absentee Rate (%) 2.03 1.94 2.16 Number of Employees at Parental Leave Injury Rate Female 123 131 157 Istanbul Male 370 417 461 Direct Employment 15.595 22.565 28.362 Number of Employees Back from Parental Leave Female 0.0742 0.0727 0.3636 Female 97 122 152 Male 14.852 21.837 24.726 Male 361 420 458 Ankara Number of Employees Back from Parental Leave and Has Not Quit for The Last 12 Months Direct Employment 3.276 1.5 1.52 Female 75 101 132 Female 1.11 0.3 0.8 Male 390 451 517 Male 2.166 1.2 0.72 Employee Training Number of Participants (persons) 3,181 4,934 7,063 Contractor Company Employees 7.06 5.92 5.42 Blue Collar 1,718 2,418 4,238 Female 1.14 1.97 1.97 White Collar 1,463 2,516 2,825 Male 5.92 3.95 3.45 Female 1,255 1,332 1,907 Total 10.33 7.39 6.94 Male 1,926 3,602 5,156 Female 2.25 2.27 2.77 Male 8.086 5.15 4.17 81 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2013 2014 2015 Izmir Direct Employment 3.982 3.843 2.492 Female 0.442 0 0 Male 3.54 3.843 2.492 Contractor Company Employees 9.937 12.4 13.316 Female 4.676 4.885 7.398 Male 5.261 7.515 5.918 Total 13.919 16.243 15.808 Female 5.118 4.885 7.398 Male 8.801 11.358 8.41 Lost Day Rate (LDR) Istanbul Direct Employment 0.682 13.102 11.635 Female 0 0.0727 0.0727 Male 0.682 12.374 10.908 Ankara Direct Employment 1.49 3.75 3.2 Female 0.89 0.52 1.23 Male 0.82 6.07 3.78 Izmir Direct Employment 9.735 27.605 5.607 Female 0 0 0 Male 9.735 27.605 5.607 Occupational Disease Rate (ODR) Direct Employment 0 0 0 Contractor Company Employees 0 0 0 Number of Accidents Involving Death Direct Employment 0 0 0 Contractor Company Employees 0 0 0 OHS Training Provided to Employees Number of 2,540 2,843 2,938 Participants (Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir) OHS Training Provided to Employees Total Hours 13,387 10,902 8,738 (person x hour) Number of OHS Committees Established 6 7 8 Total Number of Members in OHS Committees 92 99 106 Established Number of Representatives Working in OHS 19 19 19 Committees Established Environmental Training Provided to Employees 106 184 142 Number of Participants 83 Istanbul Atatürk Airport G4-22 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES General DMA and Standard Section Assurance Section Omissions Assurance Indicators Disclosures CATEGORY: ECONOMIC STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-1 p.7, CEO Letter G4-DMA p.13, About TAV Airports G4-2 p.7, CEO Letter; p. 28, Risk Management G4-EC1 p.13, About TAV Airports KURUMSAL PROFİL G4-EC2 p.7, CEO Letter pp.49-50, We Tackle Climate Change With Our Energy and Emissions Management Practices G4-3 p.92, Contact MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE G4-4 p.13, About TAV Airports G4-DMA pp.57-67, Employee Happiness G4-5 p.92, Contact G4-EC5 p.85, GRI G4 Content Index (The ratio of standard entry level wage to local minimum wage is calculated with respect to employee status ) G4-6 p 13, About TAV Airports MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-7 Corporate website http://www.tavhavalimanlari.com.tr/tr-TR/Pages/GlobalBusinessUnitsofTAV.aspx G4-DMA pp.69-77, Social Impacts G4-8 p.13, About TAV Airports; pp.18-20, Airport Operation Business & TAV in Figures G4-EC7 pp.40-41, Obstacle-free Airport ; p.72, Social Development for Communities G4-9 pp.18-20, Airport Operation Business & TAV in Figures; p.79 Social Performance Indicators G4-EC8 pp.18-20, Airport Operation Business & TAV in Figures; p.32, Supply Chain Management; G4-10 pp.79-82, Social Performance Indicators pp.61-62, TAV Academy; pp.70-71, Sustainable Development Through Industrial Growth; p.62, Development of Local Employees in Saudi Arabia G4-11 p.84, GRI Content Index (Our employees are not covered by collective bargaining agreements) MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-12 p.32, Supply Chain Management G4-DMA p.32, Supply Chain Management G4-13 Corporate website http://www.tavhavalimanlari.com.tr/tr-TR/Pages/Announcements.aspx G4-EC9 p.32, Supply Chain Management G4-14 p.28, Risk Management CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY pp.18-20, Airport Operation Business & TAV in Figures; pp.59-60, Equal Opportunity and Diversity ; G4-15 G4-DMA pp.47-52, Environmental Management pp.40-41, Obstacle-free Airport G4-EN3 p.78, Environmental Performance Indicators G4-16 p.27, Governance Practices at TAV G4-EN5 p.78, Environmental Performance Indicators IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-EN7 p.78, Environmental Performance Indicators G4-17 p.9, About the Report; p.13, About TAV Airports MATERIAL ASPECT:WATER G4-18 p.9, About the Report; pp.33-35, Sustainability Priorities G4-DMA p.50, We Use Natural Resources Efficiently G4-19 pp.33-35, Sustainability Priorities G4-EN8 p.50, We Use Natural Resources Efficiently; p.78, Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN9 p.85, GRI G4 Content Index (There is no body of water significantly affected by TAV water use) G4-20 p.9, About the Report; p.33-35, Sustainability Priorities; pp.36-37, Our Stakeholders G4-EN10 p.50, We Use Natural Resources Efficiently; p.78, Environmental Performance Indicators G4-21 p.9, About the Report; p.33-35, Sustainability Priorities; pp.36-37, Our Stakeholders MATERIAL ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY G4-22 p.84, GRI G4 Content Index (There is no restatements of information provided in previous reports.) G4-DMA p.52, We Respect Biodiversity G4-23 p.9, About the Report G4-EN13 p.52, We Respect Biodiversity STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA pp.49-50, We Tackle Climate Change With Our Energy and Emissions Management PracticG4-24 pp.36-37, Our Stakeholders es G4-25 pp.36-37, Our Stakeholders G4-EN15 p.78, Environmental Performance Indicators + G4-26 pp.36-37, Our Stakeholders G4-EN16 p.78, Environmental Performance Indicators + G4-27 pp.36-37, Our Stakeholders G4-EN17 p.78, Environmental Performance Indicators + REPORT PROFILE G4-EN18 p.78, Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN19 pp.49-50, We Tackle Climate Change With Our Energy and Emissions Management PracticG4-28 p.9, About the Report es G4-29 p.9, About the Report MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-30 p.9, About the Report G4-DMA p.52, We Support Recycling Through Waste Management Practices G4-31 p.9, About the Report G4-EN22 p.78, Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN23 p.78, Environmental Performance Indicators G4-32 p.9, About the Report MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-33 pp.88-89, Independent Assurance Report G4-DMA pp.49-50, We Tackle Climate Change With Our Energy and Emissions Management Practices GOVERNANCE G4-EN27 pp.49-50, We Tackle Climate Change With Our Energy and Emissions Management Practices G4-34 p.27, Governance Practices at TAV MATERIAL ASPECT: OVERALL ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-DMA pp.47-52, Environmental Management G4-EN31 pp.47-52, Environmental Management G4-56 p.30, Code of Ethics; p.16, Our Corporate Values 85 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and DMA and Section Omissions Assurance Section Omissions Assurance Indicators Indicators CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA pp.69-77, Societal Benefits G4-DMA pp.57-67, Employee Happiness G4-SO2 pp.33-35, Sustainability Priorities G4-LA1 pp.79-82, Social Performance Indicators MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-LA3 pp.79-82, Social Performance Indicators G4-DMA p.32, Combatting Fraud MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-SO3 p.32, Combatting Fraud G4-DMA p.64, Highest Standards in Occupational Health and Safety SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-LA5 pp.79-82, Social Performance Indicators MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA6 pp.79-82, Social Performance Indicators MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA p.38, Customer Satisfaction G4-DMA pp.60-62; Professional and Personal Development for Our Employees p.39, Improved Accessibility of our Products and Services; pp.40-41, Obstacle-free G4-PR1 Airport; p.42, We Strive to Increase the Comfort of Our Passengers G4-LA9 p.79-82, Social Performance Indicators p.39, Improved Accessibility of our Products and Services; pp.40-41, Obstacle-free G4-LA10 pp.60-62; Professional and Personal Development for Our Employees G4-PR2 Airport; p.42, We Strive to Increase the Comfort of Our Passengers G4-LA11 pp.79-82, Social Performance Indicators MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICE LABELING MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA p.38, Customer Satisfaction G4-DMA pp.59-60, Equal Opportunity and Diversity G4-PR5 p.38, Customer Satisfaction G4-LA12 pp.79-82, Social Performance Indicators MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MAN G4-DMA pp.59-60, Equal Opportunity and Diversity p.86,GRI Content Index (Differences in remuneration policy with regard to gender is UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS G4-LA13 not pursued) Human Rights SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: INVESTMENT Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of p.24 Sustainability Organization; p.27 Governance Practices at internationally proclaimed human rights; and TAV; p.30 Code of Ethics; p.32 Supply Chain Management G4-DMA Not Material Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights G4-HR1 p.32, Supply Chain Management p.24 Sustainability Organization; p.27 Governance Practices at abuses. TAV; p.30 Code of Ethics; p.32 Supply Chain Management G4-HR2 p.79-82, Social Performance Indicators MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION Labour G4-DMA pp.59-60, Equal Opportunity and Diversity Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association p.86, GRI Content Index (No incidents of discrimination occurred during the reporting p.24 Sustainability Organization G4-HR3 and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; period) Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS p.24 Sustainability Organization labour; MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOR Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and p.24 Sustainability Organization G4-DMA Not Material Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employp. 59 Equal opportunities and diversity G4-HR5 p.87, GRI Content Index (No child labor employed within TAV Airport operations) ment and occupation. MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR Environment G4-DMA Not Material Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to p.47 Environmental Management G4-HR6 s.87, GRI Content Index (No forced labor employed within TAV Airport operations) environmental challenges; MATERIAL ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental p.47 Environmental Management responsibility; and G4-DMA Not Material Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmenG4-HR7 p.81, Social Performance Indicators p.49 Climate change action tally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its p.24 Sustainability Organization; p.28 Internal Audit; p.30 Code of forms, including extortion and bribery. Ethics 87 Sustainability Report 2014 2015 89 Ankara Esenboga Airport Legal Disclaimer Bengi Vargül Şen The Sustainability Report (“Report”) has been prepared by TAV Corporate Communications Director Havalimanları Holding A.Ş. in accordance with the reporting principles of bengi.vargul@tav.aero E. bengi.vargul@tav.aero GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). All opinions and information presented in this Report, which are not deemed to be in full, have been provided by TAV Havalimanları Holding A.Ş. This Report herein has solely been prepared for information purposes and does not have the goal to be Erhan Üstündağ considered as a basis for any investment decision. Any information Corporate Communications Manager provided at this Report cannot be interpreted as an offer to sell shares, E. erhan.ustundag@tav.aero or a part of an offer or an invitation of such kind of selling process for T. +90 212 463 30 00 / 2097 TAV Havalimanları Holding shares and no such legal relation can be established with the publishing of this Report. All information and related documents included during the preparation of this Report are Zehra Aydoğan believed to be correct. The information is provided in good faith and Corporate Communications Specialist based on reliable sources. However, TAV Havalimanları Holding does not provide any statement, guarantee or engagement regarding the zehra.aydogan@tav.aero subject information. As a result, neither TAV Havalimanları Holding, T. +90 212 463 30 00 / 2098 nor any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or their members of Board of Directors, consultants, or employees shall have any liability whatsoever for any direct or indirect losses and damages of anybody that may arise Report Consultant any information or communication provided in the Report or as a result Kıymeti Harbiye of any information based on or is not included in this Report. www.kiymaetiharbiye.com Limited Assurance Audit BSI www.bsigroup.com Design Happy People Project İstanbul Atatürk Havalimanı Dış Hatlar Terminali (A Kapısı VIP Yanı) 34149 Yeşilköy/İstanbul T. +90 212 463 30 00 F. +90 212 465 50 50 E. sustainability@tav.aero www.tavairports.com www.happypeople.com.tr www.gelecekicinhavalimanlari.org
