OP Financial Group’s GRI Corporate Social Responsibility Data 2015 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Contents This report contains OP Financial Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Review by the Head of CSR........................................................................2 indicators and disclosures on management approach in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 framework. The reporting also conforms with the GRI reporting recommendation for the financial sector. Disclosures on Management Approach....................4 It also encompasses information required by the United Nations Global Compact, with regard to the promotion of principles related to human CSR management at OP financial group.................................................5 rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption activities. Materiality........................................................................................................7 Standard GRI G4 disclosures are included in the following sections: the OP in 2015 report, this GRI Corporate Responsibility Data attachment, Disclosure on management approach for material aspects...............8 the Report by the Executive Board and Financial Statements of the OP Financial Group, and the OP Financial Group’s Corporate Governance Statement 2015. The GRI Content Index can be found at the end of the GRI indicators............................................................... 16 report. Economic impacts........................................................................................17 Environmental impacts............................................................................. 20 Social impacts............................................................................................. 22 GRI index....................................................................... 30 GRI G4 content index................................................................................. 31 Global Compact content index................................................................. 38 Independent assurance report................................................................ 39 Contact information................................................................................... 41 OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 1 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate social responsibility (CSR) lies at the core of OP’s operations Responsibility is one of the fundamental values of OP Financial Group and is deeply embedded in our operations. As a company owned by its customers, we perceive our operations through our dual role: in our business role, we create prosperity that we utilise in our social role. Operating in a social role means taking responsibility, not just for our owner-customers but also for the wider society and the local communities in which we operate across Finland. Responsibility is not limited to our social role – it encompasses all our operations. Our aim is to be a forerunner in CSR in the financial sector. Responsibility is not measured by words, but by actions. A lot happened in 2015. Our key mission has remained the same throughout our long history: providing financing and insurance for Finnish households and businesses. We wish to be actively involved in the development of Finnish society and the promotion of well-being. Our roots are deeply embedded in Finland, which means taking responsibility for Finns and Finland, even in challenging times. Thanks to our solid capital adequacy, we can provide security for our customers’ everyday lives and we have also been able to take exceptional actions when the Finnish economy has been in need of a stimulus. A highly successful example of this was our opening for home loan repayment holidays, which had a significant impact on households as well as the entire economy in 2015. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 2 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Significant global steps to combat climate change were taken at the Paris Climate Change Conference. Achieving the financing the ”Kesäduuni Osuuspankin piikkiin” project, in which non-profit organisations employed young people aged Responsibility is not limited targets set at the conference requires efforts from all parties. between 15 and 17, and the cooperative banks paid their to our social role – it encomOP also intends to be actively involved. As part of its c­ limate wages for two weeks. The campaign provided young people passes all our operations. change prevention efforts, OP announced that it would with their first work experience and invigorated the activity of discontinue active investments in coal; that is, investments in local communities. coal mining companies that cannot present a credible plan for reducing their climate impact. In May, we were the first fund This is the second time that the GRI report has been integratmanagement company in Finland to publish the carbon footed into the annual report and the first time that it has been print of our funds, thus providing our customers with a new externally assured. This is our way of increasing transparcomparative to assess the impact of their investments. The ency in the reporting of CSR issues. We have striven to focus new premises of our central cooperative now use electricity on what is relevant in this report, and hope that the clear generated entirely from wind power, and we are constantstructure makes it easy to read. You can learn more about ly seeking new ways to reduce our own direct and indirect other aspects of CSR in our business operations in the annual climatic impact. report. In December, we announced a donation of EUR 5 million to We also invite you to follow us on social media channels and support higher education in Finland in the round of financing engage in dialogue with us. We want to listen to our customfor universities ending in June 2017. Universities are imers and other stakeholders carefully. portant actors in their regions, and we believe that education and securing a sufficient level of expertise will contribute to OP was born to be owned by its customers, and we operate the development and vitality of the entire economy. In OP’s out of love for Finland. view, responsibility for the operating environment also means taking responsibility in the long term. Investing in education Tuuli Kousa perfectly supports this goal. Director, Public Affairs, Media Relations and CSR Our banks provide support that is important for local en@tuulikousa trepreneurship, activities for children and young people as well as culture. Last summer, the banks helped secure summer jobs for more than one thousand young people by OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 3 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Disclosures on management approach CSR management at OP financial group 5 Materiality 7 Disclosure on management approach for material aspects 8 OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 4 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 CSR management at OP financial group Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an essential part of OP Organisation of responsibility issues Assessment of management Financial Group’s operations and strategy. CSR is based on our joint values, solid capital adequacy and good risk manCSR policies and principles are approved by the Supervisory Management approach is assessed as part of general leaderagement, supported by our customer-owned business model. Board. Strategic CSR management is the responsibility of ship practices. Targets and operating principles are updated Our CSR measures encompass economic, social and environthe Executive Board of OP Cooperative, which also makes whenever there are any changes in the operating environmental responsibility. Our aim is to be a forerunner in CSR strategic decisions on CSR matters. On the OP Cooperative ment, for example. within our sector in Finland. Executive Board, CSR comes under the Chief Communications Officer’s remit. CSR issues are discussed regularly not OP Financial Group’s corporate governance practices mostly only in the Executive Board but also in business division’s International commitments cover actions related to CSR management. The main manexecutive boards. Day-to-day work concerning CSR is carried and participation in organisations agement approaches are defined in OP Financial Group’s out by CSR working groups in the business divisions’, chaired In addition to laws and regulations, OP undertakes to comply with Corporate Governance Principles. Our operations are guided by the Head of CSR. international commitments that guide operations. OP signed the by good banking and insurance practices. We comply with Global Compact initiative in 2011, becoming committed to the laws, standards and regulations and adhere to the princiinitiative’s ten principles on human rights, labour standards, enples of honest and fair operations. The Operational Risk and Corporate social responsibility programme vironment and anti-corruption. The Global Compact´s principles Compliance function oversees risks and compliance related OP’s CSR targets are guided and coordinated by the Corpohave been integrated into OP’s new supplier contracts. The printo CSR, and it also bears overall responsibility for providing rate Social Responsibility Programme, which brings together ciples of the Global Compact have also been taken into account in advice on CSR principles. The function operates independentGroup-level CSR results concerning key areas. Five key areas online training for personnel concerning the code of business ethly of the business areas. have been defined in the current Corporate Social Responsiics. More detailed information on the Global Compact´s principles bility Programme: and their application is provided at the end of this report. For reporting principles, OP follows the GRI G4 framework and the UN Global Compact and is developing the report • Local presence and society OP was among Finland’s first asset management companies in the direction of the IIRC framework. OP also takes into • Stakeholder responsibility to sign the UN Principles for Responsible Investment in 2009. account the Financial Services Sector Supplement of the GRI • Responsible products and services Since then, the Group has developed responsible investment Guidelines. OP Financial Group’s sustainability reporting is • Ethical business practices with even greater determination, and participated mainly performed within the same boundaries as the Group’s • Environment in wider development efforts in the sector. OP is also one of financial reporting. Any deviations or limitations in the boundthe founding members of Finland’s Sustainable Investment aries are reported next to the applicable data. »» The KPIs of the CSR Programme and the results of 2015 Forum (FINSIF). OP has also been involved in the C ­ orporate are presented in the OP in 2015 report. Social Responsibility Team of the Federation of Finnish Financial Services, in Finnish FIBS CR Network and the Corporate The Corporate Social Responsibility Programme will be upSocial Responsibility and Co-operative Affairs Working Group dated in 2016. of the European Association of Co-operative Banks (EACB). OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 5 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 We actively follow the development of guidelines intended for Risks Code of Business Ethics the financial sector as part of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The OECD guidelines comprise volunBefore any new products, services, business models or The Code of Business Ethics provides a foundation for all tary CSR principles and standards, as well as instructions for systems are launched, their risks and any changes in them those employed by OP Financial Group, whatever their role, applying legislation to international business operations. are assessed. Major new products, services and operating position or location. These principles, which apply to the models or significant changes to existing ones are, when whole Group and its administration, are firmly based on our OP signed the Montreal Pledge in 2015 and thereby commitnecessary, assessed by OP Cooperative’s Executive Board, basic mission and values and form an important part of the ted to measure the carbon footprint of its funds. which ultimately decides on whether they should be adoptresponsibility of our operations. The Code of Business Ethics ed. The Executive Board is informed of significant realised is available on the OP website. As in previous years, OP responded to the CDP survey, which risks as a part of monthly risk reviews. Risk maps, updated gathers information from large corporations on the effect of annually, are used to identify the critical risks affecting To ensure adoption of the Code throughout the Group, an climate change on their business and any actions they have operations, including environmental, social and corporate online course has been launched in seven languages to make taken to combat climate change and reduce greenhouse governance (ESG) risks. These maps are used to conduct an sure that almost every single OP employee is able to take it gases. In 2015, OP’s score in the survey was 91/100, while analysis on the basis of which the executive management in his or her mother tongue. By the beginning of 2016, 80% average score of respondents was 84/100. are informed of critical phenomena. The effectiveness of (88) of Group employees had completed the online course the risk and solvency management efforts of OP and its and committed to following the Code. Continuous training is organisations is evaluated in an annually updated ICAAP provided in order to enhance employees’ professional experKey CSR guidelines and principles report. Internal audits are conducted each year to examine tise, giving a wide range of training opportunities in various the state of internal controls and solvency. areas of banking, insurance and asset management, including • OP Financial Group’s Corporate Governance Principles insider regulations, ethics, data security and legislation. Any• OP Financial Group’s CSR Policies one wishing to discuss the application of the Code of Business • UN Global Compact principles Identifying material aspects Ethics, or noticing practices that violate the Code of Business • Code of Business Ethics The material aspects for reporting were identified in 2014 in Ethics, can discuss it with their line manager, with HR or with • OP Financial Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility accordance with the requirements of the GRI G4 Reporting Compliance. Confidential messages can also be sent on the Programme Guidelines with the viewpoints of both OP and its stakeholdmatter to the Group’s Chief Audit Executive. Situations of ers included. As a result of the analysis, 23 material aspects actual or suspected conflicts of interest should be reported to were identified, and they will be reported on. The aspects, both line manager and the Operational Risk and Compliance their boundaries and a description of how each aspect was function or only to the latter, in which case the matter is hanmanaged are presented in the table on pages 8-15. dled with anonymity for the person making the report. If any examples of continuous or significant violations of the Code of The material aspects have been accepted by OP Cooperative’s Business Ethics are observed, the Group Supervisory Board Executive Board. cautions the Board of the organisation in question. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 6 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Materiality Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an essential part of OP The purpose of the CSR materiality analysis is to identify responsibility-related factors in OP’s operations, and how Financial Group’s operations and strategy. The basis of CSR is the aspects of CSR that are the most central to OP and its successful OP has been in its CSR work. The process of built around our joint values, strong capital base and prostakeholders. The last time the CSR materiality analysis material aspect analysis followed the Global Reporting fessional risk management. Our CSR measures encompass was carried out was in autumn 2014, when the stakeholdInitiative G4 process in most parts. economic, social and environmental responsibility. Our aim is er survey was completed by 790 people. The respondents to be a forerunner in CSR within our sector in Finland. were asked to evaluate, for example, the importance of OP’s Materiality analysis Local presence and Responsible products Stakeholder Ethical business Environment society and services responsibility Financial performance, Combatting financial Customer privacy Occupational health and Environmental responsibility bank’s stability crime safety of the staff in the supply chain Availability of financial Management of risks Personnel training Products creating services concerning corporate Ethical business development environmental benefits responsibility Cooperative basis Effects on society Energy consumption and Fairness of product Diversity and equal emissions design and sales opportunity MATERIALITY, STAKEHOLDERS Employment Development of electronic services Stakeholder cooperation and interaction Human rights Supply chain management MATERIALITY, BUSINESS OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 7 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Disclosure on management approach for material aspects Extent of Identified reporting Topics in OP’s CRS material and restricReporting Programme related to the aspect Effects of material aspect and its management approach tions indicators material aspect ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Economic OP as a whole has major direct and indirect economic impacts on both Finnish society as a whole and on OP Financial G4-EC1 LP performance local households. Economic responsibility encompasses both the economic sustainability of operations and Group G4-EC2 takes into account of the wider economic impacts on society and the company’s stakeholders. The role as G4-EC3 SR Indirect a financier and insurer and responsibility for customers are emphasised during difficult economic times in economic particular. G4-EC4 impacts Such indirect financial impacts are created through contributions to local and regional economic vitality, as G4-EC7 well as social contributions. Examples of indirect financial impacts include hiring of new employees, purchasG4-EC8 es, investments, financing and tax payments. Goals and targets: The Group, with a cooperative foundation, aims not to maximise profits for its owners but to provide, as efficiently as possible, the services which the cooperative’s owner-customers need. A considerable part of business earnings are returned to the owner-customers. What remains of the earnings is used to strengthen the Group’s balance sheet and to ensure our ability to provide credit. We must operate efficiently and competitively while being profitable and having a strong capital base. We must produce the services our customers need at a competitive price. »» The financial targets are presented in the IR report Policies and commitments: OP follows the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) applied in the EU. Management: Direct and indirect financial impacts are managed as part of our strategy and business. OP Financial Group reports income statements and balance sheets for the following segments: Banking, Non-life Insurance, and Wealth Management. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 8 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Extent of Identified reporting Topics in OP’s CRS material and restricReporting Programme related to the aspect Effects of material aspect and its management approach tions indicators material aspect ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Energy Of the environmental impact of OP’s own operations, heating and electrical energy consumption have the OP Financial G4-EN3 SR most impact. We aim to reduce our energy consumption and to work in a energy-efficient manner, thereby Group G4-EN5 Emissions also saving in costs. OP’s operations result in waste, most of which is caused by our own operations. OP’s EN G4-EN6 primary objectives are to prevent waste creation, recycle waste, convert waste into energy by burning it, and Effluents and only if no other alternative is available, take waste to a landfill site. OP’s own operations result in greenhouse G4-EN15 Waste gas emissions. OP also has indirect impacts through its operating environment, causing greenhouse gas G4-EN16 emissions. G4-EN17 G4-EN18 Goals and targets: OP takes into account environmental effects in all its operations, from product development to serG4-EN23 vices. We will assess environmental risks as part of general risk assessment. We strive to minimise our environmental impact and to reduce our carbon footprint, increase the number of personnel working in Green Office-certified offices, prevent the generation of waste, increase the recovery rate and material recycling. Policies and commitments: OP reports on its emission levels in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG), and greenhouse gases are indicated as CO2 equivalents. Operations are controlled through legislative means by the Act on energy efficiency and the Waste Act, among others. OP’s operations are not involved in emissions trading. Management: OP has in place the WWF’s Green Office system. Green Office is applied at the Vallila campus and seven banks. Our target is to expand Green Office into more banks. Green Office is one way of expressing our environmentally conscious approach to our employees. As practical tools, our operating premises are also equipped with energy monitoring system, waste reporting, and environmental certification for buildings (LEED). OP has carried out an energy audit, recommended for large enterprises, in accordance with the Energy Efficiency Directive. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 9 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Extent of Identified reporting Topics in OP’s CRS material and restricReporting Programme related to the aspect Effects of material aspect and its management approach tions indicators material aspect SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Labour practices and decent work Employment Impacts on labour practices and decent work are considerable because OP Financial Group is a large emG4-LA1 SR ployer. OP Financial Group is a major Finnish employer: the Group employs 12,130 people, 435 of whom OP Financial G4-LA3 Labour/Managework outside Finland. Group EB G4-LA4 ment Relations G4-LA5 Occupational Goals and targets: OP aims to be the most attractive employer in the financial sector and among the most highly reG4-LA6 garded large employers in Finland. We want to develop staff competence and continuous renewal throughout the career Health and Safety path into a success factor enabling us to meet the challenges of the changing operating environment and digitalisation G4-LA11 while ensuring the required competencies now and in the years to come. We promote equal treatment of men and G4-LA12 Training and women and equal opportunities in terms of recruitment, pay and career progress. We take safety and security into Education account in all of our operations. Diversity and Policies and commitments: Impacts related to labour practices and decent work are led through strategic HR alignEqual Opportunity ments and OP Financial Group’s HR Policy. Cooperation between personnel and the employer is based on local legislation. Responsibility for occupational safety lies specifically with the employer. Occupational safety is based on prevention and planned ways of working. Management: The Group’s practical management tools include OP Financial Group’s Principles of Good Management, the remuneration system and policy, a common equal opportunities framework plan, and competence development models. Group-level procedures have been agreed for threatening situations, to be applied locally. Procedures and reporting procedures have been agreed for bank robberies. Procedures have been agreed for serious threats in terms of aftercare arrangements and protecting personnel. Customer service personnel must go through the procedures as part of the induction, with annual refresher training. Realised threat situations are entered in the operational risk management system and reported to the Board at regular intervals. The staff’s experiences of threatening customer service situations are also monitored by means of personnel surveys. Serious threats are reported to the police. Bank robberies are reported to the Board of Directors in real time and entered in the operational risk management system. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 10 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Extent of Identified reporting Topics in OP’s CRS material and restricReporting Programme related to the aspect Effects of material aspect and its management approach tions indicators material aspect Human rights Non-discrimiThese principles, which apply to the whole Group and its administration, are firmly based on our basic misOP Financial G4-HR3 SR nation sion and values and form an important part of the responsibility of our operations. OP’s own operations do Group G4-HR12 not involve any direct human rights risks or impacts of significance. Indirectly, such impacts may arise from EB Human rights the supply chain or from the operations of investees and financed parties. grievance mechanisms Goals and targets: OP aims to prevent discrimination in all its activities. OP seeks to prevent human rights violations and support the elimination of child labour and forced labour throughout its business operations and supply chain. Policies and commitments: OP’s operations are controlled by good banking and insurance practices and financial sector regulations. Prevention of discrimination and protection of human rights are referred to in, for example, the UN Global Compact, UN PRI, ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work , to which OP is committed, and OP’s Code of Business ethics. Management: Any suspicions about deviations from the Code of Business Ethics should be raised with HR, your immediate supervisor or Compliance. Personnel may also report any suspected cases of discrimination to the Audit function. Any cases of discrimination reported by customers reach us primarily through requests for clarification sent to us by the authorities. OP expects product suppliers and service providers to conform with OP’s Corporate Social Responsibility supplier requirements, Code of Business Ethics and any applicable legislation and international agreements. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 11 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Extent of Identified reporting Topics in OP’s CRS material and restricReporting Programme related to the aspect Effects of material aspect and its management approach tions indicators material aspect Society Local With regard to OP Financial Group, the major social impacts are related to active fighting of financial crime OP Financial FS13 LP Communities and abuses, including corruption, and removal of anti-competitive behaviour. OP’s effect on society is also Group FS14 witnessed by the fact that OP has Finland’s most comprehensive banking and non-life insurance service G4-SO3 SR Antinetwork. We are strictly against any anti-competitive behaviour, corruption and bribery. OP is very serious corruption about conformance to laws and the Code of Business Ethics. OP Financial Group does not support political G4-SO4 RP parties or contribute to the electoral campaigns of individual candidates. G4-SO5 Public policy G4-SO6 EB Goals and targets: OP aims to prevent financial crime and abuse and to enable free competition. OP’s view is that the G4-SO7 Anti-competifinancial sector plays a central role in the wellbeing of the economy and in the provision of necessary basic services and G4-SO8 tive behaviour opportunities for citizens, companies and institutions. OP Financial Group takes an active part in developing local and regional vitality. G4-SO11 Compliance Policies and commitments: The organisations of OP Financial Group apply a guideline entitled Procedures for Managing Operational Risk. OP Financial Group does not support political parties or contribute to the electoral campaigns of individual candidates. Our approaches are guided by the UN Global Compact initiative and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, among others. The Code of Business Ethics document ratified by the Supervisory Board of OP Cooperative specifies that employees shall avoid any situation that may put them or OP Financial Group under suspicion of bribery. Our fight against money laundering and terrorism is guided by national legislation, official regulations, national practices and the anti-money laundering and prevention of financing of terrorism operating model approved by the senior management. Management: Entities update their operational risk analyses annually based on the operational risk management guidelines. A compulsory online course for all employees of the Group was implemented to ensure familiarisation with the Code of Business Ethics at all levels. The guideline for Handling Conflicts of Interest in OP Financial Group is intended to prevent cases of corruption. All of the Group’s member organisations are responsible for applying the guidelines internally. Each and every executive and employee within the institutions must know the guidelines. Every manager is in charge of supervising compliance with the guidelines, with the CEO and board of each organisation having ultimate responsibility. The guidelines concerning conflicts of interests must be handled by each organisation and its employees on a regular basis, and whenever a new person receives job orientation. OP has a security staff designated for the prevention of abuses, dealing with abuses originating from both within the Group and from outside it. Incidents that fulfil the criteria for crime are always reported to the authorities, to be investigated, and any abuses are reported to the relevant authority, such as the Financial Supervisory Authority, and internally to OP’s Executive Board. As prescribed in the Act on Preventing and Clearing Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, we have put in place customer due diligence systems, ongoing customer due diligence methods and staff training, guidelines and protection. Any suspicious incidents will be reported to the Money Laundering Clearing House as required by law. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 12 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Extent of Identified reporting Topics in OP’s CRS material and restricReporting Programme related to the aspect Effects of material aspect and its management approach tions indicators material aspect Product responsibility Product OP’s salaried employees and members of governance bodies are bound to confidentiality by law when in OP Financial G4-PR3 EB and service terms of all customer data. OP is committed to responsible marketing and advertising. By law, customers Group G4-PR4 labelling have to be told certain conditions, properties or risks related to a product or service. G4-PR5 Marketing G4-PR7 Goals and targets: Customer-related information is processed with due care. In marketing, OP aims to provide all communicaG4-PR8 information on products and services that may be of importance to customers when making decisions. OP encourages tions its customers to improve their financial literacy. Marketing directed at children and young people is highly restricted. OP G4-PR9 takes account of this group’s general inexperience and limited capacity to act. Customer Policies and commitments: The Group complies with marketing legislation and the self-regulation guidelines of privacy international organisations, including those of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). OP also abides by the marketing guidelines of the Consumer Agency and the Financial Supervisory Authority. Instructions have been provided Compliance for conflicts of interest in the Code of Business Ethics. The Act on Credit Institutions defines obligations regarding bank secrecy, encompassing the secrecy obligation concerning a Group customer or personal data in connection with other activities. OP’s salaried employees and members of governance bodies are bound to confidentiality by law; bank and insurance secrecy guarantees confidential processing of all customer data. Employees may process customer information only to the extent required by their duties. Management: OP complies with industry regulations, good banking and insurance practices, and good stock market practices. In addition, OP adheres to several acts, as well as regulations and guidelines issued by supervisory authorities. The Code of Business Ethics provides an ethical foundation for all those employed by OP, whatever their role, position or location. Compliance goes through marketing material regularly, making improvement suggestions, which the business units implement without delay. OP is taking part in a nationwide project to improve young people’s financial literacy. Local banks give lessons at schools to teach financial skills. Principles are followed as part of normal processes. The principles are updated whenever necessary. OP Financial Group’s risk and capital adequacy principles are confirmed by the Supervisory Board. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 13 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Extent of Identified reporting Topics in OP’s CRS material and restricReporting Programme related to the aspect Effects of material aspect and its management approach tions indicators material aspect Product responsibility Active OP manages customers’ assets worth in excess of EUR 68 billion. Active ownership is an integral part of OP Fund FS10 RP ownership responsible investment Management FS11 Company EB Goals and targets: We take the role of active owners, encourage our target companies and cooperation partners to do business responsibly, and we promote responsible investment in the sector. Policies and commitments: OP Fund Management Company exercises the voting rights of the mutual funds managed by it, in accordance with the ownership policy approved by the company’s Board of Directors. The Group does its best to discuss grievances directly with the companies prior to AGMs, so that it will be possible to support the Board’s proposal if it comes to voting. OP Wealth Management has signed the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI). We expect our investment targets to conform with generally accepted international standards such as the Global Compact and OECD’s guidelines for multinational companies. Management: Ownership policy is implemented by actively participating in the general meetings of Finnish companies, in particular. One of the most important ways for OP to obtain information on and assess the responsibility of companies to invest in is through meetings with the companies’ executives. Systematic monitoring and supervision of ESG criteria of potential and existing investments through an international partner. If their investments include companies with violations of international standards or other operations which are not responsible or in line with the investor’s long-term interests, we will address the situation to correct it. If this does not produce the desired effect, the Committee for Responsible Investment may decide to sell the investment. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 14 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Extent of Identified reporting Topics in OP’s CRS material and restricReporting Programme related to the aspect Effects of material aspect and its management approach tions indicators material aspect Product responsibility Auditing CSR is integrated into daily operations, and the fulfilment of environmental and social responsibility policies SR and related risks are assessed within ordinary business processes. Compliance with CSR procedures is evaluated, for instance, when approving new products, business models and systems, and monitoring business RP ethics. Auditing related to ownership has been described under the subject of active ownership. EB Goals and targets: The goal of OP’s procurement function is to ensure that any services, products or rights that are acquired are on the whole cost-effective, of high quality and reliable and ethical and that suppliers are managed professionally to the benefit of OP Financial Group and its customers. Policies and commitments: Procurement decisions are made on the basis of not only procurement guidelines but also CSR supplier requirements. Management: OP’s CSR requirements for suppliers are included in the product and service supplier contracts. Suppliers evaluate themselves in terms of corporate social responsibility for the first time when they take part in competitive tendering, and during cooperation with OP on a regular basis as instructed by OP’s procurement function. According to the operating model created in 2015, OP audits suppliers in accordance with the CSR audit plan of OP’s procurement function. OP Financial Group develops its CSR audit methods as part of its overall management approaches. Corporate social responsibility programme codes: LP Local presence and society SR Stakeholder responsibility RP Responsible products and services EB Ethical business EN Environment OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 15 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 GRI indicators Economic impacts 17 Environmental impacts 20 Social impacts 22 OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 16 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Economic impacts G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED TO STAKEHOLDERS It follows naturally from OP Financial Group’s dual role, brought about by customer ownership, that business profits EUR million 2013 2014 2015 and added value are channelled, via customer relationships, Finland to its members and customers. Member cooperative banks Direct economic added value created use their profits for the benefit of their customers by providing loyalty benefits and other financial benefits and by maina) Income 2,450 2,657 2,808 #Paying it Forward taining and developing their service capabilities. In 2015, new Breakdown of economic value added customer bonuses totalled EUR 197 million, up 4.5% year on To celebrate its 100th anniversary, OP made b) Operating expenses 619 661 574 year. Furthermore a significant part of OP’s economic impacts a single New Year’s resolution: to do one good c) Personnel costs 791 741 781 also involves indirect impacts on local and regional economic deed to benefit Kainuu every week, together vitality. Examples of indirect economic impacts are: d) Returns to owner-customers 193 195 195 with Kainuu residents. For instance, we have e) Income tax 36 308 249 supplied a children’s ward with consumer elec• Employment (creation of new jobs, work placements, tronics, arranged an entertainment concert for f) Donations and other community summer jobs) investments 3.0 3.7 2.8 the elderly, and supported family carers, par• Procurement (purchases from local suppliers and service For strengthening capital base and deveents of children with special needs, and mental providers) • Investments (properties, local infrastructure and building loping business 807 749 1,007 health care for the young, lists Bank Manager projects) Hanna Niskanen. • Financing (financing for start-ups, local financing) The member banks are often some of the largest taxpayers in their local municipalities, and OP as a whole is one of the Not all deeds involved material assistance or biggest taxpayers in Finland. OP Financial Group’s income financial things; our staff have also been great taxes for the financial year 2015 totalled EUR 251 million in participating. For example, we have taken (337). Following a change in deferred taxes, the Group’s senior citizens for a walk, donated blood, and income taxes were EUR 249 million (308). The effective tax cleaned up playgrounds. rate is 22.5% (33.6). This year, the Good Deed campaign will be continued Group-wide. #hyväkiertämään OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 17 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change OP’s direct impact on environment change is minor. Environmental risks, on the other hand, including climate risks, can have direct impacts on OP’s operations, as well as indirect impacts through effects on customers and stakeholders. In emissions and energy intensive sectors, climate change The Pohjois-Savon Osuuspankki’s Owner-customer and related regulation may have significant financial effects. is a Benefactor campaign Indirect effects on climate change are created through OP financing and investments. At the start of September 2015, Pohjois-Savon Osuuspankki launched the local “The Ownercustomer is a Benefactor” camExtreme weather is also an operational risk included in OP’s paign, where the bank donates EUR 10 to a local cause for each new own continuity planning. Concerns related to climate change owner-customer who becomes a member of the bank. The donations may pose reputation risks if any conflicts with climate change are made each month. Customers can suggest donees via the bank’s prevention efforts should be identified in the operations of website and Facebook page, and the bank’s management chooses the OP’s or even those of its partners or customers. donee from these suggestions. Over 30 customer suggestions were On the other hand, the general improvement in environmenreceived during the first four months of the campaign. tal awareness is bringing new business opportunities, for example in the form of investment products that emphasise Almost EUR 12,000 was donated during the autumn of 2015. The environmental responsibility, and diverse property insuranccampaign’s first recipients of the monthly donations were Omaiset es. Our non-life insurance business continuously monitors Mielenterveystyön tukena ry., the Paediatric Haematology and Oncolthe development of risks posed by climate change from the ogy Department of Kuopio University Hospital, Save the Children viewpoint of our existing and future insurance products. Our Iisalmi, and the Youth Service Association’s Zemppari initiative. The aim is to cover all insurable risks as extensively as possible, campaign will continue until 30 June 2016. also in constantly changing circumstances. OP assesses the financial implications of climate change risks in its annual response to the CDP survey. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 18 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Indirect economic impacts In OP, purchase contracts and orders must be based on Group-level framework agreements made by the Group’s In 2015, fifty cooperative procurement functions wherever applicable. These agreebanks offered a total of G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and service provided primarily for public benefit ments require that suppliers comply not only with the around 1,200 summer jobs supplier requirements introduced in 2015 but also with OP’s through commercial, in-kind of pro-bono engagement good business practices and with the Global Compact, as well to young people aged 15 to OP has Finland’s largest network of banking and non-life inas with all the applicable laws and regulations. The supplier 17 in local non-profit organsurance services. This network seeks to ensure that customers have equal opportunities to carry out transactions. The requirements introduced in 2015 by OP will be included, as specified in the purchase guidelines, into any new product isations. The bank’s support service network covers both digital service channels (op.fi, supplier and service provider contracts. Suppliers evaluate to employers was EUR 360 OP-mobile and Pivo), telephone services and the network of themselves in terms of corporate social responsibility for the first time when they take part in competitive tendering, and per summer employee. branch offices. We are further developing our service channels by listening to our customers and their changing needs. during cooperation with OP on a regular basis. OP audits suppliers in accordance with the procurement function’s auG4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the diting plan. In 2014, Finnish suppliers accounted for approxextent of impacts imately 98 per cent of the purchases made by the Group’s centralised procurement. On 31 December, OP Financial Group had 12,130 employees (12,356). Of these, 93 (95) per cent were permanently em»» Read more in the IR-report on impacts of society. ployed and 7 (5) per cent were fixed-term employees. Furthermore, the Group employed a total of 483 summer employees and trainees during the year. OP is also a significant purchaser of Finnish goods and services. In 2015, the combined purchase volume of services, products, rights and the claims service partner network was approximately EUR 615 million (900), provided by over 20,000 suppliers. Apart from this, the Group’s functions look after their own fundraising and investment-related acquisitions. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 19 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Environmental impacts Energy The electrical energy for the Vallila campus and the data centres is generated entirely through wind power. The energy intensity, or total energy consumption per employee, of OP G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation and Financial Group offices amounted to 11.7 MWh/year/person. G4-EN5 Energy intensity Testing of a back-up generator for the Vallila property used The total energy consumption covers OP Financial Group’s around 600 litres of diesel. heat and electricity consumption and the fuels of back-up The Päijät-Häme Vesijärvi Foundation was generators in all countries where the Group operates (exG4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption established in 2008 to support the rehabilicluding Russia). In 2015, the total energy consumption was tation of the local waterways. Päijät-Hämeen The Vallila campus, completed in 2015, was built in confor142,360 MWh, down by 15.2% from the previous year . The Osuuspankki has been an annual supporter of mance with our energy and environmental principles. The consumption monitoring data for 2013 has not been presentthe foundation from the beginning. CompreVallila campus project received a LEED certificate with a Gold ed because it was incomplete. Consumption on sites not covrating. The lighting, for example, uses LED technology, conhensive and extensive rehabilitation measures ered by consumption monitoring has been calculated on the trolled with motion sensors. The property was connected to a will be taken in the rehabilitation of Lake basis of specific consumption by type of real property. These district cooling network. Vesijärvi, combined with an assessment of their sites account for approximately half of the consumption. impact and communicating the said measures to the public. While the algae problems of the lake have been significantly reduced and the water has become clearer, residents’ awareness TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN OP FINANCIAL GROUP and willingness to act to the benefit of the lake 2014 2015 has also increased. For its part, OP wishes to District heating 77,716 73,400 be involved in the project. The rehabilitation of Lake Vesijärvi has become a source of pride in District cooling 2,868 2,670 the Lahti region. Fuels (Heating and reserve power) 6,946 7,060 Electricity 80,311 59,230 Total (MWh) 167,841 142,360 OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 20 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Emissions G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) For indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3), the following The CO2 emission limit for the OP Central Cooperative’s company cars is 150 g/km. At the end of 2015, the average CO2 sub-areas have been calculated. emissions of company cars equalled 130 g/km (137). G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) and G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) In 2015, business travel caused 2,622 tonnes of CO2 emisemissions (Scope 2) and G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS, TONS OF CO2E sions (2,408). OP uses video and online conferencing technolemissions intensity ogy to reduce business travel. Its travel guidelines state that 2014 2015 trains or buses must be favoured for travel within Finland. Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) are created by company vehicles and fuel consumed by standby generators Purchased products and services 2,266 2,508 OP Cooperative employees have access to travel cards to for the premises. Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Waste from operations 598 609 encourage the use of public transport for commuting. emissions (scope 2) are the result of electricity and heating Business travel 2,408 2,622 energy consumption in the premises. Energy for the Vallila OP is an indirect opinion leader in encouraging customers campus was generated entirely by wind power in 2015. to take environmental impacts into account when making Purchased products and services include emissions generated financing, insurance and investment decisions, and in recomby used office stationery, mail transport services, external The emission factors used in emission calculations are based mending the use of e-services and electronic documents. data centres and customer magazines. on the 2014 District Heating Statistics, the IEA district heating data for 2013, the Eurostat data for 2012, the Ecoinvent database and, with respect to green electricity, data provided With respect to indirect emissions, we also calculate emisWaste sions generated by equity funds. The related reports are by the Finnish Green Building Council (FIGBC). published on the op.fi website. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method In 2015, the OP offices managed by OP-Services in the SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS, TONS OF CO2E G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Helsinki Metropolitan Area generated a total of 1,089 tons of 2014 2015 OP’s corporate responsibility programme has set a target to waste (1,573). 79% (81) was recycled or reused. The amount of Scope 1 1,800 1,775 reduce the carbon footprint of its own operations annually. The hazardous waste was 14.4 tons. direct greenhouse gas emissions from OP’s own operations Scope 2 37,114 23,446 (Scopes 1+2) totalled 25,221 CO2e-tonnes (38,914) or 2.08 Intensity tonnes (3.1) per person. These emissions (Scopes 1+2) have CO2e tons per person 3.1 2. 08 decreased by approximately 28% from 2011 (comparative 2011 34,847 tonnes of CO2e). In 2015, the electricity consumed by the Vallila premises was generated entirely by wind power. In 2014, the emission impact was 3,284 CO2e-tons. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 21 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Social responsibility G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract, WORKFORCE BY CONTRACT TYPE, % WORKFORCE BY GENDER, % employment type, region and gender 7 The number of personnel employed by OP Financial Group Permanent 28 Men fell by 226 in 2015. At year-end, the Group employed 12,130 Fixed-term Women persons (12,356). 93% (95) were permanently employed. Of Group employees, 11,695 (11,915) were based in Finland, 191 in Estonia, 112 in Latvia, 130 in Lithuania and two in Russia. 72 Men Women Total Permanent full-time 93 employees 3,066 7,540 10,606 Permanent part-time employees 54 664 718 WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE, % WORKFORCE BY AGE GROUP, % Fixed-term full-time 7 employees 188 459 647 13 Full-time Under 30 yrs Fixed-term part-time Part-time 30−39 yrs employees 54 105 159 39 40−49 yrs Total 3,362 8,768 12,130 Over 49 yrs 28 Men Women Total Finland 3,237 8,458 11,695 Estonia 50 141 191 93 20 Latvia 29 83 112 Lithuania 46 84 130 Russia 0 2 2 Total 3,362 8,768 12,130 OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 22 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Labour practices G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified In Finland, 90% (90) of OP Financial Group personnel are covered by universally binding collective labour agreements. and decent work in collective agreements No binding collective agreements exist in the sector in the Baltic region. OP Financial Group performs all cooperation procedures in G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and compliance with the Act on Co-operation within Undertakings employee turnover by age group, gender and region and other local legislation governing such procedures. OP G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in Financial Group has arranged cooperation with employees formal joint management-worker health and safety commitWithout the effect of the business transfers, the annual turntees that help monitor and advise on occupational health through a cooperation group that convenes on a quarterly over of permanent employees equalled 8.3% (8.1). During the and safety programs basis. The group discusses OP Financial Group’s finances and year, a total of 243 employment relationships ended, 63 for performance, along with other current matters concerning At OP Financial Group, the percentage of the total workforce production-related reasons and 180 through voluntary arthe entire Group. All Group companies have arranged their represented in health and safety committees is 87% of the rangements. Business transfers also resulted in the transfer own cooperation procedures in accordance with legislation. entire Group personnel.The central cooperative has its own of 105 employees to the employment of another company. health and safety committee, and so do all banks with more OP Financial Group abides by local legislation in all its operathan 20 employees. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after tions. In Finland, the main regulations concerning corporate parental leave, by gender reorganisations are found in the Act on Co-operation within G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational In 2015, a total of 1,112 people were on parental leave, 812 Undertakings. According to the Act, in cases of business diseases, lost days, absenteeism and total number of of which were women and 300 men. 100% of men and 94% of transfer, staff representatives must be given one week’s work-related fatalities, by region and by gender the women whose parental leave ended in 2015 returned to notice. Written proposals for personnel negotiations must be work. In 2014, the corresponding rates were 87% for men and submitted to staff representatives five days prior to the start In 2015, sickness absences accounted for 3.5% (3.5) of 93% for women. These figures only include employees within of negotiations. regular working hours. For men, the proportion of sick leaves Finland and exclude any OP-Kiinteistökeskus employees. was 1.8% (1.8) and for women 4.1% (4.1). Sickness absences have remained at the same level throughout the 2010s. The figures are for Finland, excluding the personnel of OP-KiinNEW FIRST-TIME WORK RELATIONSHIPS IN FINLAND AND THE ENTIRE GROUP teistökeskus. Men Women Total (Finland) (Finland) Finland Men Women Total G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal Under 30 years 244 371 615 256 385 641 agreements with trade 30–39 years 70 115 185 72 128 200 OP Financial Group is a unionised employer. The Group com40–49 years 37 64 101 37 65 102 panies apply three collective labour agreements: the collective agreement for the finance industry in banking operations, the Over 49 years 26 39 65 27 45 72 collective agreement for the insurance industry in insurance Total 377 589 966 392 623 1,015 operations, and the collective agreement for the medical OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 23 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 services industry at Omasairaala. These agreements contain GOVERNING BODIES BY GENDER, % WORKFORCE BY PERSONNEL GROUP, % regulations on, for example, the implementation of coopera4 tion in occupational safety and health matters and the status Men 9 Salaried employees of industrial safety delegates and ensuring their operating Women Experts 36 conditions. As a large-scale financial sector employer, OP Supervisors Financial Group plays a major role in developing the industry. and team leaders Management G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong 30 learning that support the continued employability of employ57 ees and assist them in managing career endings 64 OP Financial Group offers personnel, supervisors and management a variety of ways to develop their competencies. One of the key methods of employee competence development is the provision of versatile career opportunities through job rotation within the Group. GOVERNING BODIES BY AGE GROUP, % WORKFORCE BY PERSONNEL GROUP AND GENDER, % 1.5 Men Competence development makes use of digital media in 9.9 Under 30 yrs 100 28 Women particular, such as videos and online material. A new online 30−39 yrs 80 learning environment was introduced in 2015, enabling a 40−49 yrs 59 55 72 new kind of interactive way of learning and more flexible Over 49 yrs 60 86 studying. Other development techniques, such as mentor21.9 40 72 ing, coaching and 360 assessment is used in competence 41 45 development, and attention is paid to target-oriented on66.7 20 28 the-job learning. Employee performance reviews also play an 14 0 important role alongside training and education. The entire ent and per ts ied lar s All em rs rs Ex Sa loyee OP personnel in Finland and abroad have performance and anag r viso leade p M pe m em Su tea career development reviews at least once a year. The aim of OP Financial Group’s operating model for the management of employee wellbeing is to increasingly ensure, the labour market competency of those at risk of unemploya support package and coaching that supports his or her through close and well-organised management of occument. If there is no more work due to production-related employment. Key employee wellbeing elements include the pational safety and health and wellbeing at work, the work and financial reasons and an employee becomes under the early support model, occupational health care, rehabilitation, ability of the elderly and those at risk of work disability and risk of unemployment, he or she has the opportunity to get flexibility at work and diversity management, among others. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 24 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular EMPLOYEES WHO HAVE HAD A PERFORMANCE REVIEW PERSONS WITH AN EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT performance and career development reviews (AND THOSE WHO HAVE JOINED THE GROUP SINCE THE Men Women Total PREVIOUS PERFORMANCE REVIEW PERIOD) ACCORDING Employee performance reviews are an integral part of perforTO OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S PERSONNEL SURVEY Under 30 years 465 1,097 1,562 mance management. These include the goal-setting review, By gender 2015 30–39 years 1,083 2,335 3,418 the performance review and the competence and follow-up review. In the future, other reviews related to personal develWomen 85% 40–49 years 691 1,685 2,376 opment and performance will also be included. The first review Men 81% Over 49 years 1,123 3,651 4,774 of the year sets targets for the coming period, the second deals Total 3,362 8,768 12,130 Total 83% with competencies and realisation of targets in the current period, and a year-end review summarises the past period. By position 2015 Men Women Total OP Financial Group had two organisation-wide personnel Managers 361 137 498 Employee 83% surveys in 2015: Personnel Survey and Personnel Pulse. Expert 83% Supervisors 433 634 1,067 The purpose of the Personnel Survey is to give concrete and Supervisor 90% Experts 1,629 1,995 3,624 easily applicable information about management, personnel Management 91% Officials 939 6,002 6,941 commitment, the organisation’s ability to reinvent itself, and Total 83% Total 3,362 8,768 12,130 a customer-focused approach as a basis for development. The Personnel Survey acts as a tool for line management, supervisors and HR, creating summaries and analyses of the G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown MEMBERS OF GOVERNING BODIES personnel’s views. OP’s Personnel Survey was participated in of employees per employee categoryaccording to gender, by the central institution, 74 banks or OPKKs. Representative Assembly, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators Supervisory Board and of diversity Board of Directors Men Women Total The Personnel Pulse gauges employee sentiment briefly The average age of the OP Financial Group’s personnel was Under 30 years 55 45 100 and quickly. The Personnel Pulse is an employee wellbeing 43.8 years. At the end of 2015, 72% of OP Financial Group’s tool designed mainly to support immediate superiors. The 30–39 yrs 362 289 651 personnel was women and 28% men. Personnel Pulse helps to elicit information on employee 40–49 yrs 795 643 1,438 wellbeing, job satisfaction, opinions and experiences related Over 49 yrs 2,985 1,398 4,383 to leadership work that can be used as the basis for improvements several times a year. The aim is to provide manageTotal 4,197 2,375 6,572 ment and supervisors / team leaders the opportunity for proactive measures and fast responses. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 25 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Human rights FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people We provide comprehensive services in Finnish and SwedNon-discrimination ish, but among corporate customers as well as in growth centres and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area in particular, there is a great demand for services in English. For our G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination English-speaking customers, we provide electronic serOP Etelä-Karjala supports young and corrective actions taken vices (op.fi, OP-mobile and Pivo) for carrying out their daily entrepreneurs starting up their own No new cases of discrimination were reported through transactions for banking and insurance. With respect to businesses with its StartupMill project what is now the Non-Discrimination and Equality Board, or other services, we develop our service capabilities in English through HR or any audits. A claim made in 2014 against OP in line with customer needs. Some OP-Kiinteistökeskus The StartupMill premises in Skinnarila, Financial Group about discrimination has been appealed to branches also offer service in Russian. Lappeenranta, are offered to young, comthe Administrative Court of Helsinki on 23 January 2015. petence-based start-up businesses. A comIn the Baltic countries, our branches serve customers in pany can receive financial support from OP Society local languages, while our electronic services are available in English. Etelä-Karjala for the payment of rent for a period of three to six months. The text version of op.fi website (pda.op.fi) is widely used by Local communities people with vision impairments, enabling the use of disability aids such as a speech synthesizer. Furthermore, OP provides FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically key code lists in Braille, enabling the use of the eService. disadvantaged areas by type OP has Finland’s largest network of banking and non-life insurance services. This network seeks to ensure that cusAnti-corruption tomers have equal opportunities to carry out transactions. Our cooperative banks and their offices across Finland enable G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed effective interaction with customers and the local community. for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified The organisations of OP Financial Group apply a guideline enThe Group’s member banks had some 450 branches at the titled Procedures for Managing Operational Risk. The Central end of 2015, as well as some 1,465 Otto ATMs (shared beCooperative formulates a risk analysis plan indicating which tween Finland’s banks) around the country. entities are to be analysed. If necessary, the entities to be OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 26 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 analysed can be agreed with the Group’s member organiGroup’s member organisations are responsible for applysations. Owing to delays with a system update concerning ing the guidelines internally. Each and every executive and operational risk management, the majority of the Group employee within the institutions must know the guidelines. companies’ risk assessments (a total of about 260) will be Every manager is in charge of supervising compliance with updated in 2016. 24% of Group companies completed a risk the guidelines, with the CEO and board of each organisation assessment in 2015. having ultimate responsibility. The guidelines concerning conflicts of interests must be handled by each organisation and The Taloustaito project for giving These entities update their operational risk analyses annually its employees on a regular basis, and whenever a new person based on the procedural guidelines. The risk analyses are receives job orientation. By the end of 2015, the course had financial advice to young people based on the organisations’ self-evaluations concerning operbeen taken by 80% of the personnel. at risk of becoming marginalised ational risks and their management. In line with the analysis process, each organisation identifies and evaluates the most OP has been involved in the Taloustaito projimportant risks affecting its operations. To assist in identifiAnti-competitive behaviour ect, where practical financial advice is given to cation, the Group has a shared risk library which lists diverse young people at risk of becoming marginalised risks subdivided into seven risk categories. The Internal G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive and who have significant shortcomings in their Abuse category includes the risk, Giving and Receiving Bribes. behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their everyday financial management skills. outcomes Bribery has not been a significant risk in any of the risk Managing one’s finances has an all-encomassessments. OP has no pending legal actions related to anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices. passing impact on the everyday life of a young person, and those in the target group need G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption a lot of support in this matter. Losing one’s Late in 2015, OP was requested to respond to allegations policies and procedures credit rating makes getting a rental apartment that it was engaged in monopoly practices. The Code of Business Ethics document ratified by the or home insurance, for instance, much more Supervisory Board of OP Central Cooperative specifies that According to a competitor, OP has a monopoly position in redifficult. There are numerous volunteer workemployees shall avoid any situation that may put them or OP tail banking services and is abusing this position by combining ers at the banks with both the skills and the will Financial Group under suspicion of bribery. A compulsory onretail banking services with non-life insurance services. OP to use their professional know-how to support line course for all employees of the Group was implemented has also been claimed to offer non-life insurance services beyoung people. to ensure familiarisation with the guidelines at all levels. low production costs. OP wants to cooperate with the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority and provide them with The guideline for Handling Conflicts of Interest in OP Financial any information they may need. Group is intended to prevent cases of corruption. All of the OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 27 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Product responsibility Product and service labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s procedures for product and service Lessons for Year 9 pupils information and labelling, and percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such information Last year, 61 lessons in managing one’s own requirements finances were arranged in the OP Etelä-Häme region. These lessons included basic banking OP Financial Group complies with legislation which requires that customers be informed of certain terms, properties or and insurance services for young people, online risks related to a product or service. This notification obligasecurity, and securing one’s future by keeping tion applies to all three business areas of the Group: banking, one’s credit history clean, for instance. The non-life insurance and asset management. lessons also involved discussions on whether to rent or purchase an apartment. Customer privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data No written customer complaints were received in 2015. OP detected a few cases in breach of customer privacy protection. These concerned two information bulletins that were emailed to customers with all the recipients visible to all, and two institutional customers’ balance statements being sent to the wrong customers. These were cases of human error. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 28 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Active ownership FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening Negative screening OP actively monitors the fulfilment of international standards by investment targets in line with OP Asset Management’s FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the Positive screening Principles for Responsible Investment, both when making institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation the investment decision and during the time of ownership. has interacted on environmental or social issues OP Financial Group encourages its investees and partners to Investment vehicles are screened for violations of internationOP Fund Management implements its ownership policy operate responsibly and in line with international standards. al standards. Furthermore, OP ensures that its portfolios do by actively participating in the general meetings of Finnish Primarily, the most attractive investment targets in any fund not include manufacturers, sellers or marketers of weapcompanies, in particular. One of the most important ways are issuers whose operations are irreproachable in relation to ons (anti-personnel mines and cluster weapons) banned by for OP to obtain information on and assess the responsibility international ethical standards. Positive screening is particularcertain treaties. This screening is performed biannually by an of companies to invest in, are meetings with the companies’ ly visible in the OP Climate and OP Clean Water funds, as well external analysis company. The screening applies to all active executives. At year-end 2015, the OP funds managed by OP as in the OP-Low-carbon World Fund which started operations OP equity funds and corporate bond funds that make direct Asset Management contained shares from 62 Finnish listed in 2015. The OP Climate Fund portfolio includes companies investments as well as discretionary client portfolios that companies. OP Asset Management discussed environmenthat will be in a good position when societies and businesses make the above-mentioned investments. tal and social responsibility issues with 16 per cent of these adapt their energy solutions and use of materials towards during the year. lower-carbon alternatives. OP Clean Water, in turn, invests in companies operating sustainably in the water resource manOP also has other ways of influencing companies. If their agement field, especially within the development of water-savinvestments include companies with violations of international ing technology, pollution prevention and the construction of standards or other operations which are not responsible or in reliable water infrastructures. OP Low-carbon World Fund line with the investor’s long-term interests, OP will influence invests in companies which stand out from the competition on them to address the situation. If this does not produce the the basis of a smaller carbon footprint. At the end of 2015, the desired effect, the Committee for Responsible Investment total value of these funds was EUR 186.7 million or 2.6 per may decide to sell the investment. cent of OP Fund Management’s equity fund capital. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 29 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 GRI index GRI G4 content index 31 Global Compact content index 38 Independent assurance report 39 OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 30 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 GRI-content GRI content Location Further information STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO’s statement OP Year 2015: Review by the President, Group Executive Chairman G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities OP Year 2015: Operating environment and strategy ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation Financial Statements, Appendix 1: General information G4-4 Primary brands, products and services OP Year 2015: OP business segments G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Helsinki G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where Financial Statements, Appendix 57 either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Financial Statements, Appendix 57 G4-8 Market areas OP Year 2015: OP business segments G4-9 Scale of the organisation OP Year 2015: Key figures G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract, employment type, region and gender GRI information, p. 22 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements GRI information, p. 23 G4-12 Organization’s supply chain OP Year 2015: Operating environment and strategy, GRI information, p. 19 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, Financial Statements, Report by the Board of ­Directors: ownership, or its supply chain Changes in OP Financial Group’s structure G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation Financial Statements, Appendix 2: Principles of OP Financial Group's Risk and Capital Adequacy Management OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 31 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 GRI content Location Further information G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other GRI information, p. 5­–6 initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organisations GRI information, p. 5–6 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements, Appendix 57 G4-18 Process for defining the report content GRI information, p. 7–15 G4-19 Material aspects GRI information, p. 8-15 G4-20 List of entities or groups of entities within the organisation for which the aspects GRI information, p. 7–15 are material G4-21 List of entities or groups of entities outside of the organisation for which the GRI information, p. 7–15 aspects are material G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, No restatements and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries No restatements STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation OP Year 2015: Stakeholder engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engagement OP Year 2015: Stakeholder engagement G4-26 The Organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement OP Year 2015: Stakeholder engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement OP Year 2015: Stakeholder engagement OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 32 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 GRI content Location Further information REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 26 Feb 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents GRI information, p. 41 G4-32 GRI content index GRI information, p. 31–37 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance Assurance statement p. 39 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure, including committees Corporate Governance: Supervisory Board and its committees BUSINESS ETHICS G4-56 Ethics and integrity Corporate Governance: Management System OP Year 2015: Strategy DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH General disclosure on management approach (DMA) GRI information, p. 5–6 Aspect-specific disclosures on management approach GRI information, p. 8-15 Operational KPIs ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Aspect: Economic performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed GRI information, p. 17 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s GRI information, p. 18 activities due to climate change OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 33 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 GRI content Location Further information G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Financial Statements, Appendix 41 G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government OP Financial Group received no significant financial assistance from the government in 2015. Aspect: Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and service provided GRI information, p. 19 Local projects, investments in an active Finnish primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro-bono engagement payment traffic system. G4-EC8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the GRI information, p. 19 extent of impacts ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source GRI information, p. 20 G4-EN5 Energy intensity GRI information, p. 20 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption GRI information, p. 20 Absolute data on reduced consumption is unavailable. Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) GRI information, p. 21 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) GRI information, p. 21 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) GRI information, p. 21 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity GRI information, p. 21 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions GRI information, p. 21 Aspect: Waste and wastewater G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method GRI information, p. 21 Data available only on the Helsinki premises. OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 34 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 GRI content Location Further information SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Labour practices and decent work Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by GRI information, p. 23 age group, gender and region G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender GRI information, p. 23 Aspect: Labour/management relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these GRI information, p. 23 are specified in collective agreements Aspect: Labour/management Relations G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker GRI information, p. 23 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes G4-LA6 Accident types and frequencies, frequencies of occupational diseases, lost days, GRI information, p. 23 OP monitors accidental injuries, occupational absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender diseases and work-related fatalities but they are not relevant for reporting. G4-LA7 Workers with a high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation OP Financial Group’s business does not include positions with a recognised high incidence or risk of specific diseases. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions GRI information, p. 23 Aspect: Education G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued GRI information, p. 24 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development G4-LA11 reviews, by gender and employee category GRI information, p. 25 OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 35 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 GRI content Location Further information Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee GRI information, p. 25 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Human rights Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI information, p. 26 Aspect: Human rights grievance mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights filed, addressed and resolved through No cases in 2015. formal grievance mechanisms Society Aspect: Local communities FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type GRI information, p. 26 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people GRI information, p. 26 Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to GRI information, p. 26 corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI information, p. 27 Training on prevention of misbehaviour. Training on Code of Business Ethics. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No cases in 2015. Aspect: Public policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary OP Financial Group does not endorse any political parties or support the election campaigns of any political candidate. Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, G4-SO7 and monopoly practices and their outcomes GRI information, p. 27 OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 36 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 GRI content Location Further information Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions No cases in 2015. for non-compliance with laws and regulations G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved No cases in 2015. through formal grievance mechanisms Product responsibility Aspect: Product and service labelling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s procedures GRI information, p. 28 for product and service information and labelling, and percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No cases in 2015. concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction OP Year 2015: Owner-customers and loyalty benefits Aspect: Marketing communications G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No cases in 2015. concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy GRI information, p. 28 and losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations No cases in 2015. concerning the provision and use of products and services Aspect: Active ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which GRI information, p. 29 the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening GRI information, p. 29 OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 37 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Global Compact content index Location HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Disclosure on Management Approach s. 5 humanrights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Disclosure on Management Approach s. 5. Human rights p. 11, 26 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of G4-LA8, s. 23 the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Disclosure on Management Approach s. 5 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Disclosure on Management Approach s. 5 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Disclosure on Management Approach s. 5, Human rights p. 11, 26 and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Disclosure on Management Approach s. 5, Environmental impacts s. 9, 20–21 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach s. 5-6 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Disclosure on Management Approach s. 5, Environmental impacts s. 9, 20–21 friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Code of Business Ethics p. 6 and bribery OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 38 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Independent assurance report This document is an English translation of the Finnish report To the Management ed policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal formation is presented in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 in all of OP Cooperative and regulatory requirements.We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than OP Cooperative for our material respects. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the We have been engaged by the Management of OP Cooperative work, for this assurance report, or for the conclusions we preparation of the Corporate Social Responsibility Informato provide limited assurance on the OP Financial Group’s have reached. tion, and applying analytical and other evidence gathering corporate responsibility information from the reporting procedures, as appropriate. The evidence gathering proceperiod 1.1.–31.12.2015, which has been presented in the The evaluation criteria used for our assurance are the Global dures mentioned above are more limited than for a reason“OP Financial Group’s GRI Corporate Social Responsibility data Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4. able assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is 2015” report as well as in section “Themes of Responsibility” of obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. the “With love for Finland OP Year 2015” report published in the web (hereafter Corporate Social Responsibility I­nformation). Limitations of the engagement In our engagement we have performed the following Data and information related to corporate responsibility are ­procedures: The Management of OP Cooperative is responsible for subject to inherent limitations applying to data accuracy and • Interviews with three members of the Management the preparation and presentation of the Corporate Social completeness, which are to be taken into account when readof OP Cooperative to reassert our understanding of ­Responsibility Information in accordance with the Global ing our assurance report. The presented C ­ orporate Social the connection between OP Financial Group’s corpo­Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4. Responsibility Information is to be considered in connection rate ­responsibility procedures and OP Financial Group’s with the explanatory information on data collection, consolbusiness strategy and operations as well as corporate Our responsibility is to carry out an engagement to express idation and assessments provided by OP Financial Group. responsibility objectives; an independent conclusion on the information subject to the Our assurance report is not intended for use on its own in • An assessment of the Corporate Social Responsibility assurance based on the work performed. We conducted our evaluating OP Financial Group’s performance in executing Information’s conformity with the principles of the G4 engagement in accordance with the International Standard the corporate responsibility principles OP Financial Group guidelines for defining content and reporting quality; on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagehas defined. To assess the financial state and performance of • An assessment of coverage of the material aspects sements other than Audits or R ­ eviews of Historical Financial OP Financial Group, OP’s audited Financial Statement for the lected for the Corporate Social Responsibility Information Information. We are independent from the corporation year ended 31 December 2015 is to be consulted. and the definition of reporting boundaries in the context of according to the ethical requirements in Finland and we have OP Financial Group’s business operations and sector; complied with other ethical requirements, which apply to the • An assessment of data management processes, informaengagement conducted. We apply the International Standard The work performed in the engagement tion systems and working methods used to gather and on Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1) and accordingly maintain a Our assurance procedures are designed to obtain limited consolidate the presented Corporate Social Responsibility comprehensive system of quality control including documentassurance on whether the Corporate Social Responsibility InInformation, and a review of OP Financial Group’s related internal documents; OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 39 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 • Comparison of the presented Corporate Social Responsibility Information to underlying rules of procedure, management and reporting systems as well as documentation; • An assessment of the Corporate Social R ­ esponsibility Information’s conformity with the principles of the GRI-guidelines; • A review of the performance data and assertions presented in the Corporate Social Responsibility Information, and an assessment of information quality and reporting boundary definitions; • Testing of data accuracy and completeness through samples from OP Financial Group’s information systems and original numerical information received from the Group’s member institutions; Based on the assurance procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information subject to the limited assurance engagement is not, in all material respects, properly prepared. Helsinki, 19 February 2016 KPMG OY AB (signed) (signed) Raija-Leena Hankonen Nathalie Clément APA Senior Manager, Advisory OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 40 Report by the DISCLOSURES ON GRI G4 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT OP Year Executive Board GRI INDICATORS MANAGEMENT APPROACH CONTENT INDEX CONTENT INDEX ASSURANCE REPORT 2015 and Financial Statements 2015 Contact information Tuuli Kousa Director, Public Affairs, Media Relations and CSR tuuli.kousa@op.fi Satu Kuoppamäki CSR Manager satu.kuoppamaki@op.fi viestinta@op.fi OP FINANCIAL GROUP’S GRI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DATA 2015 41
