SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 02 MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER 04 ABOUT THE REPORT 06 GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE 08 GOVERNANCE AT AKSA 10 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS 20 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 30 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO EMPLOYEES 38 TALENT MANAGEMENT 42 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO SOCIETY 52 PERFORMANCE TABLES 56 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX 60 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN TO EXTEND OUR UNDERSTANDING OF SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR VALUE CHAIN AND TO REACH NEW SUCCESS IN COLLABORATION WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS ARE AMONG OUR MOST IMPORTANT MISSIONS. Distinguished Stakeholders, As Aksa, we are happy to share with you our performance in sustainability as one of our essential principles in our 11th Sustainability Report. 2015 has been a year where we put our signature on innovations which carried our success further and developed our sectoral leadership. EBITDA levels and our net profit increased 22%. Thanks to our efficiency-based projects and planned maintanence activities, our 308,000 tons of gross capacity reached 315,000 tons. Our capacity usage rate reached a record level of 98%. Principles of sustainability and corporate governance are important guidelines for Aksa to execute our operations. As Aksa, we first evaluate our work in this perspective and put our leading applications into practice. In 2015, we achieved successful results on adaptation to Corporate Assessment Principles. Corporate GoverMehmet Ali Berkman / Chairman nance Rate of Aksa is updated to 9.5 in 10 and we are in the first 3 companies among 50 in Corporate Governance Index. Aksa has now registered itself to the highgreen house emissions within ISO 14064-1. In 2015, we est level on many topics from its corporate governance completed our ISO 50001 certification process, we renunderstanding as the highest rated 3rd company to the dered our energy management to be more systematic. transparency it has for its stakeholders. Thanks to energy efficiency projects during our reportAnother important basepoint for executing our operaing period, we saved 88,335 GJ on energy and 10,562 tions is to be a responsible producer without sacrificing tons CO₂ in total. quality. As a result of this perspective, we were granted Our employees are the greatest indicatives of the sucthe “KalDer Competency in Perfection” award in the cess we achieve as Aksa. Therefore, to increase their 24th Quality Congress. competence and to create a safe workplace environOur main purpose is to develop value added, innovative ment where they are proud to be working are among products. In this scope, we completed our Ar-ge studies our priorities. Within this scope, we launched ‘’Great for modacrylic fiber, a suitable product for Turkey’s valPlace to Work’’ Trust Index application in 2015, began ue added export targets which is produced by a limited our preliminary preparations to apply working life renumber of firms in the world. We achieved to produce search and formed project groups. a high value added product which can only be manu2015 was a year where we continued our corporate citfactured by a limited number of producers in the world. izenship studies in various fields. Through our projects Today, the effects of climate change cause significant and activities, we created different values in the geogchanges in the ways companies work. As Aksa we value raphy we operate. Contributing to the geography of this issue specifically, evaluate our operations in parallel our operation through our operational activities is one to it and apply necessary precautions. With “Reverse Osof our main missions. Besides local employment and mosis” Project, we use water resources more efficiently local acquisitions, we put our signature to many sucAKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 in our operations. Thanks to this project, we realize alcessful applications in 2015 with our social responsibility most 62% of our water usage. We hope to set an examprojects, sponsorship and donations,. We continued to ple on wastewater management with the Joint Treatincrease our support in this field, particularly on educament Facility which is within YALKIM OSB since 2015 and tional, cultural, artistic and sports activities, by 1,738,792 was commissioned with an investment of 18 million USD. TL of donations and social aid in total. We aim to decrease our environmental impact through To extend our understanding of sustainability in our our voluntary-basis studies as well as our legal obligavalue chain and to reach new success in collaboration tions. In our reporting period, we also continued our with our stakeholders are among our most important studies about the risks and benefits of today’s most missions. I would like to thank our colleagues who have important and worldly acclaimed environmental issues, contributed to the success we enjoyed so far, our busithe effects of climate change on our operations. As well ness partners, customers and all stakeholders. as previous periods, we ensured the monitoring of our Regards, 3 MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER OUR SUCCESSES IN THE PRECIOUS FIELD OF SUSTAINABILITY ARE POSSIBLE WITH YOU, OUR STAKEHOLDERS. ON BEHALF OF CARRYING THIS VALUE SET FORTH IN COLLABORATION WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS TO ADVANCED LEVELS, WE WILL CONTINUE TO INCREASE OUR EFFORTS AS AKSA. Distinguished Stakeholders, Aksa began production with a capacity of 5.000 tons per year within Akkök Holding to supply the fiber demand of Turkey and it is the biggest acrylic fiber producer of the world today. We feel the right proud of achieving 1/6 of the world’s acrylic fiber production last year. We generate value for our stakeholders as the only acrylic fiber producer of Turkey and the biggest in the world with more than 1,250 workers, our facility on 502 m2 and 315,000 tons of production capacity per year. In 2015, we increased our sales by protecting our market share with a capacity usage at a record level of 98%. At of the end of 2015, we have a 17% share in global market and 70% in domestic market. We export to more than 300 customers in 5 continents and more than 50 countries. In the reporting period, we continued to keep our understanding of operational perfection and focused on projects that increase efficiency and quality. Highly non-inflamCengiz Taş mable modacrylic fiber which can only be produced by a Member of the Board of Directors General Manager limited number of firms in the world is one of them. As a suitable product for Turkey’s value added export targets, total for environmental protection expenses and investmodacrylic can be used especially in protective work uniments during the reporting period. forms, plastic sector and artificial hair production. 2015 was a year of practices that were applied to increase In our thermal comfort fiber project devoted to the prefawareness of work ethic and behavior rules. In the scope erence of acrylic fiber in new areas of usage, studies were of this, we gave 734 person*hour training for the Principles conducted with textile manufacturers and thanks to the and Applications of Work Ethic, Human Rights, Fighting current technology, thermal insulation of acrylic has been Against Corruption and Transparency, and Exploitation applied to various areas of usage. Final sample products Screening. In order to ensure improvement opportunities are produced and tested on users. In the reporting periand to increase their competence, we provided 41.157 perod, there have been collaborations to use acrylic filament, son*hour training for our blue-collar employees and 19.094 which is still in product development, on carpets too. person*hour for our white-collar employees. We began to see the positive results of many projects we To create a safer workplace environment for our emestablished in previous periods. Advanced Energy Soluployees, we launched our occupational health and safety tions (AES) Projects, the first application of process control project ‘’Accident Prevention Culture (APC)’’. Through our methods on energy centrals which contributes to operaproject, we aim to raise awareness on topics of labor force, tional perfection, has been launched in Turkey by Aksa. occupational health and safety by focusing on employee We were granted Proof Not Promises Award with our GE behaviors. We also provided 27,203 person*hour WHS edPower&Water, Water and Process Technologies Project ucation to extend occupational health and safety culture that was developed to contribute operational perfection in for our employees. energy production. Thereby, a Turkish company has taken Again, another study conducted for our employees, our this award for the first time since 2013. “Great Place To Work” Project have covered a great disIn 2015, we also continued our projects to benefit from the tance thanks to our employees’ commitment. The results effects of climate change on our operations and to elimiof our Trust Index survey which had a large turnout, were nate these effects. We ensured the monitoring of our green handled together with the Representative Committee. In AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 house emissions by an independent institution within ISO our action assignment period, we had substantial par14064-1 and documenting with extensive warranty as well ticipation of our 243 employees in accordance with our as previous periods. In the year of 2015, we moved our speunderstanding of ‘’Participant Management’’. Action sugcial care for energy management one step ahead by comgestions for our improvement fields are developed by 12 pleting our ISO 50001 certification process. With energy project groups under the leadership of our executives and efficiency projects that were executed during the reporting a period where we will determine and apply our actions period, we saved 54,245 GJ on thermal energy, 34,089 GJ together with our valuable employees is waiting for us. on electrical energy and in total 88,335 GJ. Our success in the precious field of sustainability are posWe achieved more efficient residual water and wastesible with you, our stakeholders. On behalf of carrying this water method applications with Reverse Osmosis and value set forth in collaboration with our stakeholders to Joint Treatment Facility Project. Together with these advanced levels, we will continue to increase our efforts as Aksa. studies, we gave 5,693 person*hour environmental training to our employees and we had 7,664,637 TL in Best regards, 5 ABOUT THE REPORT IN THIS REPORT, WE PRESENT OUR STAKEHOLDERS WITH OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE AS AKSA AKRILIK KIMYA SANAYII A.Ş. TOGETHER WITH ALL OUR AFFILIATES IN TURKEY, BETWEEN THE DATES JANUARY 1ST, 2015 AND DECEMBER 31ST, 2015. W e continue annually publisresults in Turkey, where our production hing sustainability reports operations take place. Our report includes based on Global Reporting not only impacts generated by our produInitiative (GRI) reporting standard since ction operations, but also our widespread 2005. With this 11 report we have preth impacts in various stages of our value chapared, we comprehensively and transpain within our sustainability priority issues, G4-17 rently elucidate the social, economic and in accordance with GRI G4 Standard reenvironmental performance demonstraporting principles. We commit to enhance G4-20 ted by Aksa within the context of all its our performance in the field of stakeholder G4-21 operational activities and present to the communication in line with our principles of valuable views of all our stakeholders. transparency, responsibility and accountaG4-22 bility, by means of our sustainability report. We prepared our report in accordance G4-23 with the Core option of the GRI G4 GuAksa Akrilik 2015 Sustainability Report AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 idelines. This report, which also expreswas printed in a limited number to mises our commitment to the 10 principles nimize environmental impact, while the PDF version of the report is offered to the determined by the United Nations Global views of our stakeholders at www.aksa. Compact, of which we are signatory, is com. You may reach us at surdurulebiliralso featured as a Progress Report. lik@aksa.com for your demands, suggesWe have included within the scope of retions, complaints and all kinds of feedbaporting our applications and performance ck regarding our reporting performance. 7 GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE THE GLOBAL SUCCESS WE HAVE REACHED IS POSSIBLE WITH OUR UNDERSTANDING OF SUSTAINABILITY, WHICH WE BASE ON OUR OPERATONAL EXCELLENCE STRATEGY A ksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş., 2015 EBITDA(*) which was established within the 350,056 body of Akkök Holding in 1968 to meet the acrylic fiber demand in Turkey and started production in 1971, in Yalova, 2014 286,062 with a capacity of 5,000 tons/year, is today the world’s largest and Turkey’s only acrylic fiber producer with a capacity of 315,000 tons/year. Aksa, which produces about 850 Aksa's 2015 EBITDA(*) Growth was 22%, reaching TL 350 million. 22 % thousand kilos daily at its production facility 2015 Net Profit established on a 502 thousand square meter 199,475 field, has realized around 1/6 of world acrylic fiber production in the reporting period. Aksa, who preserved its market share and 2014 162,849 significantly increased its sales amount in 2015 thanks to its record level capacity usage rate of 98%, exports to over 300 customers in more than 50 countries on five continents. Aksa's 2015 net profit growth recorded 22%, reaching TL 199,5 million. 22 % Company Value 2015 The Company, which constantly enhances 1,935.000 its sphere of positive economic influence, supports the economic value it generates for its shareholders with its consistently 2014 1,369.000 increasing tax payments, growing employ41 ment and local supply practices; it pioneers Aksa's Company value calculated over its share value in the sustainable development of the sociin Borsa İstanbul grew by 41% to TL 1,9 billion in 2015. % ety of which it is a part. SHARE PERFORMANCE Aksa Akrilik, the world’s largest and the only Turkish acrylic fiber producer, was ranked in 14.00 35th largest AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 the ISO 500 list as the 12.00 10.00 industrial enterprise according 8.00 to the results of the “Top 500 Industrial 6.00 Enterprises of Turkey” 2015 survey conducted 4.00 by Istanbul Chamber of Industry (ISO), with 2.00 0.00 its net sales from production in 2015, worth 12 ,14 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 .15 ,31 1.31 .28 .28 3.31 .30 5.31 .30 7.31 8.31 .30 0.31 1.30 2.31 0 02 02 0 04 0 06 0 0 09 1 1 1 2,131,600,393 TL. AKSA BIST100'e göre relatif 9 GOVERNANCE AT AKSA AKSA REALIZES ITS SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT THROUGH ITS EFFECTIVE ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE FORMED IN LIGHT OF ITS 47-YEAR BUSINESS EXPERIENCE AND GOVERNANCE TOOLS IT MAKES USE OF IN COMPLIANCE WITH GLOBAL STANDARDS. T he Company ensures the dissemiant governance instrument, also bases its nation of corporate strategies from sustainability vision on this understanding higher levels of the organization to of communication and engagement. lower levels through effective communiCORPORATE GOVERNANCE cation channels, conducts the monitoring of business and sustainability targets with Aksa acts in accordance with the four main efficient audit mechanisms, fulfills the reprinciples of Corporate Governance namequirement of the principle of accountabilly, fairness, transparence, accountability ity in its communication both within the and responsibility in all its operations; it company and with its external stakeholders consistently develops its corporate govthrough transparent reporting practices. ernance performance through its commitment to and compliance with these princiAksa, which assures its corporate reputaples. Aksa, which aims to achieve the level tion and trustworthiness before its stakeof fair company by supporting its finanholders primarily with its commitment to cial successes with corporate governance Corporate Governance Principles, aims to practices, includes generating sustainable achieve the level of fair company through value for its stakeholders among its priorits practices in this area. Aksa, which elimiitized targets. The Corporate Governance nates components that might endanger the Principles, embraced by Aksa for many existence and sustainability of the CompaAKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 years, constitute the basis for the respectny and its value chain through efficient risk able, innovative, hardworking, creative and management tools, benefits from globally sharing corporate stance of the company acclaimed effective management systems and its reliability before its stakeholders. and standards in this field and in all stages of its operations. The company, which Codes of Conduct, which are the most sigmakes use of effective and transparent nificant guide of the company regarding communication with its stakeholders and compliance with corporate governance of stakeholder engagement as an importprinciples, serve as a guide for developing 11 a common course of conduct in Aksa’s rePrinciples and their adoption by all group lations with its stakeholders. Akkök Group companies. Codes of Conduct can be acof Companies Business Ethics Principles, cessed at http://www.aksa.com/tr/i-80. published in 2014, reflect the ethical apRISK MANAGEMENT proach and corporate values of Group companies. Akkök Ethics Line, which was Actualizing risk management practices, constituted for the notification of violawhereby risks that might affect stakeholdtions regarding Business Ethics Principles ers, primarily shareholders, are identified, and is managed by an independent third assessed and their impacts and probabiliparty, also actively serves Aksa stakeholdties are calculated, reported and preventers. In addition, at Aksa, stakeholders can ed, is included among both business and report illegitimate or ethically inapprosustainability priorities of Aksa. The Early priate situations to the Corporate GoverRisk Identification Committee, which was nance Committee and to the Ethics Comconstituted for the early identification of mittee through the ethics line or by email. strategic, financial and operational risks that might endanger the existence, develIn 2015, we formed our Gift Receiving opment and continuity of the company and and Giving Policy in order to support our its value chain, as well as risks regarding Business Ethics principles. All matters that AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 legal compliance and corporate reputation, need attention when taking or giving gifts convenes every two months and offers adas part of our relations with all our stakevice and suggestions to the Board of Direcholders were determined with this policy. tors regarding risk management practices. During the reporting period, trainings were The Corporate Risk Inventory formed by the organized at the level of manager and dicommittee is the primary risk management rector to ensure the dissemination of Aktool used in corporate risk management kök Group of Companies Business Ethics works. Risks included in the inventory with 12 Saha Kurumsal Yönetim ve Kredi Derecelendirme Hizmetleri A.Ş. (Saha Corporate Governance and Credit Rating Services Inc.), one of the foremost independent corporate rating agencies of Turkey, updated the Corporate Governance Rating Score for Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. (Aksa) as 9.50 out of 10, following period revision works conducted during the last year. Aksa, which has increased its score that was determined last year as 9.22 to 9.50 for this year, succeeded in becoming the 3rd company with the highest score in the Corporate Governance Index with this new rating. The corporate governance rating score obtained by Aksa reveals that the company has largely harmonized with Capital Markets Board Corporate Governance Principles and put all AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 policies and measures into practice. Besides, it was assessed that all corporate governance risks are identified and actively managed at Aksa, the rights of share and stakeholders are impartially observed, public disclosure and transparence activities are at the highest level, and the structure and operation of the board of directors is in the best practice category. 13 a ‘high’ or ‘very high’ level risk score are STRATEGIC PLANNING monitored at the level of the Board of Directors, detailed action plans are prepared The Strategic Planning Workshop, which for every risk, risk owners are assigned to is organized every year on a regular baevery risk, thereby ensuring the effective sis under the leadership of the General implementation of these action plans. The Manager and with the participation of 5 main risks with the highest scores in the all directors and managers, constitutes 2015 risk inventory were defined as critical: the foundation for Aksa’s strategic planning processes. As part of the workshop, 1 where economic, political, social, technoFinancial logical, industrial, logistic and environmental conditions are assessed on the global, national and sectoral levels, domestic and foreign markets analyses are performed in light of feedbacks received from the market and customers. Follow2 2 ing all analyses and assessments, the Operational Strategic strategies and critical success factors of AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 As part of the certification of the Corporate Aksa are reviewed and necessary updates Risk Management works of Aksa by Turkish are performed in needed strategic areas. Standards Institute (TSE), “TS ISO 31000 Subsequent to the workshop organized Risk Management System Verification” during the reporting period, the primary audit was successfully completed in 2014. strategic themes were identified as opAksa has also completed the surveillance erational excellence and development of audit conducted by TSE during the reportnew lines of business. In addition, as part ing period without any nonconformity. of the strategic plan dissemination works 14 Our Mission • To direct the sector that we are leading • To create value for our stakeholders • To carry the value we create sustainably into the future. Our Core Values • HSE Awareness • Compliance with Ethical Values Our • Openness to Cooperation Superordinate Goals The Value We Create Our Sustainability • Customer Orientation • High Quality Products Priorities • Investing in our technology to maximize • Operational Excellence • Sustainable Operations Our Basic Qualities operational excellence • Responsible Production • Environment • Participatory management • Discovering new usage • Customer Satisfaction • Employees areas for Acrylic Fiber • Locking onto common targets • Employee Development • Contribution to Society • Growing through new • Continuous learning • Economic value generated products or strategic for shareholders • Experience and knowledge collaborations. accumulation • Motivated, engaged and solution-producing employees started in 2014 with an expert team of 30 tion of Akkök Group of Companies, with people, 149 expert level employees were which it is affiliated, and its own indusachieved in 2015; the vision and strategies try-specific experience. of Aksa were shared with a broader body Aksa, which puts stakeholder feedbacks of employees. The vision model, superorobtained through communication mechadinate target, values and features of Aksa nisms, whose efficiency has been proved were conveyed to employees through over the years, at the center of its sustainthe exposition of managers and strategy ability policies and practices, constitutes games. its sustainability priorities and short, mid SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT and long term sustainability targets also in light of these feedbacks. Aksa, which aims G4-18 Aksa, the world’s largest acrylic fiber proto minimize its environmental impacts and ducer, addresses a vast geography with G4-20 contribute to social development with its the products it manufactures and accordsocial and economic sustainability perforG4-21 ingly creates large social, environmental mance, acts with the belief that the finanand economic spheres of influence. The cial successes it has achieved can only be G4-26 company, which aims to create added maintained in this way. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 value for all its stakeholders by ensuring its positive influence in these spheres, At Aksa, the General Manager is responconsiders guiding the sustainable develsible for the financial and operational opment of its operational geography to performance of the company, as well as be among its basic duties. Aksa actualizes its sustainability performance before the sustainability practices that constitute an Board of Directors. Sustainability issues example for its industry and for Turkey, in are divided among departments directly accordance with the corporate accumuladependent on the General Manager ac15 Our Material Issues CONTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS TO SOCIETY • Contribution to • Human and Employee • Energy Management • Raw Material Procurement Education* Rights Management* • Emissions Management • Process and Product Innovation • Open Door Practices • Occupational Health (Airborne Emissions – • Customer Information Regarding Products • Local Collaborations* and Safety* GHG/Other Gases) • Ensuring Product Safety • Collaborations with • Improvement of • Water Management* Working Conditions • Legal Compliance/ Compliance with International NGOs* • Waste Management* Chemical Industry Regulations and Agreements • University • Employee Engagement • Emergency Preparedness Collaborations • Employee Satisfaction • Corporate Risk Management • Employee • Customer Satisfaction* Development • Procurement Security • Incorporation of • Operational Excellence Qualified Workforce • Preservation of Sustainable by Aksa * Also material in the value chain. cording to their expertise, sustainability issues were redefined. The policies, practargets are disseminated from higher to tices, targets and performance results of lower levels through effective communiAksa regarding material sustainability iscation tools, performance results in these sues were offered to stakeholders’ views fields are controlled through audit mechunder the main headings of Sustainable anisms and they are conveyed to higher Operations, Employees, Contribution to levels through reporting practices. FeedEnvironment and Society. backs and updates concerning perforAksa, which commits to direct the sector mance results for sustainability priorities it leads with its Vision Model and to mainare formed, action plans are determined G4-18 tain the value it creates for all its stakethrough assessment meetings attended holders in the future, makes a great effort G4-19 by the senior management to render the positive value it creates in G4-20 The vision model, corporate strategies, the social, economic and environmental and primarily stakeholder feedbacks play areas sustainable with this understandG4-21 a significant role in determining the susing. The company effectively manages tainability priorities of Aksa. In the rethe sustainability priorities determined in G4-23 porting period, as in the previous period, accordance with its core values and bamaterial issues set forth in the priority sic characteristics, it creates ever more AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 identification workshop held in 2013 were value for its operational geography while reviewed. One-on-one interviews were advancing towards the superior targets it held with function representatives, direcidentifies. tors and managers, to whom Aksa stakeholders can convey their views in person; the transmitted sustainability issues, performance realizations and targets in these areas were assessed and material 16 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT and local community, about its products, product quality and joint projects from its Aksa defines all individuals, institutions and customers. The feedbacks received from organizations that are influenced by or have different stakeholder groups regarding susan influence on its operations as its staketainability issues contribute to performance holders, it comes together with each of the enhancement in these areas, performance defined stakeholder groups in different meresults are transparently offered to the diums and at varying practice intervals. The views of stakeholders. company obtains the views, demands, suggestions and complaints of its stakeholders through communication and engagement channels based on efficiency and transparency, it regards these feedbacks as the primary input for the development of its sustainability performance. The target stakeholder groups of Aksa are G4-25 regularly reviewed based on the results of reputation surveys conducted by Akkök G4-26 Group of Companies through the agenAKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 cy of independent organizations, areas of improvement are identified with regard to communication methods and action plans are formed. Aksa receives feedbacks about industry-specific developments from professional associations, about its operations and working conditions from its employees, about the social and environmental impacts of its operations from local administrations 17 Stakeholder Group Communication Methods Fiscal Reports, Sustainability Reports, Customer Satisfaction Surveys, Customers Corporate Website, Activities, Social Media Accounts Sustainability Reports, Open Door Practices, E-mail, Employee Engagement Surveys, Trainings, CSR Projects, AKEK and AKSET Organizations, Representative Employees Committee, Suggestion System, OHS Committee, Corporate Publication (Aksa News), Social Media Accounts Face-to-face Meetings, Auctions, Corporate Website, Audits, Social Media Suppliers Accounts Fiscal Reports, Sustainability Reports, Investor Relations Line, Corporate Investors Website, Annual Reports, Investor Presentations, Social Media Accounts Fiscal Reports, Official Correspondence, Audits, Sustainability Reports, Corporate Public Institutions Publication (Aksa News), Surveys, Social Media Accounts Fiscal Reports, Official Correspondence, Sustainability Reports, Open Door Local Authorities Practices, Corporate Publication (Aksa News), Surveys, Social Media Accounts G4-24 Corporate Website, Joint CSR Projects, Sponsorships, Sustainability NGOs Reports, Corporate Publication (Aksa News), Social Media Accounts G4-27 Open Door Practices, Sustainability Reports, Face-to-face Meetings, CSR Local Community Projects, Corporate Publication (Aksa News), Social Media Accounts AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Industrial Sectoral Association Memberships at Different Levels, Industrial Meetings, Associations Social Media Accounts Education and SANTEZ, TEYDEB, Research Projects, Support for Master and Doctorate Research Institutions Studies, Face-to-face Meetings, Visits, Social Media Accounts Akkök Group of General Assemblies, Portakal Portal, Periodical Reporting Practices, Companies Corporate Publication (Aksa News), Social Media Accounts Corporate Website, Press Releases, Press Conferences, Sustainability Reports, Media Corporate Publication (Aksa News), Social Media Accounts Corporate Website, Sustainability Reports, Fiscal Reports, Sector Competitors Researches, Annual Reports, Social Media Accounts 18 2015 Targets Progress Obtaining ISO 50001 certification Completed Participating in CDP Water Disclosure program Completed Materializing our Joint Treatment Facility Project Completed Materializing our Reverse Osmosis Project Completed Removing Fly Ash from the category of waste with CE certification and providing it to relevant industries as raw material additive Completed product Extending ISO 27001 System to all company units In Progress 2016 Targets Obtaining Green Port certification for our Port Facility Maintaining CDP Water Disclosure program and participating in CDP Climate program Obtaining Green Building Certification for the recently built Headquarters in Yalova AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Finalizing the KOK (Accident Prevention Culture) Project and ensuring its sustainability Completing accreditation process of TS EN ISO 17025-General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratoriesfor selected units of our central laboratory. To complete Great Place to Work project Actualizing “Aksa ile Gelecek Orkestrası” Corporate Social Responsibility Project 19 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS AS AKSA, WE MAINTAIN OUR OPERATIONS WITH THE UNDERSTANDING OF OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE. WE ACTUALIZE EFFICIENCY ORIENTED INVESTMENTS, PROJECTS AND PRACTICES UNINTERRUPTEDLY FOR THE VALUE GENERATED WITH THIS UNDERSTANDING TO BE SUSTAINABLE FOR BOTH AKSA AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS. W e support the value we constistudies, the impacts on environment and tute through our knowledge human health of new products obtained in accumulation, leading position result of these processes are eliminated. in our industry, human resource, and expeObtaining the expectations of our stakerience with new practices and investments, holders and ensuring the dissemination of thereby increasingly extending the value the management understanding we put we create for our stakeholders. forth as Aksa throughout our value chain With the efficiency and modernization projare also of significant importance for the ects we realized in 2015, the annual producsustainable growth of the generated value. tion capacity of Aksa has reached 315,000 With this understanding, we both increase tons. This achievement, realized within the the business volume we create for our supcontext of the practices and projects that pliers, and expect them to adopt our manwere implemented, has increased Aksa’s agement understanding in the issues of encompetitive advantage. We continue to vironment, ethics and occupational health manage this success that was achieved by and safety. We collect our customers’ feedduly fulfilling our responsibilities. backs in order to actively meet their expectations; we ensure the development of our Value chain processes, which start with new products and processes in relation to these AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 product development and raw material proexpectations and feedbacks. curement processes and continue with production and customer relations, are tackled MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS with an approach to minimizing costs and At Aksa, the critical dimensions of operaenvironmental impacts without conceding tions, such as quality, environment, occupafrom quality. Studies are developed regardtional health and safety and information seing new areas of usage for acrylic fiber, incurity, are managed within the framework of vestments are made in parallel with these internationally accepted systems and stan21 dards. The compliance of operations with All Aksa operations comply with TS ISO systems and standards is ensured through EN 9001 Quality Management System, internal and external audits, while perforTS ISO EN 14001 Environmental Manmance during the working year is monitored agement System, TS EN ISO 50001 and recovery and action plans for the subseEnergy Management System, OHSAS quent year are drawn and implemented. Pe18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System, TS ISO EN 14064-1 riodical trainings befitting Aksa policies and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Management objectives are provided in order to enhance System, TS ISO 31000 Risk Management the awareness and competence of employSystem, and Safety Management System ees regarding management systems. conducted within the scope of the Regulation for Preventing and Reducing the In the reporting period, works were startEffects of Major Industrial Accidents. ed for Corporate Memory and Information Security Management System aiming for Within the scope of the new “Project Manthe management of Aksa’s accumulation. agement System”, whose groundwork was In this regard, risk studies on information prepared in 2014 and which was put into assets were completed in order to identify use in 2015, it is aimed for documentation information, define its location, determine regarding project management to be more ways of use for the information that will be AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 easily formed, integration and sustainabilibeneficial for the organization, preserve ty to be ensured, traceability of processes information in proper environments and to be enhanced, efficient reporting, and make it accessible; necessary actions were storing project outputs in corporate memdetermined regarding risks. In 2016, actions ory. In the current state, nearly 100 projects determined as part of the study will be imare flowing through this system and it is plemented and TS ISO 27001 Information aimed for project information and lessons Security Management System will be eslearned to be transmitted to the future intablished. dependently of team members. 22 KALDER EXCELLENCE AMBASSADORS AWARD Aksa was deemed worthy of the “KalDer Excellence Ambassadors” award at the 24th Quality Congress organized for the purpose of recognizing institutions, organizations and individuals who have contributed to the sustainability of the journey to quality and excellence. At the Awards Ceremony, “Excellence Ambassadors Honor Plaque” was awarded to the representatives of 32 institutions and organizations that have received the EFQM Grand Prize / Turkey Excellence Grand Prize and Sustainability Award since 1993. As part of Green IT Practices, we have carried many processes in the paper medium (for instance, Project Management Process Approval Forms, Incoming and Outgoing Correspondence, Change Management, Unit Work Permission Forms, and similar practices) to the electronic environment through works developed over the eBA (Electronic Document Flow) software. With around 79,938 flows conducted since the engagement of the system, 25 trees worth of paper savings were ensured as a result of processes transferred from the paper medium to the electronic environment. At the same time, it facilitates the systematic management of flows, easy tracking and rapid access of those concerned to documents that constitute important resources for corporate memory. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 23 RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION ses monitoring and measuring activities, process control, project management, As AKSA, we effectively implement Quprocess performance management and ality, Environment, Occupational Health lean six sigma practices. Results acquiand Safety, Energy Management Systems red through these practices are assessed in all our processes, review and constantly by internal and external audits, thereby improve them. We produce our products, allowing for the constant improvement of following innovations in technology and achieved results. the market, based on changing market conditions and customer oriented In 2015, Aksa focused on projects enhanapproach, ensuring competitive cost and cing efficiency and quality in accordance high efficiency, without conceding from with its operational excellence underssuperior quality, low energy consumption, tanding. These works generally consisted environmental sensitivity and occupatioof works for ensuring maximum produnal health and safety. ctivity and capacity, as well as product standardization. In addition, the “process Our most significant guide for the sustacontrol” process, whereby future needs are inability of our operations is our “opeidentified and performance is supervised AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 rational excellence” understanding. The through close monitoring of processes, excellence approach in all our processes was made more active in 2015. With this plays a primary role in ensuring the increasing continuity of the value we generate with our products and services. With this You can visit http://www.aksa.com/tr/ kurumsal/sertifikalar/sertifiapproach, Aksa realizes its operations by kalar/i-5 for more information using and observing international stanregarding the certifications of dards. This body of practices encompasAksa. 24 SYSTEM DESIGN PROJECT WITH METU As Aksa, we believe in the importance of industry-university cooperation and we actualize our projects in accordance. As part of the project carried out during the reporting period, various measurement and coding processes were realized within the scope of studies on data collection and process identification conducted together with Middle Eastern Technical University Industrial Engineering senior students. Following the establishment of the model during the first period of the practice, an approach where quality and project, works for forming a mathematical efficiency go hand in hand is implemented. model for the simulation will be pursued in the second period. By conducting control activities at every stage, starting with raw material procurement, at our laboratories that operate and certification system based on trust under the Directorate of Process and in textile encompassing all production Product Development, operations ensustages of textile products. ring that our products are at the desired quality are realized. In 2016, we aim for TS We maintained our information flow by EN ISO 17025 General Conditions for the implementing our understanding of worQualification of Experimental and Calibraking in harmony with human health and tion Laboratories – Accreditation Process environment throughout all our supply to be completed for certain departments chain, from our suppliers to our custoof our central laboratory. mers, by closely following local and international regulations such as CLP, REACH, For our products to be at the desired quaCa Prop. 65, ETAD, INDITEX etc. lity and to be produced with a responsible AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 production understanding befitting enviAs part of product development activironmental and human health are of paraties, works are implemented, focused on mount importance. For this reason, Aksa meeting the expectations of customers complies with standards for ensuring and increasing new areas of usage for product quality and safety and takes part acrylic fiber that are among our objein these initiatives. In this regard, in 2015, ctives and core values in our Model of we continued our OEKO-TEX Standard vision; opportunities in the market and 100 certification, an independent auditing new markets are strictly followed in this 25 SUPPLY PRODUCTION Land & Seaway Chemical Fields Textile Fields OPERATION Raw Material Supply Solvent Recovery CHART PRODUCTS Tow Tops Bumps Providing Energy for Sister Companies and the Grid PRODUCT USAGE PRODUCT DELIVERY AREAS Clothing Home Textile Outdoor Use Industrial Uses regard. At the end of all these works, rethe world, has the characteristic of low search studies are conducted. Regulatiinflammability, and is primarily used in ons concerning human and environmenprotective working outfits, plastic sector tal health are complied with in product and artificial hair production. development processes. R&D works continue for flame retardant As part of works for developing products products to meet the rising demand for with added value, different stakeholder inherently flame retardant products with groups are cooperated with. In order to changing regulations. Also, textile and meet customer expectations and demanperformance tests are conducted towards and develop products for new usage ds different usage areas. areas, we cooperate with universities, institutes and our customers. SUPPLY CHAIN You can visit the “Products” section on our Aksa, which adopts a responsible supply corporate website www.aksa.com for more chain management, implements supplier detailed information about our product selection and assessment practices based types, namely, acrylic fiber, textile and on social and environmental, as well as AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 technical fibers, usage areas and products. financial criteria, it aims to generalize its Modacrylic sustainability understanding across its In this reporting period, as a result of value chain. In accordance with the suppR&D investment and studies, we introly management understanding based on duce our innovator product modacrylic constant communication, communication, fiber to market. Modacrylic fiber is a audit and performance assessment practiproduct that can only be produced by ces are carried out on the basis of mutual a limited number of companies around development. 26 SUBCONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Thanks to the Subcontractor management system put into practice during the reporting period, any potential misappropriations were prevented regarding the breakdown of subcontractor personnel working on our site by work types, measurement of individual working hours, and issues such as which personnel were employed (person*hour), progress payment transactions, working and wage. In this Aksa takes into consideration issues such regard, it is ensured that employees receive their compensation reguas environmental and OHS policies, ethical larly, social security contributions are fully and timely paid, they work values, employee rights in both the selein accordance with OHS rules, their required trainings are recorded, ction of new suppliers and as part of the mobbing cases are prevented, and working hours are standardized. assessment processes of existing suppliers. The legal compliance and quality certifications of suppliers, whose policies and INHOUSE ENTREPRENEURSHIP approaches are investigated, are examined; As of 2014, Aksa added finding new areas they are expected to conduct operations of usage for acrylic and growing through in conformance with OHS principles and new products or strategic collaborations working hours. It is ensured that the basic to its operational excellence strategy, areas of competence for existing suppon which it based its sustainable growth liers are determined, developed and their and development to date. Through these performances are assessed through the strategies, the global success achieved in Supplier Performance System implemenacrylic fiber with the operational excelted on an annual basis. The results of the lence strategy is aimed to be carried into performance system practice and action AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 new lines of business. In 2015, the Inhouse plans formed regarding improvement areEntrepreneurship Program was started as as are transparently and regularly shared a driving force for new strategies. Through with suppliers, supporting mutual developthe Inhouse Entrepreneurship program, it ment. Also, Aksa has subjected to audits is planned for innovative ideas to be test2 companies supplying material at levels ed in a shorter time with a minimal cost critical for production during the reporting and for the talent of innovative viewpoint period. The audit report was conveyed to to be enhanced among our employees. the companies and actions were determi27 ned for identified weaknesses. In 2016, it OUR CUSTOMERS is planned for 2 more suppliers of critical Customer orientation is among the core significance to be audited. values defining Aksa’s stance. For this At Aksa, the Subcontractor Responsible reason, reaching out to customers with functions under the Directorate of Purchaproducts and services that will meet their sing as the operational structure that ensudemands and expectations is among priores the regular auditing and monitoring of rities with a high level of significance. It is subcontractor and sub-employer compavery important for Aksa to obtain customer nies. The Subcontractor Responsible, who feedbacks, be in constant communication works in coordination with the units and with customers and develop products and directorates of HR, Legal, HSE and Admiservices devoted to the received feedbacks, nistrative Affairs, guarantees that subcontin order to be able to meet this expectatiractor company personnel are working on. In addition, Aksa aims to be the best in at healthy, safe and decent workplaces terms of quality, service, manufacturability, through the documents it obtains from the price and supply regarding its current proG4-27 companies regularly every month. ducts. Aksa is conducting works towards Aksa, which aims to positively contribute to increasing the recognition of acrylic and AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 its indirect economic influence sphere, pricreation of new usage areas for acrylic, oritizes suppliers located in Yalova region, with its customer orientation approach. where it operates, in its purchases, thereby contributing to the prosperity level of the Aksa Customer Services Unit assesses local community. In the reporting period, customer needs, demands and complaints the share of local suppliers in Yalova among to prepare necessary action plans, meet all active domestic suppliers was realized as customer expectations, and find solutions 48% in TL basis. for their complaints. The service provided 28 in this regard is not limited to technical As part of the “Supplier Relations and support, but also comprises recovery and Supplier Performance Assessment” improvement works in relation to the prothemed 3rd Purchasing and Supply Chain cesses of Aksa customers. In this context, Management Conference organized on Customer Services Unit realized a total November 19, 2015, our Technical Purchaof 129 technical support visits during the sing Director Melih Enes Meral made reporting period. Besides, as part of the a presentation about our system for support provided to develop customer pro“Performance Assessment in Fixed Price cesses, 24 consultancy works were realized Purchases” as best practice. between the years 2012 and 2015. In addition to technical services provided Customer Services department was one to customers, the Customer Satisfaction of the departments where ISO 27001 Survey, whereby the satisfaction levels of Information Security Management System, customers are determined, is conducted which ensures the maximum security of through the agency of an independent corporate and stakeholder information, was G4-27 survey institution. The obtained satisfaction implemented in trial during 2016. During level and feedbacks are actively evaluated the reporting period, no complaints were AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 received regarding the violation of custoand actions are taken. We plan to conduct mer information confidentiality. out Customer Satisfaction survey in the subsequent reporting period. Aksa, being considered in the extremely hazardous occupation class, does not empAksa takes customer information confiloy any personnel who have not turned 18, dentiality as basis, as part of its corporate similarly preventing sub-employee and suculture. All employees and personnel are bcontractor company personnel who have informed on this issue with trainings. The not turned 18 from entering the factory site. 29 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AS AKSA, WE CARRY OUT OUR OPERATIONS WITH THE AWARENESS OF THE RESPONSIBILITIES WE BEAR. ONE OF THE MOST SIGNIFICANT ISSUES WE EVALUATE IN THIS SCOPE IS ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT. ENVIRONMENTAL TRAININGS BY YEAR (PERSON*HOUR) 5,693 1,045 We spent a total of 7,664,637 TL on environmental protection 762.5 expenditures and investments during the reporting period. 2013 2014 2015 W e actualize practices to reduce The training of our employees about relevant our environmental impact within topics and processes is significant for enhancthe context of relevant processing awareness and achieving better perfores to which we attach particular importance mance in relation to environmental issues as part of our vision model. that are sensitively managed within the scope We manage our related processes with the of integrated management systems. In this awareness that the continuity of our operaregard, we provided 5,693 person*hour of entions and attainment of more efficient results vironmental training to our employees during can only be ensured by conducting our operthe reporting period. In addition, we also ations in harmony with the environment. For provided trainings for subcontractor company this reason, we develop measures to reduce employees as applicable. During the year 2015, our environmental impact, track our perforwe provided 752 person*hour of environmenmance and strive to achieve better results tal training to subcontractor employees. through the evaluations we perform. Increasing the value that we obtain in result We carry out our operations in full comof the works we conduct within the context pliance with the rules determined by laws of environmental management and exAKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 and regulations. In this regard, we plan and tending it to various stakeholder groups is manage our operations in a way that will among issues we place emphasis on. In this answer and adjust to current developments context, we work to actively use mechaand necessities. With this understanding, we nisms that collect our stakeholders’ feedcare for the sustainability of our investments backs. We continue to maintain our operaparticularly about environmental managetions with the awareness that the value we ment. In the reporting period, we spent add to both our business and our stakehold7,6 million TL on environmental protection ers will increase through reciprocal dialogue expenditures and investments. platforms that we strive to constitute. 31 Energy management is daily monitored by our The waste heat energy, which was released into the directorates. Consumptions are considered, atmosphere until 2014, was started to be used for the actions are taken and performance is observed preheating of wash water in 2015, thereby ensuring at energy management meetings. Practices 1,600 kWh/h regarding the efficient use of energy are determined and implemented at efficiency meetings of heat energy savings. organized at the end of these practices. In the reporting period, 4,7 million tons of vapor and 785 million kWh of electricity were ENERGY MANAGEMENT generated at our power plants. Around 10% Uninterrupted energy supply is of particular of this amount is used for the internal needs importance for the sustainability of Aksa opof power plants and the remaining amount is erations. By means of our energy production used in production processes, supplying sister license, we ensure this continuity besides procompanies and the grid. viding energy for our sister companies operatEfficient use of energy is as significant as ing in the same region and putting the excess uninterrupted energy supply for the continuenergy produced on the electric market. ity of our operations. We actualize projects We carried the particular importance we regarding more efficient energy use and attach to energy management one step energy savings throughout the working AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 further by completing our ISO 50001 certifiyear and ensure improvements. By means cation process in 2015. In this way, we aim for of the energy efficiency projects we actumaking more efficient use of energy in every alized during the reporting period, we have stage of processes and reducing the amount achieved a total of 88,335 GJ of energy savof energy consumption per unit producings, of which 54,245 GJ of heat energy and tion. It is also aimed for our environmental 34,089 GJ of electric energy saving. With all impact to be reduced through this systematic these savings we have ensured during the reapproach in energy management, as well as porting period, we have also achieved 10,562 operational excellence works. tons of CO2 reduction. 32 SPECIFIC THERMAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (INDEX, BASIS: 2011, 100 KWH/TON TOW) 505 SOLVENT RECOVERY UNIT 505 Solvent Recovery Unit was engaged during the reporting 100 99.5 year, in 2015. Seven storage tanks, seven process columns and heat exchangers, flashers and cooling equipment serving these 97.2 97.1 are involved within the context of the project. The project 96.5 allows for recovering 100 tons of raw material hourly. Thanks to the new technologies developed with the new unit, we have realized around 20% of the energy savings we achieved in 2015 in this way. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 SPECIFIC ELECTRIC ENERGY CONSUMPTION PROOF NOT PROMISES AWARD GOES TO AKSA (INDEX, BASIS: 2011, 100 KWH/TON TOW) We were entitled to receive the Proof Not Promises award with 100.9 100 99.79 100.4 the project that we developed with GE Power & Water, Water and Process Technologies in order to contribute to operational 97.7 excellence in energy production. Our project, which arose within the context of researches and studies conducted in order to prevent the unplanned disabling of boilers in our power plant due 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 to pipe damages, served to prevent the sudden and unplanned disabling of boilers while also deactivating factors that influence energy supply negatively, thereby averting production, efficienAMOUNT OF WASTE HEAT GENERATED cy and quality losses in our production processes. (INDEX, BASIS: 2011, 100 KWH/TON TOW) 100 Despite decrease in waste heat production in 2014 90.4 (decrease in waste heat production as a result of de82.9 79.3 activation of natural gas boilers, as a result less waste 75.1 heat energy used in process) decrease in specific thermal energy observed. The waste heat energy, which was released into the atmosphere until 2014, started to be used for the preheating of wash water in 2015, thereby ensuring 1600 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 kWh/h of heat energy savings. WE REALIZED A FIRST IN TURKEY WITH THE ADVANCED ENERGY SOLUTIONS (AES) PROJECT The first application in Turkey of advanced control methods contributing to operational AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 excellence was realized by Aksa as part of our project. The project ranks first among over 50 practices in 10 countries on different continents, with its shortest “feedback” span. Through the project, stabilization was achieved in the energy production process, alterations in vapor demand were safely met by using coal bunkers. In result of the project, which ensured the increase of vapor production temperature using the same amount of fuel, turbine electricity generation was enhanced. Inefficiencies caused by pressure drops were minimized, thereby increasing electricity generation in turbines. Besides, one steam boiler that was engaged for system security was deactivated with this project, ensuring electricity savings and preventing heat losses. By means of the project, a total of 19,872 GJ of energy savings was achieved and 48,751 tons of CO2 emission was prevented. 33 of process changes, capacity increases Greenhouse Gas Emission (ton CO2e) and development works. 2012 2013 2014 2015 Our power plants are monitored onliDirect 806,943 857,737 1,136,312 1,210,750 ne 7/24 by the Provincial Directorate of Indirect 27,455 20,507 22,700 5,815 Environment and Urbanization and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization TOTAL 834,398 878,244 1,159,012 1,216,565 as required by the regulation for emissions EMISSION MANAGEMENT originating from combustion. Thanks to the projects realized during the year and We maintain our operations with the the constant monitoring provided, our awareness that emission management related emission values are well below the is a process that needs to be managed limit values identified by regulations. especially within the scope of combating In the reporting period emission values Climate Change. We manage all prowere below the limit values identified by cesses necessary for fulfilling different licenses and were realized as follows: legal requirements that our emissions are subject to within the context of emission 2015 management, as process emissions and Total NOx Emission 132.5 kg/h AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 combustion emissions, in full compliance. Total SOx Emission 102 kg/h We report our process emissions to the Total UOB Emission 0.51 kg/h Other Emissions (PM) 2.1 kg/h PM Ministry of Environment and Urbanization with measurements performed every The greenhouse gas emission caused by two years as per relevant regulations. In our power plants, which is directly relaaddition, relevant emission sources are ted to climate change, was audited by an reviewed and necessary measurements independent institution within the scope are performed in changes applied as part of ISO 14064-1 and certified with extensive 34 assurance, as in the previous periods. As Wastewater Discharge by Year (m3) Aksa, we are the first institution in Turkey to adopt the Greenhouse Gas Quantificati2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 on and Reporting standard ISO 14064-1. 2,445,500 2,463,750 2,950,507 2,833,690 2,472,875 We have uploaded our greenhouse gas monitoring plan, which is our legal and its related performance with the awaliability in this issue, to the Ministry of reness of this responsibility it bears. Environment and Urbanization online In 2015, our total water consumption data system. Besides calculations, we also amount was realized as 4,052,386 m3, assess our risks and opportunities in this increasing by about 4% as against the area and work on appropriate strategies previous year due to the increase in our for our company. fiber production capacity. WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT In the reporting period, 1,375,783 m3 of water, which is equivalent to 34% of our The efficient use of natural resources total water consumption, was recycled and ensuring the sustainability of these and reused. resources by taking necessary measures The management of the wastewater geneAKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 in this regard is an issue of particular rated by our operations is very important significance for the whole world. Water is for Aksa. The industrial and household one of the most significant among these wastewaters generated by our operations natural resources. Besides problems reare discharged in accordance with the garding usage, with the impact of climate requirements identified by regulations, change, today we further appreciate the with the understanding of complete legal critical importance of water management. compliance in this issue. As of the end of Aksa strictly monitors water management 2015, the household and industrial was35 tewaters generated by our operations are JOINT TREATMENT FACILITY treated at the Joint Treatment Facility, closing down our existing treatment facilities. All household and industrial wastewaters are treated together at the facility established in a 17 thousand m2 field within the AKSA PARTICIPATED IN THE CDP body of YALKIM OSB, which includes Aksa, WATER DISCLOSURE PROGRAM Ak-Kim and Dow-Aksa from among Akkök Holding companies, with an 18 million USD CDP Water Disclosure Program, which was investment. The daily wastewater disactualized in Turkey in 2015, aims to mobicharge of the facility is 15 thousand m3. lize and direct companies considering the In addition, with the actualization of the necessity for the private sector to assume project, it is aimed for treatment facility responsibility. The practice offers compaexit water to be recovered with a capacity nies a platform where they can transparof 250 m3/hour through Ultrafiltration and ently disclose their water usage, risks and Reverse Osmosis technologies. Since the strategies regarding water. In consequence recovered water has the characteristic of of the importance we attach to water raw water comparable to dam water, we management as Aksa, we have responded will have created an alternative raw water to the program that is implemented for the resource without disturbing the ecological first time in the reporting period. balance through the practice. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 REVERSE OSMOSIS PROJECT The efficient use of water resources is one of the significant problems facing our world. The reflection of this problem on the business world is of equal importance. With the “Reverse Osmosis” project, whose project we developed during the previous reporting period in accordance with our responsible production understanding, we now use water resources more efficiently in our operations. With the implementation of the Reverse Osmosis project, we are now realizing about 62% of our water use in this way. 36 97 % of our wastes are utilized as raw material additive in recovery and other industries. WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste Amounts by Disposal Method in 2014 (tons) As a production company, we carry out our 2013 2014 2015 operations with the awareness of managing Total Hazardous Waste Amount 3,199 1,446 2,240 the wastes arising in result of our processes Recovery 8 120 532 sensitively. Our primary approach consists of Reuse 6 29 0 reducing and recovering waste at the source. Incineration 3,185 1,297 1,708 Projects and practices are implemented Total Nonhazardous Waste Amount 40,397 47,388 17,792* in order to achieve this. The elimination of Recovery 270 789 789 wastes is ensured as determined by regulaReuse 32,164 40,407 11,606* tions and related performance is monitored Sanitary Landfill 1,799 1,255 1,255 in accordance with defined targets. Incineration 6,184 4,937 4,143 Within the body of Aksa, wastes are sep*Flying Ash shifted from the waste to product category with CE certification. arated as hazardous and nonhazardous in accordance with regulations. Household Wastes are transported through the agency wastes generated by office use and the of licensed companies. The transportation cafeteria are sent to the affiliated municiprocess is carried out by licensed vehicles pal sanitary landfill. Recyclable packages, befitting the characteristics of the waste. wastes such as paper are accumulated in AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 In the previous reporting period, audit separate trash containers at offices and on works regarding the use of fly ash wastes the field, and sent to the recycling company. generated in result of energy production Our wastes originating from processes are processes as product raw material in sent to the disposal plant due to its high relevant industries were completed and CE calorific value and they are eliminated by certification was received in 2015. In this incineration for energy purposes. Other way, about 36,085 tons of ash that was wastes are delivered to waste disposal formerly considered waste was categocompanies authorized by public institutions. rized as product, enabling its reuse. 37 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO EMPLOYEES WE BELIEVE TALENTED, CREATIVE, HAPPY EMPLOYEES WHO ARE OPEN TO LEARNING ARE THE MAIN FORCE THAT WILL CARRY OUR GLOBAL BUSINESS SUCCESS FURTHER. WE KNOW THAT OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE CAREERS OF OUR EMPLOYEES DIRECTLY INFLUENCES OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS. F or this reason, we make use of rights, disallow discrimination and comply systems to ensure that all our empwith global human rights principles in all loyees are performing the right job our organization, we look for ways to genat the right time, they are developing their eralize this understanding across our value knowledge and skills in accordance with chain. We act in light of these values in all their needs, and receiving constructive and our practices from recruitment to remunertimely feedback regarding their performanation, to performance assessment to career ce. We select the leaders of the future from management practices, we constantly among our employees through effective enhance our performance in the area of talent management practices. We consohuman and employee rights. lidate employee participation with various As part of our recruitment practices, we internal communication practices, we strive treat all our potential employees equalto enhance employee engagement. We take ly without discrimination based on age, all measures to be able to provide a healthy physical disability, race, ethnic origin, and safe working environment. gender, religion, faith, or sexual orientation. We take respect for basic human rights as We carry out our recruitment processes by basis at the foundation of all our human assessing individuals with proper qualificaresources practices. We prevent all kinds tions for the position, independently from AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 of discrimination with our belief in the gender and without discrimination. We value created by social diversity. employ our disabled personnel in position befitting their physical conditions, we help the socio-economic development of our WORKING LIFE AT AKSA operational geography with our local emOffering a dignifying working environment ployment policy. to our employees is among our primary We pursue remuneration and vested corporate values. We actualize human benefits strategy based on responsibility, resources processes that respect employee 39 seniority and employee performance with ETHIC MANAGEMENT AT AKSA the Work Assessment and Remuneration We make use of communication mechModel predicated on remuneration accordanisms through which our employees ing to performed work. We do not take into and other stakeholders can convey their consideration any factors that might cause complaints in cases when corporate discrimination in determining the benefits ethics principles, which include anti-diswe offer to our employees. crimination articles, are violated. Our At Aksa, we strive to be a mother-friendly stakeholders can apply to our company’s workplace. Four out of 5 women emEthics Representative, the Ethics Comployees who took their maternal leave in mittee, the manager under which they 2015 returned to work and three of them work, the Human Resources Department continued working for at least 12 months. or Akkök Ethics Line when they believe At the same period, 90 men employees they are facing a situation that violates benefited from parental leave entitlement human rights. Notices received through and returned to work. Akkök Ethics Line are collected by an Since Aksa operations make use of high independent third party institution, technology due to the nature of our indusconveyed to Aksa Ethics Committee try and are categorized as very hazardous and evaluated. The Ethics Committee AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 occupation, they do not carry any risk of consists of Akkök Legal Director, Akkök child labor. As per the United Nations GlobHR Director, Akkök Audit Director and al Compact, of which we are signatory, we Aksa Ethics Representative. All employdo not conduct operations that carry risks ees working for the ethics line can be regarding child labor or forced labor, we reached 7 days of the week, through ensure the observance of these principles phone, mail or e-mail. Great care is in our value chain through auditing practicshown to uphold confidentiality princies we perform. ples in every stage of the process. It is 40 During the reporting period, 440 person*hour of Business Ethics Principles and Practices Training, During the reporting period, 147 49 person*hour of Human employees received Rights, Combating Against Corruption, 147 person*hour of human 66 person*hour of Fraud Monitoring Training provided. rights training. pleasing that no complaints regarding conduct, 389 employees were providany discrimination cases or workforce ed with a total of 440 person*hour of criteria were conveyed to our part during Business Ethics Principles and Practices the reporting period. Training. Besides, 49 participants were provided with 147 person*hour of Human Our Business Ethics Principles bookRights, Combating Against Corruption let was shared with all our employees, and Transparence Training. In addition to posters including Ethics Line and Ethics these trainings, 66 person*hour of Fraud Representative information were kept in Monitoring Training was offered to 11 places visible to our employees throughexecutives. out the year. The Ethics Mail, prepared within the body of Akkök, was started to be published monthly in May 2015 and distributed to our employees. Informative texts involving various ethical case examples were shared with our employees in order to better explain our codes of conduct. Our Business Ethics Principles were added to the orientation AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 program for our newly recruited employees as of May 2015. Our Business Ethics Principles and related policies are also shared with our external shareholders on our corporate website. As part of trainings organized during the reporting period to enhance awareness regarding business ethics and codes of 41 TALENT MANAGEMENT IN LINE WITH OUR STRATEGIC BUSINESS GOALS, WE ATTACH MAXIMUM IMPORTANCE TO RECRUITING AND KEEPING QUALIFIED WORKFORCE FOR OUR COMPANY AND CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVE OUR PERFORMANCE IN TALENT MANAGEMENT THROUGH ACTIVE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION, EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND CAREER MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. In the reporting period, CORASCI (responsibility assignment matrixes) works to support operational excellence and efficiency were performed for all our Directorates, analyzing PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT SYSTEM assignments, responsibilities and processes, identifying recovery areas, In line with our strategic business oband restructuring the job definitions jectives, we attach importance to the of our employees on the basis of incorporation of qualified workforce and position. As part of Corasci works, ensuring the engagement of our existing necessary actions regarding areas of employees. We enhance our perforthe organization open to improvemance in talent management through ment were planned, implemented effective performance assessment, emand monitored in accordance with ployee development and career managemanagerial decisions. ment practices. We carry out our performance assessformance feedback was realized as 89% ment practices with an understanding of in both the categories of women and reciprocal communication and a construcmen employees. tive feedback approach. We share the results of 360 degree feedback and asWe make use of the results of perforsessment center and Leadership Potential mance assessment processes as the Inventory practices with our employees primary reference point for all our career AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 through one-on-one interviews. development practices, we support the personal and professional developments In the reporting period, 81% of our of our employees and help bring out their white-collar employees were subjected potentials. to performance and career development assessments, while this rate was realized Development Planning: This study as 91% for our blue-collar employees. involves a scheduling to fortify one strong During the same period, the rate of perarea and to develop two development 43 areas from among the technical and EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT behavioral competences of expert and Employee trainings are planned with a above employees, once a year. Personality participatory model, at Aksa. Aksa Traininventories, assessment center results, ing Committee (AKEK), formed with the 360 degrees evaluation results, results of participation of representatives from all manager assessment, personal assessdepartments and members from the ment and performance assessment studRepresentative Committee, provides the ies are included in the scheduling process. Human Resources department with advice The primary output of the development and support regarding the evaluation of our planning process is the training schedule employees’ training needs. The constant imof the employee. Every year, at yearend, provement of training practices is ensured the measurement and assessment of emby obtaining the views of all departments ployee development is performed. through AKEK that convenes twice a year. Career Choices: At Aksa, we believe Aksa School, was established in 1982 in our employees should direct their own order to ensure the professional developcareers. For this reason, as part of the ment of operational level employees. We Career Choices Program we conduct, we AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 constantly update this program where obtain information regarding the next company employees serve as trainers, as desired position of our employees and part of our effort to be a learning company. evaluate it for their career plan. Academic supports: We continued our support for the Master’s and Doctorate Support Program in order to support the scientific studies our employees and increase our intellectual capital. 44 Career Maps: At Aksa, ideal career roading customer satisfaction. In 2015, 10 emmaps are drawn for all employees. These ployees have participated in this training. maps were drawn for all directorates and Mentor Mentee Program: We started shared with employees. The paths they will the “Mentorship Program” attended by pursue in the future were made visible. positions of manager and above and Developer Manager Seminar: The purexecutives in order to infuse leaders of pose of the Developer Manager Seminar the future with our corporate culture and organized for mid-level managers is for our business manner at Aksa, and to perpetmanagers to adopt guidance and direction uate the engagement of our employees. as leadership skills, to gain the necessary The program aims to support the personskills for professional coaching and guidal and professional developments of our ance and to enable participants to know employees, thereby contributing to their and improve themselves. The seminar successes. In 2015, 20 mentor-mentee that was organized for this purpose was matchups were performed. In 2016, Manattended by 17 managers in 2015. ager and Expert level employees will also be included in the project. Lean Six Sigma Trainings: Lean 6 sigma is a management methodology ensuring Coaching Practices: As part of our one-onAKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 that all business processes from proone coaching programs devoted to senior duction to distribution, until the product level managers and directors, a total of 8 reaches to the consumer, are examined hours of one-on-one interviews are conductand improved. Trainings are organized ed in order to identify the targets of individfor Lean Six Sigma Projects realized with uals, make them realize their options, create the purpose of eliminating the error rate, innovations and advance towards their increasing productivity, perfecting all objectives. In 2015, 5 people attended the business process and constantly enhanccoaching program as part of this program. 45 In the reporting period, we have provided 41,157 person*hour of training for our blue-collar employees, 19,094 person*hour of training for our white-collar employees, 5,207 person*hour of training for our women employees and 55,044 person*hour of training for our men employees. Support for Young Talents: We ensure INTERNAL COMMUNICATION AND that both our potential and existing emEMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT ployees are informed about our corpoAt Aksa, we strive to create a participarate values through our employee brand tory corporate culture. We encourage the “Legend or Truth?” managed within the participation of our employees in decibody of Akkök Holding. We continued our sion-making mechanisms, we establish university visits in 2015, in order to incorsystems that will facilitate this process. porate new talents. We also maintained the Long Termed Internship program. 11 Our employees can communicate directly students, whose graduation neared, were with our managers through corporate employed as interns during three months structures such as Aksa Training Comin the 2015 period, with the purpose of mittee (AKEK) and Aksa Social Activities constituting image ambassadors that will Community (AKSET). We appeal to the increase the recognition of Aksa and of views of our employees in many areas of evaluating the new workforce that will working life through structure such as Emadapt to the company. We aim to discovployee Representation Committee, SugG4-27 er talents that will implement and consoligestion System and Occupational Health date the future strategies of our company, and Safety Committee. We ensure that our AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 to attract and bring them in our company employees are constantly in contact with through our new graduate recruitment the senior management through our instiprocess jointly conducted within the body tution-wide Open Door Policy. We strive to of Akkök Holding since 2010. In 2015, a color the social lives of our employees with total of 51 newly recruited employees, of the social activities we organize. which 9 for Expert and above positions and 42 for Operational level positions We collect the suggestions of our employees were categorized as new graduates. through the Suggestion System we started 46 in 1996. We evaluate employee suggestions (AKSA Social Activities Team) organizes acconcentrated on the categories of occupativities such as parties, concerts, trips, courstional health and safety and improvement of es and seminars in line with the requests business processes with a multistage system. received from employees. The activities organized by AKSET during the reporting During the reporting period, we received period included a summer welcoming party, 185 suggestions from our employees as New Year’s Eve party, taboo tournament, part of the Suggestion System practice. activities devoted to employees’ children, 87 of these suggestions were assessed short film workshop, solmization, tennis, art as applicable and the applications of 28 of recognizance, psychoanalysis workshop, suggestions were completed. guitar and drum courses. 16 AKSET activiOur other internal communication practices ties realized during 2015 were attended by a ivnclude the intranet platform, named ‘Portotal of 2,501 employees. takal’, that serves Akkök group companies, We aim to conduct the Employee EnAksa Human Resources Portal, in-company gagement Survey that we implement communication boards, monthly e-bulletin, every two years in order to measure the G4-27 the Representative Committee, a platform engagement and satisfaction levels of our where our employees can vote, introduction AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 employees, in 2016. cocktails for our newly-recruited employees and festival celebrations. 993 employees attended the Employee Survey practice we carried out in 2015. We undertake practices that will increase Through workshops organized following the motivation and engagement of our the survey, our employees’ views and sugemployees through volunteering activities gestions regarding areas open to improveled again by our employees. Composed of ment were collected and 12 project groups 30 volunteering Aksa employees, AKSET were formed to start their works in 2016. 47 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GREAT PLACE TO WORK Aksa, who includes occupational health During the reporting period, “Great and safety among its major sustainability Place to Work” Confidence Index priorities, regards creating a healthy and practice was carried out in line safe working environment for its employwith our participatory Management ees as its primary responsibility. The Comunderstanding. We have initiated pany, which regularly analyzes all its operpreliminary preparations to impleations regarding OHS risks in accordance, ment work life research. Project constantly improves its OHS performance groups were formed to implement through preventive measures, emergenactions that will carry our company further by listening to our employcy action plans, employee trainings and ees’ suggestions of action regardvarious other practices. OHSAS 18001 ing our improvement areas, and Standard and Safety Management System will improve working environments, constitute the basis for Occupational where our employees confidently Health and Safety Management practices connect to Aksa, are proud of their at Aksa, the performance of the Company job and of Aksa, and work in total in this area is ensured through concrete AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 harmony and cooperation with targets, effective audit mechanisms and their colleagues. stakeholder participation. During the reporting period, no fatal accidents or occupational diseases occurred in our company. 48 ACCIDENT PREVENTION CULTURE OUR OHS Performance in Numbers¹ (KÖK) PROJECT Aksa aims to raise awareness among its 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 workforce regarding occupational health and Accident Frequency Rate 6.50 3.20 4.87 8.86 5.70 safety by focusing on employee behaviors with “Accident Prevention Culture” (KÖK), Accident Severity Rate 223.80 254.70 125.25 184.04 186.00 the occupational health and safety project Injury Rate 42.66 26.44 19.49 30.33 25.00 actualized during the reporting period with the motto “We Will Eradicate Accidents at ¹Accident Frequency Rate = Number of Work Accidents / (Total Number of Days with Premium *8) *1,000,000 AKSA!”. In the first stage of the project actuAccident Severity Rate = Total Number of Days Lost Due to Work Accidents / alized together with the world-renowned Be(Total Number of Days with Premium *8) *1,000,000 havioral Science Technology (BST) company, Injury Rate = Number of Work Accidents *1,000,000 /Total Work Hours a survey was conducted for current situation analysis regarding OHS awareness, a significant participation rate of 92% was ensured. In addition to 16 hours of Occupational Following the trainings provided and preparaHealth and Safety Training per person tions made in the second stage, AKAT (Aksa and 2 hours of Environmental ReguAccident Reduction Team) was established for the purpose of training individuals that lations Training per person realized in will make observations on site and ensuring accordance with regulations, training and AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 the constitution of a mutually supportive culapplication programs were also orgature. In parallel with these works, LDI survey nized in various OHS areas. and coaching interviews were conducted in order to ensure the inclusion of leading Aksa The OHS Committee, which positioned personnel in the system, participation in this as the most important guide and primasurvey was at the level of 91%. The project ry stakeholder participation practice in that was designed in line with the sustainthe area of OHS, consist of a total of 14 ability understanding Aksa is projected to be maintained in the forthcoming periods. people, including 4 employee representatives voted in person by Aksa employees. 49 OHS TRAININGS PROVIDED TO EMPLOYEES BY YEARS (PERSON*HOUR) 28,630 28,138 24,620 22,404 12,681 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The committee, which represents the whole blue-collar workforce, features the SEVESO PROJECT employer representative, occupational In the reporting period, Aksa mainsafety expert, workplace doctor, Human tained the practices within the context Resources Director, civil defense expert, of SEVESO Project launched in order Administrative Affairs Manager, foreman to meet the requirements of the EU and headworker as regular members bedirective about preventing major sides employee representatives, and leads industrial accidents and reducing the policies and practices of Aksa in the their impacts. While completing the area of occupational health and safety. documentation processes in order to comply with the alterations caused Our HSE Specialists, selected from among by the deferment of the directive’s volunteers in their departments and date of enforcement, it has increasinformed through a specially prepared ingly maintained the process security training package regarding the constant investments started in 2014. As part monitoring, auditing and, when necessary, of the project, where impact modelimprovement of the current situation of lings were performed for worst-case operations conducted in our plant and scenarios when the physical measures AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 headquarters in terms of Health, Safein place fail to prevent major industrial ty and Environment, notice concerned accidents, studies for determining employees in cases where Environmental, befitting intervention methods for Technical Safety and Occupational Safety these scenarios are also carried out. rules are not complied with; in case the In the reporting period, 102 employidentified problem cannot be eliminated, ees were provided with a total of 655 they inform unit management and HSE person*hour of SEVESO training. Directorate experts. 50 Aksa offers health services to its employees and their families through both During the reporting period, health practices realized at the work51 fire relay team drills, 5 place and the vested benefits it provides. The company performs examinations at evacuation drills, recruitment and periodically thereafter; it follows the health of its employees 1 ISPS drill and closely and increases these controls in 1 port exercise were performed. In 2015, our employees were provided special cases, such as chronic illness, pregnancy and disability. Aksa provides with a total of all its employees with trainings concerning regular and balanced nutrition and 1,928 person*hour of training. ergonomics, it makes announcements regarding influenza and preventive Aksa takes important steps toward the vaccination. As part of internal commugeneralization of its policies in the area of nication practices, presentations in the OHS across its value chain; in this regard, subjects of substance addiction, obesity, it conducts OHS themed audits devoted AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 musculoskeletal disorders, tuberculosis, to subcontractors, who are its business animal bites, heat stroke, conjunctivitis, partners. General audits aimed at subconand nutritional advice for the month of tractor employees are conducted every Ramadhan, relaxation exercises, healthy three months, audits involving document food consumption, common cold, and social security controls are implemented every two months and meetings diabetes, mouth and dental health, and about OHS issues are organized with cardiovascular health are shared with all subcontractor and sub-employee compaemployees through the TV broadcast. ny representatives monthly. 51 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO SOCIETY AKSA, WHICH FOCUSES ON DEVELOPING SOLUTIONS FOR THE NEEDS AND PROBLEMS OF THE WHOLE SOCIETY, PRIMARILY THE LOCAL COMMUNITY IN ITS OPERATIONAL GEOGRAPHY, IN ITS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS AND ACTIVITIES, AIMS TO CREATE THE HIGHEST POSSIBLE VALUE ADDED FOR ITS STAKEHOLDERS. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 52 T he Company, who listens to its of Aksa and to be informed about issues of stakeholders’ expectations through interest. Within the context of the practice effective and transparent communibenefited by various stakeholders, such as cation mechanisms and encourages stakelocal community, NGOs, schools, employee holder participation with its volunteerism families, customers, benchmarking teams, based approach, prioritizes social awaredomestic and foreign visitors, 160 stakeness rising oriented, human and environholders have visited the production site of ment friendly practices. Aksa, which also Aksa during the reporting period. supports the social responsibility projects Akkök Children’s Festival Aksa maintained of Akkök Holding, with which it is affiliated, its support for Akkök Children’s Festival pioneers in the sustainable development organized by Akkök Holding since 2011 in of the society of which it is a part through order to raise awareness among children practices it develops in the areas of educaregarding sustainability and recycling, in tion, culture, art, sports, environment and the reporting period. As part of the festival health. organized in Yalova for the fourth time OPEN DOOR VISITS this year, children who came together at Raif Dinçkök Cultural Center attended G4-27 Aksa has actualized an exemplary practice the entertaining activities of Aksa Akrilik, for the business world in stakeholder parDowAksa and Ak-Kim Kimya, from among AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ticipation with the Open Door Visits started Akkök Holding companies, about water in 1999 in accordance with the principles savings and efficient use of water, and of transparency and accountability. As part they created another artwork. Within the of the practice that allows employees to scope of the activity, an entertaining water communicate easily and clearly with their themed show was performed in the lounge managers, all stakeholders can convey areas by Faruk K Children’s Club with the their suggestions, demands and complaints support of Aksa, while around 500 children to Aksa representatives, and they also get joined the festival. the opportunity to tour the production site 53 Holiday Present for the Children of Yalova musical instruments to schools and to gift As in the previous period, Aksa took the musical instruments to students, as well as children of Yalova to the movies for April build music rooms in suitable schools. The 23rd National Sovereignty and Children’s project, which will be started at Taşköprü Festival in the reporting period. In 2015, Middle School and Aksa Technical and about 1,200 children watched the movIndustrial Vocational High School located in ie Kuzular Firarda 2 at Özdilek Cinetime Yalova, is to be extended to other districts theater for free. It is projected to reach in the city in the forthcoming years. more children as part of the activity in the AKSA INDUSTRIAL VOCATIONAL HIGH forthcoming period. SCHOOL RENOVATION WORKS TARGET -> FUTURE WITH AKSA ORCHESTRA Aksa established Aksa Technical and IndusAksa plans to actualize a project called trial Vocational High School in the town of “Future with Aksa Workshop” as of 2016, in Taşköprü, in Çiftlikköy district of Yalova, in order to introduce school-age children and 1992 with the purpose of training equipped youth to music and to reveal their potenand skillful youth for the industry, in accortials in this subject. As part of the practice dance with the importance it attaches to G4-27 to be started in cooperation with Freelance education. During the reporting period, the Musicians and Producers’ Association, it is company started maintenance and repair AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 aimed for students aged 10-15 to be trained works at the high school. in wind instruments, percussion instruCooperation with the Red Crescent Aksa ments and juggling workshops. cares for the popularization of social reWithin the scope of the practice, where sponsibility awareness among its stakestudents to attend workshops are to be holders and conducts activities based on selected on the basis of volunteerism with volunteerism, in this direction. In accorthe support of music teachers and guiddance, the “Blood Donation Campaign”, ance counselors, it is projected to donate conducted twice a year in cooperation 54 with Red Crescent Yalova Branch, was also Corporate Memberships maintained in the reporting period. Acrylic Based Composite, Advanced Material DONATIONS AND SOCIAL RELIEFS and Technology Producers’ Association CIRFS European Man-made Fibres Aksa, who believes sustainable social Association development to be possible through DEİK – American Council (Mehmet Ali Berkman) educated, equipped, cultured generations DEİK – European Council (Ahmet Dördüncü) taking initiative and sensitive towards the Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) environment and society, commits itself Turkish Marine Environment Protection to the enrichment of the educational and Association (Turmepa) cultural opportunities of local communities Undersecretariat of Maritime Affairs in its operational geography. The CompaIstanbul Textile and Apparel Exporters’ ny, which supports the Corporate Social Association (ITKIB) Responsibility projects it designs and imIMEAK Chamber of Shipping plements accordingly with ‘Donations and Istanbul Chamber of Industry Social Reliefs’ it provides, makes disburseIstanbul Chamber of Commerce ments in various areas, primarily education, Turkish Quality Association (KalDer) culture, arts and sports activities, with a Ltd. Eskihisar Gebze Water Products view to social benefit. The donations and Cooperative AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 social reliefs distributed in the reporting Ethics and Reputation Association (TEİD) period are as follows: Turkish Textile Employers’ Association (TTSİS) Turkish Statistical Institute (TÜİK) Donations and Social Reliefs Amount (TL) Turkish Chemical Industrialists Association Education 1,440,969 Turkish Port Operators Associations, Foundations Yalova Industrialists’ Association 297,823 and Municipalities Yalova Chamber of Commerce and Industry Total 1,738,792 55 PERFORMANCE TABLES PRIMARY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 31/12/2013 31/12/2014 31/12/2015 (Thousand USD) (Thousand USD) (Thousand USD) Consolidated Balance Sheet ASSETS 848,805 861,830 775,236 Current Assets 401,625 421,358 369,907 Cash and Cash Equivalents 109,267 83,010 117,901 Trade Receivables 171,202 207,989 160,898 Stocks 86,770 101,931 63,652 Other Current Assets 34,386 28,428 27,456 Non-current Assets 447,180 440,472 405,329 Trade Receivables 30,376 27,327 Financial Investments 1,103 1,016 Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method 114,842 104,613 83,690 Tangible Fixed Assets 317,908 292,611 247,137 Intangible Fixed Assets 4,653 3,198 26,471 Goodwill 2,806 2,583 2,060 Other Fixed Assets 5,867 6,075 1,992 LIABILITIES 848,805 861,830 775,236 Short-term Liabilities 288,879 324,222 258,325 Financial Liabilities 105,824 121,717 140,423 Trade Liabilities 159,821 186,056 105,036 Provision for Period Tax Liabilities 4,890 4,796 5,002 Other Short-term Liabilities 18,343 11,652 7,864 Long-term Liabilities 69,140 57,483 87,486 Financial Liabilities 58,387 43,977 72,239 Financial Derivative Instruments 149 Provision for Employee Benefits 7,186 9,309 6,956 Deferred Tax Liabilities 3,395 4,048 2,485 Shareholders' Equity 490,787 480,125 429,425 HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS 2013 2014 2015 G4-17 Employee Breakdown by Gender AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Male 798 1,125 1,143 Female 98 123 128 TOTAL 896 1,248 1,271 Employee Breakdown by Status Blue Collar 727 1,047 1,059 White Collar 169 201 212 TOTAL 896 1,248 1,271 Employee Breakdown by Age <30 277 443 406 30-50 584 766 818 50< 35 39 47 57 TOTAL 896 1,248 1,271 Employee Breakdown by Contract Board of Directors 8 12 12 Permanent Staff 855 1,216 1,226 Permanent Pensioner 9 12 17 Employees On Contract 13 3 10 Pensioners On Contract 11 17 6 Employee Breakdown by Employment Type Full-time 894 1,258 1,269 Part-time 2 2 2 Employee Breakdown by Educational Status Two-year Degree and Below 721 1,028 1,035 Bachelor's Degree and Above 175 232 224 Starting Employees by Age Group and Gender <30 94 217 71 30-50 90 237 35 50< 5 17 1 Male 181 181 122 Female 8 430 12 Leaving Employees by Age Group and Gender <30 27 41 63 30-50 35 57 48 50< 12 10 13 Male 62 62 116 Female 12 92 8 Senior Managers Male 20 18 19 Female 1 1 1 Mid level Managers Male 34 46 44 Female 7 9 9 <30 0 0 3 30-50 27 45 45 50< 12 5 5 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Two-year Degree and Below 1 0 0 Bachelor's Degree 32 45 42 Master's Degree and Above 8 10 11 Employees Subjected to Performance Appraisal by Employee Categories Blue Collar 712 951 1,054 White Collar 152 162 193 OHS Performance Accident Frequency Rate 4.87 8.86 5.70 Accident Severity Rate 125.25 184.04 186.00 Injury Rate 19.49 30.33 25.00 58 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2012 2013 2014 2015 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tons Co2e) Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions 806,943 857,737 1,136,312 1,210,750 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 27,455 20,507 22,700 5,815 TOTAL 834,398 878,224 1,159,012 1,216,565 Water Consumption (m3) Municipal and Well Water 2,983,616 3,847,412 3,907,162 4,052,386 Waste Water Discharge () 2,463,750 2,950,507 2,833,690 2,472,875 2013 2014 2015 Amounts of Waste by Disposal Method (ton) Total Hazardous Waste 3,199 1,446 2,240 Recycle 8 120 532 Reuse 6 29 0 Incineration 3,185 1,297 1,708 Total Non-hazardous Waste 40,397 47,388 17,792 Recycle 270 789 789 Reuse 32,164 40,407 11,606 Sanitary Landfill 1,799 1,255 1,255 Incineration 6,184 4,937 4,143 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and pp.39-41 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. pp.39-41 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; pp.39-41 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; pp.39-41 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and pp.39-41 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. pp.39-41 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; pp.30-37 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and pp.30-37 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. pp.30-37 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. p.41 59 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX Identified External Indicator Description Omissions Assurance Profile Disclosures G4-1 Messiage from the CEO (p.5) G4-2 Messiage from the CEO (p.5); Corporate Governance (pp. 12,14) G4-3 Contact (p.66) Generated Economic Value (p.9); Corporate G4-4 Website http://www.aksa.com/en/product-selector G4-5 Contact (p.66) G4-6 About Report (p.7); Generated Economic Value (p.9) G4-7 Aksa 2015 Annual Report (p.14) G4-8 Generated Economic Value (p.9) G4-9 Generated Economic Value (p.9) ; Primary Financial Indicators (pp.57-58) G4-10 Human Resources Indicators Table (pp.57-58) G4-11 Human and Employee Rights Management (pp.39-40) G4-12 Supply Chain (p.26-28) Corporate Website: http://www.aksa.com/en/investor-relations/ G4-13 material-disclosures/material-disclosures/i-220 Corporate Governance (pp.11-12); Risk Management (pp.12,14); G4-14 Strategic Planning (p.14) G4-15 Management Systems (pp.21-22); Primary Financial Indicators (p.57) G4-16 Corporate Memberships (p.55) G4-17 About Report (p.7); Primary Financial Indicators (p.57) No G4-18 Sustainability Management (pp.15-16) No AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-19 Sustainability Management (p.16) No G4-20 About Report (p.7); Sustainability Management (pp.15-16) No G4-21 About Report (p.7); Sustainability Managementi (pp.15-16) No About Report (p.7); In this report, there is no any restatements of G4-22 No information provided in previous reports. G4-23 About Report (p.7); Sustainability Management (p.16) No G4-24 Stakeholder Engagement (p.18) No G4-25 Stakeholder Engagement (p.17) No G4-26 Stakeholder Engagement (p.17); Sustainability Management (p.15) No 61 Stakeholder Engagement (p.18); Our Customers (pp.28-29); Open Door Visits G4-27 No (pp.53-54); Internal Communication and Employee Engagement (pp.46-47) G4-28 About Report (p.7) G4-29 About Report (p.7) G4-30 About Report (p.7) G4-31 About Report (p.7); Contact (p.66) About Report (p.7); GRI G4 Content Index (p.62) (Aksa Sustainability G4-32 Report 2015 was not subjected to external audit.) GRI G4 Content Index (p.62) (Aksa Sustainability Report 2015 was not G4-33 subjected to external audit.) G4-34 Corporate Governance (pp.11-12); Aksa Annual Report 2015 (p.61-65) G4-56 Ethic Management at Aksa (pp.40-41 ) Identified External Indicator Description Omissions Assurance Standard Disclosures Material Aspect: Ekonomic Performance G4-DMA Value contributed to Employees (p.39); Primary Financial Indicators (p.57) G4-EC1 Primary Financial Indicators (p.57) G4-EC2 Message from the CEO (p.5); Emission Management (pp.34-35) G4-EC3 Value Contributed to Employees (p.39) G4-EC4 Aksa 2015 Annual Report (p.104 ) Material Aspect: Market Presence G4-DMA Not material Value Contiıbuted to Employees (p.39); GRI G4 Content Index (p.62) (The G4-EC5 ratio of standard entry level wage to local minimum wage is calculated with respect to employee status) Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Value Contributed to Society (pp.53-55); Supply Chain (pp.26-28) G4-EC7 Value Contributed to Society (pp.53-55) G4-EC8 Value contributed to Society (pp.53-55); Supply Chain (pp.26-28) AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Material Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-DMA Sustainable Operations (pp.21-29) G4-EC9 Supply Chain (p.28) Material Aspect: Energy Environmental Management (p.31); Energy Management (pp.32-33); Emissions G4-DMA Management (pp.34-35) G4-EN3 Energy Management (p.32-33) G4-EN5 Energy Management (p.32-33); Emissions Management (p.34-35) 62 G4-EN6 Energy Management (p.32-33) G4-EN7 Energy Management(p.32-33) Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA Water Resources Management (p.35-36) G4-EN8 Water Resources Management (p.35-36); Environmental Indicators Table (p.59) G4-EN9 Water Resources Management (p.62) G4-EN10 Water Resources Management (p.35) Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Emissions Management (p.34) G4-EN15 Emissions Management (p.34) G4-EN16 Emissions Management (p.34) G4-EN21 Emissions Management (p.34) Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Water Management (p.35-36); Waste Management (p.37) G4-EN22 Water Management (p.35); Environmental Indicators (p.59) G4-EN23 Waste Management (p.37) GRI G4 Content Index (p.63) (During the reporting period there was not any G4-EN24 significant spills.) GRI G4 Content Index (p.63) (There is no body of water significantly affected G4-EN26 by Aksa's water use.) G4-EN27 Responsıble Production (p.25), Water Management (p.35); Waste Management (p.37) Material Aspect: Compliance GRI G4 Content Index (p.63) (No significant environmental penalties were G4-EN29 received during the reporting period for non-compliance with environmetal laws and regulations.) Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Not material G4-EN32 Supply Chain (p.28) Material Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Value contributed to Employees (pp.39-40); Talent Management (pp.43-46) G4-LA1 Human Resources Indicators Table (pp.57-58) AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-LA2 Value contributed to Employees (p.40) G4-LA3 Value contributed to Employees (p.40) Material Aspect: Labour/Management Relations G4-DMA Not material GRI G4 Content Index (p.63) ( For serious operational changes, Aksa complies G4-LA4 with the minimum period of notice defined by the law.) Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety (p.49) G4-LA5 Occupational Health and Safety (p.49) 63 G4-LA6 Occupational Health and Safety (p.49) Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA Talent Management (pp.43-46) G4-LA9 Talent Management (p.46); Human Resources Indıcators (pp.57-58) G4-LA10 Talent Management (pp.43-45) G4-LA11 Talent Management (p.43) Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Value contributed to Employees (pp.39-40); Corporate G4-DMA Website: http://www.aksa.com/en G4-LA12 Human Resources Indicators Table (pp.57-58) Material Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-DMA Value contributed to Employees (pp.39-40) G4-LA13 Value contributed to Employees (pp.39-40) Material Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Ethics Management at Aksa (p.41 ) G4-HR2 Ethics Management at Aksa (p.41 ) Material Aspect: Non-discrimination Corporate Governance (pp.11-12); Value contributed to Employees (pp.39-40); G4-DMA Corporate Website: http://www.aksa.com/en GRI G4 Content İndex (p.64) (No incidents of discrimination occured during G4-HR3 the reporting period.) Material Aspect: Child Labor G4-DMA Value contributed to Employees (p.40) G4-HR5 Value contributed to Employees (p.40) Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA Value contributed to Employees (p.40) G4-HR6 Value contributed to Employees (p.40) Material Aspect: Security Practices G4-DMA Not material GRI G4 Content Index (p.64) (In line with legal regulations, all security G4-HR7 personnel receive trainings, which also include aspects of human rights.) AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Material Aspect: Indigenous People G4-DMA Not material GRI G4 Content Index (p.64) (Aksa does not pursue operations with significant G4-HR8 negative impacts on local communities.) Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Corporate Governance (pp.11-12); Ethics Management at Aksa (p.41 ) G4-SO4 Ethic Management at Aksa (p.41 ) GRI G4 Content Index (p.64) (During the reporting period there were not any G4-SO5 incidents of corruption) 64 Material Aspect: Public Policy G4-DMA Not material GRI G4 Content Index (p.65) (Aksa does not make directly or undirectly any G4-SO6 financial and in-kind political contributions.) Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behaviour G4-DMA Corporate Governance (pp.11-12); Corporate Website : http://www.aksa.com/en GRI G4 Content Index (p.65) (There is not any legal action taken against Aksa G4-S07 concerning any anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes.) Material Aspect: Compliance GRI G4 Content İndex: (p.65) (During the reporting period there is not any G4-SO8 significant fines and nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations.) Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Sustainable Operations (p.21); Product Development (p.21); Our Customers G4-DMA (pp.28-29) GRI G4 Content Index (p.65) (During the reporting period, there is not incident G4-PR2 of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle.) Material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Our Customers (pp.28-29) GRI G4 Contetn Index (p.65) (During the reporting period there is not any G4-PR4 incident of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling.) G4-PR5 Our Customers (pp.28-29) Material Aspect: Marketing Communicatio G4-DMA Not material GRI G4 Content Index (p.65) (There is not any incident of non-compliance with G4-PR7 regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications.) Material Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA Not material GRI G4 Content Index (p.65) (During the reporting period, there is not any G4-PR8 substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.) Material Aspect: Compliance AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GRI G4 Content Index (p.65) (There have been no significant fines for nonG4-PR9 compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.) 65 This report has been produced with 100% recycled paper. No tree was harmed during its production. Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. Miralay Şefik Bey Sokak No: 15 Ak Han Gümüşsuyu 34437 İstanbul/Turkey Tel: 0 212 251 45 00 Faks: 0 212 251 45 07 www.aksa.com
