Serving Society Sustainability Report Through Science 2014-15 Index About the report 02 Product responsibility & Supply Chain 36 Message from MD & CEO 03 Employee Wellbeing 42 About Tata Chemicals 06 Community development 48 Sustainability at Tata Chemicals 10 GRI content index 54 Governance 18 Independent assurance statement 56 Economic Performance 22 Annexures 60 Safety and health 24 Abbreviations 68 Responsible manufacturing 28 Feedback 72 About the report This is the sixth sustainability report in the public All information is derived from official Tata Chemicals domain by Tata Chemicals (TCL). This report covers documents. the period 2014-15. The most recent previous report covered the period FY 2013-14. TCL’s significant locations of operation for this report are as given below: TCL has been bringing out the reports annually, and as 1. Mithapur, Gujarat, India the process matures, we look forward to preparing a 2. Babrala, Uttar Pradesh, India comprehensive report in a phased manner. This report 3. Haldia, West Bengal, India has been prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative 4. Tata Chemicals North America (TCNA), (GRI-G4) guidelines with ‘In accordance’ Core option. Green River, Wyoming, USA We have engaged KPMG for providing independent 5. Tata Chemicals Magadi (TCM), Kenya assurance. 6. Tata Chemicals Europe (TCE), Northwich, UK There is no relationship between the Company and the Additional information on our products, processes, assurance providers’ organisation. This report is assured philosophy and approach is available on our company with independent third party Limited Assurance ISAE website: www.tatachemicals.com 3000 of type 2 moderate level assurance requirements along with AA1000 assurance standard. For more info Write to: Ms. Alka Talwar Information on earnings and financial data is based on Chief CSR & Sustainability Officer the consolidated financial statements of the Company sustainability@tatachemicals.com published in our Annual Financial Report FY 2014-15. corporate_communications@tatachemicals.com 02 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Message from MD & CEO Our mission, ‘Serving Society through Science’, is our development processes to provide solutions that are commitment towards providing solutions to challenges unique and valued by our consumers and customers. facing society by harnessing the fruits of science for goals that go beyond business. Our aim is to constantly Continuing on our journey of sustainability and endeavour to make the world safer, cleaner and greener transparent disclosures, Tata Chemicals Sustainability for future generations through science. Report 2014-15 is the sixth report in the public domain. It includes all our key locations and plants, covering The year 2014-15, marking 75 years of Tata Chemicals, operations of Tata Chemicals, India, Tata Chemicals was special. A slew of initiatives were taken up including Magadi (TCM), Tata Chemicals Europe (TCE) and Tata the release of the book ‘Salt of the Earth’, which Chemicals North America (TCNA). documented the 75-year journey of our company. In pursuit of our mission, we inaugurated and set up a state-of-art Innovation Centre at Pune, India. This centre will be the company’s technology and innovation hub and it will incubate and support the company’s growth vectors in wellness foods, agri and chemistry solutions. It will also provide technology support to other Tata group companies. We have a history of leading industry and, as we build on our past, we believe that technology, innovation and customer immersion are critical enablers in our next phase of profitable growth and our journey to create value for all our stakeholders. We plan to dovetail our consumer insights with product Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 03 We have identified key sustainability challenges to undertaken here include purchasing of a new steam address and help us achieve our vision of becoming turbine (for £5.5million), a transvac project that saves an even more socially responsible corporate citizen. £400,000 equivalent in energy consumption, a heat While safety, climate change and energy are common optimisation project and a LSS task on electricity usage. across our organisation, each business unit and location Tata Chemicals’ Babrala plant is one of the lowest has made efforts to identify issues specific to them energy consuming units among the fertiliser units in through in-depth materiality studies. These include biothe world and the most energy efficient unit in India. diversity, supply chain engagement, water, promotion of At Mithapur and Haldia plants, energy saving projects livelihoods, skill development, diversity and inclusion. include installation of Variable Frequency Drives and We hope to sharpen our focus on each of these areas in energy savers in lighting circuits. the coming years. Additionally, we will also be sensitive to global concerns arising out processes such as UN Water was recognised as one of the key challenges development goals and commitments from COP 21, to both within the fence and beyond. To address this, we name a few. have taken up a slew of initiatives. TCL Mithapur has sustained its zero dependence on ground water by Safety continues to be a key challenge and while we adopting various in-house water conservation measures have improved tremendously, the fatality in India early as well as management of rain-fed lakes and innovative this year has once again brought the point forward that seawater desalination technologies. More than 99% of the journey on safety needs even more attention. We all water needs at Mithapur are met by seawater due have ramped up our safety drive: “Target Zero Harm” – to its effective process integration and water pinch Zero harm to people, asset and environment -through analysis. Recycling of water is promoted where ever adoption of world-class voluntary standards such as possible. OHSAS 18001, Responsible Care and British Safety Council guidelines along with the launch of various Babrala is a zero discharge plant. It leads by recycling initiatives such as ‘SRESHTO’ at Haldia, process safety 81% of plant effluents within the system and the rest management at Babrala, ‘Suraksha Jyot’ at Mithapur, is treated and reused, along with domestic sewage, which targets improving safety behaviour, hazard for irrigation purpose in green belt areas. Initiatives to identifications, risk mitigation and improvement ideas reduce water consumption are underway at TCNA. and ‘Safety Amnesty’ at Tata Chemicals Europe to flush Approximately, 84% of the water that previously was out any historical unsafe practices. lost to evaporation ponds as part of tailings disposal is now recovered. We have set ourselves a target of reducing our carbon intensity by 20% by 2020. While the journey of We believe that our employees are our strength and reduction has had its ups and downs over the years, we continue to build a more inclusive and a diverse we are exploring all options across our value chain to workplace along with focusing on building skills and achieve this and have expanded our scope to include competencies through e-enabled in-house and external operations outside India as well. We continue to programmes. report on our carbon performance through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Our CSR programmes continue to engage with and support our key communities both directly and indirectly Reduction of the carbon footprint has also been through through the various organisations that we support. actions taken by our supply chain. Movement of Key among them is Tata Chemicals Society for Rural maximum material through railways, use of bulkers, and Development, Uday Foundation, Okhai Centre for reuse of packing are some of the means adopted. At Empowerment (a social enterprise promoting artisans), TCNA, process redesign has allowed recovery of soda Tata Chemicals Golden Jubilee Foundation and Magadi ash from waste streams, which results in reduction of Soda Foundation. Our employees are actively engaged 15,000 MT CO2 per year. through volunteering programmes of Hope and Tata Engage. TCE’s soda ash plant is one of the lowest carbon emitters in the EU. Energy reduction initiatives 04 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 TCE has a social policy strategy that targets its local Declaration. This year we once again took up the community and focuses on areas of payroll giving, task of redefining and mapping material sustainability fundraising, employee volunteering, mentoring and aspects through a third party, which covered most of attendance at local schools, national fundraising events, our businesses and locations. Materiality mapping of etc. TCNA employees partner with United Way and First TCE operations are underway and would be completed Book to reach communities in need. We also support by 2015. the local food bank there. The company’s other major achievements include Community is recognised as a key stakeholder and being recognised at different forums for Business partner with TCM. TCM established the Magadi Soda Excellence, Responsible Care, Safety Management Foundation to spearhead community deliverables Systems, Environmental Sustainability, Corporate Social through fundraising and implementation of projects that Responsibility and Corporate Communications. deliver community needs. Core programmes and focus areas are: Education, health, WASH (water, sanitation We are continuously engaging with our large and hygiene), livelihoods, and infrastructure. We have customers; a recent example is our partnership with invested in the Magadi hospital and are running three Unilever on responsible mining. We are working in schools and a yearly bursary programme. TCM is thus a close partnerships to improve overall sustainability model organisation in contribution to these aspects. performance in our supply chain. We have initiated mapping of our suppliers through supply chain In India we have a special focus on socially and sustainability guidelines. In the coming years, we will economically backward communities, women be taking up deeper engagement with our suppliers on empowerment and the farming communities, which sustainability. are the cross cutting themes across our initiatives. India programmes have an integrated approach Our goal is to make an organisation that is even towards development and have defined the approach more responsible, transparent and responsive to its as BEACON (stands for Blossom, Enhance, Aspire, stakeholder’s needs. We believe that the commitment Conserve and Nurture). This year we also took up to sustainability and triple bottom line will ensure the Unnati project that targets improving agriculture our global competitiveness and promote inclusive output while helping save both water and energy. sustainable growth. We hope to expand this in the coming years. Other flagship programmes include ‘Dharti Ko Arpan’ – an environmental conservation programme with integrated R Mukundan watershed and water management. MD & CEO Tata Chemicals Limited We have embarked on a journey to become a more consumer-facing company with more and more products that are B-to-C. We have identified our growth vectors as wellness foods, agri and chemistry solutions. Each strategic business unit is reworking its strategy to ensure sensitised employees and partners to take this journey forward. Our sustainability programmes are driven at the board level through the corporate social responsibility, safety and sustainability (CSS) committee. This committee guides and reviews CSS performance of the enterprise. We continue to be committed to UNGlobal Compact and Responsible Care and follow the precautionary principles as defined in Principle-15 of the Rio Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 05 About Tata Chemicals Part of the $100-billion Tata group, Tata Chemicals Limited (TCL) is a global company with interest in businesses that focus on Living, Industrial and Farm Essentials (LIFE). In line with its mission, ‘Serving society through science’, the company is applying its expertise in sciences to FARM develop sustainable products. ESSENTIALS The Farm essentials offerings include Tata Paras (urea, DAP, NPK), and LIVING other agri services. The products offered INDUSTRY in the Living essentials The Industry portfolio are Tata Salt and its essentials portfolio variants (Tata Salt Lite, Tata Salt includes soda ash, sodium Flavoritz, i-Shakti Salt), Tata bicarbonate, chlor-caustic Swach (water purifier) and and other marine Tata i-Shakti unpolished chemicals. dals (pulses). textiles, food, feed, mining and chemical processing. Living Essentials TCL is the world’s second-largest producer of soda Through its Living Essentials portfolio, the company ash, with a global capacity of 4.3 MT per annum with has positively impacted millions of Indian lives. Tata manufacturing operations in India, USA, UK and Kenya. Salt brand is a market leader in India’s branded iodised The company also manufactures sodium bicarbonate salt segment, and is a part of everyday life of over 600 at Mithapur, India, and in the UK which is used by million consumers. This brand has two other variants: industries such as pharmaceuticals, food, feed, dyes, Tata Salt Lite (low sodium salt) and Tata Salt Plus (ironflue gas treatment, textiles, etc. TCL is the fourth-largest fortified salt). With the introduction of Tata Swach, an producer of sodium bicarbonate, with a combined innovative, low-cost and nanotechnology-based water capacity of about 0.2 MT per annum. purifier, TCL provides affordable and safe drinking water to the people. Tata Swach offers complete water The allied chemicals manufactured by the company purification solutions through its range of non-electric, include caustic soda, liquid chlorine, liquid bromine and UV and RO purifiers. gypsum. TCL manufactures various grades of industrial salt at its UK facility. Its various grades include undried Extending its portfolio from salt to other food products vacuum salt, pure dried vacuum salt, water-softening in 2010, TCL unveiled India’s first national brand of products, de-icing salt products and bespoke products. pulses, Tata I-Shakti. Through this brand, the company aims to provide a wholesome farm-fresh source of daily Cement plant at Mithapur, India was set up to consume protein to the Indian thali (hindi for plate). solid waste generated from the manufacture of soda ash. This plant has an installed capacity of 1,500 tonnes Industry Essentials per day and produces two varieties of cement – OPC Under the umbrella of Industry Essentials, TCL produces grade 53 and masonry cement, under Tata Shudh products which serve as essential inputs to diverse brand. industries such as glass, detergents, sodium silicate, 06 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Farm Essentials TCL has carved out a strong position in India as a provider of Mithapur, India agri solutions. Under Farm Essentials segment, the company offers farm inputs, such as fertilisers, pesticides, specialty nutrients, seeds and agro services, which are required to improve crop health and productivity. TCL is one of the leading manufacturers of Urea and Phosphatic fertilisers, and is a key player in the growing segment of specialty fertilisers. The fertiliser range is marketed under the flagship brand of Tata Paras, which enjoys highest brand equity in its core geographies. TCL also produces customised fertilisers that provide balanced nutrition to the soil. These are sold under the Paras Farmoola brand. TCL’s agri products are produced at its Indian facilities (Babrala & Haldia), Babrala, India having a capacity of 130,000 MT. Through the Tata Kisan Sansar (TKS) network, TCL offers special services to farmers, such as information on new and improved agronomic practices and use of agricultural inputs. TKS is a network of nearly 900+ farmer resource centres that caters to more than 2.6 million farmers across 26,000 villages in the northern and eastern parts of India. Haldia, India Innovation Innovation at TCL is focused on delivering value to the customer. Tata Chemicals’ Innovation Centre at Pune, inaugurated in 2014, is home to world-class R&D capabilities. The innovation thrust aims at developing products and services positioned at the intersection of physics, chemistry and biology (i.e. nanotechnology and biotechnology). The focus areas are food and fuel, energy and environment, water and wellness Magadi, Kenya (FEW). TCL has a joint venture with Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory, Singapore, to develop Jatropha seedlings for biofuel capability. Corporate Social Responsibility TCL’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes engage with and support key communities, directly and Cheshire, UK indirectly, through various organisations that the company supports. Among them are Tata Chemicals Society for Rural Development, Uday Foundation, Okhai Centre for Empowerment, Tata Chemicals Golden Jubilee Foundation and Magadi Soda Foundation. The company has a special focus on socially and economically backward communities, women empowerment and farming communities. TCL’s three manufacturing facilities in India, at Mithapur (in Gujarat), Babrala (in Uttar Pradesh) and Haldia (in West Bengal), are unique examples of corporate-community bonding. Wyoming, USA Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 07 Category of shareholding as on March 31, 2015 Nature of Ownership Government / Government Public Financial Institutions Incorporated in India in 1938, Tata Chemicals Companies 37,542,433 504,090 Limited (TCL) is registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1913. Tata Chemicals North Other Companies, Foreign Holdings 15% Mutual Funds America (TCNA), Tata Chemicals Europe (TCE) 54,670,129 33,325,647 and Tata Chemicals Magadi (TCML) are wholly 22% 13% owned subsidiaries of TCL India. We have four Nationalised Banks manufacturing sites and two research centres in 336,666 India, a manufacturing site in North America, three 19% 31% in Europe and one in Kenya. Resident Individuals Tata Companies & Trusts 49,451,456 78,925,857 Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2015 Sr. Range of Holding No. of Shares Amount (INR) % to Capital No. of Shareholders % to Shareholders 1 1 to 500 1,83,93,057 18,39,30,570 7.22 1,64,737 89.25 2 501 to 1000 79,26,299 7,92,62,990 3.11 10,558 5.72 3 1001 to 2000 74,04,191 7,40,41,910 2.91 5,137 2.78 4 2001 to 3000 41,19,275 4,11,92,750 1.62 1,656 0.90 5 3001 to 4000 25,33,675 2,53,36,750 1.00 718 0.39 6 4001 to 5000 20,24,729 2,02,47,290 0.79 442 0.24 7 5001 to 10000 53,02,142 5,30,21,420 2.08 749 0.41 8 Above 10000 20,70,52,910 2,07,05,29,100 81.27 569 0.31 TOTAL 25,47,56,278 2,54,75,62,780 100.0 1,84,566 100.00 TATA CHEMICALS GROUP AT A GLANCE Markets served and geographic breakdown UK Tata Chemicals Europe British Salt INDIA Tata Chemicals Limited Canada Rallis India EPM Mining Ventures MOROCCO IMACID SINGAPORE JOil USA Tata Chemicals North America KENYA Tata Chemicals Magadi MARKETS 08 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 The overall head count as on 31 March 2015 is 4,207. List of entities included in the consolidated financial TCL’s annual revenue was Rs16,913 crore with a profit statement of the organisation are given in Pageof Rs596 crore in the financial year 2014-15. The 189, Annual Report 2014-15 ‘Summary of Financial market capitalisation (equity) is Rs11,300 crores. Information of Subsidiary Companies under Section 212’. The lists of entities which are covered in this report TCL subscribes to externally developed charters like are given in About the Report of this report. UN Global Compact (UNGC), Responsible Care, and Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). TCL has a Product Quantities for Location stewardship role in the chemical and fertiliser industries. FY 2014-15 It is represented in CII, ICC, FAI, EUCCI, BCCI, TCL, India 47,34,909.42 MT ASSOCHAM, AIMA, etc., and is also member of IFA, Tata Chemicals Magadi 3,88,445 MT AIChE-CCPS. Tata Chemicals North America 23,15,428 MT Tata Chemicals Europe 8,09,753 MT TATA CHEMICALS GROUP AT A GLANCE Distribution (thru Raw material Processing Product Packaging Logistics End use partners) Sea salt / brine access / Vacuum evaporation / Iodised VE Multiple SKUs >98% through Distributor > stockist > Homemakers / procurement 3P refining salt at CFAs under rail retailer consumers HACCP / FSSAI Institution standards Living essentials Sourcing of pulses: Milling / Processing Unpolished SKUs of multiple Reach CFA Distributor > stockist > Homemakers / 1. Farm operations outsourced dals sizes and dal through 3Ps retailer consumers 2. Mandi types via road Institution Dal on call Sourcing of RHA, silver Impregnation of Tata Swach In-house and Reach CFA Warehouses > Distributor Consumers nitrate, packaging silver in RHA and Bulb outsourced thru 3Ps via > Retailer material / FG for RO granulation assembly road Concurrent channel MTF TRONA ore, coal / gas Mining and Natural soda In bulk Via rail / road Direct Industry glass, Industry processing of Trona ash, bicarb Channel partners detergent, health food products essentials Solar salt, limestone, Solvay method Soda ash, Bags (SKUs), Via sea / rail / coke / GAS bicarb bulkers road Ammonia, Gas Ammonia stripping Urea 50 Kgs SKUs Thru 3Ps via BHA, dealers, TKS Farmers Farm essentials for urea road From BHA, TKS, retailer Phos Acid, H2SO4, Granulation NPK 50 Kgs SKUs Thru 3Ps via BHA, dealer, TKS Farme Ammonia, Muriate of road From BHA dealer, TKS potash Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 09 Sustainability @ TCL At Tata Chemicals, there is a The first step of TCL’s strategy planning process includes analysing political, economic, social, conscious effort to ensure that technological, legal and environmental changes sustainability remains at the core that may impact TCL business and this includes of business strategy as the means summarising inputs from various stakeholder interactions and engagement. This is an input to the of sustaining our leadership in all TCL strategy, ensuring that sustainability is the basic aspects of business, in an innovative foundation of TCL’s business strategy. way, to return better value to the Strategic challenges stakeholders. The strategic challenges in terms of long term For us sustainability encompasses stakeholder sustainability identified by TCL are as follows: engagement to meet their expectations, corporate Ageing technology/equipment and infrastructure governance and ethical practices, responsible manufacturing, ensuring safety & health of employees Talent management – attraction, retention, ageing and the communities we serve, promoting employee workforce wellbeing, product stewardship and working with Leveraged balance sheet and supporting our key communities while creating economic value. TCL is a diverse organisation and High proportion of bulk commodity business its business lines are organised around life i.e., Living Increased regulatory environment and Industry and Farm Essentials. We make a constant dependence on government policy effort to understand sustainability aspects of the various stages of our value chain and increase stakeholder Energy/raw material security and cost (likelihood engagement to identify opportunities that meet of rising prices) ‘essential needs’ relating to economic, environmental and social aspects. Increased expectations from stakeholders and community Operational excellence, access to low cost raw A peer review of the Internal Audit function is done once materials in bulk chemicals business, our strong in four years to assess quality effectiveness of internal corporate brand, robust customer engagement process audits with reference to standards and best practices. and relationship and market leadership in key markets and products are our key strategic advantages that help The Company believes that every employee has a role us effectively address our challenges. to play in fostering an environment in which, controls, assurance, accountability and ethical behavior are given Enterprise risk management high importance. To supplement the reviews carried The company has put in place systems for internal out by the internal audit teams, the Company follows audit, risk assessment and mitigation and has an an elaborate system of Control Self Assurance (CSA) independent Internal Audit Department with internal (self-audit) which is carried out during the year. The control and risk management processes both at CSA coverage includes all critical departments in the business and corporate levels. The Head of Audit & organisation. Risk Management reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit committee of the Board of Directors, thereby The IT enabled CSA process provides a good ensuring independence. bottom-up approach and build up for the CEO / CFO certification as required by clause 49 of the listing The Corporate Audit function plays a key role in agreement, besides helping in awareness creation providing for both the operating management and the of controls across a wide segment of the Company Audit committee of the Board, an objective view and employees. This complements the internal audits in reassurance of overall control systems and effectiveness ensuring total coverage in a year. of the risk management process across company and its subsidiaries. Corporate Audit also assesses Risk Management and Internal audit functions opportunities for improvement in business processes, complement each other. Enterprise Risk Management systems and controls and provides recommendations (ERM) process entails a bottom up and top down designed to add value to the operations. approach covering all units, functions and departments of the Company and its subsidiaries. The basic The scope and authority of Corporate Audit department framework followed is the international standard AS/ is derived from the Audit Charter approved by the NZS 4360:1999. The Risk Management process Audit committee. Internal Audits are performed by is also benchmarked periodically against available an in-house team of multi-disciplinary professionals standards such as ISO 31000. TCL is recertified as comprising Chartered Accountants and Engineers. ISO 27001:2005 (i.e. Information Security Management Reviews are conducted on an on-going basis, based System standards). on a comprehensive risk-based audit plan, which is approved by the Audit committee at the beginning of The Company’s risk identification and assessment the year. process is dynamic and hence the Company has been able to identify, monitor and mitigate the most relevant The internal audit department which operates on a strategic and operational risks both during periods of decentralised basis continuously monitors the adequacy accelerated growth and recessionary pressures. The and effectiveness of the internal control environment key risks and opportunities for the current year have across Company and the status of compliance with essentially remained the same as those of the previous operating Systems, internal policies and regulatory years. These are as shown in the table. requirements. The Audit committee meets on a quarterly basis to review and discuss the reports submitted by Head of Audit & Risk Management and also review closure of all agreed actions. The Audit Committee also meets the Statutory Auditors separately to ascertain their views on the adequacy and efficiency of internal control systems. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 11 Key risks Opportunities & risk mitigation actions Safety and Environment related risks TCL is conscious of its strong corporate reputation and the (Linked to the changes in climatic conditions positive role it can play by focusing on social and environmental (erratic rainfall) effecting operations, rising issues. TCL has set very exacting standards in safety, expectations from key stakeholders and ethics and environmental management and has established tightening regulatory norms regarding safe and comprehensive indicators to track its performance. TCL values environment-friendly operations) safety of its employees and constantly raises the bar in ensuring a safe work place. It has taken up projects to map its energy and water footprint and create sustainability action plans. Its Dharti Ko Arpan program specifically targets environment conservation. Use of Lupa bulkers is a pioneering step in Indian soda ash industry towards green supply chain to reduce plastic packaging. Tracking of emerging legislations happens consistently along with establishment of an e-enabled Legal compliance/ management system (legatrix) across the enterprise. People, Talent and Mindset (Linked to the TCL has over the years embarked on several “people initiatives” sustainability challenge of attracting and to help employees achieve their personal and professional goals. retaining of right skill sets for the operations Work life balance is consciously perused. TCL’s performance and growth plans and changing the mindset appraisal systems are well integrated to our business objectives from a commodity business to a consumer and help bring out the best in individuals. Constant investments facing business): Attracting and retaining on training are made to equip our employees for challenges talented employees is core to our success in their roles and also understand customer behaviour. Strengthening township infrastructure and amenities are also steps in making the sites more attractive for people. Setting up of a chief culture officer and the culture department to guide TCL towards an even more transparent and collaborative culture. Continued economic pressures & increasingly TCL has initiated actions through lean six sigma projects to volatile macroeconomic environment (Linked counter these risks and work towards making the operations to the sustainability challenge regarding more competitive TCL also is focusing to build on consumer slowing of global demand, and rising burden facing business and non-subsidised agri business over long of liabilities and disbursement of subsidy). term as part of its strategy, which may position the company Though markets & economies have begun to better to withstand the cyclical headwinds in commodity recover from unprecedented turmoil witnessed businesses and subsidy recovery. in previous years, financial constraints in USA and Europe coupled with low demand for agri inputs in India has aggravated the situation. Community expectations (Linked to challenge Tata Chemicals has taken up key projects on livelihood of provision of livelihood option independent of generation in its area of operations by skill building, TCL’s areas of operation) As TCL is becoming entrepreneurship development, supporting in sales and a leaner organisation, its capacity to provide marketing through Okhai. TCL has partnered with Tata Strive new employment opportunities has reduced, to set up a skill development centre at Aligarh that provides leading to a mismatch with community for quality skill training to rural youth. Expansion of Apprentice expectations. training school and other training centres is also being taken up. 12 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Communication / Engagement Methods Shareholders / Annual General Meeting (AGM), report to shareholders, investor/analysts meets Investors annual report, quarterly results, media releases, company website, report to stock exchange Customer Distributor /retailer/ direct customer meets, senior leaders customer meets/visits, customer plant visits, COO club, achievers meet, KAM workshops, focus group discussion, membership in trade organisation/associations, complaints management, helpdesk, conferences, joint business development plans, information on packaging, customer surveys Suppliers / Partners Supplier prequalification/vetting, suppliers meets, supplier plant visits(to/from) partnership meetings, MOU agreements, trade Association meets/seminars, professional networks, Bhagidhari Sabha, contract management/review, product workshops/ on site presentations, framework agreements Government Advocacy meetings with local/state/ national government and ministries, seminars, media releases, conferences, membership in local enterprise partnership, membership industry bodies such as ICC, BCCI, CII etc. Employee Senior leaders’ communication/talk, senior leadership forum, town hall briefing, goal setting & performance appraisal meetings/ performance review, exit interviews, arbitration/ union meetings, wellness initiatives, focus on workplace safety, employee engagement survey, review for a email updates, intranet, flat screens, websites, poster campaigns, house magazines, confluence, circulars, quarterly publication, intranet, theatre workshops (oorja), newsletters Community / Society Community meetings/visits, local authority and town council meetings, location head’s meet, SWOT, committee meetings, community projects, partnership working with local charities, volunteerism, seminars/ conferences Overarching Management Approach Adoption of ‘Tata Business Excellence Model’ Tata Chemicals has established a number of policies, (TBEM), a Tata Group wide system to drive processes and procedures to drive economic, excellence within the organisation environmental and social sustainability within the The Enterprise Process Model (EPM) that maps organisation. Foremost among all is our Corporate all the processes across the enterprise Sustainability Policy, which is an overarching policy that guides us at all levels for promoting and supporting ISO 9000, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, sustainability programs. We ensure good governance Responsible care through various mechanisms that include: Tata Group’s sustainability frameworks, including Management of Business Ethics Process (MBE) Tata Affirmative Action Program (TAAP) and adoption of the Tata Code of Conduct (TCOC) Management approach to specific criteria are mentioned in the opening intro of each chapter within Enterprise Wide Risk Management process the report (EWRM) Systems and controls across the organisations that are led by our Board of Directors Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 13 TCL Materiality Map 2014-15 Water Product Stewardship Grievance Mechanisms Energy Issues important to Tata Chemicals Wastes Supply Chain SHE Logistics Biodiversity Health and Safety Employee Engagement Emissions Employee Benefits Ethics Spills and Contamination Policy Advocacy Community Customer Engagement Training Customer Education Responsible Marketing R&D Issues important to Stakeholders Materiality assessment We continue to track and measure the focus area While the current report is based on materiality studies parameters of previous materiality assessment and done earlier along with output from the materiality study going forward we will keep reviewing the same based taken up in the year 2014-15 in line with GRI guidance on the recent materiality assessment. on materiality for most of the organisation i.e. for Tata Chemicals Indian operations, Tata Chemicals North This report contains a performance update on previous America and Tata Chemicals Magadi excluding Tata materiality assessment issues divided into 10 parameters: Chemicals Europe operations. Materiality assessment for Employee health & safety, Process & workplace safety, TCE operations is being taken up in the year 2015-16. Employee engagement, Training, Communication, Sustainable development practices, Enabling and This assessment was done by a third party NexGen empowering communities, Product stewardship, Climate and it involved engaging with the company’s internal change, and Sustainable manufacturing. and external stakeholders to gather insights into the relevance of issues and impacts affecting the business Based on FY 2014-15 materiality assessment, we will of the company as well as the stakeholders. continue to focus, track and measure parameters on Responsible manufacturing issues through Energy, Through this process, the organisation identified those Water, Waste and Biodiversity; Product stewardship opportunities and risks that are most important to Tata issues through Life Cycle Assessment, Supply chain Chemicals Limited and its stakeholders, including its SHE, Customer satisfaction; Climate change through impacts on the economy, environment and society, green house gas emissions; Human capital issues which will merit focus in the company’s sustainability through parameters on Health and safety, Employee report. benefits; Social capital issues through parameters on Community satisfaction, Corporate Sustainability The steps involved in conducting the Materiality Protocol Index, Affirmative Action; Economic issues Assessment for Tata Chemicals were perception through Sustainable investments and Transparency mapping, stakeholder prioritisation, stakeholder issues through Ethical governance practices, Grievance engagement and building & integrating the matrix. mechanisms, Sustainability reporting. 14 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Focus Area & Achievement KPI Target Key Action Taken 2014-15 Key Measure 2014-15 Create an environment that fosters employee well-being, achievement, innovation, learning, Human Capital teamwork and ensures safety & health and minimises attrition rates Employee Health TRIFR (No. per <3 2.60 Under Target Zero Harm program newly & Safety, Process million man-hrs) launched Surakhsa Jyot at Mithapur, & Workplace (TCL, India / Process Safety Management at Babrala, Safety TCM / TCNA / SRESHTO at Haldia and Safety Amnesty TCE) at TCE. Previously ongoing initiatives MD’s Suraksha Puraskar, PLVP / incentives linked Fatality (No.) 0/0/0/0 1/0/0/0 to safety performance, Long term asset (TCL, India / management plan still continue TCM / TCNA / TCE) Employee Employee New 73% Engagement Engagement Score Employee Turnover Rate 9.49 / 23.62 / (TCL, India / 5.25 / 7.54 TCM / TCNA / TCE) Avg Training hrs 39.95 / 0.27 Introduced e-learning platforms, (per year, per /11.88 / ~12 Strengthened Training need identification. Training & employee) (TCL, to 20 TCNA has planned to track and report this Communication India / TCM / accurately by 2015-16. TCE / TCNA) Investments in sustainable & marketable livelihoods impacting all communities in the core Social Capital command area. Be recognised as the leader in community development amongst Indian companies in terms of coverage & impact Sustainable Tata Corporate 850 645 Additional focus on rural energy, Enhanced Development Sustainability engagement process and impact practices Protocol Index assessment of programs (CSPI) Community Action on community concerns and other Satisfaction >4 4.03 feedback Index Enabling and Affirmative > 60 In the band Affirmative action to create a more inclusive empowering action Score of 50-60 society. communities TCL is considering a more comprehensive Diversity council both at the apex and at the sites. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 15 Focus Area & Achievement KPI Target Key Action Taken 2014-15 Key Measure 2014-15 Product To understand and work for minimising the impact of products over its life cycle Stewardship Life Cycle Major Completed Using Ga-Bi Agrian model completed LCA Assessment products LCA cradlefor fertilisers and also completed LCA of (LCA) by 2015 to-Gate of most of chemicals. Urea, DAP/ NPK, SSP, Salt, Soda Ash, Cement Climate Change Reduction in carbon intensity in terms of MT of GHG emission per MT of total products by operational abetment, carbon conscious growth and offsets Emission 20% by 0.650 Wind power is used for Mithapur township Intensity (MT 2020 supply. of GHG per MT Supported Tata Power for installing and of products) commissioning of 25 MW Solar PV Power reduction by plant at Mithapur. 2020 over the We have a Hot Air Gas (HAG) generator at baseline of 2008 Haldia which uses Biomass brickets as a fuel. Sustainable (1) Reduce specific energy / water consumption to below comparable global benchmarks Manufacturing & best achieved in the past (2) Reduce water & energy consumption in usage of products though product design and promotion of better usage practices (3) Attain overall sustainable watersheds at the operating locations and reduce dependence on other fresh water resources (4) Reduce solid waste, effluent discharge and air emissions to levels achievable (5) Use packaging material either recyclable or reusable; where not possible arrangements to be made for collection & safe disposal Responsible 5 3.24 Manufacturing Index* (%) 1) Urea production benchmark amongst Indian fertiliser industries for specific energy and water consumption. Continued zero dependency on ground water at Mithapur and use of RO and thermal desalination to further reduce dependence on fresh water. Action plan are chalked out at Babrala and Mithapur to meet the PAT targets 2) Achieved reach of 3000 rural households for Tata Swach which does not require electricity or running water for its operations 3) Water footprint and sustainability assessment for use of shared water resources. Rain water harvesting projects at Mithapur and Babrala. Continued watershed development and management programs at Mithapur. 4) Salt pans at Mithapur, limestone mining at Ranavav, Urea plant at Babrala, DAP/NPK fertilisers at Haldia are zero process solid waste facility. Valid permissions for reutilising hazardous waste are granted by CPCB. Percentage recycled materials used at Mithapur are 73.54. Lowest SO2 emission from sulphuric acid plants. 16 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Focus Area & Achievement KPI Target Key Action Taken 2014-15 Key Measure 2014-15 Establish social & environment standards (covering safety, working conditions, skill, wellbeing, Supply Chain GHG and other emissions, water/energy consumption) for supply chain (material and services Sustainability etc.) Ensure compliance amongst key suppliers Sustainability Investment in renewable material, energy, low carbon products, water, agribusiness & green Investments chemistry, safety, health, environment, employee welfare initiatives The total community investments done were Rs. 19.88 Crores Reporting on Transparent communication of performance to internal / external stakeholders Sustainability Governance: External – Annual Report, TCSRD Report, Annual Sustainability Report, COP on UNGC Reporting on Principle, Investor CDP, Water CDP, Business Responsibility Report Sustainability Internal – Confluence, Marine Insight, Management of Business Ethics Report, We care Further details are available on website www.tatachemicals.com, Annual Report 2014-15, TCSRD Report 2014-15 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 17 Governance Company’s philosophy on the Code of Board of directors The board has a combination of executive and nonGovernance executive directors and conforms to Clause 49 of Tata Chemicals (TCL) continues to lay great emphasis the Listing Agreement entered into with the stock on the highest standards of corporate governance. exchanges in which the company’s shares are listed. We believe that good corporate governance is essential to achieve long-term corporate goals and None of the directors on the board is a member of more enhance stakeholders’ value. In this pursuit, our than 10 committees and chairman of more than five corporate governance philosophy is to ensure fairness, committees (as per Clause 49(II) (D) (2) of the Listing transparency and integrity of the management, in order Agreement) across all the companies in which he is a to protect the interests of all its stakeholders. Strong director. leadership and effective corporate governance practices have been TCL’s hallmark, and we have inherited these All directors have made requisite disclosures regarding from the Tata culture and ethos. We have a strong committee positions held by them in the other legacy of fair, transparent and ethical governance companies. practices. TCL has adopted the ‘Tata Code of Conduct’ for its employees including the managing director, the The composition of the board and the various statutory executive director and nonexecutive directors. Our and non-statutory committees of the board and its term corporate governance philosophy has been further of reference are mentioned in detail in the Corporate strengthened through the Tata Business Excellence Governance Report which is a part of the Annual Report Model, the Tata Code of Conduct for Prevention of 2014-15. The board appointed Vibha Paul Rishi as a Insider Trading and the Code of Corporate Disclosure woman director and independent director, with effect Policy. The company is in compliance with the from September 1, 2014. requirements stipulated under Clause 49 of the Listing Agreements entered into with the stock exchanges with regard to corporate governance. As on March 31, 2015, there were nine noncompany, without the attendance of non-independent executive directors, of which six (54.55 per cent) were directors and members of the management, was held independent directors. The managing director, executive on March 23, 2015, as required under Schedule IV of the director and CFO were whole-time directors. Companies Act 2013 (Code for Independent Directors) and Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement. For detailed Meeting of independent directors information on this committee, refer to page 87 of the A separate meeting of the independent directors of the Annual Report 2014-15. Board committees There are statutory and non-statutory committees of the board, each having a clear mandate laid out in the terms of reference (refer Annual Report 2014-15). The various committees of the board are as follows: Audit Committee The managing director, executive director and CFO, external auditors, head internal audit and risk management, and vice president and group corporate controller attend and participate in all the committee meetings. The committee invites various executives from time-to-time, as appropriate, to be present at the meetings. For detailed information on the Audit Committee, refer to page 88 and 89 of the Annual Report 2014-15. Nomination and In terms of Section 178 (1) of the Companies Act 2013, a Nomination and Remuneration Remuneration Committee was constituted. For detailed information, refer to pages 89-91 of the Annual Committee Report 2014-15. Stakeholders The Stakeholders Relationship Committee specifically ensures redressing investors’ / Relationship security holders’ complaints and requests. For detailed information on this committee, Committee refer to pages 91-92 of the Annual Report 2014-15. Executive The ECOB (non-statutory) reviews business strategy, long-term financial projections Committee and cash flow, capital and revenue expenditure, acquisition / divestments and business of the Board restructuring proposals, and senior management succession planning. For detailed (ECOB) information on ECOB, refer to page 92 of the Annual Report 2014-15. Ethics and The Ethics and Compliance Committee (non-statutory) sets forth the policies relating to, Compliance and oversees the implementation of the Insider Code and decides the penal action for the Committee violation of the regulations / code, if any. For detailed information, refer to page 92 of the Annual Report 2014-15. CSR, Safety and In terms of Section 135 of the Companies Act 2013, the scope of the CSR, Safety and Sustainability Sustainability Committee includes, inter-alia, corporate social responsibility (CSR). For Committee detailed information on this committee, refer to pages 92-93 of the Annual Report 2014-15. Risk Revised Clause 49 mandates top 100 listed companies as on March 31, 2014, to Management constitute the Risk Management Committee. As per Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement, Committee the committee shall lay down procedures to inform the board members about the risk assessment and minimisation procedures and the board shall be responsible for framing, implementing and monitoring the company’s risk management plan. Although nonmandatory, the company constituted a Risk Management Committee of the board on February 6, 2015. For detailed information on this committee, refer to page 93 of the Annual Report 2014-15. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 19 Management of business ethics TCL has adopted a Whistleblower policy to provide Avoiding conflict of interest a formal mechanism for employees to report their concerns about unethical behaviour, actual or The corporate governance philosophy of the suspected fraud, or violation of the company’s Conduct company has been further strengthened with or Ethics policy. The policy provides for adequate the adoption of the Tata Code of Conduct, safeguards against victimisation of employees, who Tata Business Excellence Model, Tata Code avail of the mechanism, and provides for direct access for Prevention of Insider Trading and Code of to the chairman of the Audit Committee. It is affirmed Corporate Disclosure Policies. that no personnel of the company has been denied access to the Audit Committee. The Companies Act The company, through its board and 2013 specifically mentions the type of resolutions committees, endeavours to strike and deliver passed by the shareholders. the highest governing standards for the benefit of its stakeholders. The resolutions to be passed by the shareholders are: (1) Ordinary Resolutions, which are required to be The company has adopted the Tata Code of passed by a simple majority and (2) Special Resolutions, Conduct for all its employees, including the which are required to be passed by three-fourths of the whole-time directors. majority. The board has also approved a Code of The said resolutions are generally passed at the general Conduct for the non-executive directors. The meetings of the company. Some of the resolutions can Code of Conduct for the employees as well as also be passed by a postal ballot. the non-executive directors is posted on the company’s website. Annual General Meetings / Extraordinary General Meetings are held from time to time where minority Further, all the board members and senior shareholders can express their opinions to the chairman management personnel of the company, as on of the company and the other directors. March 31, 2015, have affirmed compliance with the respective Codes of Conduct. Remuneration policy The company’s philosophy for remuneration of directors, A declaration to this effect signed by the key managerial personnel and other employees is managing director forms part of the Annual based on the commitment of fostering a culture of Report. leadership and trust. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee reviews remuneration packages applicable to the managing director, executive director and non20 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 executive director. For detailed information on the of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration remuneration policy and the remuneration paid to the Committee is given on page 89-90 of the Annual Report managing and executive directors and non-executive 2014-15. directors, refer to pages 89 and 90 of the Annual Report. Board oversight for sustainability Non-executive directors: performance Non-executive directors were paid sitting fees of The Audit Committee and CSR, Safety and Rs20,000 for every meeting of the board or committee Sustainability Committee of the board specifically attended (except for Stakeholders Relationship review and oversee the identification and management Committee, Ethics and Compliance Committee, where of economic, environmental and social performance the sitting fee was Rs5,000 per meeting). including relevant risks and opportunities, adherence to, or compliance with, internationally agreed standards, The remuneration by way of commission to the noncodes of conduct and principles in every quarter. executive directors is decided by the board of directors and distributed to them based on their participation and For more details, please refer to the Corporate contribution at the board / committee meetings, and Governance Report which forms part of the Annual the time spent on matters other than at the meetings. Report of the company for the year ended March 31, In terms of the approval of the members at the 75th 2015. Annual General Meeting of the company held on August 26, 2013, the commission is paid at a rate not exceeding one per cent of the company’s net profits, calculated in accordance with the provisions of Sections 198, 349 and 350 of the Companies Act 1956. For details, refer to page 90 of the Annual Report. Determining the composition of the board The board has a Nomination and Remuneration Committee which makes recommendations on the composition of the board. The composition and terms Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 21 Economic Performance Tata Chemicals’ overall ECONOMIC APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT In 2014-15, Tata Chemicals achieved a profit after tax of PERFORMANCE FOR FINANCIAL YEAR Rs596 crore (a raise from Rs(1,032) crore in the previous 2014-15 year). At the board meeting held on 27 May 2015, the Board of Directors recommended a dividend payment FINANCEAND VALUE-BASED MANAGEMENT of Rs10 per qualifying share and a special dividend In 2014-15, the company’s turnover increased by of Rs2.5 per qualifying share on the occasion of the Rs1,188 crore, to Rs16,913 crore from Rs15,725 crore, company’s Platinum Jubilee year. The total dividend representing 7.6% year-on-year growth. The Direct payable (including dividend tax) on qualifying shares for Economic Value generated in 2014-15 was financial year 2014-15 will be Rs382 crore. Rs17,321 crore. BALANCE SHEET STRUCTURE PROFIT BEFORE TAXES In 2014-15, the company’s total assets increased by On a year-on-year basis, profit before taxes (PBT) and Rs634 crore. exceptional items increased to Rs1,358 crore in 2014-15 from Rs901 crore. NET CASH Cash and cash equivalents balance decreased to The PBT after exceptional items was Rs1,159 crore in Rs1,464 crore in March 2015 from Rs1,753 crore in the 2014-15 compared to Rs(519) in the previous year. The previous year. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) for the year was 9.75%. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS In 2014-15, cash from operating activities stood at EARNINGS PER SHARE Rs1,274 crore on account of funds in trade and other In 2014-15, earnings per share (basic) was Rs23.41 receivables and trade payables, other liabilities and compared to Rs(40.51) in the previous year. provisions. Direct Economic Value Added (Rs Crore) Direct economic value generated Economic value distributed (-412) Community investments 23 Minority & Associates 211 Payments to government Company taxes Operating costs 425 15,046 Borrowing Cost & Foregin Exchange loss on borrowings (Net) 454 Dividends to all shareholders 318 Employee wages and benefits Employee Salaries 1,256 * Includes Rs 19.88 crore for TCL (10.2 crore as per Companies Act, Rs 9.7 crore outside Companies Act) In 2014-15, net cash generated from investing activities local supplier is the one where there are no transnational was Rs(655) crore, and Rs(1,087) crore was used in payments involved. All vendors are selected based financing activities. on the vendor selection and qualification process. Key selection criteria are conformation to legal and Employee Benefits regulatory compliance, cost and quality of supplies, Tata Chemicals’ employees are covered through various OEM suppliers, ISO certification, etc. employee benefit plans, including provident fund, pension schemes, gratuity, superannuation and family In all cases, preference is given to suppliers from the benefit schemes. Total contribution to provident fund neighbourhood, all other things being equal. As an and other funds was Rs112.58 crore. Other benefits added push for sustainability, Tata Chemicals has provided are detailed in the Employee Investment recently released the Sustainability Guidelines for section. its suppliers. Based on the guidelines, the company plans to put processes in place for self-assessment of Wages to be offered to an employee are mentioned suppliers. in respective State Factory Rules. The company has a fixed minimum entry-level wage as the full-time Government Subsidy wage offered to an employee in the lowest permanent In 2014-15, a sum of Rs2,942.24 crore was accrued employee category. During the year, Rs1,255.77 towards subsidies for the fertiliser business. crore was incurred over payments and provisions for employees, a 3.4% year-on-year rise. Indirect Impact Besides providing direct employment, the company Local Supplier and Employment also provides indirect opportunities for employment The organisation has a diverse workforce and believes and livelihood generation, both through contractors and in providing equal opportunities to all. There is no vendors as well as various community development specific practice for the preference of local residents initiatives. More details on community development in the management cadre. However, efforts are made programmes are available in the Community to recruit from across the country, especially from Investments section. disadvantaged locations, for example, northeast India and Kashmir. The principle of equal opportunity is applicable to the selection of suppliers and vendors, irrespective of whether they are local or not. In this case (Further details are available in Annual Report 2014-15) Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 23 Safety & Health With Safety as a core value, Tata Chemicals (TCL) is committed Cardinal to continually improve safety Rules of Safety performance by targeting ‘Zero Corporate Sustainability Harm’ – Zero Harm to people, asset and environment through SHE (Safety Health Tata Chem world-class Safety, Environment) Responsible Golden Rules Health and Environment Care of Safety (SHE) practices. TCL has a board-level CSR, Safety and Sustainability like ours deal with twin issues of chemical hazards and committee (CSS committee) that focuses exclusively occupational safety & health. in this area. The Chief Safety, Engineering and Project Officer has a direct access to the chairman of CSS People come first at TCL and their health and committee. Senior leadership plays a critical role in safety is of prime importance. We need to address encouraging positive attitude towards safety and helps various challenges to ensure a safe and healthy work create an environment that fosters safety culture by environment. These include asset integrity due to ageing setting direction and establishing clear and transparent assets, atmospheric conditions such as proximity to sea policies. and the nature of materials we handle. These factors lead to accelerated ageing due to corrosion, erosion TCL Corporate SHE policy is the umbrella policy. The and fatigue, which challenges the safety associated with subsidiaries have their own policy aligned to local asset integrity since it could pose a serious threat to regulatory and safety directorates. Chemical industries human and process safety. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 2014-15 (LTIR) 13.70 12.00 10.77 10.34 10.00 9.28 8.16 8.23 8.00 6.00 4.91 4.37 4.00 1.87 2.00 1.60 1.08 0.42 0.50 0.43 0.43 0.46 0.00 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 TCL, India TCM TCNA TCE Voluntary standards such as OHSAS 18001, Responsible Care, British Safety Council guidelines Key inputs on health and safety-related projects and and AIChE-CCPS Guidelines help ensure continual initiatives consider the following: improvement in the SHE performance. Our fertiliser Site’s process capabilities manufacturing sites were awarded with Sword of Hazardous equipment Honour by British Safety Council in the past. In 2014Machines 15, our Mithapur and Haldia plants were recertified for Labour processes British Safety Council’s 5-Star rating. Learning from past incidents We deploy an integrated approach towards a safety SHE challenges culture that draws upon individual and group values, attitudes, competencies and patterns of behaviour as well as determines the commitment of the organisation These may need to be evaluated from an engineering towards safety management programmes. Our and/or process improvement perspective. Safety leadership continuously works towards establishing, performance is linked with individual Performance sustaining and improving the safety culture through Linked Variable Pay (PLVP) or incentives, as applicable. safety culture drivers. Over the years, we have witnessed Conscious efforts are made to ensure an active a transformation from a traditional approach (safety engagement of workforce in promoting safety and being associated with safety managers) to a model of achieving a safe and healthy work environment. collective ownership with individual empowerment and accountability. Senior managers seek to demonstrate an We believe that what gets measured is improved in effective safety leadership and have integrated this with a structured manner. All identified key performance their daily responsibilities and duties. indicators (KPIs) are monitored at a defined frequency to evaluate performance. Steps like internal/external Our continual improvement journey towards ‘Target Zero Harm’ ensures that our Long-Term Strategic Plan (LTSP), while balancing the stakeholders’ needs, focuses on key SHE challenges and risks. For the key lead and lag measures related to health and safety, targets are set considering past performance, stakeholder, legal and voluntary requirements, best practices in learning and sharing, and benchmarking with leading companies. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 25 Several cross-functional teams have been formed for safety improvement initiatives: ‘Suraksha Jyot’, a safety excellence initiative at Mithapur Process Safety Management at Babrala SRESHTO at Haldia Safety Amnesty at TCE audits, periodic inspection by experts/safety inspectors; These committees and CFTs meet periodically to daily behaviour observation and post project monitoring discuss the defined agendas on health and safety. As are implemented to help ensure safe execution of the a part of ‘Management of Change’ process, safety action plans. training has been made mandatory in case of a change in technology/process/equipment, etc. Specialised Occupational Health and Safety trainings are conducted for the employees working The high hazard areas and activities are assessed at all under high risks such as working at a height, confined locations of Tata Chemicals. Employees are specially space entry, handling hazardous chemicals, etc. These trained to tackle associated hazards and all possible have higher priority and are often considered under means are adopted to reduce risk. We strive to lower the retraining plans. Overall, the employee training needs risk to the extent possible. Additional periodic medical are identified and captured through a structured process check-ups, which are tailored as per work area hazards to address individual, operational and organisational of the people working in an area, are ensured to identify training needs. risks to human health as early as possible. Key Initiatives Ergonomic surveys are conducted time-to-time to Suraksha Jyot ensure workplace lighting and safe working postures. Mithapur has introduced an Action plans are finalised based on survey results as innovative safety excellence well as tracked and reviewed for an effective closure. programme called ‘Suraksha Training and workshops on ‘Positive Health Options’, Jyot’ to review the risks of yoga classes, stress management, first-aid, etc., are all activities through physical conducted to make employees aware of adopting better observation and ensure an approaches to good health and well-being. effective implementation by communicating to workforce in a focused manner. It We ensure there are proper medical facilities at all sites is planned to cover entire chemical complex with the and have tie-ups with other hospitals to make use of help of dedicated cross-functional teams in a time the specialised medical facilities. At sites with a trade bound manner. Employees are given specialised safety union presence, there is a formal agreement between training focusing on behaviour aspects and cultural the management and the trade unions over relevant improvement to ensure sustenance of this initiative. safety and health topics. Various formal committees are formed at site level, namely works/central safety SRESHTO committee, plant/department safety committee, canteen To ensure a continual improvement towards achieving a committee, wellness committee, etc. These are joint common goal of ‘Target Zero Harm’, an initiative called committees comprising management and unionised ‘Securing Reliability of Equipment and Structure at employees. These committees work in various areas of Haldia through Team-work and Obsession (SRESHTO)’ occupational health and safety such as implementation has been launched at Haldia. SRESHTO addresses the of best practices, risk control, etc. issues of ageing assets and equipment reliability to help 26 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 40.00 36.26 30.00 20.00 17.23 15.55 16.09 14.13 10.00 12.92 11.35 8.39 9.01 5.75 4.53 1.60 1.78 1.23 1.10 0.68 0.00 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 TCL, India TCM TCNA TCE build a safe work environment. The programme makes Safety Amnesty cultural transformation to institutionalise and strengthen To reinforce the importance of safe behaviour, Tata systems through robust planning, scheduling and Chemicals Europe (TCE) operations launched Safety quality control with better co-ordination amongst line Amnesty wherein employees could come forward functions. and explain what risks they took without having the fear of punishment. Key unsafe conditions/practices, thus identified, were further analysed and improved. Based on the outcome of Safety Amnesty, a new safety communication strategy, ‘Safety is a State of Mind’, was launched that includes a video message, poster and email campaign. RAMP Tata Chemicals North America (TCNA) has launched the Reliability through Asset Management & Production Rail Safety Management OEE (RAMP) for a long-term asset management plan to Tata Chemicals Magadi (TCM) owns and operates ensure safe and reliable assets by having time bound railway infrastructure of approximately 146KM asset replacement plan and a proactive, predictive and from Magadi to Konza. Last year, TCM carried out preventive maintenance plan. Management by Walking benchmarking with Bamburi Cements, one of the leading Around (MBWA) is also conducted at TCNA to ensure cement industries in Kenya, for rail safety management. safety improvements. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 27 Responsible Manufacturing Operational excellence and monitors and reviews the plans. The progress is tracked on carbon abatement measures through a customer centricity have been carbon-focussed dashboard with the help of key Tata Chemicals’ core competencies performance indicators. In order to make climate FOR many years. Driving our change and sustainability part of the organisational DNA, sustainability and specifically climate change manufacturing processes in a green has been incorporated into the company’s long-term and responsible manner helps us strategic planning process. Similarly, a Responsible achieve these core competencies. The Manufacturing Index for existing operations and a green filter have been embedded within the capital approval, company has identified what it terms supplier evaluation and mergers and acquisition the ‘FEW’ areas of focus – food and processes to ensure that sustainability considerations fuel, energy and environment and are a part of all business decisions. water and wellness. We have in place processes that help go beyond Energy compliance, ensuring that we continuously improve to manage and address risks including those arising out Energy is a significant material aspect for Tata of climate change. One of such measurement process Chemicals. Energy-related goals are taken according to is Green Manufacturing Index. This index helps us the Balance Score Card and Responsible Manufacturing monitor and measure various parameters on energy, Index. water, waste, emissions, etc. Key targets for these are also included as a part of the Green Manufacturing Thus energy conservation is a key aspect of TCL Index. Reduction in carbon footprint has been defined operations across geographies. Energy generation as an objective in enterprise BSC with targets for sources include natural gas with co-gen facility at Green Manufacturing Index and CO2 emissions. The Babrala and TCE. Mithapur uses coal with co-gen improvement projects focuses on specific energy facility. Along with fossil fuels, TCM, TCNA, TCE and consumption, emission reduction, water consumption Haldia also use grid power as an additional source reduction, etc. which helps not only reduce the carbon of energy. Babrala also uses solar power and a small footprint but also reduce costs. quantity of wind power is used by Mithapur in its township. The cement production at Mithapur and In order to meet the strategic objective of growing fertiliser at Babrala falls under the Perform, Achieve & new businesses, TCL is supported by its Innovation Trade (PAT) scheme. Centre (IC) at Pune and Centre for Agri solutions and Technology (CAT) at Aligarh. These units collaborate To manage the downstream energy consumption, TCL with companies and research institutes and aid in the dispatches more than 90% (touching 98% for TCNA) development of a pipeline of innovative products with volume of its total products through rail transport. We sound business rationale. Energy efficient operations use highly efficient state-of-the-art product transporting are a key to short-term and long-term strategic plans modes such as Lupa Bulkers, ISO tankers. to reduce GHG emissions. Capital investments for development and incorporation of new technologies are Energy cost is a critical differentiation factor between part of our short-term and long-term strategic plans. synthetic soda ash and natural soda ash. The rising cost of energy had been the major reason for closing down TCL has a Board Level CSR, Safety and Sustainability of TCE’s Netherlands and Winnington operations along (CSS) committee to review performance and sustainable with TCM’s PAM plant being mothballed. At present, investments. Corporate Sustainability Steering Group TCE does not have renewable energy sources. 28 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Energy Consumption 40000.0 7.04 7.20 Energy Consumption (Thousand TJ) Sp. Consumption (TJ/Thousand MT) 34.3 35000.0 32.8 7.00 32.2 30000.0 6.80 6.60 25000.0 6.38 6.40 20000.0 17.278 16.825 17.087 6.20 15000.0 6.01 6.00 10000.0 7.13 5.80 5000.0 5.60 1.6 1.9 1.1 NR NR 0.00 5.40 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 TCL, India TCM TCNA TCE Sp. Energy TCE CHP (Consolidated Heat Power) plant has TCL Babrala is one of the lowest energy consuming an overall efficiency over 80%, which is a best in units among the fertiliser units in the world and the class standard. A heat optimisation project and a most energy efficient unit in India. Babrala is working to improve energy management by implementing LSS task on electricity usage – Transvac project ISO 50001 to monitor and manage energy use. of installing a new steam turbine (£5.5m) saves around £400k energy while generating additional TCE’s soda ash plant is one of the lowest carbon 12.5 MW of power for the same amount of steam emitters in the EU. produced. Initiatives undertaken at TCM include introduction Key initiatives across TCL geographies of solar lighting and use of LED bulbs instead of Babrala has adopted alternative energy use by mercury bulbs. installing 100% roof top solar water geysers in its township and plant area. To further utilise solar energy, a roof top solar photo voltaic plant Emissions of 150kW has been installed. It also works with end consumers (farmers) for efficient use of Emissions are a material aspect to the organisation as energy and water by using innovative Laser Land they have impact on climate change and air quality. Levelling techniques, which have resulted in Emission-related goals are measured against Balance approximately 15-20% reduction in fresh water Score Card and Green Manufacturing Index. and fuel usage. Over the years, TCL has introduced internal norms Haldia has initialised the use of renewable energy to provide a safe and better environment for the by utilising a biomass-based gasifier and wastesurrounding communities. The stacks are monitored as heat recovery. Annually around 220,407 KWH of per the schedule made under ISO 14001 and results energy was saved via projects taken up at Haldia are well within the limits. The ISO 14001 certification like installation of Variable Frequency Drives and does not currently include the British Salt business. Energy savers in lighting circuits. Furthermore, all environmental regulations are being adhered to, and in-house monitoring is done on a daily Mithapur Township uses wind power. Tata Power basis. Half-yearly external monitoring is also done by a Renewable Energy Limited has commissioned a third party. The organisation measures emissions from 25 MW solar power plant at Mithapur. the combustion processes using continuous emission and opacity monitors. These measures are reported to the US EPA, IMA/NA, CDP and GRI-G4 reporting. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 29 G100 evaporator was returned to service in March 2015, which improved process energy efficiency per gas usage by 15% per tonne of salt produced. Water Water being a significant natural resource, is a material issue for Tata Chemicals. All measures to reduce water usage are implemented and water sources are metered and monitored regularly. Combustion of natural gas and coal for electrical and steam generation result in NOx and SOx emissions. The organisation has set forth stringent targets year-onNone of the Tata Chemicals’ operation processes across year to reduce water consumption, and reviews it on geographies consume or generate ozone depleting a weekly basis. TCL India carried out a detailed water substances (ODS). footprint and sustainability assessment as per Water Footprint Network Netherlands methodology. Direct Key initiatives across TCL geographies: product water footprints and site water footprints were Haldia has started monitoring total fluorides established for blue, green and grey water. instead of gaseous fluorides since 2004. As per E&I, an additional scrubber was designed and Babrala is situated in river Ganga basin, thus ground installed in the SSP plant. water availability through deep bore wells is high but no significant impact is being observed as it is far Emissions at Mithapur are reduced by taking up away from the river. Babrala has been recycling 81% initiatives like MUW FBD and Vacuum system of plant effluent water within the system and the rest modifications; replacement of flash vessel and is treated and reused along with domestic sewage for its bypass system at power plant; utilisation irrigation purpose in the green belt areas. Haldia meets of effluent solids in cement manufacturing; its water requirement through two deep tube wells and renewable energy generation by wind mill and the state Public Health Engineering Department (PHE), increase of production of bicarbonate. which supplies treated river water from Geokhali. TCL, Mithapur has sustained its zero dependence on ground At TCNA, soda ash product is delivered in bulk water by adopting various in-house water conservation quantities: approximately 95% by rail and 5% measures as well as management of the rain-fed lakes by diesel semi-trucks. Fugitive emissions are and innovative seawater desalination technologies. controlled by bag-houses and scrubbers with no More than 99% of all water needs at Mithapur are met impact on the environment. Recent installation of by seawater due to its effective process integration and low NOx burners has resulted in a 75% reduction in NOx emissions. TCM doesn’t generate NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions. At TCE, two projects lead to a reduction in Scope-1 emissions: i) Lostock site – PRDS refurbishment project gave significant reduction in steam losses. ii) Middlewich site – Following a major overhaul, 30 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Company has developed structures for rain water Water withdrawal by source 2014-15 (EN-8) storage in new housing development in Mithapur township. Strengthened rain water collection 0.003% 0.809% system and created new rain water collection 4.928% ponds. TCSRD (Tata Chemicals Society for Rural Development) has been implementing various Ground water water conservation projects especially in Mithapur region, where non-availability of quality Surface Water water is a biggest concern. TCSRD has been following an integrated and comprehensive Municipal supply approach to meet the objective of providing Rainwater collected adequate, assured and good quality water to the 94.26% community for agriculture, animal husbandry, drinking and household use. water pinch analysis. Mithapur recycles around 94% of At TCM, fish spring water from natural springs water utilised. is recycled back directly to the lake without any treatment as it is used to wash away At TCE, water usage at the four sites consists of a (housekeeping) product spillages from conveyors mixture of town water (drinking water quality) provided and dissolve soluble salts in the washery stage of by a third party and abstracted water from various product processing. sources. Some of the water is abstracted by us through licensed permits issued by our regulator – the At TCNA, initiatives to reduce water consumption Environment Agency. The water used on the sites is are underway – approximately, 84% of the water metered and abstracted water licenses are complied that previously was lost to the evaporation ponds with. At the sodium bicarbonate facility, majority of the as part of tailings disposal is now recovered. water is abstracted from the river Weaver. Ground Water withdrawal 2014-15 (KL) TCM has an elaborate system of evaluation through the 6.8 civil section – how the water is tapped from the intake 6.7 point, its flow to the Magadi town’s water tank station 6.6 6.5 and its treatment and distribution to the various areas 6.4 where it is utilised. Million KL 6.2 6.1 6.0 5.9 Key initiatives across TCL geographies: 5.8 Babrala conserves and recharges water by collecting rain water and making recharge pits. 5.6 5.4 Haldia reduces fresh water withdrawal and 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 recovers phosphates; by recycling most of the effluent generated from phosphoric acid plants. Excess effluents from sulphuric acid plant (SAP), phosphoric acid plant (PAP) and Demineralised (DM) water plant is treated in ETP before discharge. Effluent from phosphoric acid plant is taken to large gypsum ponds where gypsum settles down and is then sold as a by-product. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 31 Waste Tata Chemicals focuses on effective integration with the basic philosophy of resource optimisation, use of alternative sources and maximisation of recycle and reuse by innovation. Waste is a significant material aspect as it tends to degrade the environment if not managed suitably. Waste-related goals are taken in Balance Score Card and Responsible Manufacturing Index. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste Minimising the amount of waste produced is the key objective of Tata Chemicals, from both an economic and environmental perspective. We have implemented include water discharge through effluent pumps at on-site segregation of waste at all the sites. As per factory and water from oil separators that flow to the classification, all hazardous and non-hazardous waste lake. across locations is sold to authorised and registered dealers and organic waste is composted. Treated No quantity of transported, imported, exported, or effluent at Haldia is discharged into a drainage channel treated waste; deemed hazardous under the terms of called the green belt channel and finally joining Hooghly the Basel Convention 2 Annex I, II, III, and VIII is shipped river. TCSAP operates as a zero discharge facility. internationally by any of Tata Chemicals’ sites. No water This includes industrial waste, waste water, sewage bodies and related habitats are significantly affected and garbage, and excludes hazardous waste which is due to discharges of water and runoff by any of the sites managed by a third party. A monthly SHE Performance of Tata Chemicals. Matrix tracks the performance on waste minimisation activities and incorporates a monthly SHE audit, which There was no incidence of significant spillage at TCL, audits the storage and segregation of waste on site. India; TCM and TCNA sites in the reporting period. For At TCE, all effluent discharges to water courses and FY 2014-15, there was one spillage that was classed as sewers are regulated by consent to discharges. For Tata significant at TCE. Although the environmental impact Chemicals Magadi (TCM), planned water discharges was minimal and undetectable, some hydraulic oil from Total Effluent discharge 90 90 80.30 79.91 78.73 80 76.50 88 89.03 70 86 Millions KL 60 84 Millions KL 50 82 40 80 80.30 79.91 30 78 78.73 20 76 12.53 10 74 NR NA NR NR NA NR NR NA NR NR NA 0 72 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 TCL, India TCM TCNA TCE Total 32 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 TCL’s strategy includes identifying opportunities for TCL, Babrala has implemented 100% reuse of waste carbon abatement; investing in low carbon growth and water (treated domestic and industrial effluent) and tapping into opportunities presented by the emerging collected rain water for agricultural use and irrigation low carbon technologies. It has identified abatement in the green belt. levers, low carbon growth opportunities and carbon offset opportunities towards that end. The carbon Primary recycled material at TCSAP is decahydrate abatement measures are chosen on the basis of the crystal configuration of soda ash that develops in techno-commercial feasibility of implementation, the holding ponds. This material is mechanically harvested and returned to the process to maturity and availability of technologies and the supplement the production output. Malfunctions magnitude of emissions reduction. It has also adapted in the product load-out area have resulted in soda its businesses to become energy-efficient, use less ash product spillage. This material is collected water and is also innovating with new chemicals using vacuum trucks and returned to the production and fertiliser products and agri-services for carbon process for recycling. conscious growth. At Haldia plant, 100% of phospho-gypsum We have in place processes that help transcend mere generated during manufacturing of phosphoric acid compliance, ensuring that we continuously improve to at Haldia plant is sold as by-product. The sulphur manage and address risks including those arising out of sludge generated in sulphuric acid manufacturing is climate change. Reduction in the carbon footprint has used as filler in single super phosphate. It reduces been defined as an objective in enterprise BSC (Balance virgin material consumption, silver sand as well as Scorecard) with targets for Responsible Manufacturing provides additional nutrient to plants as elemental Index and CO2 emissions. The improvement projects sulphur. Utilisation of molten sulphur, a neighbouring focus on specific energy consumption, emission refinery by-product is sourced through specially reduction, water consumption reduction, etc., which not designed steam jacketed tankers directly. Utilisation only help reduce the carbon footprint but also reduces of molten sulphur reduces equivalent quantity of costs. imported sulphur. In the absence of mandated carbon emission cuts, TCL has chosen a path, which balances the imperatives of the failure of a third party’s tanker hydraulic system, growth, while ensuring measurable action on climate when delivering soda ash, entered the river Weaver. change; it leads to a carbon-managed future. We This was immediately reported to the UK environmental have taken up the goal of 20% reduction in emission regulator, the environment agency. Although 120 litres intensity by 2020 and to achieve it, we have drawn is thought to have leaked from the hydraulic system, a three-pronged strategy, which includes: identifying due to the swift actions of the tanker driver and site opportunities for carbon abatement, investing in low personnel, no more than one tenth of this volume carbon growth and tapping into opportunities presented reached the river Weaver, with no visible or measurable by the emerging low carbon technologies. We actively detrimental environmental impact. monitor our existing products and services, and also invest in developing new climate friendly products through innovation and research. We have also explored Responding to climate CDM opportunities and have registered projects for change concerns GHG reductions with UNFCCC. Tata Chemicals’ sustainable enterprise strategy has Technology upgradation helped us become the always focussed on green technologies and uses clean benchmark for energy efficient operations. These development mechanisms. Tata Chemicals has adopted benchmark operations have gained the company the climate change policy issued by the Tata Group, a brand value and financial benefits. Most of our which includes mapping carbon footprint and creating operations globally have efficient steam and power an abatement strategy for sustainable manufacturing. co-gen systems, which have improved over the years. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 33 We are also addressing energy efficiency issues directly Eleven miles from TCNA’s Green River plant, down by waste reduction initiatives and novel technological a dusty dirt track that leads onto the high plateau of advances which offer the prospect of utilising low grade Sweetwater County, work commenced in August on a heat, further enhancing energy efficiency and reducing new ventilation shaft. Because the new shaft is on land GHG emissions. that is a natural habitat for sage grouse and migratory antelope, the Wyoming Game and Fish Department has The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an international, been consulted. The extractor fans at the top of the not-for-profit organisation providing a global system for shaft have been orientated so as not to disturb sage companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage, grouse breeding grounds nearby. and share vital environment related information. It works to transform the way the world does business to The Charakla Saltworks form a large manmade wetland mitigate the effects of climate change and protect our which sustains a diverse waterfowl population – both natural resources. TCL is responding to CDP since FY native and migratory. The presence of 121 species of 2008-09 for climate change and has achieved 99 score birds has been recorded at the Charakla saltworks over with 2nd position in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership the period of time and this site is the only active nesting Index (CDLI) for FY 2014-15. site for the Caspian Terns (Hydroprognecaspia) in the country. Biodiversity TCL has undertaken an ex-situ attempt for conservation of the native flora by raising a 150 acre We conducted EIA studies to assess the impacts of botanical reserve at Mithapur. The reserve has an its operation on nearby biodiversity and surrounding exclusive 30 acre plantation of the endangered Gugal environment. The findings of the study illustrates that (Commiphorawightii) plant. no significant negative impact has been observed on the native flora and fauna. While operating in harsh The Great Indian Bustard (Ardeotisnigriceps) and ecological conditions/semi-arid conditions at Mithapur the Lesser Florican (Sypheotidesindica) were to be site, TCL has restored the ecological balance in the found in the Okhamandal region, where the Mithapur surrounding habitats by converting wastelands into a chemical plant is located, until the late 1980s. However, greenbelt. because of the disappearance of their grassland habitats due to the rampant spread of the Gando Our commitment towards continual improvement Baval (Prosopisjuliflora) bush, these birds have not is triggering new programmes such as grassland been sighted for more than 20 years now. Also fauna development, mangrove conservation and regeneration species like the Indian Wolf (Canis lupus) have become at west coast near Mithapur, restoration of highly endangered species. alkaline soil conditions at Babrala site and at east coast for the Aila affected region of Sundarban near Haldia. For preserving biodiversity of Okhamandal we conducted a biodiversity reserve plantation project, implemented with support of employee volunteers, which seeks to preserve indigenous vegetation. Under the project, 90 acres were afforested with 12 native species of vegetation. Also projects like community conserved wetland, eco clubs program and organic waste converter continued around at all three manufacturing sites. We have initiated the process for biodiversity mapping and are improving the same at the Babrala township area. We continue to support species conservation efforts through the Dharti Ko Arpan programme. 34 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Natural capital As per Natural Capital forum, natural capital can be defined as the world’s stock of natural assets which include geology, soil, air, water and all living things. It is from this natural capital that humans derive a wide range of services, often called ecosystem services, which make human life possible. Tata Chemicals Farm Essentials business has taken up the project to map its natural capital in The rise of the sea level due to climate change has consultation with IBBI (India Business Biodiversity intensified the coastal erosion problem and altered the Initiative). Some key initiatives derived from this sand dune contours at the marine turtle nesting beaches mapping include: in the Okhamandal region. The sand dune slopes have been eroded due to strong waves and now feature Tata Chemicals Haldia used to import its steep inclines which the turtles are unable to negotiate total requirement of sulphur as raw materials to reach their nesting site. This is bound to adversely for our sulphuric acid plant. Since the last affect the population growth of the endangered Olive couple of years we have established a system Ridley (Lepidochelys Olivacea) and the Green Turtles by which we purchase molten sulphur from (Cheloniamydas) in the years to come. TCL runs the nearby industry, which is a waste product Marine Turtle monitoring program for the same. for them. We are now gradually increasing the use of molten sulphur for feeding our To further boost marine conservation in Gujarat, sulphuric acid plant, replacing the import of Wildlife Trust of India and Tata Chemicals signed a solid sulphur. Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on International Whale Shark Day, 30th August 2014. A total of 70 TCL holds about 1,500 acres of land at whale sharks were rescued during the year taking the Babrala, out of which more than 35 per total rescue figure till date to 490. Another strategic cent land is under green cover. The annual partnership MoU with Gujarat Government for the rainfall in the area is approx. 600 650 mm. Whale Shark Conservation and Mithapur Coral Reef During heavy rainfall most of water flows Restoration projects was signed in January 2015 at down as run-off from the site to the nearby Gandhinagar as part of the Vibrant Gujarat Summit. river. To further utilise the open land area and conserve the rain water through rain Work on restoration of Mithapur coral reef has been water harvesting, it was decided to identify initiated and is continuing. This covers an area of some areas where the flowing water can be around 1 sq.km. The project is being implemented diverted during heavy rainfall. A topographical in partnership with the Wildlife Trust of India, the survey of the site was conducted and three implementation partners and the Gujarat State Forest areas were identified which could be used Department. Work on transplantation of local coral as proposed catchment areas for rainwater species has been successful and laying of limestone harvesting. and concrete blocks underwater for creation of coral garden is in progress. TCL will be piloting natural capital mapping at its other sites also in the coming years. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 35 Product Responsibility and Supply Chain At Tata Chemicals, our goal is to offering, and an area (soil) and crop-specific nutrient, which enhances crop productivity, promotes balanced make an organisation that is even application of nutrients and improves soil health. more responsible, transparent and responsive to its stakeholder’s Water Purifier Tata Swach: Safe drinking water is a basic human needs. To strengthen responsible need and its non-availability has been a major concern care approach, TCL practices worldwide. The vision for Tata Swach is to reduce product stewardship code as the incidence of waterborne diseases by making safe drinking water accessible to all. Tata Swach is an offline an act of minimising the health, household water purification system, which purifies safety, environmental and social water without electricity or running water. Since its impacts of its products and launch, Tata Swach has been the recipient of many prestigious awards across the world. In the coming year, packaging throughout all lifecycle this will focus further on reaching the bottom of the stages, while also maximising pyramid. economic benefits. Product safety encompasses selection of safe raw material, use of safe processes and adoption of safe practices for handling products. While chemical products provide many benefits to society, they must also be managed in a responsible way to minimise any adverse effects on humans and the environment. Our employees take this responsibility very seriously, working hard to ensure that our products are Agri solutions services manufactured, stored, transported, used, disposed and Tata Kisan Sansar and Tata Kisan Parivar: Tata Kisan recycled in a manner that shows high regard for human Sansar (TKS) is a one-stop agri input shop and farmer’s health, safety and environmental stewardship. Along solutions shop, offering a range of agri products and with our manufacturing operations, our stakeholders, such as suppliers, distributors, contractors, retailers, and consumers, also play an important role to minimise the impacts on the triple bottom line. Some of our products and services whose design has services. It has played an important role in empowering incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks the farmer community. Tata Kisan Parivar Membership and/or opportunities are listed Programme is a unique relationship initiative aimed at below: the most important stakeholder in value chain – the end consumer, i.e. farmer. This is a bond with a selective Customised Fertiliser – membership that attracts progressive farmers with a Paras Farmoola positive attitude. TKS provides a range of innovative This is a Research and and unique services to farmers through a dedicated Development-based innovative team of Krishi Preraks and agronomists, giving them an 36 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 extra edge over traditional farming practices and, thus, the country but also providing reliable quality, hygienic empowering farmer community. pulses to Indian households and pioneering the ‘unpolished dals’ category. Launched in 2010, it is now available across 21 states in India. Following the Farmto-Fork model, pulses are sourced through a strong network of farmer groups in order to provide quality, healthy, tasty and nutritious products to consumers. The brand also introduced a ‘Dal on Call’ initiative to drive direct sales from consumers. Product information Product information on the physical dimensions and chemical compositions, nutritional information and TKS promotes value-added activities such as farmer nutrient content is provided through our product labels; meets, a repository of agriculture knowledge, soil, water pack declaration catalogues and advertising messages and plant testing laboratories, demonstration farms, in mass media such as television, print publications, etc, thus helping improve agriculture yield. Enhancing radio and social media. Information on our products is farm produce contributes positively towards national available 24x7 on the company or brand website and food security, socio-economic improvement of farmers at the call centre. All packages, both retail and bulk, and improvement in CO2 capture. Through our 957 Tata contain product information including the product Kisan Sansar centres, we cover around 26,000 villages manager’s address/CRM (customer relationship and reach out to approximately 2.6 million farmers. manager) contact number to enable consumers to correspond. Tata Salt It is a pioneer in promoting iodised salt in the country. All of our information is voluntary with various branding Double fortified salt (with iron) is a new innovation that elements and is available with no comments on addresses the health concern of anaemia in the country. competitors or any regional bias statements. Wherever applicable, specific certification requirements of regulatory authorities and markets, like ISI, FSSAI, Halal, etc., are provided on the product labels and/or catalogues. Advertising TCL believes in advertising its products and improving Pulses market image on its Dal (pulses) is the mainstay diet of a majority of Indians, own merits without cutting across social and economic strata. Tata I-Shakti encroaching on was launched with a mission of not only bridging the others through existing gap between demand and supply of pulses in unethical means. We engage only reputed advertising agencies that are members of ASCI and, hence, all our advertising is as per ASCI codes. The procedure to be followed and adherence to applicable standards codes is under the control of the ethics counsellor. There have been no cases of non-adherence to regulations. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 37 Packaging After selection, suppliers’ SHE management practices The plant at Mithapur, India, and all the packing centres are re-evaluated by site visits and interaction at the of Tata Salt are Hazard Analysis at Critical Control shop floor to ascertain whether they are practicing Point (HACCP) certified. Tata Salt is one of the first and following SHE practices as stated in the supplier salt brands in the country to be HACCP certified until performance rating checklist. This enables gap last leg of distribution, making it the most hygienic salt identification and further improves their management available in India. As a sustainability initiative, reusable systems. Our expertise and experiences are also primary outer bags have been introduced by the salt shared with them for dealing with SHE issues related team wherein the finished product, packed in 1 kg to their operations and practices. The supply chain PET poly pouches, is repacked in the used primary member conducts training and improves awareness bag, thus reducing the overall usage of high-density among concerned stakeholders on handling, storage, polyethylene (HDPE) and making the outer packaging transportation and distribution. more environment-friendly. We are continuously working on reducing packaging Supply chain through innovative solutions such as jumbo bags. We have increased the use of bulkers, especially for soda Extracting minerals on four continents, Tata Chemicals ash. We started moving bromine in a bulk form through is leading the way in promoting principles of sustainable ISO tankers and use bulkers for fly ash. Currently, we supply chains. have seven bulkers for soda ash, two ISO tankers for bromine and transporters’ bulkers for fly ash. All put Underground mining in Wyoming may be the most together, we have moved 19,860 MT in bulk form in obvious mining activity in Tata Chemicals but in 2014-15, a four-fold increase. This initiative will reduce, terms of volumes it accounts for under half of the and if possible, eliminate the consumption of HDPE/PP minerals extracted by the Group companies each bags, leading to a reduction of CO2 emission, apart from year. Four and a half million tonnes of trona are mined helping automation both at our plant and at customer mechanically from beneath Green river. Two million locations. tonnes of limestone are mined using traditional blasting techniques in India for use in the synthetic manufacture Product safety starts from the selection of raw materials. of soda ash at Mithapur. In Kenya 1.5 million tonnes of These are handled, stored and used in accordance trona are dredged from the lake and 2 million tonnes of with SHE guidelines. The selection of material suppliers salt are extracted. In the UK, solution mining of brine comprises the following critical criteria: at British Salt produces half a million tonnes. Alongside these captive mining operations, another 3 million tonnes of coal, coke and limestone are procured each year. Registered Managing the impact of these diverse operations is an and reputed important part of the Group’s sustainability plan. While organisation the mining techniques vary, common principles mean all Tata Chemicals companies operate responsible mining Complying practices. Responsible sourcing, especially of mined with Following materials, means many different things. applicable the best statutes SHE management There is a growing need for integrating environmentally practices at site and sound choices into supply chain management. From an certified for economic and governance perspective we focus on risk ISO-9001/ISO-14001/ and supply chain management as well as accountability OHSAS-18001 and transparency. systems TCL’s key suppliers are for its major raw materials like natural gas, limestone, raw brine, solar salt, 38 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 coal, bittern, phosphoric acid, potassium chloride, At TCM, supply chain function is subdivided with rock phosphate, ammonia, sulphur, MoP, DAP and logistics and shipping. Logistics function covers all rail packing material (HDPE bags) for the manufacture and road operations for outbound cargo, warehouse of our wide product range. There are also suppliers operations at both KNTC and Kajiado, direct sales and who provide manufacturing equipment/machines/ invoicing in Magadi, Kajiado and KNTC. apparatus (mechanical, electrical, civil, instrumentation, laboratories) to TCL. Wherever required, TCL also does At TCNA, supply chain and procurement groups annual maintenance contracts with such suppliers. The work closely to drive supply chain sustainability. The respective State Electricity Boards supply electricity at procurement manager has the ultimate responsibility for locations wherever required. The other key suppliers the group with purchasing and warehouse supervisors for TCL include transport and logistics (rail and road) reporting to that position. providers for transportation of its raw materials and finished products. There was no change in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with The total number of suppliers engaged by TCL is around suppliers, including selection and termination. 380 and estimated number of suppliers in the supply chain is close to 3,000. Our suppliers are spread across During this period, TCE changed the operational nature geographies where TCL has its operations. The type of its sodium bicarbonate plant at Winnington, which of suppliers at TCL comprise contractors, distributors, is now a standalone plant (i.e. no longer integrated to independent contractors, manufacturers, primary an ammonia soda plant). As a result the company now producers, sub-contractors, wholesalers, brokers and has to purchase CO2 which it does so from a leading consultants. Tata Chemicals Europe has a 4PL contract industrial gas producing company. TCE has also been with a strategic partner who manages all domestic and sourcing coke for use in the manufacture of soda ash international logistics on our behalf. We lease a number from new suppliers in anticipation of its long serving of warehouses in UK and Europe, one of which is a coke supplier ceasing operations within the next 18 pharmaceutical grade warehouse. months. Key processes and roles played by supplier/partner/collaborator/channel partner Key work Key supplier/Partner/Collaborator/ Roles played in enhancing competitiveness/innovation process Channel partner Customer and BHA, distributor, dealer, stockist, Enhance market access, market awareness and market focus TKS, retailer, advertising agencies, competitive intelligence, TKS store brands auto market research agencies invoicing to customers, packing for speciality products, FGD, Chem connect, monitor and improve stakeholder engagement (CSI, BEI) Supply chain RM and fuel, packaging, Increase cost competitiveness, improve service management transporters, railways, alliance levels, product and service innovations, sustainability partners, C&F/RH agents, stevedores Technology Technology suppliers, equipment Enhance awareness of new technologies, increase and manufacturers, maintenance and information on industry benchmarks, improve plant manufacturing spares providers, external auditors/ and product efficiency, bulk flow cooler, advance management consultants process control, enhance awareness of best practices Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 39 At TCM, Kajiado warehouse as a point of sale was opened, thereby enhancing the scope of logistics function. At TCNA, the new sourcing policy was written and put into place in late 2014. Through negotiations several key suppliers have been established in the local community to better serve plant operations. As the procurement team continues to build supplier relationships we will continue to expand on these programmes and try to move additional key suppliers into the community. In TCL, India, we have a vendor development programme to promote local contractors and service that depends on selection of the right form of transport providers. We also promote skills and livelihood and route. TCL participates in many sustainability development in the neighbouring community through initiatives of customers, wherein the company is invited various training and community development to participate for knowledge sharing, active involvement programmes. We established an apprentice training in development of codes, or for declarations. centre to improve capacity and skills of more than 100 apprentices every year. The centre provides Knowledge and awareness of transporters on product support to people from socially backward community safety and their role in case of emergency play a vital backgrounds. role in accident management. Regular checks and training programmes ensure safe distribution of the TCL keeps exploring the potential for development product. All suppliers and vendors are advised to of suppliers hailing from socially and economically provide material safety data sheets (MSDS), along with backward communities. Our consumer products all materials and chemicals, for complete information business has a mission to increase schedule caste/ and use of the right personal protective equipment schedule tribes (SC/ST) community participation (PPE) while handling unwanted emergencies. MSDS in its third party workforce over a period of three to boards for bulk fertilisers have also been provided to five years. We initiated a sponsored professional dealers so as to create and promote safe handling, training programme for developing functional skills storage and use of fertilisers. and competencies of SC/ST and other economically backward candidates to make them employable in the Every year in December or January, advanced training is sales and marketing field as front line sales force. undertaken for drivers who carry hazardous chemicals in trucks and tankers. They also get a Transport As a new initiative to promote even greater supplierEmergency (TREM) card. To further enhance safety, we partner participation in sustainability initiatives, TCL has have established the emergency chlorine helpline – a established supplier sustainability guidelines. As a part dedicated 24X7 phone line setup to extend help during of it, a supplier sustainability self-assessment tool has any chlorine-related emergency. Every quarter, safety been developed to assess suppliers and partners on department provides training to workmen involved in sustainability criteria that include governance, safety, loading bromine. Safety department also conducts health, labour practices, human rights and impacts on-the-floor mock drills for employees, contractors, on environment and society. We have assessed 40% and loading and packaging workmen to check their of the key suppliers at the Mithapur site. We have preparedness during emergencies. Job Safety Analysis also conducted capacity building and awareness (JSA) card is issued for CC/marine chemicals, both in sessions on crop nutrition at the business locations to English and Gujarati. progressively implement the same. Incidents related to product spills, transport accident, Transportation bad products and packaging quality are tracked Transportation is a critical aspect of distribution safety and assessed by supply chain and field employees. 40 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Suppliers and distributors’ meetings are used as a basis. Detailed analysis of CSI findings is carried out to platform to express the company’s expectation from serve customers in a better way and determine future distributors, suppliers and transporters. This forum is and expected needs of the customers. The Voice of the used to provide all relevant information and training on Customer (VOC), i.e. customer feedback/suggestion/ handling, storage, transportation and distribution of perception, is gathered from various sources like products, as and when required. No significant spills regular customer visits by the sales team, feel the pulse were reported this year. (customer visits by the sales team), communication meetings, quality function deployment, CSI, customer Customer engagement circles DART reports and COO club meets, are The customer requirement and the company’s image integrated on a regular basis to serve as inputs for are determined primarily through customer satisfaction current and future products, services and customer surveys for each customer group, customer contact support. programmes, e-customer care, customer feedback captured by our ChemConnect call centre, senior A web-enabled Customer Care System (CCS) has been leadership visits, annual distributor’s conference, COO deployed to effectively manage all customer complaints. club, customer care system as well as other listening Customers of industry essentials are provided with a and learning posts. Kano model helps us in identifying separate and unique user ID and password for logging parameters to evaluate the dissatisfaction, satisfaction complaints on the CCS. Consumers are also provided and delight of the customer. The feedback and contact numbers/e-mail id/address of the customer complaints provide opportunities for improvement. care cell/ChemConnect on packs and bags. This web enablement of the system helps reduce complaint Avalon Consulting, Integrated Marketing & Research handling time and ensures expeditious closure of Services (IMRS) and IMRB conduct customer complaints. satisfaction studies on a quarterly/half yearly/annual basis for TCL, covering all the Indian territories and Facility to delegate resolution of complaints has been international markets where the company exports. We added in the CCS recently; this helps in early resolution. track brand equity index through brand track studies Customer can also view detailed resolution and give conducted by Nielsen to measure brand loyalty among their feedback on the system. If resolution is not in line end consumers for salt and farmers for the crop with customer satisfaction, the complaint is rebooked nutrition range. We also conduct a dissatisfaction survey for further action; this helps in customer involvement for our chemical industry once in two years through and enhances engagement levels. A toll-free number Avalon Consulting. allows farmers to register complaints, suggestions or inquiries about our products/services. All consumer A written undertaking is given to all the customers products are registered with the FSSAI and adhere about non-disclosure of their responses received for the to all the requirements under it. Farm essentials, customer satisfaction index (CSI) surveys. The 100% living essentials, industry essentials business and primary data relating to customers is on the ERP (SAP) stakeholders have benefitted from deployment of in the form of master data, which is fully secured; no various modes of engagements, as shown in the section unauthorised access is available to anyone. Changing/ of stakeholder engagement. creating options are given only to key authorised individuals. We do not share or sell this information SBU Consumer Satisfaction (in %) except if required under any regulation, but only after the consent of the concerned person. As such, there is Chemicals 83 no standard procedure to monitor compliance with legal Water purifier Consumer survey is carried out statutes, but for voluntary codes our approach is to once in two years. It was not carried out in FY14-15 maintain the brand equity index, monitoring GRP at the time of campaigns. Consumer 76 (average of all) products Market studies such as monthly retail audit by Nielsen Crop nutrition and 79 agri products or IMRB household panel are conducted on a regular Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 41 Employee Well-being We, at Tata Chemicals Limited (TCL), offering competitive salaries and benefits, job rotations, secondments and overseas deputations, learning and ensure that our values, ethics and education allowance, performance rewards, involvement dimensions of care and welfare are in special projects, career progression avenues and an incorporated in our human resource overall challenging work environment. (HR) policies and processes and At Tata Chemicals Europe (TCE), over 65 percent of our nurtured through our practices. employees live close to our sites. While unemployment in the area is around the UK average, manufacturing The HR team at TCL acts as a strategic partner for has been declining, so TCE is one of the few remaining businesses to achieve its strategic objectives by domestic companies in this sector. We employ most creating an engaging environment for the workforce. of them from the local area to provide employment Our HR team is structured as Corporate HR and opportunities to locals. As per the Cheshire West and Business HR, which includes various locations in India Chester Council (CWAC) report, in terms of diversity, and overseas. Corporate HR focuses on evaluating and 99 percent of Northwich and the surrounding areas are improving HR systems, shaping policies and framework occupied by white British or Irish people. TCE monitors and establishing the strategic road map with a longthe demographics of the area, and those employed, term perspective. Our Business HR is embedded in using data from the HR system. A small percentage (1.5) the business with a focus on delivering the business of our employees comes from an ethnic background objective through various people interventions. other than white British. Within the UK, there are strict TCL being a diverse organisation, operating in four employment legislative requirements that we adhere geographies, our HR processes are customised to meet to. Employment policies are also in place to ensure we the local regulatory and business requirements and follow the requirements, starting from fair employment culture. practice to flexible working. At TCE, employment contracts ensure we comply with all legislative Employment requirements related to the Working Time Directive. The recruitment process at TCL is triggered by a Every year, we publish our pay rates on the TCE intranet Manpower Requisition Form (MPR), which has been for employees to know the rate for their grade. TCE has recently digitised (e-MPR) in India to eliminate paper an employee handbook that outlines the benefits and work and facilitate tracking and reporting. TCL deploys policies regarding holidays, sickness, health and safety, multiple sourcing strategies to ensure supply of talent as per business needs. These include placement consultants, Tata group companies, employee referrals, internal job postings (SHInE +) in India and campus hiring. The candidates are recruited based on evaluation with regard to functional knowledge, behavioural skills and/or leadership attributes. To ensure a constant induction of fresh ideas into the system, TCL recruits trainees from engineering and management institutes across the country and experienced lateral hires. Although the overall attrition rate in TCL is under control, attracting and retaining talent at remote manufacturing locations continues to be a challenge. Retention strategies include 42 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 etc. All grades within TCE are collectively bargained for number of employees in the bargainable category is (except where it is merit-based). 1,169, and approximately 4,000 more are working through contractors. We are one of the few companies Contract Workforce in India to have implemented the ‘Code of Discipline’ by In India, TCL’s contract workforce stands at way of recognition of the union. This is considered a fair approximately 4,000, and is spread across three and transparent recognition system for the unions, and manufacturing sites at Mithapur, Babrala and Haldia. is used as a best practice by few governments/public The contract workforce is employed under contractors. sector units. TCL monitors all contractors to ensure they have complied with the statutory norms. As a monitoring At Mithapur, we completed a long-term settlement system, TCL audits the contractors’ records and deed with the union on 12 July 2015, from which 950 registers with the following objectives: unionised employees benefited and the plant runs smoothly without any ambiguity. Similarly, at Haldia, the To ensure all returns are submitted as per the statutory timeline, with accurate information from long-term settlement deed was signed in March 2015. the contractors received in time We have actively adopted the concept of Joint Management Council (JMC) to proactively address any All records and registers maintained by the issues or concerns of an administrative nature or related contractors are as per TCL’s statutory norms to facilities or any other issues arising from day-to-day operations. To ensure continual improvement in record management that would lead to data accuracy and control of manpower. At the Mithapur plant, we adopted the ‘Social Accountability – 8000’ standards, certified by the An individual contractor gets paid only after receipt international certification agency. At the Haldia plant, of certification from the personnel department. If any workmen can avail a number of mechanisms to redress lapses occur in filing statutory returns or maintaining their grievances. Some of these mechanisms are drop accurate records, the penalty is deducted as per the boxes, We Care Portal, etc. terms of agreement. As per the agreement clause, it is mandatory for all suppliers and contractors to pay their The Tata Code of Conduct, which is widely publicised employees in keeping with the Minimum Wage Act; at TCE, prohibits any form of discrimination and has TCL does not accept any deviation. Appropriate action a formal mechanism for raising issues. In the past 12 is taken if the norms are flouted. Contractors are given months, TCE has witnessed only one grievance related regular training to manage the statutory requirements to potential bullying or harassment. and records of their employees; hence, all contractors are well-versed with our norms and understand the We believe in the empowerment model and adopt a seriousness of compliance. participatory approach towards a problem’s solution, which helps in increasing cohesiveness, bonding and At TCE, while recruiting contractors, we work with a participative management. The committees reflecting strategic recruitment supplier who ensures that the this approach are listed below. Representatives from all contracted resource receives equal payment as the fullsections of the workforce, with maximum diversity, are time employees. We recognise both UNITE and GMB, chosen to participate. and have good partnership arrangements in place, wherein we meet on a regular basis to discuss business. Following the major business restructuring in 2014, TCE We work closely with our master recruitment vendor to has rebuilt the people framework to ensure that we are ensure our contract employees are paid in line with our aligned to the business and its future success. These employees. changes mean that the human capital framework has shifted significantly. Key areas have been to ensure we Labour Relations have integrity in our data. We have developed the HR Labour management is critical at Mithapur, as industrial and payroll system to ensure compliance with HMRC as peace is necessary to ensure better and higher well as provided a self-service system for our managers production for achieving the organisation’s goal. The and employees to access people data round the clock. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 43 Facility Examples Our policies include: Joint A joint forum to address issues or Prevention of sexual harassment at the workplace Management concerns of administrative nature or Council related to facilities. Conduct and Discipline Policy Works Safety A joint forum to discuss improvement Smokingand substance-free workplace Committee possibilities related to safety matters. Prohibition of Smoking at Public Places Policy Canteen A joint committee for improving Working Hours Policy Committee canteen facilities. Leave Policy Sports A committee comprising all cadre Committee employees for promotion of sports Death in Service Policy and sportspersons. Housing Loan Interest Subsidy Policy Cultural A committee comprising all cadre Committee employees for promotion of arts and Medical Assistance Policy entertainment of among people in the town. Leave Travel Assistance Policy House A committee comprising all cadre Cardinal Rules of safety and consequence Allotment employees to decide the norms management Committee for house allotment and address concerns, if any, ensuring equal non-management employees on site. We have a fiveempowerment. year labour contract with this union. All labour issues involving union members are negotiated with this union. Town Safety A joint forum comprising all cadre Committee employees and merchants to discuss A grievance process and an arbitration process have improvement possibilities related to been established. township safety matters. Employee Engagement Kamdar Club A committee of workmen to decide To ensure a supportive and encouraging work Committee about facilities related to sports, entertainment and a library in environment, TCL has focused efforts towards Kamdar (Workmen) Club. employee engagement and regular monitoring of employee engagement levels. While TCL uses a number of formal and informal mechanisms to assess Detailed people data and robust people policies and the engagement levels of its workforce, the annual frameworks drive our ability to attract and retain global ESS (Xpress), which guarantees anonymity to employees and enable them to develop. We envisage the respondent, gives a true picture of the employee our efforts in these areas will result in an improved engagement levels. In 2014-15, the engagement score profitability and cement our success. was 73% compared to 68% in the previous year. We respect the right of our employees to join a union Post the survey communication, focussed group and are committed to establishing a constructive discussions (FGDs) were held at the organisation/BU/ dialogue with those recognised representatives. We site/function level to create action plans to address have built the strength of the collective bargaining specific concern areas. These action plans are then arrangements with our union partners and now meet reviewed at the monthly review meetings such as more regularly with standing agenda items. Our 2020 AQC and SBUC. Managers with more than five direct vision is to make this company a great place to work so reports receive a manager scorecard that enables them that people get inspired to do great work every day and to identify specific take pride in the organisation. workgroup-related engagement factors for At the TCNA, Wyoming, there is a labour union named improvement. United Steelworkers Union, which represents over 350 Other mechanisms to 44 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 on a new employee induction to ensure everybody understands the TCE way and how they contribute to it. We have developed our communication channels and have an employee board where nominated representatives meet the MD and other senior managers quarterly to discuss the company’s future strategy. Training and Education In India, TCL equips the workforce with current gauge employee engagement are through FGDs, skilland future competency requirements arising from level meetings, town halls and exit surveys for various the business plans, and changes in the external workforces. These inputs have ushered in policy-related environment, by assessing the competency gaps changes, for example, flexi work timings at office as well as redesigning and customising the training locations, paternity leave and health and wellness. programmes. Goal and strategy alignment, performance-linked The induction programme branded as Induction Course scheme, communication channels, township benefits for Enabling Positive Traction (InCEPT) has been and allowance and rewards & recognition are some enhanced to include three phases of induction in case examples of how engagement levels are sustained. of lateral recruits. ‘Awaaz’ at Mithapur, ‘We Care’ at Haldia and ‘HR Clinic’ at Babrala were some of the programmes that helped Several learning initiatives are made available to address employee issues and grievances as well as the employees across the organisation to build or enhance employee engagement. enhance role-critical competencies through functional, behavioural and leadership training in these areas. A rewards & recognition framework was launched and These include ‘Jagruti’ for the front-line field force in adapted as Special Thanks and Recognition Scheme the agribusiness, technical (STARS) at Babrala and as ‘E-Spark’ at Mithapur capability programmes at to recognise employees for their contribution and manufacturing sites, on-theupholding the TCL values. job projects by Management Development Programme The leadership team interacts with the new candidates (MDP) and extensive focus on safety awareness in every quarter through the ‘Let’s Chat’ forum. Other initiatives. MDP has been redesigned to incorporate informal engagement measures include participation in relevant inputs to enable people to handle future organisational initiatives such as cross-functional teams challenges. Employees can continuously upgrade their (CFTs), theatres, cultural events, family days and CSR competencies and skills at their own pace from any events. location through various e-learning platforms, such as Skill Soft, in our organisation. We use other measures, such as retention rate, regrettable losses, employee referrals, response to As part of the increased focus on safety, various training internal job postings and improved safety indicators to programmes and initiatives, such as SurakshaJyot check engagement levels. The voluntary attrition rate at Mithapur, Process Safety Management at Babrala was 8.1%, lower than 8.6% recorded in FY 2013-14. and SRESHTO at Haldia, were rolled out. Other At TCE, the overall engagement score is up 12%. initiatives include adoption of the DuPont Safety While we have a long way to go, all senior managers Systems, e-learning modules, are targeted towards achieving a further 11% increase Safety Stewards, Safety by next year. Some key improvement areas have been Stars and contractor safety identified, including senior leadership and employee management. development. To address these issues, we have an engagement forum that makes employees look at We have a programme in place, Katalyst Program, ways to improve engagement. This year, we embarked to develop and deploy the internal faculty for other Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 45 programmes such as AMT, safety, sustainability, new LMS system is for all employees. It provides an MBE, LSS and technical training. Besides saving cost e-learning portal with mandatory training, to ensure on external facilitators, this initiative acts as a great we comply with the legislative requirements such as motivator for internal talent. health and safety, and refresher training. The system automates certificates and reminders to ensure An e-enabled learning portal, ‘MyGurukool’, helps the compliance. Moreover, it has developmental modules training manager track adherence to training needs. for all employees to access and take control of their The talent management process, SpringBoard, in India development. We have also developed an online is designed with the objective of building technical performance management system for 2015. All eligible and functional specialist and leadership pipeline for employees now have their objectives online for the first the business. Other initiatives included nominating for time. We have achieved 100 per cent completion on this. At TCNA, training and education is classified as MSHA required safety training and skill development During the fiscal year, about 76% training. All WY employees are provided with mandatory MSHA training annually. In addition, all employees are of TCL employees were included in offered a career development plan, and a training plan at least one training programme. is a component of this. These plans are monitored by A total of 1,581 programmes our Learning & Development supervisor. We gear this training to meet the corporation’s goals. Training is (internal/external) were offered to all employees. conducted. The number of training days were 15,357. Employee Benefits Ensuring a safe work environment for our employees continued to be an area of focus. We launched many quality training programmes at the Tata Management interventions such as audits, trainings, rewards & Training Centre (TMTC). At Mithapur, TCL runs a recognitions, and process and design improvements. government-recognised apprentice training school, The company has a set of employee-friendly people wherein we push our employees from workmen cadre, policies and benefits, which we review every year to apart from the Mithapur and Okhamandal students, ensure these policies are contemporary and aligned to get certified on certain skills. The workmen cadre with our values. All employees are covered under employees even go for ITI certification to enable growth Group Personal Accident Insurance or Workmen in the organisation. This helps in ensuring a qualified Compensation Insurance. and certified workforce in the organisation. At Mithapur, a Group Gratuity Scheme has been initiated At TCE, we adopt e-learning programmes from for workmen recruited on a contract basis. For contract our parent company TCL, which are utilised by our workmen, we have a Suraksha scheme to cover employees. We have also developed our own internal financial assistance towards death or disablement. LMS system, an e-learning portal that is accessed by all Special care is administered to women employees with employees to enable self-development. Developing our regard to amenities, travel, child care, flexi hours, etc. leaders’ potential helps to keep them engaged as well as develops strong expert leadership for our company In India, the employee medical insurance cover has well into the future. Our new leadership programme been enhanced to Rs300,000. Additional coverage for site managers, who lead the largest number of options of Rs200,000 or Rs400,000 have also employees, is the key to our business. We have also been extended on a co-share basis. We monitor introduced an Assessment for Development Centre for workforce health through annual health check-ups. our identified talent within the business. This is for our Medical facilities and medical officers are available ‘emerging’ and ‘leadership’ talent. Every successful at all company locations to quickly respond to any candidate will have an individual development plan eventuality. TCL won the Aarogya Workplace Health that includes mentoring and secondments to develop award. their knowledge and expertise in our business. The 46 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Summary of employee benefits: on-site medical clinic, personal time and educational assistance. Tata continues to monitor the competitive Facility Examples landscape to ensure that employees are provided with a EducationSabbatical, professional assistance, competitive benefit package. related higher education support, scholarships, sponsorships WellnessAnnual medical check-ups, wellness related initiatives, canteen, ergonomics, counselling, health insurance, flexi working hours, maternity leave policy, hospital facilities MyTCEworld is an off shoot of MyTCLworld. This RecreationLeave Travel Assistance, clubs, fun related at work, holiday bonus is a fantastic repository for all things related to the employees, from health and safety to HR. It allows Township Housing, subsidised electricity 24x7 access to all our policies and benefits such Amenities transport, uniforms as: Safety-related Emergency support, PPEs, HR policies Ergonomics, Suraksha Scheme Staff handbook Financial Retirement benefits, family benefit Support schemes, professional allowance, Manager guidance site allowance, perks, advisory services, pension plans Employee referral scheme Pay and benefits page (includes pension In 2014, we revised all core policies at TCE to ensure portal/advantage scheme/kiddivouchers/ they are in line with any new legislation in the UK. gourmet society/EAP/gym membership/ Furthermore, we developed new policies to reflect medicash/PMI/payroll giving/TATA privilege). new laws such as shared parental leave. TCE has a number of family-friendly policies and benefits, including flexible working hours, shared parental leave, child Diversity care vouchers, generous holiday entitlements and the TCL is an equal opportunity employer and also follows advantage scheme (offers discounts at many major the diversity agenda of the Tata group, with focus on retailers). We also have an occupational health provision gender diversity and affirmative actions. A diversity for all employees. council has been set up in India, with members from various businesses to drive the agenda. The focussed The HR provides HR clinics every week to address effort has led to one percent increase in women employees’ queries regarding HR or payroll. This year, employees in India this year. we are looking to achieve the ‘Investors in People’ accreditation. We will also launch the Employee/ To ensure the inclusion of diversity in terms of Manager of the Month award and reward winners knowledge, culture and region or language, with gift vouchers. We have an employee referral recruitment is done across the country and aligned scheme, wherein employees can earn up to £500 for to the role requirements. For instance, recruitment recommending a new employee. for manufacturing sites or the customer-facing field force (SO/SE, crop advisors, etc.) is largely done from TCNA makes available a competitive package of the local community to leverage diversity in terms of employee benefits. The company shares in the cost of knowledge of local conditions, culture and language. these benefits with its employees. These benefits are TCE values all employees and their contributions, with a made available to employees immediately upon hire long-standing commitment to foster equal opportunity and include medical, dental, vision, life and disability and intolerance of discrimination. insurances. In addition, we offer a wide range of additional benefits, including vacation, sick leave, an For more information visit: www.tatachemicals.com Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 47 Community Development Community development at Tata An integrated and participatory approach followed by TCSRD, ensures that the community members become Chemicals is an important driver the real managers and owners, and work towards their for its business growth and it own development and that of the society at large. To extends well beyond compliance. The assess the impact of their community development interventions, TCSRD conducts the community establishment of the Tata Chemicals satisfaction survey every year. This helps TCSRD build a Society for Rural Development stronger foundation for an inclusive society. (TCSRD) emphasises the company’s The company’s inter-related development interventions commitment in this regard. in India are named as BEACoN (Blossom – Enhance – The society works to protect and nurture the Aspire – Conserve – Nurture): rural population around TCL’s facilities, and helps people achieve self-sufficiency in natural resource Blossom management, provides livelihood support and Capacity building and empowerment of local helps in improving the quality of life by providing communities through sustainable and replicable health, education and infrastructure support. All the handicraft development model community development interventions fall under the bigger umbrella of sustainability. The vision of Promotion and development of TCSRD “Development that enables sustainability and traditional handicrafts – Okhai community empowerment” drives all its development Tata Chemicals Society for Rural Development (TCSRD) interventions. It also takes into account location specific has been playing a pioneering role in promoting the and business specific concerns, and requirements while Saurashtra handicrafts at Mithapur, Karjobi at Babrala implementing the community development initiatives. and jute craft at Haldia under one brand “OKHAI”. At intercropping, crop demonstration, and linkage present, the project is supporting 585 women. The goal with government schemes have benefitted 1,034 is to reach out to over 1000 artisans. This year, sales farmers from 50 villages. touched Rs103.4 lakh, sure signs that Okhai is on a growth trajectory. Interventions like afforestation and horticulture, I-Kisan portal, aquaculture, community farmers Clusters Development meet, sea weeds fertiliser, Khetamrut Organic The programme strives to develop entrepreneurship and Natural Pesticide production, etc. were taken qualities in rural women and guide them adeptly to up covering close to 15 villages and benefitting engage themselves in productive enterprises. It aims around 300 farmers. Projects like SRI (System of to empower women and alleviate poverty by providing Rice Intensification), mushroom and sunflower them another means of livelihood. At Mithapur, six cultivation were taken up at Haldia. clusters have been established and are growing over the years. The sales in all the six clusters during the year Animal Husbandry increased to Rs11,33,021. At Babrala, Sevarthi cluster The reach of the animal husbandry programme at has been established where in the products of six group Babrala crossed to more than 290 villages covering enterprises (bandhej, incense products, mobile charger, more than 60,000 cattle owners. Programmes like honey, paper envelop and Ladli sanitary napkin) are sold Animal Health Care, Vaccination, Animal Health Centre (OPD), Animal Health Camp, Breed Improvement, and Balance Nutrition benefitted the cattle owners. Mithapur and Haldia conducted activities like deworming camp, poultry farming and pond management, covering 52,243 animals from 12 villages, benefitting 420 farmers/ households. Uday Foundation 195 youth are employed by Uday at Mithapur and Babrala. Uday Foundation continues to provide customer support to Tata Sky, Tata Chemicals (Chem Connect) and MEA (Passport helpline). Babrala has tied under the brand Sevarthi. This year, the sales in all the up with Rural Shores organisation to deliver services six clusters increased to Rs4,37,593. A 25-days design to Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), National Skill and technical upgradation workshop was organised Development Corporation (NSDC), Snapdeal and E&Y. by NIFT, Gandhinagar in the crafts of jute work and mud (clay) conducted for 60 women. Another 20 days training on jute work was provided to 46 women at Babrala. Enhance Poverty alleviation and income enhancement of the communities. Agriculture Development Programme Infrastructure Development Support At Babrala, agriculture development programme has helped in increasing the productivity, Infrastructure development programme is the enhancing the farm income and in providing key to rural development as it helps improves opportunities for both direct and indirect rural economy and quality of life. TCSRD since employment. Promotion of modern farm its inception has given importance to this technologies and equipment’s, development of programme as it is essential for the overall Krishi Gyan Kendra, diversification of cash crops, development of community. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 49 Projects like construction of brick pavement track, individual toilets and school boundary wall were undertaken at Babrala. 170 meters of track was constructed, adding to a total of 30,100 meters laid so far. TCSRD supported construction of 401 toilets and boundary walls for 3 schools benefitting 600 students. At Haldia, construction of boundary wall for a primary school of Kumarchak area was done. At Mithapur, eight cattle troughs, five 5 cattle sheds and a boundary wall for one cattle shed was constructed. 450 running meters of drainage channel was also constructed. implemented, benefiting close to 6,500 across the three sites. To support school infrastructure, two rooms were constructed in primary schools and seven rooms Under the Learning And Migration Programme in high schools. TCSRD renovated 5 anganwadis’ (LAMP), America India Foundation partner covering Arambhada, Bhimrana, Varvala and organisations worked closely with community Dwarka villages. and government schools to strengthen school governance system and quality of education in 443 villages covering seven districts of Gujarat and 30,761 community members were reached through village level meetings. The state government funded TCSRD to start three hostels for LAMP, one at Varvala and two at Gurgath. 72 children whose families migrate for nearly 8 months have been enrolled. Around 2,345 children, 118 volunteers, 31 schools from 232 villages participated in Bal Utsav organised at Mithapur, Haldia and Babrala with an objective to increase the enthusiasm of Aspire children in studies, self-confidence, and to give Facilitate and empower local communities to improve them motivation through other activities along education and skills and enable sustainable sociowith studies. economic development Education For TCSRD, education is an important tool for overall development of community. TCSRD has been tackling the issue of quality of education by introducing innovative ways of teaching and training of the teachers. During the reporting year, education programmes like e-library, Learning Enhancement Program (LEP), teacher training, scholarships, child Vocational Skill Development learning and improvement, SNDT center, IGNOU Skills and knowledge are the driving forces of economic and National Open University, career resource growth and social development of any particular area. center, Shala Pravesh Utsav, adult literacy The people become more productive, innovative and classes, residential summer camp on spoken competitive through skill development training. TCSRD English and personality development, and were offers a range of vocational training courses catering 50 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Land development programme and water to the needs of different segments of the society. Over management and conservation like Mission the years, it has led to a remarkable change in the life Jal and drip irrigation were also carried out at of the youth. Around 2,500 benefitted through Vocation Babrala, Mithapur and Haldia. Training Centres, corporate collaborations like Larsen & Toubro, Taj Resorts and Palaces, Sevarthi outlets, vocational training alumni meets, new Skill Development Nurture Centre, Innovation and Knowledge Sharing week and Improve the health status of community through Youth Employability Scheme (YES). preventive and curative measures Conserve Healthcare Maintain ecological balance and conserve natural resources through participatory approach for environmental sustainability Dharti ko Arpan Nature conservation projects like whale shark conservation, coral reef restoration, mangrove plantation, biodiversity reserve plantation, marine turtle monitoring, community conserved wetland, monitoring of birdlife, ECO Clubs Programme and Organic Waste Converter continued around all three manufacturing sites. Improving health of rural community is an important part of TCSRD overall strategy. To further boost marine conservation in Gujarat, Wild Trust of India and Tata Chemicals signed This year, 12,548 patients were examined and a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on treated at 105 Out Patient Department (OPD) International Whale Shark Day, 30 August, in health care camps organised across three 2014. A total of 70 whale sharks were rescued sites. The most prevalent health problems at the during the year taking the total rescue figure OPD were skin problems, anemia, water borne till date to 490. Another strategic partnership diseases and cold and cough. Haemoglobin and MOU with Gujarat Government for the Whale nutrition check-up was done for 200 young girls Shark Conservation and Mithapur Coral Reef during the camp. Restoration projects was signed in January 2015 At Babrala, Haldia and Mithapur, seven eye at Gandhinagar as part of the Vibrant Gujarat camps were organised to address the issue Summit. of vision problems. Around 1,948 people were screened, 250 patients were provided medicine and spectacles and 219 went for the free cataract operation. Awareness and training programmes like capacity building of Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) and anganwadi workers, AIDS awareness, No Tobacco Day, health awareness camps and thalassemia awareness camps continued across three sites. Nutrition Climate-neutral Village Project, solar powered electric fencing, energy efficient cooking stoves, Immunisation and counselling drives could cover biogas plants, solar street lights, etc, continued 14,894 infants and children to support reduction for mitigation of climate change impacts. of infant mortality rate (IMR). Malnutrition Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 51 mitigation programme addressed around schools. For girls, installation of sanitary napkin vending 280 children. TCSRD Haldia, initiated 1,000 machine and electric incinerator was done in five high days ‘Swasthya Angan’ programme to reduce schools. As a result of this programme, 5,000 boys have malnourishment among children below two the access to improved sanitary facilities; 2,500 girls years of age in the Sutahata block in association have the access to improved sanitary complex. Total with Integrated Child Development Services 3,500 students underwent detailed meetings, trainings (ICDS) and Child In Need Institute (CINI). With on health and hygiene including personal hygiene an objective of reducing the incidence and matters. Under the Command Area Development prevalence of malnutrition among children (less Programme (CADP) Phase II – Gramiya Jal Swacchata than five years) in the surrounding villages of Samiti have been formed in different villages of Sriperumbudur plant, seven nutritional clubs were Okhamandal. Piped drinking water supply have been formed with 200 women members. provided to 2,500 households. In farm areas (Vadi To enhance the nutritional status and quality of Vistar) of six villages, 167 Roof Rain Water Harvesting life, promotion of homestead herbal and kitchen Structures (RRWHS) of 10,000 litres capacities have garden was initiated in targeted three villages been constructed to enhance source of irrigation. At largely dominated by SC/ST population in Babrala, 55 hand pumps were repaired with support of Sriperumbudur. With an objective to improve the state government and community people. availability of home-made food and nutritional items such as herbs, vegetables, fruits; 29 Relief Programmes Homestead Herbal Gardens (HHGs) were formed Tata Chemicals continues its support during any wide with 675 members. 326 women attended six scale disaster that affects the countries where we are herbal and vegetable HHG training workshops. located. 5,121 herbal saplings were also distributed to 509 families. Community development around TCM Tata Chemicals Magadi (TCM) operates in the mining Sanitation industry and as such the surrounding community Under the Swachh Bharat Mission, TCSRD, Babrala perceives itself as the source of the wealth of the has taken up the initiative to construct toilets in 17 organisation. This coupled with historical factors on schools. At Mithapur, 38 individual sanitation units dependence on the company and informal treaties with were constructed with support from TCSRD and the initial owners makes the community one of the key beneficiary contribution. Around 40 villagers along with stakeholders in the operations of TCM. TCL volunteers participated in the village cleaning. By participating in cleanliness drives, 4 Rabari groups of Process for identification of potential impact: A Vasai village have started constructing toilets at their comprehensive assessment and mapping of community home. issues was conducted in June 2014 by a technical committee. The process involved the community Safe drinking water leadership committee (SWOT) mandated to engage In Sutahata block, renovation/construction of school between the company and the community. This toilet block with proper facilities was done in seven committee came up with action plans that included 52 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 a concrete assessment of the community aspect. livelihoods like beadwork for women and arid agriculture TCM established the Magadi Soda Foundation (MSF) programmes. to spearhead the community deliverables through fundraising and implementation of projects that deliver Community development around TCNA community needs as a way to manage and mitigate At TCNA we support community by working through potential impacts from the community. MSF is focused organisations like the United Way and local food banks. on enhancing positive impacts as a core but also to Employees and the company donate money to support mitigate any potential negative impacts before they initiatives of these not-for-profit organisations. In arise. It has in place a strategic plan for five years from addition, our employees donate their own time to assist 2014-2019 that provides a framework for addressing in the community in a variety of functions. Some of our the community agenda. In that framework are detailed employees coach local sports teams, work in outreach implementation plans. The foundation has eight clear programmes through their respective churches, or strategic objectives that define high level outputs. volunteer for local school boards and government. The company does not direct nor involves itself in The core programmes and focus areas are: education, these private activities. We always strive to be a good health, WASH, livelihoods, and infrastructure. We are corporate citizen and adhere to all local, state and members of The UN Global Compact and as stated, a federal regulations and laws. pilot entity for IS0 2600 and are recognised leaders in this area. There are clear communication channels and Community development around TCE grievance procedures available through the community TCE has a social policy strategy that targets our local liaison office. The community members through the community and focuses on the following areas: SWOT organ are free to air grievances and supervise the Payroll Giving (providing the facility for employees resolution thereof. to donate to their chosen charities direct from their gross salaries). The community is traditionally male dominated but we have programmes that are focused on women Fundraising – supporting employees in raising empowerment in terms of livelihoods and human rights. funds for charity, including our local supported Magadi township has provided infrastructure to a charity, St Lukes community that otherwise would be rural and cut off. Providing employees the opportunity to volunteer The company has invested in the Magadi hospital and is locally in the community by giving them one days running three schools and a yearly bursary programme paid leave and is thus a model organisation in contribution to the aspects of health and education. TCM is the major Schools – developing closer links with local source of livelihoods to the community. We are hedging schools, supporting with education visits; against this risk by exploring alternative forms of mentoring and attendance at local schools career fairs National Fundraising Events – supporting national UK fundraising events and Tata’s Founders Day We have a complaints process in place. We respond to complaints as quickly as possible and monitor the number and type of complaints received with the objective of reducing these to zero. There are no material negative impacts on our local communities. The number of complaints have been falling steadily, and although not in the period covered by this sustainability report, we have had no complaints since June 2015. For further information on projects and achievements, please visit www.tcsrd.org; www.okhai.org Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 53 GRI Content Index General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosure Page General Standard Disclosure Page Strategy and Analysis G4-19 14 G4-1 03 G4-20 14 Organisational Profile G4-21 14 G4-2 10, 11, 12 G4-22 02 G4-3 G4-23 02 G4-4 Stakeholder Engagement G4-5 G4-24 13 G4-6 06, 07, 08, 09 G4-25 14 G4-7 G4-26 14 G4-8 G4-27 14, 15, 16 G4-9 Report Profile G4-10 64, 65, 66, 67 G4-28 G4-11 64 G4-29 02 G4-12 09 G4-30 G4-13 09 G4-31 G4-14 05 G4-32 54, 55 G4-15 09 G4-33 02, 56, 57, 58, 59 G4-16 09 Governance Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-34 18, 19, 20, 21 G4-17 09 Ethics and Integrity G4-18 10, 13, 14 G4-56 20, 70, 71 Specific Standard Disclosures Material Aspect DMA and Indicators Page Economic Performance EC 1, EC 2, EC 3, EC 4 8, 9, 22, 23, 60 Market Presence EC 6 23, 60 Indirect Economic Impacts EC 7 23, 60 Materials EN 1, EN 2 28, 61 54 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Material Aspect DMA and Indicators Page Energy EN 3, EN 5 28, 29, 30, 61 Water EN 8, EN 9, EN 10 30, 31, 61 Biodiversity EN 11, EN 12, EN 14 34, 35 Emissions EN 15, EN 16, EN 17, EN 18, EN 20, EN 21 29, 30, 33, 62 Effluents and Wastes EN 22, EN 23, EN 24, EN 25, EN 26 32, 33, 63 Products and Services EN 27 36, 37, 38 Compliance EN 29 13 Overall EN 31 63 Supplier Environment Assessment EN 32, EN 33 39 Environmental Grievance Mechanism EN 34 13, 40, 41 Employment LA 1, LA 2, LA 3 42, 46, 64, 65 Labour/Management Relations LA 4 43 Occupational Health and Safety LA 5, LA 6, LA 7, LA 8 24, 25, 26, 27, 67 Training and Education LA 9, LA 10, LA 11 44, 45, 46, 65 Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA 12 47, 66, 67 Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices LA 14, LA 15 39 Customer Health and Safety PR 1, PR 2 37, 38 Product and Service Labelling PR 3, PR 4, PR 5 37 Marketing Communications PR 6, PR 7 37 Compliance PR 9 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 Local Communities SO 1, SO2 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53 Anti-corruption SO 3, SO 4, SO 5 11, 12, 44, 45 Public Policy SO 6 37 Anti-competitive Behaviour SO 7 37 Compliance SO 8 13, 37 Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society SO 9, SO 10 39 Investment HR 2 44, 46 Non-discrimination HR 3 42 Indigenous Rights HR 8 13 Assessment HR 9 13 Supplier Human Rights Assessment HR 10, HR 11 39 Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms HR 12 13 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 55 KPMG (Registered) Telephone +91 (22) 3989 6000 Lodha Excelus Fax +91 (22) 3090 2511 1st Floor, Apollo Mills Compound Internet www.kpmg.com/in N. M. Joshi Marg Mahalakshmi Mumbai 400 011 India Independent Assurance Statement to Tata Chemicals Limited on their Corporate Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2014-15 To the Management of Tata Chemicals Limited, No. 24, Bombay House, Homi Mody Street, Fort, Mumbai 400001, India. Introduction We have been engaged by Tata Chemicals Limited (‘TCL’ or ‘The Company’) to provide limited assurance on its Sustainability Report (‘the Report’) for the Financial Year (FY) 2014-15. The Report was prepared by TCL according to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines ‘in-accordance’ – comprehensive option for sustainability reporting. Scope of Limited Assurance Engagement Our scope of assurance included data and information on material aspects pertaining to TCL’s India, US, UK and Kenya operations provided for the period 01 April 2014 to 31 March 2015 based on Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guidelines as listed below. The General and Specific Standard Disclosures that were subjected to assurance are as follows: General Standard Disclosures: • Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries (G4-17 to G4-23) • Stakeholder Engagement (G4-24 to G4-27) • Report Profile (G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31) • Governance (G4-34 to G4-49) • Ethics and Integrity (G4-56 ,G4-57) Specific Standard Disclosures: • Environmental Materials (G4-EN1, G4-EN2), Energy (G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN7), Water (G4-EN8, G4-EN10), Emissions (G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN18, G4-EN20, G4-EN21), Effluents and Waste (G4-EN23), Products and Services (G4-EN27) • Labor Practices and Decent Work, Employment (G4-LA1), Occupational Health and Safety (G4-LA6), Training & Education (G4-LA9), • Human rights Non-discrimination (G4-HR3) • Society Local Communities (G4-SO1, G4-SO2) • Product Responsibility Customer Satisfaction (G4-PR5) KPMG, an Indian Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. 56 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Limitations in Conducting the Assurance Our assurance process was subject to the following limitations: • Verification of statements was limited to data and information presented in the Report for the period 01 April 2014 to 31 March 2015. Data and information in the Report outside this reporting period was not subject to verification. • Any statement/ remarks/ comments indicating intention, opinion, belief and/ or aspiration by TCL were excluded from the scope of assurance. • Determine which, if any, recommendations should be implemented. • The Assurance Statement does not include verification of financial performance indicators/information that was sourced from TCL’s FY 2014-15 Annual Report. Assurance Standards and Guidelines Used We conducted the assurance in accordance with • Limited Assurance requirements of International Federation of Accountants’ (IFAC) International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and • Type 2, Moderate level assurance requirements of AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 by AccountAbility. • Under this standard, we have reviewed the nature and extent of adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and the quality of publicly disclosed information as part of the Report limited to performance indicators/information required by GRI G4 Guidelines. Independence Requirements A multidisciplinary team having necessary skills and experience in ISAE 3000, AA1000AS, stakeholder engagement, auditing environmental, social and economic information conducted the assurance. We conducted our engagement in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which requires, among other requirements that the members of the assurance team (practitioners) as well as the assurance firm (assurance provider) be independent of the assurance client, in relation to this assurance engagement including not being involved in the writing of the Report. The Code also includes detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. KPMG has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. The firm applies ISQC 1 and the practitioner complies with the applicable independence and other ethical requirements of the IESBA code. Work Undertaken Our procedures include assessment of the risks of material misstatements of selected performance indicators and disclosures and underlying internal controls relevant to the information published in the Report. Our procedures were designed to gather sufficient and appropriate evidence to determine that the selected performance information is not materially misstated. KPMG, an Indian Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 57 We have undertaken – • Review of materiality and stakeholder engagement framework deployed at TCL. • Assessment of the systems used for data collection and reporting of the General Standard Disclosures and Specific Standard Disclosures of material aspects as listed in the assurance scope above. • As part of the verification process, we have conducted site visits to the following facilities of TCL: 1. TCL Babrala, Uttar Pradesh, India 2. TCL Mithapur, Gujarat, India 3. TCL Haldia, West Bengal, India 4. Tata Chemicals Soda Ash (Partners) Wyoming, USA • Interviews with TCL personnel responsible for data collection, collation and reporting. • Interaction with the TCL’s Sustainability Board, Sustainability Working Committee members and Senior Management at the corporate office and unit level on TCL’s Sustainability initiatives. • Testing of the sample data and the supporting evidences through a risk based approach. • Comparing the information presented in the Report to corresponding information in the relevant underlying sources to determine whether all information mentioned in the report is supported by underlying data. • Review of the Report to ensure that there is no material misrepresentation of disclosures as per scope of assurance and our findings. Our Conclusions Based on our review of the Report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information in the Report, in all material aspects, is not fairly represented in line with our findings given below: As per AA1000AS 2008 principles: • Principle of Inclusivity: TCL has engaged with its significant stakeholders through formal and informal channels and the feedback of the same has been used in defining the contents of the Report. However, the process of engagement with external stakeholders can be further strengthened through thematic engagement plans that will help document the expectations and areas of concerns of the external stakeholders and company’s response to them. • Principle of Materiality: The material issues are arrived through a consultation process involving company’s management and selected stakeholders at the corporate and unit level. However TCL materiality assessment process should be extended to all its international sites. TCL has to adopt a uniform approach to identify, prioritize and address material aspects in supply chain, and report its performance as per G4 guidelines. • Principle of Responsiveness: TCL has responded to stakeholders’ concerns through existing and structured engagements at multiple levels. TCL may develop a process through which the stakeholder concerns are reviewed by the sustainability committee and the decisions incorporated into the sustainability agenda of the company. KPMG, an Indian Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. 58 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Nothing has come to our notice for us to believe that the data presented in the Report and verified by us as per the scope of this engagement is not reliable. Data transcription and calculation errors were detected but the same was resolved during the assurance process. Our Observations Following is an excerpt from the observations reported to the management of TCL. These do not, however, affect our conclusions regarding the Report stated above. • Data traceability, interpretation and completeness for international sites needs to be improved. Internal data validation audits may be considered for robust data management systems. • TCL may consider to include a detailed account of its stakeholder engagement. The expectations and concerns expressed by the stakeholders may be linked to the initiative adopted by TCL. • TCL may consider developing an issue centric or stakeholder centric report theme and accordingly present the contents. • Overseas site’s sustainability coordinators competence needs improvement on GRI G4 requirements for stakeholder engagement, materiality assessment, and completeness of reported data. Responsibilities TCL is responsible for developing the Report contents. TCL is also responsible for identification of material sustainability issues, establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems and derivation of performance data reported. This statement is made solely to the Management of TCL in accordance with the terms of our engagement and as per scope of assurance. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to TCL those matters for which we have been engaged to state in this statement and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than TCL for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions expressed in this independent assurance statement. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete and true. We expressly disclaim any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity would make based on this assurance statement. By reading this assurance statement, stakeholders acknowledge and agree to the limitations and disclaimers mentioned above. Santhosh Jayaram Director KPMG 24 February 2016 KPMG, an Indian Partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 59 Annexures GRI-G4 Standard Disclosures 2014-15 Economic Indicators GRI Aspect Parameter Unit 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Code Direct Economic Value Generated a) Revenues Rs Crores 11,156 14,011 15,129 16,033 17,321 Economic value distributed a) Operating costs Rs Crores 8,378 10,608 11,916 14,114 15,046 b) Employee wages and Rs Crores 846 993 1,126 1,215 1,256 benefits Employee Salaries Economic Performance c) Payments to providers of capital Dividends to all shareholders Rs Crores 255 255 255 255 318 EC1 Borrowing Cost & Foregin Rs Crores 351 511 631 738 454 Exchange loss on borrowings (Net) d) Payments to government Rs Crores 316 408 351 337 425 Company taxes Minority & Associates Rs Crores 193 202 210 224 211 e) Community investments Rs Crores 9 6 9 14 23 Economic value retained Direct economic value Rs Crores 808 1,027 631 -864 -412 generated Economic value distributed GRI Aspect Parameter Code EC3 Coverage of the Organization’s Defined Benefit Plan Obligations Total contribution to Provident Fund and other funds was Rs 112.58 crore. Economic Performance Total contribution to group insurance scheme Rs 0.03 crores.Total contribution to Provident Fund and other funds was Rs 112.58 crore. Total contribution to group insurance scheme Rs 0.03 crores. EC4 Financial Assistance Received From Government Total sum of Rs 2,942.24 crore was accrued towards subsidies for the fertiliser business EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported The total community investments done were Rs 23.26 crore (Rs 10.195 crores as per Companies Act and Rs 13.1 crore outside Companies Act). 60 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Environment Indicators Aspects Description UoM 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Limestone MT 1,845,280 1,755,459 1,789,870 Raw Brine for MUW KL 4,194,506 4,329,083 3,847,115 Solar salt (inclusive of purchased MT 1,757,070 1,707,328 1,685,542 quantity if any) Bittern MT 1,964,740 2,689,625 2,887,360 Ammonia liquid MT 81,820 92,436.88 105,628 Materials Potassium Chloride (MOP) MT 105,926 117,508.79 185,559 Packaging Material MT 74,908,952 76,483,867 82,101,879 Lubricating Oil KL 265.06 295.98 451.87 Trona MT 5,482,465 5,150,326 5,494,073 50Kg Wpp Bags No. 4,466,903 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials % Limestone as recycled input % 69.63 73.39 73.54 Sodium Carbonate % 9.70 16.80 0.07 Sulphur Sludge % 21.48 12.28 0.01 EN3 Energy Consumption Within the Organization Total Energy from Fossil Fuel TJ 33,759 35,953 57,718.76 Total Energy from Purchased Electricity TJ 494.11 497.03 369.78 (Non-renewable) Energy from Non-renewable sources TJ 34,253 36,450 50,966 Energy Energy from Renewable sources TJ 6.37 5.47 5.65 Total Energy Consumed TJ 34,259 36,455 58,094.20 EN5 Energy Intensity Energy intensity within Organisation TJ/ 0.004 0.004 0.007 (from non-renewable sources) MT of Production EN8 Total Water Withdrawal by Source Ground Water KL 6,511,999 6,103,302 5,911,519 Total Surface water Wetlands + lake + KL 98,100,902 95,411,330 113,078,558 river + oceans Purchased Water KL 937,207 982,412 970,765 Water Rainwater collected directly and stored KL 17,624 3,611 3,104 by the organization Total Water withdrawal KL 105,567,732 102,500,655 119,963,945 EN10 Percentage And Total Volume Of Water Recycled And Reused Water Recycled and Reused KL 89,984,009 89,226,636 98,939,204 % of total water recycled and reused % 85.24 87.05 82.49 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 61 Aspects Description UoM 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 EN 15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Total Scope-1 GHG Emission MT of 5,033,806.46 4,995,109.14 4,970,038.38 CO2e EN 16 Energy Indirect Green House Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 2) Total Scope-2 GHG Emission MT of 535,685.74 462,260.25 281,332.39 CO2e EN 17 Other Indirect Green House Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 3) Total Scope-3 GHG Emission MT of 120,618.58 118,060.51 113,949.80 CO2e EN 18 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission intensity Emission intensity for Scope-3 0.68 0.66 0.65 EN 19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Emissions Reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) MT of 6,051.72 -57,640.85 Emission CO2e EN 20 Emissions of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) Amount of ODS produced MT 0.00 0.00 0.00 Amount of ODS imported MT 0.00 0.00 0.00 Amount of ODS exported MT 0.00 0.00 0.00 EN 21 NOx, SOx, and Other significant Air Emissions Total Particulate Matter MT 3,794.55 3,900.60 3,740.15 Total SOx emission MT 6,927.40 6,045.29 6,172.39 Total NOx emission MT 4,173.8 4,105.18 3,535.24 Additional row Ammonia (NH3) MT 703.13 767.10 1,018.22 Fluorides MT 46.56 49.39 54.83 62 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Aspects Description UoM 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 EN 22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Total Effluent Discharge KL 79,909,955.96 78,730,608.48 89,027,767.04 Ammonical nitrogen MT 174 195.70 240.38 Total Suspended Solids MT 12,431.0 10,223.62 15,033.80 Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) MT 23.4 22.91 5.36 Effluents and Waste EN 23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Total Waste MT 712,960.17 772,141.32 Non hazardous Waste MT 799,870.23 713,433.71 772,977.64 Hazardous Waste MT 327.52 97.95 552.30 Biomedical Waste MT 5.70 4.59 4.38 Other Waste MT 0.69 34.61 3.11 EN 24 Total number and volume of significant spills Number of Spills No. 0 0.00 1.00 Spills having potential liability/impact No. 0 0.00 0.00 Volume of Spills KL 0 0.00 0.01 EN 29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Compliance Monetary USD 235,585.00 Non-Monetary 0.00 Cases brought through Dispute No. 0.00 Resolution mechanism EN 31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Total environmental protection INR 653,973,921.43 737,299,209 943,042,679 Transport expenditures and investments Production quantities MT 8,423,936.43 8,394,437.80 8,248,535.85 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 63 Social Indicators Aspect Parameter LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Category SubTotal New Turnover Turnover Contract Category employees Hires Rate Employees Total 4959 567 569 11.47 4181 Age India 29 619 189 74 11.95 (yrs) 30 – 50 1186 64 78 6.58 Over 50 1262 2 139 11.01 TCM 29 199 81 55 27.64 30 – 50 554 124 147 26.53 Over 50 170 38 16 9.41 TCE 29 41 7 0 0.00 30 – 50 207 21 22 10.63 % employees Over 50 150 13 8 5.33 under collective Employment TCNA 29 52 bargaining 30 – 50 263 Not tracking at the moment Over 50 256 Gender India Male 2921 225 279 9.55 Female 146 30 12 8.22 TCM Male 830 208 207 24.94 Female 93 35 11 11.83 TCE Male 349 32 26 7.45 Female 49 9 4 8.16 TCNA Male 522 Not tracking at the moment Female 49 Region India 3067 255 291 9.49 4181 TCM 923 243 218 23.62 0 25.58% TCE 398 41 30 7.54 0 TCNA 571 28 30 NA 0 64 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Aspect Parameter LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave 568 Male 373 Female 195 Total number of employees that took parental leave 34 Male 27 Female 7 Total number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended 34 Male 27 Employment Female 7 Total number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended who were 31 still employed twelve months after their return to work Male 24 Female 7 Return to Work Rate Male 100 Female 100 Retention rate Male 100 Female 100 Aspect Parameter LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Training and Average hours of training per year per employee for operations in India is 40, TCM is 0.27 and TCE is 11.88. TCNA estimates each employee receives between 12-20 hours of training per year depending on position. Education Aspect Parameter LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability Training and of employees and assist them in managing career endings Approx 1591 internal and external training programs were conducted that aimed to upgrade employee skills. Education Funding support for external training or education was Rs. 2,05,00,000 (corporate budget). Outplacement programs were delivered by third party at TCE. Aspect Parameter LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category (Segregation for TCL, India employees only) Training and Category / Management Officers Non-Management Contractual Workforce Gender Education Male 952 827 1142 4077 Female 76 30 40 104 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 65 Aspect Parameter LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Composition of Governance bodies Board of directors Gender Age Group (yrs) Minority groups Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 Male 2 7 0 Female 1 0 Executive Committee Gender Age Group (yrs) Minority groups Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Male 0 5 9 0 Female 0 0 2 0 Breakdown of Employees by level Management Gender Age Group (yrs) Minority groups Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 Male 196 644 212 0 Female 32 52 11 1 Officer Gender Age Group (yrs) Minority groups Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 Male 402 505 186 1 Female 15 43 8 0 Non-Management Gender Age Group (yrs) Minority groups Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 Male 158 661 1113 0 Female 35 40 48 1 66 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Aspect Parameter Breakdown of Employees by Function Engineering Gender Age Group (yrs) Minority groups Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 Male 274 361 534 0 Female 11 4 7 0 Sales & Marketing Gender Age Group (yrs) Minority groups Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Male 46 226 48 0 Female 7 25 4 0 Production Gender Age Group (yrs) Minority groups Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 Male 348 393 455 1 Female 12 3 5 0 Scientists Gender Age Group (yrs) Minority groups Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 Male 1 16 7 0 Female 0 0 2 0 Support Services Gender Age Group (yrs) Minority groups Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 Male 63 389 320 0 Female 18 58 43 2 2011201220132014Aspect Parameter Unit 12 13 14 15 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work related fatalities, by region and by gender Work Related Fatalities TCL, Global No. 3 1 0 1 Occupational Health and Safety Total Lost Time Injury (LWC) TCL, Global No. 49 41 36 35 Total Recordable Injury (LWC+RWC+MTC) No. 98 82 79 79 TCL, Global Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate No./Mn Man-hrs 3.73 2.97 2.88 2.60 (TRIFR) TCL, Global Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIR) TCL, No./Mn Man-hrs 1.86 1.48 1.31 1.15 Global Occupational Disease Rate TCL, Global No./Mn Man-hrs 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.07 Lost Day Rate TCL, Global Lost days/Mn Man-hrs 722 250 79 244 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 67 Abbreviations ADAPT Action for Downturn EPM Enterprise Process model Alleviation of Profit in EMP Environment Management Programme Turbulent Times ERP Enterprise Resource Planning AGM Annual General Body Meeting ESF Effluent Solid Filtrate AIChE American Institute of Chemical Engineers ETP Effluent Treatment Plant AMAI Alkali Manufacturers’ Association of India EXCOM Executive Committee AMT Achievement Motivation Training JMC Joint Management Worker Health & APC Apex Policy Committee Safety Committee AQC Apex Quality Council FAC First Aid Case ASCI Advertising Standards Council of India FAEA Foundation for Academic Excellence and BCSD Business Council for Sustainable Access Development FAI Fertiliser Association of India BELP Business Excellence Leaders Programme FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers of BPO Business Process Outsourcing Commerce and Industry BSC Balance Score Card FSSAI Food Safety and Standards Authority of BSC British Safety Council India CAT Centre for Agriculture & Technology GET Graduate Engineer Trainee CCEMC Corporate Capital Expenditure GHG Greenhouse Gas Management Committee GRI Global Reporting Initiative CCS Customer Care System GRIMCO Gujarat Rural Industries Marketing CDM Clean Development Mechanism Cooperative CDP Carbon Disclosure Project HACCP Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points CFA Carry Forward Agency HAZOP Hazard and Operability Study CFO Chief Financial Officer HDPE High Density Poly Ethylene CFT Cross Functional Team HIRA Hazard Identification and Risk Analysis CII Confederation of Indian Industry HOPE Harnessing Opportunities for People CO2e Carbon Dioxide Equivalent Empowerment CoP Community of Practices IC Innovation Centre CoRE Corporate Roundtable on Development ICRISAT International Crop Research Institute for of Strategies for the Environment and Semi-Arid Tropics Sustainable Development ICSI Internal Customer Satisfaction Index CPB Consumer Products Business IFA International Fertiliser Industry Association CPCB Central Pollution Control Board IGNOU Indira Gandhi National Open University CRDP Customer Relationship Development ILO International Labour Organisation Programme ISO International Organisation for CRS Crushed Refined Soda Standardisation CTC Carbon Tetra Chloride ISI Indian Standards Institute CS Corporate Sustainability JMC Joint Management Committee CSI Community / Customer Satisfaction Index JV Joint Venture CSPI Corporate Sustainability Protocol Index KAM Key Account Management CSR Corporate Social Responsibility KSS Knowledge Sharing Sessions CSSGM Corporate Sustainability Steering Group LCA Life Cycle Assessment Meeting LTIR Lost Time Injury (Frequency) Rate DAP Di-Ammonium Phosphate LTS Long Term Settlement EGA Employee Growth Scheme LTSP Long Term Strategic Plan EIA Environmental Impact Assessment LWC Lost Work Day Case 68 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 MBE Management of Business Ethics SPM Suspended Particulate Matter MD Managing Director SPOC Single Point of Contact MDP Management Development Programme SRM Supply chain Relationship Management MNP Marine National Park SRTT Sir Ratan Tata Trust MOP Muriate of Potash SS Support Services MOU Memorandum Of Understanding SSP Single Super Phosphate MSDS Material Safety Data Sheet SSERC Sweet Sorghum Ethanol Research MT Metric Tonne Consortium MT Management Trainee STPP Sodium Tri-Poly Phosphate MTC Medical Treatment Case TBEM Tata Business Excellence Model NABARD National Bank for Agriculture & Rural TCDAV Tata Chemicals Dayanand Anglo-Vedic Development TCL Tata Chemicals Limited NFC Neutral Filter Cake TCOC Tata Code of Conduct NGO Non-Government Organisation TCSRD Tata Chemicals Society for Rural NRM Natural Resource Management Development OD Ozone Depletion TERI The Energy Research Institute ODS Ozone Depleting Substances TJ Terra Joule ODSE Other Directly Supervised Employees TKN Total K-jeldhal Nitrogen OHI Occupational Health Index TKS Tata Kisan Sansar OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Advisory TLP Tata Leadership Practices Services TQMS Tata Quality Management Services OPD Out Patient Department TRIR Total Recordable Injury (Frequency) Rate PIPE Personal and Inter Personal Effectiveness TSDF Treatment, Storage & Disposal Facility PF Pulmonary Function UK United Kingdom PFI Population Foundation of India UN United Nations PHE Public Health Engineering UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on PIPE Personal & Interpersonal Effectiveness Climate Change PMS Performance Management System UNGC United Nations Global Compact POSH Prevention Of Sexual Harassment US United States PPC Portland Pozzolana Cement USA United States of America PPE Personal Protective Equipment VDU Visual Display Unit PSI Professional Service Industries VFD Variable Frequency Drive QFD Quality Function Deployment VOC Voice of Customer RC Responsible Care WASMO Water and Sanitation Management RCA Root Cause Analysis Organisation RWC Restricted Work Case WPRM Weekly Performance Review Meeting SA Social Accountability YOY Year on Year SAM Soda Ash, Magadi SBU Strategic Business Unit SDM Strategy Deployment Mechanism SDP Supervisor Development Programme SDTT Sir Dorabji Tata Trust SHE Safety, Health and Environment SHES Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability SHG Self Help Group SLA Service Level Agreement Sp. Specific SPCB State Pollution Control Board SPL Standard Performance Level Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 69 70 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 Tata Chemicals Sustainability Report 2014-15 71 FEEDBACK FORM FOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014-15 We hope you enjoyed the opportunity to learn about us, and now we want to hear what you have to say. We value your suggestions to improve our performance. 1. Meeting your information requirements pertaining to Economic, Social & Environment : Excellent Very Good Good Average Poor 2. Openness and transparency in providing information about material issues in the report: Excellent Very Good Good Average Poor 3. Clarity and ease of understanding: Excellent Very Good Good Average Poor 4. Presentation, Design and Layout: Excellent Very Good Good Average Poor 5. Suggest any other material issues & areas to be covered in the next report __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________ Name:____________________________________________________________________________ Designation:_______________________________________________________________________ Organisation:______________________________________________________________________ Contact Address:__________________________________________________________________ Email:____________________________________________________________________________ Please email your feedback at sustainability@tatachemicals.com or write to: MS. ALKA TALWAR Chief CSR and Sustainability Officer Tata Chemicals Limited Leela Business Park, Andheri Kurla Road Andheri East, Mumbai, 400059 For more information, visit our website: www.tatachemicals.com/sustainability Registered Office: Designed and developed by The Information Company Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Fort, Mumbai 400001 India Tel: +91 22 6665 8282 Websites: www.tatachemicals.com www.tatasalt.com | www.tataswach.com www.tcsrd.org | www.okhai.org www.humantouchofchemistry.com Social Media: www.facebook.com/tatachemicals www.facebook.com/humantouchofchemistry www.facebook.com/tataswach www.twitter.com/tatachemicals www.twitter.com/tclhtc www.twitter.com/tataswach www.linkedin.com/tatachemicals www.youtube.com/tclhtc CIN:L24239MH1939PLC002893
